ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-09-0.u1743	Please take your seats. Dear People's MPs, I am opening the First Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 1999. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 208 MPs attend today's session. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. We have a quorum. I inform the National Assembly that I have approved the absence of the following MPs: Rada Svilar, Dragan Nikolic, Srdjan Vulovic, Tomislav Markovic, Milan Rodic, Vladimir Štambuk, Miroslav Neskovic and Milos Jojic. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend: the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. You were presented the minutes of the July 15th 1999 session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's Second Extraordinary Session. Any objections to the record? There is. ) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-09-0.u1744	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on page three of the minutes of last session, that part refers to the appointment of the secretary of the National Assembly, says that of 171 MPs, who joined the vote, 168 voted in favour, and three did not vote. That's not true. 168 MPs voted for it, and three MPs were against it. It was a call vote, and all those who were in the session voted, and there were not those who did not vote. Secondly, on page 5 of the minutes, it says that Marijan Rističevic and Dragan Veselinov participated in the main search, among other things. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Article 111 provides that the minutes should contain all the main and relevant data from the sitting. That is why it should say that MPs of the "Vojvodina" Coalition Dragan Vesenov and Marijan Rističević participated in the work and that the session was closed to the general public, even more specifically that, in place of them, the RTS spikers participated in the search for the general public. No voter of mine heard that I participated in the work nor could he hear that more than 14 billion dinars were leaked from the budget's income for the past year in an unknown way. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Article 87, I request that a stenogram of this discussion be read. That's what it's like here when MPs of the Vojvodina Coalition say that they don't agree that Vojvodina be a colony and a man's cow, they get a tone of voice when they vote. Every word and voice against you means salvation to us.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-09-0.u1745	Thank you. Is there still any objections to the record? No, there isn't. ) I ask the Members of Parliament to set up a quorum to place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I am voting on the minutes of the 1999 National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia session held on 15 July 1999, with remarks. 170, against 10, abstentioned 15, did not vote 31, a total of 226 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the session of the Second Extraordinary National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 1999, held on 15 July 1999 with remarks. You have been given a request from the Peasant Party of Serbia and the United Pension Party for the termination of the term of office of MP Milena Andric for the termination of the Democratic Alternative membership in the coalition whose list has been selected. A report by the Administrative Board of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which concludes that the Committee has found that the termination of the Democratic Alternative in the Coalition Democratic Alternative - The Peasant Party of Serbia - the United Retirement Party has set out in Article 102(1), paragraph 1. The Law on the Selection of People's MPs, that is one of the reasons for ending the mandate of the MP before the end of the time he was elected and is proposed that the National Assembly within the meaning of Articles 102, paragraphs 2 and 3 of the same law, recognises that it has suspended the mandate of MP Milena Andric, elected on the election list of the Democratic Alternative Coalition - the Peasant Party of Serbia - the Pension Party of Serbia - Mr Nebojsa Covic in Election Unit 4 - Kukarica. According to Article 102(1), point 1 and Article 2 and 3. The Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Administrative Committee, finds that the term of office had ceased, before he was elected, to MP Milena Andric, elected to the election list of the Coalition Democratic Alternative - the Peasant Party of Serbia - the Pension Party of Serbia - Mr Nebojsa Covic in Election Unit 4 - Chukarica. According to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the vacancy in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be completed. You have been given the resignation of MP Istvan Ispanovich as vice-president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I remind you that Article 37 is Article 1 and in relation to Article 33(3). The Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly, are scheduled not to open a search, nor to decide, but only to establish the termination of office on this basis. In accordance with Article 37(1) and with Article 33(3), The Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly finds that the post of Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has ceased with the resignation of Istvanovic. I would like to inform you that certain members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia have resigned. I remind you, Article 202 is paragraph 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are scheduled for the National Assembly to find, without a search, that a member of the Government resigned and not to decide. According to Article 202(4). Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly finds that resignations were submitted by members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia: Tomislav Nikolic, acting Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia Maja Gojkovic, acting as Minister without portfolio in the Government of the Republic of Serbia Cedomir Vasiljevic, acting as Minister without portfolio in the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Dragan Todorovic, acting as Minister of Transport and Liaison in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We're moving on to the agenda. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before setting out the agenda for the session, in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we need to decide on proposals for the adoption of acts by emergency procedure and on proposals for amendments and additions to the proposed agenda of the session. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the draft law amending and supplementing the Ministry Law, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 7 November 1999, be considered after an urgent procedure. I ask the Members of Parliament to put their cards into the MPs' units to establish the quorum. We have a quorum. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to consider, after an urgent procedure, the draft law amending and supplementing the Ministry Act. The vote was 177, against 45, abstentioned one, not three, a total of 226 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. National MP Zoran Kostadinovic proposed that the draft law on amendments and amendments to the Law on the selection of MPs, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 27 October 1999, be considered after an urgent procedure. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I would like to put to the vote the motion of MP Zoran Kostadinovic to consider, following an urgent procedure, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the selection of MPs. The vote was 46, against 172, no one was abstentioned, no 7. A total of 225 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this proposal with the majority of votes. Proposals for withdrawing certain points from the proposed agenda. National MP Marijan Rističević suggested withdrawing the 9th point session from the draft agenda - Proposal for a Law on Local Self-Government. Does MP Marian Risticevic want a word? He wants to. Here, you have five minutes to explain.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-09-0.u1746	I suggested that point 9, the local self-government bill be taken off the agenda. The peasants, who are now looking at this congregation, and these are rare, because most of them hate the fields, would say, "Look at how many of them there are in the congregation, how many corn they would pick." The peasants are right, there are more pressing and hot issues of life, which the Assembly needs to discuss from the Bill on Local Self-Government. We could discuss agriculture today, how ten new tractors were purchased in the entire Vojvodina this year, and so much before you came to power, bought my street. We could discuss Vojvodina today, a referendum for Vojvodina. These are certainly more important topics than the proposal for a law on local self-government. If you do not remove this proposal from the agenda, if you adopt it, then you do not adopt the Bill on Local Self-Government, but put out the fire with gasoline. If you hadn't been busy opening the plant, which was opened 30 years ago, and if you hadn't been busy with each other hanging tins and plowings on your heroic breasts, you'd certainly know that a proposal for a law on local self-government should be conducted for a wide public discussion of at least six months, with the active participation of local self-government, which is covered by the draft of this law. You want at all costs, across your knees to solve everything that you think is a problem, anything that is not at your present will, and that is exactly the kind of behavior and policy that has led us as far as we are concerned, to cave Serbia. We of the Vojvodina Coalition have constantly warned you of the mistakes you're about to make. We warn you today that other topics are more than this, that citizens are hard to live for, that industry has failed, that agriculture is before collapse, that SRJ and Serbia are falling apart by your mistake, and this bill will increase and speed up this decomposition. We warned you that after Rambuje you would get an even worse solution and you got it. We told you not to rely on the Russians, that they would bomb us themselves for a good loan. You disobeyed us, and you won by not being able to set foot there. And today we warn you that this law on local self-government not only wastes time, but increases Serbia's disintegration. So take this agenda off and let's discuss more important issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-09-0.u1747	Thank you. Does a representative of the government want a word? No, I don't. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I would like to put on the vote by Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic to withdraw the 9th item of the motion for a law on local self-government from the draft agenda of the session. 48, against 174, no one was abstentioned, one was not voted, a total of 223 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this proposal with the majority of votes. Proposals to expand the agenda. 1. The Committee on Justice and Administration has proposed that the agenda of this session be complemented by a point - the termination of office and the selection of judicial bodies, which would consider the proposals for decisions, the proposing Committee on Justice and Administration, or the Republic of Public Prosecutor, and be the second item of the agenda. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? No, I don't. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I am putting on the vote of the Committee on Justice and Administration's proposal to supplement the agenda of this session - Termination of functions and selection of holders of judicial functions and that this is the second item of the sitting agenda. The vote was 188, against 21, abstentioned 11, did not vote 9, a total of 229 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. 2. National MP Dr. Živorad Djordjevic, deputy president of the Yugoslav left parliamentary group, suggested that the agenda be complemented by considering, within the framework of item 11 of the proposed agenda, the motion for a decision on amendments to the Decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, submitted by MP Milan Rodic, president of the Yugoslav Left's parliamentary group. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? No, I don't. ) I ask the Members of Parliament to set up a quorum to place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I would like to put on the vote by Parliamentarian Dr Živorad Djordjevic, deputy president of the Yugoslav left parliamentary group, to supplement the agenda of this session by considering, within the framework of the 11th proposed agenda, the proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, submitted by MP Milan Rodic, president of the Yugoslav Left's parliamentary group. The vote was 171 against 45, no one was abstentioned, no vote was taken by 6, a total of 222 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. 3. National MP Dr Dragan Veselinov suggested that the agenda of this session be complemented by the agenda item - Proposal for a law to repeal the Law on Public Information, which was submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Dr Dragan Vesenov and Marijan Rističević on 4 February 1999. Does the MP Dr. Dragan Veselinov want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-09-0.u1748	Dear President, fellow Members of Parliament, before I refer to this proposal to put our assembly on the agenda today and try to withdraw from the public circulation of the Law on Public Information, I would like to protest that the President of the National Assembly has counter-constitutionally scheduled this session of the National Assembly in a regular session 40 days after the constitutional order. In accordance with Article 79. The Serbian Constitution, the speaker of the assembly, had to schedule this session on October 1st, this year. It was done 40 days later, and it was a significant destruction of work, a reduction of the importance of the work of the National Assembly. It is, not only a violation of the Constitution, a violation of the right of the people to take advantage of all 90 days in this congregation, as scheduled for this congregation to work in a regular session. I have submitted a proposal to declare whether this assembly will be on the agenda or not to put the bill to end the Public Information Act, hence the fact that the existing Public Information Act has been evaluated, not only in this party, but in our people, as an instrument of state repression and terror over the media. This law has not contributed to the flight of professionalism and the development of journalism. He caused fear, caused withdrawal. We want this law withdrawn. Under this law, journalists, if sued, must prove to the courts that they were telling the truth, not that they were telling the truth. It's a major violation of legal principles. That's the only reason this law should be withdrawn from circulation. Under this law, the state has imposed dragon penalties on those who are allegedly telling the truth. (Comment from the O.R.: You're lying. )
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-09-0.u1749	Please don't throw it away. Let the MP speak.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-09-0.u1750	You're obliged to protect us from people who got suits instead of barbaric skin, but their spirit remained the same. So, according to this public information law, there are certain dragon penalties for all those allegedly proving to have been falsely written. It seems to be just. Someone will say it's democratic, that no one is against the fact that the one who wrote the lie, who wrote the lie, is also punished. However, dragon penalties when deployed in this society, where the material wealth of money, finance, is dramatically redistributed, so that the minority in society is rich, and the majority in which free media can be found has almost nothing, then dragon penalties serve to suppress free journalism, because the state media and state funds of information, which depends on the policy of the Socialist Party of Serbia and its satellites, which is based on the entire state economy as a source of its political budget, it has no problem, this journalism, these media, to endure any punishment. We are for punishment, if false, if false is spoken, if offended, if immorally served by journalists, but if punishments only appear to punish one and the other cannot, then it is a new separation in society and we suggest that this law be withdrawn from public circulation. There are also good provisions in it, but these provisions are not a fruit of effort, political effort and hard work, within the framework of the draft law several months ago. These good provisions are part of the efforts of independent groups in Belgrade, which dealt with the proposal and wanted to propose a new law on public information here in the Assembly. We want this law to be withdrawn from public circulation and not to create a legal vacuum by returning to the old Public Information Act, not because it is especially better, but because there is no void. (Comment from the O.R.: Which one of you? ) At the same time, we would make the greatest effort to take steps in professional circles and here in the Assembly to develop a proposal for a new law on public information, which would meet professional criteria, which would be able to withstand political criticism and which would be desirable in our public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-09-0.u1751	Thank you. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I am putting to the vote the motion of Parliamentarian Dr Dragan Veselinov to supplement the agenda of this session - the draft law repealing the Law on Public Information. 53 voted against 171, with no abstentions, no three votes, a total of 227 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. 4. National MP Dušica Karabenč suggested that the agenda of this session be complemented by the item of the agenda - Proposal for A LAW ON PAYMENTS FOR REVENUES FROM THE GAZDOVANJ SUMMA, which were submitted to the National Assembly by National MPs Marijan Rističević, Dr Dragan Veseninov and Dušica Karabenč on 23 March 1999. Does the Messenger of the Soul Karabench want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-09-0.u1752	Dear Mr. President, fellow MPs, the reason for putting on the agenda and the adoption of this law lies in preventing the uncontrollable cutting of the forest by the Public Enterprise "Serbishum". Why do we propose this law from the Vojvodina Coalition? We believe that such a law would prevent a large robbery, between the rest of them and Vojvodina, from cutting the forest uncontrollably, without any question, of the citizens of the local communities, whose territory of the forest intersect mercilessly. With the appearance of the phantom organisation "Serbishum" the citizens of Vojvodina were placed in a position that they were no longer the owners of their forests, forests planted by their fathers, grandfathers and great-grandfathers. One state decision declares the "Serbian" to be the owner of all forests on the territory of Vojvodina. Dear gentlemen, it is time for you to understand that Vojvodina is no one's private or state property. You've learned that for everything you need - a Duke's direction and everything you won't pay for, you take a bad one. That's how you did with the Roman Shanchevi trafossat, which you took to Nis and whether the Vojvodjani will have electricity, that's how you do with the oil being extracted in Vojvodina, processed in Vojvodina, and it's only money in Serbia. This law, proposed by the "Vojvodina Coalition", does not, however, prevent "Serbishum" from cutting down the Deliblat Cave and other forests in Vojvodina, but that is why the law provides for adequate monetary compensation to local communities in whose territory "Serbishum" is being cut down. Such funds would be exclusively intended for the restoration of forests and the planting of new ones. We can't let the woods intersect, and at the same time they don't rebuild. We need to think about the future and future generations and not leave a wasteland behind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-09-0.u1753	Thank you. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I am putting on the vote by MP Dusica Karabenč to supplement the agenda of this session - the draft law on paying special compensation for forest management revenues. The vote was 50, against 161 abstentions, did not vote 14, a total of 225 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. 5. National MP Marijan Rističević suggested that the agenda of this session be complemented by the item of the agenda - the proposal for the Law on Tax Liberation, the Taxes, the Taxes and All DESERAL DESCRIPTIONS, DIZEL GORIVO, SEENA, THE FUNDS FOR THE PROTECTION OF BILJA, STOCKS, THE VETERINARY SURVEILLANCES, THE MEHANISATION, THE RESERVATIONS AND SERVICES IN THE PURPOSE, which were submitted to the National Assembly by National MPs Marijan Rističević and Dr Dragan Veseninov on 4 February of this year. Does MP Marian Risticevic want a word? He doesn't want to. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I am putting on the vote by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević to supplement the agenda of this session - Proposal for a law on the release of taxes, contributions, taxes and all charges for mineral manure, diesel fuel, seeds, plant protection, livestock food, animal care, machinery, spare parts and agricultural services. 49 votes against 170, abstention one, no vote five, a total of 225 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Six. National MP Marijan Rističević suggested that the agenda of this session be complemented by the item of the agenda - Proposal FOR A LAW ON THE UKIDAN BOX, which was submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Dr Dragan Vesenov and Marijan Rističević on 4 February 1999. Does MP Marian Risticevic want a word? He wants to. ). Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-09-0.u1754	For a long time, Serbian citizens have been paying through electricity a subscription to Serbian Radio TV without most of them using it. This means of propaganda by the ruling party is attached to an electric number. A citizen, who doesn't listen and doesn't watch RTS, who doesn't even have a radio and a TV camera, if he uses one light bulb, or if he doesn't use that one light bulb, only enough to have an electric number on the network, is obliged to pay 100 kilowatts a month for RTS. In Vojvodina alone for these purposes, citizens single out nearly four million marks a month, the table on an annual level is about 45 million marks, and for that money you take from us in Vojvodina you can buy 250 thousand tons of wheat or pay 22 000 pensioners a year, per 1,000 dinar a month. So much RTS costs only the people of Vojvodina, and what did we get in return? We got one liar in the house, Vojvodina doesn't even have its own radio-television, until you turned that television into your Serbian Radio-Television studio, and a propaganda house that serves you as mirrors, which tells you every day that you are the best, most beautiful and bravest in the world. Why should all the citizens pay for that lie? Even us, who do the same radio and television muddy every day. It's time for RTS to work on the market principle, let them get on their own once, as long as the poor citizens wear them on their backs. Let them walk alone. We've worn them a lot. The draft law on the suspension of the electricity tax number of MPs to the Vojvodina Coalition proposed in February, and it is high time for this proposal to be found on the agenda. Thank you. Thank you. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I would like to put on the vote by Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic to supplement the agenda of this session - the proposal for a law on the abolition of the fee on the count. The vote was -49, against -171, with abstentions - no one, voted six, a total of 226 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Seven. National MP Marijan Rističević suggested that the agenda of this session be complemented by the item of the agenda - Proposal for A LAW ON THE PROTECTION OF POLICIAL PRODUCTION AND CONTRIBUTION OF THE SURVEILLANCE PREPARATION PREPARED BY THE National Assembly on 6 August 1999. Does MP Marian Risticevic want a word? (WHISPERING) Here you go. MARIANISTICS: I promise not to go out for the pay phone again, about the addition of the agenda, provided RTS promises not to cover my speech with its comments. I made a proposal to supplement the agenda to the point - Proposal for a law on the protection of agricultural production and the adoption of safeguard prices for strategic agricultural products. Today, when farmers do not sell their agricultural products, but surrender, and the government instead of buying them, it takes them over, it is by itself sufficient reason why this bill had to be found on the agenda of this session of the National Assembly. It would be high time for the government to start buying and immediately paying agricultural products, at decent prices. And the bill of law we're asking from the Vojvodina Coalition to discuss, that's exactly what he's talking about. It is time for patriotism, and this patriotism is the protection of the population, primarily the rural population from deliberately harmful laws, regulations and decisions of its own government. I think the ruling majority should realize once already that unreally low prices can't safeguard social peace anymore, and thus power. And that it is high time for the injustices that have been committed for years to the peasants of the ID, which, by this bill, was passed by the MPs of the "Vojvodina" coalition. What's wrong with one kilo of wheat worth at least a kilo of Urea mineral fertilizer worth 25 tons of wheat worth as much tractor power as 45 horsepower. What's wrong with a liter of milk worth as much as four kilos of wheat or a liter of diesel. What's wrong with a kilo of wheat costing 10% more than a kilo of corn. If you do not put this bill on the agenda, you would be obliged to explain to the general public, what is bad for the state, for the citizens, for the peasants in this proposal of the Vojvodina Coalition, or you may think that we should do not do good things here, but only bad things. If that's the case, then you've proven it a long time ago and proved it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-09-0.u1755	Thank you. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I am putting on the vote by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević to supplement the agenda of this session - Proposal for a law on the protection of agricultural production and the adoption of safeguard prices for strategic agricultural products. The vote -- 51, against -- 175, acclaimed -- no one, no one, voted two, a total of 228 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. 8. National MP Marijan Rističević suggested that the agenda of this session be complemented by the agenda item - Proposal for a Law on PENZIA-INVALIDS CERTIFICATE TO THE LANDS, which were submitted to the National Assembly by National MPs Marijan Rističević and Dr Dragan Veselinov on 4 February 1999. Does MP Marian Risticevic want a word? He doesn't want to. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I am putting on the vote by Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic to supplement the agenda of this session - the Bill on Pension-Invalid Insurance of Farmers. It voted - 49, against -174, the abstentions - no one, voted - one, a total of 224 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Nine. National MP Marijan Rističević suggested that the agenda of this session be complemented by the item of the agenda - Proposal for the Law on Freedom of Transport and Export of SPECIFIC PRODUCTS, submitted to the National Assembly by National MPs Marijan Rističević and Dr Dragan Vesenov on 4 February 1999. Does MP Marian Risticevic want a word? He doesn't want to. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I am putting on the vote by Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic to supplement the agenda of this session - the Free Transport and Export Law on Agricultural Products. For voting - 52, against -171, abstentions - no one, has voted - three. A total of 226 MPs are present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Ten. A group of 36 MPs of the Serbian Renewal Movement Group suggested that the agenda of this session be complemented by the item of the agenda - THE CONSIDERATION OF THE REQUIREMENT OF THE SPECIFIC WEIGHT OF THE SERBONS IN CONCERNING THE ElectionS. Does MP Milan Mikovic, president of the Serbian Renewal Movement's parliamentary group, want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-09-0.u1756	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Parliamental Club of the Sprt Movement of Reconstruction in the National Assembly of Serbia is asking for the agenda to be complemented by a point - a request for extraordinary democratic elections at all levels in the Republic of Serbia. Right now on television, there's been a disturbance in all of the MPs' exposure so far, and at the moment, an MP is also influencing here. The parliamentary parties of the opposition in the National Assembly of Serbia and the Assembly of Yugoslavia, the Serbian Renewal Movement, the Democratic Party of Serbia, the Democratic Party, the Democratic Centre, New Democracy, the Democratic Alternative and the Union of Democratic Parties, signed a joint document on 14 October 1999 called the Conclusions of the Round Table of the Democratic Opposition. The document brought the democratic opposition into line with mutual views on electoral conditions and asked the competent state authorities to urgently maintain a round table of authorities and the opposition to agree on electoral conditions and that emergency elections be called as soon as possible. Starting with the conclusion of the round table of the democratic opposition 28 municipal and city halls in Serbia, which exercise local authority on behalf of four million Serbian citizens, they adopted a single request for extraordinary elections at all levels by the end of 1999 on 22 October 1999. Both documents, and the conclusions of the round table of the democratic opposition and the requests of 28 municipal and city halls, were sent to top representatives of Serbia-Yugoslavia authorities. In line with these documents and decisions of the main Committee of the Serbian Movement of Reconstruction since 20 June 1999, the Serbian Parliament's Renewal Movement in the National Assembly, with representatives of the opposition's parliamentary parties, expects an agreement with representatives of the ruling parties on electoral conditions and immediately after reaching the agreement, the adoption of appropriate laws or decisions in the Serbian Parliament and the calling of early democratic elections in Serbia at all levels, including elections for the president of the Republic, which would be held at the same time. The Serbian Renewal Movement MPs' club is demanding that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia make an appropriate decision at this meeting on the urgent launch of dialogues and agreements between representatives of the ruling parties with representatives of the opposition's parliamentary parties on election conditions and the appointment of an emergency democratic election date at all levels in our republic. I'd just like to point out two more things. Extraordinary, democratic elections, which we will agree on if there is even the least good will on the other side, would undoubtedly lead to a drop in tension in the country, at a time when we are at the edge of danger for all citizens on the territory of Serbia and Yugoslavia. The election agreement itself would undoubtedly change the situation in both Serbia and Yugoslavia, above all in Europe, and would undoubtedly be the first step towards removing the isolation that the country is currently in. It is certain that the pressure that exists in Kosovo would be quite different from the European Community in the first place. And with regard to the application of Resolution 1244. No one has the right to throw everything at their feet. No one has the right to insist on continuing the conflict with Europe and the world. One thing is the policy of party goals, and the other is national and national reasons and interests. Finally, let me point out one more thing, whether the National Assembly can act this way. I'm sure he can. There are two things in our legal system, or in what we have been applying so far, given the time since this Yugoslavia exists. Let me remind you that at the end of 1992, a decision was made in the form of the law that early elections for MPs in the National Assembly and for the President of the Republic of Serbia would be held in the Republic of Serbia by the end of 1992. That is why the President of the Republic was elected and the Assembly formed. At that time, early elections for MPs and president of the Republic were called by the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, on the same day as the federal elections. Secondly, no doubt, on the basis of this and the debate in this assembly, if all this occurs, the National Assembly will be able to influence the Prime Minister, the Government, to exercise the rights they have and to ask the President of the Republic to disband the Assembly and call elections for president.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-09-0.u1757	Thank you. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I am putting on the vote by the 36-nation group of MPs of the Serbian Movement to update the agenda of this session to a point-by-point -- reviewing the demands of the Serbian Renewal Movement's parliamentary group on elections. The vote was 194, against 21, no abstentions, no 12, a total of 227 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. 11. National MP Milan Mikovic, president of the Serbian Renewal Movement Group, suggested that the agenda of this session be complemented by the item of the agenda - FORMING THE ANKETAL COMMITTEE OF THE NATIONAL COMMUNITY OF SERBIA FOR THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE COURT OF THE FUNKCIONES OF THE SERBIAN POSITION 3. October 1999. A year. Does the proposing representative, MP Aleksandar Jotric, want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-09-0.u1758	Mr. President, the respected presidency, respected colleagues, given that RTV directly conveys today's session of the Serbian Parliament, I am obliged to inform the MPs in this room, and the chairman, that the recent speech by the president of the Serbian Parliament's Movement of Reconstruction Group, Mr. Mikovic, could not be heard at RTS, because all the while he was speaking to the TV commentator, convinced what the MPs were saying in the previous part of the session. So the distraction continues, as Study B sees opposition MPs, and above all the MPs of the Serbian Renewal Movement, who from this payphone have the opportunity to address the public in Serbia, but I say - only theoretically, because it was practically not possible. I hope as long as I'm saying this, it won't happen again. So the Serbian Renewal Movement parliamentary group is demanding that the proposed agenda of today's session be complemented by the next item of the agenda -- the formation of a polling committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to determine the facts related to the deaths of four senior officials of the Serbian Renewal Movement on 3 October this year. The explanation for this proposal is: - Four senior officials of the Serbian Renewal Movement, Veselin Boskovic, Zvonko Osmajlic, Dragan Vusurović and Vuko Rakočević, were killed on 3 October at Ibarska masteral, in the village of Petka near Lazarec, and the president of the Serbian Renewal Movement was injured on that occasion. Many facts suggest it was not a traffic accident, but rather an attempt to assassinate the president of the Serbian Renewal Movement, the leader of Serbia's leading opposition party. Police and investigative authorities, although it has been more than a month since this tragic event, have not yet established any elemental facts, such as the following -- who drove a truck that killed four high-ranking officials of the Serbian Renewal Movement, who owns the truck, how there is no registration number of trucks in the state computer record. Because of all this, as well as due to a number of other highly suspicious and worrying circumstances, the Serbian Renewal Movement parliamentary club requires the establishment of a assembly survey committee, in accordance with Articles 72, 73 and 74. The Serbian Parliament's Rules of Procedure, as lawmakers of the ruling majority refused to discuss the tragic event of October 3rd, the Defence and Security Committee of the Serbian Parliament discusses. The Serbian Renewal Movement Parliament Club proposes that the poll committee be composed of the following members: Slobodan Nenadovic, chairman of the Defence and Security Committee, Borisvoje Borovic, MP Vojislav Mihajlovic, vice-president of the Serbian Parliament, and that one representative of the Socialist Party of Serbia, the Serbian Radical Party and the Yugoslav Left enter the committee. The Committee would, in accordance with its powers, be obliged to establish - were there any failures in the work of police and investigative authorities, were the investigative authorities in their work distracted by the authorities of national security and public security, customs or other state authorities, or were some state authorities, and on whose orders, working to remove documents and other material evidence related to the tragic event of October 3rd, and were there pressures on witnesses to give false evidence? The Serbian Renewal Movement MPs' club is demanding that the survey board examines all this as soon as possible and immediately submits a report to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on this matter to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and proposes appropriate measures. For the chairman of the polling committee, we propose Mr. Slobodan Nenadovic, president of the Assembly's Defence and Security Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-09-0.u1759	Thank you. On the occasion of this proposal, understanding the overall situation, which was created around it, I called for a meeting before the start of the session with the heads of parliament clubs, attended by a representative of the Socialist Party of Serbia, a representative of the Serbian Radical Party, a representative of the Serbian Renewal Movement and the Yugoslav Left, for one simple reason. I am personally against the formation of a polling committee, because I do not think this is in the jurisdiction of the National Assembly of Serbia and that this represents the interference of the National Assembly of Serbia in the affairs of the judicial authorities. As you know, under the Constitution, we have the principle of power-sharing in legislative, executive and judicial matters. Everything you have heard in your explanation confirms that the committee of inquiry should be involved in the investigation and in determining the facts, which represent the work of the investigating authorities. But, in order for this not to be my judgment and my judgment, I ask Professor Ratko Markovic just to explain to us what is the jurisdiction of the committees of inquiry, or the committee of inquiry, or at all the committees of the National Assembly, and am I right, that this will hurt the Constitution? Here you go, Professor.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-09-0.u1760	Mr. President, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I thank you for your confidence, but I would only expose the legal nature of the Committee of the National Assembly, I would not like to discuss whether this issue can be put on the agenda or not. This remains the sovereign right of the National Assembly to establish the agenda under the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. The Committee of Auditors is a state body, but a state body that is not independent. He's the working body of the National Assembly. Thus, the auxiliary body of the National Assembly. It is also included in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly under the heading - Committees and other working bodies of the National Assembly. Therefore, the Committee of Polls also applies to the definition given by the Rules of Procedure on Committees and by the working bodies of the National Assembly in general, and that definition says that all these auxiliary bodies of the National Assembly can be educated in order to search and consider matters from the responsibilities of the National Assembly. The responsibilities of the National Assembly have been explicitly determined by the taxing list set out in Article 73. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. But if we wanted to cover them with one formulation, she'd be the one from Article 9. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says the National Assembly belongs to legislative and constitutional authority. Therefore, all internal working bodies, the auxiliary bodies that the congregation educates, in order to assist it in the exercise of its jurisdiction, can be educated only on matters in the jurisdiction of the National Assembly. Differently, it penetrates other authorities and violates the principle of division of power, which is explicitly formulated in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. In Article 73. The Rules of Procedure say that the National Assembly can form a polling committee, and that is to look at the situation in a particular area, or to determine the facts and circumstances, certain facts about certain events and phenomena, as it stands. This is about the identification of facts and phenomena, i.e. the identification of certain facts and events and phenomena, which are relevant for the work of the judicial authorities, for the work of the judiciary, and certainly not for the work of the National Assembly. In fact, survey committees are designed to establish facts and circumstances regarding government work above all, and other bodies and officials responsible for the National Assembly. That's what it says in Article 73. The Constitution. This is because the National Assembly exercises control over the work of the government, other bodies and officials responsible for it. This is about determining the facts and circumstances relevant to the work of the law enforcement authority, i.e. the prosecution and the authorities that render the verdict, which exercise the judicial authority. Judicial power, pursuant to the provisions of Article 9. The constitution, specifically, belongs to the courts. After all, this is about identifying qualified facts and phenomena, and the committee of inquiry, like all committees, can only be made up of MPs. People's MPs are elected politically, not according to professional standards. That is one reason that would violate the constitutional provision on the division of power. The second reason, these facts and circumstances are intruding into the work of other authorities, holders of other authorities, public prosecutors and courts, and public prosecutorial and judicial officials, according to an explicit provision of the Constitution, cannot be held accountable for their work to the National Assembly. There's so much about the question you asked me.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-09-0.u1761	Thank you. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I would like to put to the vote the motion of MP Aleksandar Citoric, in front of the SPO's MPs, to supplement the agenda of this session -- the formation of a polling committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in order to determine the facts related to the deaths of four high-ranking officials of the Serbian Renewal Movement on 3 October 1999. 52 voted against 178 abstentions -- no one, voted one, a total of 231 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. (Serb Movement workers leave the hall. I ask the People's MPs, we continue the session. National MP Milan Mikovic, president of the Serbian Renewal Movement's parliamentary group, suggested that the agenda be complemented by the agenda's agenda -- the parliamentary issues, and that it be the last item of the agenda. Does MP Milan Mikovic, president of the Serbian Renewal Movement's parliamentary group, want a word? He doesn't want to. I ask the Members of Parliament to put their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I am putting on the vote by MP Milan Mikovic, president of the SPO parliamentary group, to supplement the agenda of this session - the parliamentary issues, and to make this the last item of the agenda. Without a vote, according to the Rules of Procedure, it was always the last item of the agenda. End of vote. 118 voted against 54 abstentions -- one, not 10, a total of 183 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The proposal to carry out a joint principled search on draft laws under points 2 to 7 of the proposed agenda. People's MP Life Cvetkovic suggested that a joint principled search be carried out on the bill's proposals. That's not the second point now, so it'll be in order, as we adopt. Does the MP of Life Cvetkovic want a word? He doesn't want to. I ask the Members of Parliament to put their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I would like to put to the vote the proposal of MP of the People's Parliament of Life of Cvetkovic to carry out a joint principled search on the draft laws in the proposed agenda. End of vote. The vote was 168, against 8 abstentions -- no one, no 5, a total of 181 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. People's MP Life Cvetkovic suggested that the draft law amending and supplementing the Ministry Act, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, be considered as the first item of the agenda. Does the MP of Life Cvetkovic want a word? He doesn't want to. ) I ask the MPs to put their cards in the MPs to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I would like to put to the vote the motion by Parliament's MP, Life of Cvetkovic, to consider the draft law amending and supplementing the Ministry Act, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as the first item of the agenda. The vote was 163, against the 7 abstentions -- no one, voted 7, a total of 177 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, all the new points adopted shall be included in the agenda of the sittings in accordance with the order of their proposal, i.e. acceptance. The proposals for adopted acts, committees responsible, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, if they have not already done so, will submit their reports, or opinions during the session. Since we have come to the conclusion of all the amendments and additions to the proposed agenda, I would like the Members of Parliament to make a statement on the agenda of the session in general. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting on a vote on the draft agenda in general. The vote was 176, against 9, abstentions -- no one, no two, a total of 187 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 1999 as a whole. I ask the National Assembly's service to prepare the consolidated text of the session's agenda and hand it over to the MPs. Dn e v n ir e d 1. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Ministry Act, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 2. Resolution and selection of members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 3. Termination of office and selection of judicial holders, 4. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income Tax, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Excises and Tax on Transport, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 6. Proposal for a law supplementing the Property Tax Act, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 7. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Company Tax Act, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 8. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the provision of funds for the implementation of the Social Programme of the Republic of Serbia in 1999, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 9. Proposal for a law on special conditions and how to settle the commitments made on the basis of public revenues, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 10. Proposal for a law on amendments to the Tourism Act, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 11. Proposal for a Law on Local Self-Government, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 12. Proposal for a law on special rights and duties of the President of the Republic, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 13. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, submitted by MP Gorica Gajevic, president of the Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group, MP Stevo Dragisic, president of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group and MP Milan Rodic, president of the Yugoslav Left parliamentary group, 14. Proposal for a Decision on Animal Health Measures in the Republic of Serbia for 1999, 2000 and 2001, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 15. Discuss the request of the Serbian Renewal Movement parliamentary group in connection with the elections, 16. MPs' questions. National MP Stevo Dragisic, head of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary club, is asking for a word.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-09-0.u1762	During the assembly's constitution, it was agreed that the Socialist Party of Serbia, the Yugoslav Left and New Democracy belong to the president of the Assembly, one post of vice-president and secretary, the Serbian Radical Party's two seats as vice-president and the Serbian Movement to restore one post of vice-president. At that time, the Serbian Radical Party is one place that belonged to it to the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians, as a party representing the Hungarian national minority. Mr Istvan Ispanovic was elected and this was a manifestation of our relationship to the Hungarian national minority and to all national minorities in Serbia who respect the Republic of Serbia as their country. This time, we call on the Union of Vojvodina Hungarians to propose a new candidate, as MP Ispanovic resigned. We continue to give way to the Alliance of the Dukes of Hungarians, and I suggest that the election of a new vice president be made as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-09-0.u1763	Thank you. It is necessary that the National Assembly, before moving to work on the agenda of the session, make a decision on a permanent MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You have been presented with a proposal for a decision, which was submitted by the Administrative Board. I'm opening a unique search. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting this motion to the vote. The 182 vote against no one with abstention voted five, a total of 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? No, I don't. Do any of the MPs want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since no one is answering for a word, I am concluding a unique search. I ask the MPs to set up a quorum to place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I put to the vote a proposal for a decision on a Members of Parliament on permanent work in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The vote was 179 against no one, no one was abstentioned, no two voted, a total of 181 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision on a permanent MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We're going to work on a set agenda. We move to item 1 of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF THE MINISTRATIVE LAW You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received reports from the Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee, which have adopted the draft law in principle and in particular. At meetings of the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Justice and Administration, MP Milan Mikovic singled out. I'm opening a principled search. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? No, I don't. ) Does MP Milan Mikovic, who has given his opinion, want a word? He's not present. Do any of the MPs want a word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. I ask the Members of Parliament to put their cards in the MPs to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Ministry Act in principle. In favour of 168, against 9, the abstentioned one, not three, a total of 181 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. Does anyone want to talk about the bill in particular? He doesn't want to. ( ) Since no one is answering for a word, I conclude a search of the bill in particular. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Ministry Act in general. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that 167 against 9, no one was abstentioned, no 9 voted, a total of 185 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Ministry Act, mostly votes. We move to item 2 of the agenda: - DEROCTION AND CHOICE OF MEMBER STATES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA You have been presented with a proposal from the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia for the resolution and selection of members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I ask the Prime Minister, Mirko Marjanovic, to submit the exposés.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-09-0.u1764	Dear President, honourable Members of the People, allow me to address you at the beginning of the National Assembly session, at the time when the first phase of reconstruction of the country was completed with great success and when we are preparing basic documents on the objectives and tasks of economic and development policy for the next year, in 2000. Three are the essential course of action of the government of the Republic of Serbia in the coming period. First, a rapid and efficient continuation of the country's reconstruction, secondly, determined implementation of reforms and thirdly, the dynamicisation of economic and social development in order to increase the standards and better lives of all citizens. The government of the People's Unity will invest all the effort, knowledge, experience, awareness that it is the realisation of the goals key to the development of our society and that it has always had the support of the National Assembly and the vast majority of our citizens for its work. We therefore also consider the tasks set out as the continuity of the policy that we have led since the start of the mandate, with the aim of always building up as strong a material base of society on market grounds as a premise of achieving a greater standard of living and social standards and the objectives of human and fair society. The current results of the government's work are evident. We've worked under the most difficult conditions and under pressure, which modern history doesn't know. One year some of the world's powers wanted to block our development, in another, to completely drain us in an economic and social way, in a third to physically destroy us, and there were periods like this year, when they wanted it all together. However, we have not dried up at any moment, we have fought and found solutions, to the greatest extent we rely on our own forces and have always gone forward. From the beginning of 1994 until the attack of the NATO Alliance this year, we achieved a high rate of economic growth year after year. Production has increased in industry, agriculture and all activities, creating new values and a social product. Production capacities have been increasingly used, new businesses have been opened, many young people are employed, the standard has grown. The aggressor interrupted that climb, but only for a little while. In the second half of the year, production is growing again at double-digit monthly rates. All these years, we have maintained economic and social stability in the country. We've never had more significant inflation and there hasn't been a year without providing real resources from real sources to pay out pensions, children's allowances and other social benefits, salaries to employees in education, health, culture, science and state administration. These are the years when all our social activities, public services and all the state authorities have shown their quality and vitality. At the same time, we have done everything to help hundreds of thousands of refugees, who have been exiled from their homes for no reason, with the versatile help of those who declare themselves champions of democracy and human rights. The agresors believed that immediately after the war, inflation and any other chaos would occur, which would happen to many countries in such a situation. However, we have resolutely rejected such threats and pressures, stabilised prices and course, and ensured orderly market supply. Finally, regardless of all external constraints, we persistently built a system of modern market-social economy, passed key system laws and started reforms in all areas of life. When the SRJ was formed, in the spring of 1992, we had only the Constitution, as the highest legal act of the country, and today we have almost until the end of the operationalized economic and legal system, built institutions of the market economy and the rule of law. These are the solid foundations that, with the bitter unity and support of the entire people, allowed us to come out in this most difficult year as winners, winners in the war, winners in the restoration and unique in the definitions and clear vision of future development. Dear People's MPs, our most important task now is to implement the second phase of reconstruction. It must be implemented quickly, efficiently and in quality, just as it was done in the first stage. The restoration of the country has shown all the qualities Serbia has and can be proud of, the unity of the people, the great sacrifice of all participants, the speed of efficiency in building, the great knowledge and skills of builders, the visionation from the point of view of wider effects of reconstruction, because this is not just about restoring what has been ruined, but about restructure and modernising our industry, about building modern communications for a new century and for effective inclusion in the world, about a better standard of those who have moved into new houses, apartments, new school classrooms, hospital buildings. The country's reconstruction directorate, which I remind by President Slobodan Milosevic's decision, was formed only days after the start of the aggression, together with the Serbian government prepared all projects and arranged jobs for the second phase of reconstruction. More than a billion dinars have been provided from real sources so far, and the total value of the works, together with the second phase, exceeds two and a half billion dinars. In the second phase of reconstruction, the emphasis is on further modernisation of infrastructure, training of key production systems for efficient innovation and further construction of market institutions. So, rebuilding the country, in its broadest sense, is the reform concept of our society's development. For us, reforms never represented abstract categories of an idealistic imagined society, but quite real economic and social processes and changes that open perspectives for faster development and better life. That is why we will continue to work very concretely and practically, but always taking into account their fundamental essence and purpose. First of all, we continue to speed up the property transformation. To that end, we are considering the possibility of legal changes, in which we have the support of all parties in the Government of People's Unity. In further activities in its own transformation of enterprises with a special programme of government and public enterprises, it will particularly insist on protecting natural resources and attracting foreign capital. We also offer foreign partners very favourable opportunities to invest capital in our economy, based on the Law on concessions. I can say right now that there's a lot of interest in this kind of investment and co-operation. There are a large number of countries, outside NATO alliances, which respect our country very much and recognise our fight for freedom and independence, which at the same time have very concrete interests, to be much more present in Serbia and Yugoslavia on the basis of joint investments and other, higher forms of economic co-operation. Of course, we need to prepare quickly and precisely through reform changes, for more intensive integration into international economic, financial and technological flows. That means more than one thing. On the one hand, public spending reforms, state administration rationalisation and increased financial discipline, we create a modern and efficient state and social upgrade, which is in line with the economic power of the economy and whose task is to make it easier for a professional and with as few rules of conduct to make it easier for the economy to produce and make it successful. Regardless of the limited material frameworks, we are ready to move more decisively into reform of the pension and health system, as well as to change in other areas of public consumption, especially since we have prepared solutions from a professional point of view. Secondly, we are committed to faster reforms in the area of the banking system, the development of financial markets and further liberalisation of the external trade system. We simply don't have the right not to be quick and efficient about those changes, which depend to the greatest extent on ourselves. Therefore, we will implement the restructuring of the banking system at the same time as the property and market restructuring of companies, the autonomous market restructuring of banks, with strict application of appropriate legal standards, will be combined in this area with the direct restructuring of large banks. Thirdly, together with the Federal Government, we have prepared laws on value added tax and investment funds, as well as laws governing debt and trust relations and bankruptcy procedures for businesses and banks. We will pass these laws with the further liberalisation of the external trade regime, because these are all important preconditions for the economy to adapt more easily and faster to world criteria and adaptations. Four, the actual test of reform definition is a relationship to financial discipline, all of which, from state to bank and business. The state has to do with this particular obligation, when it comes to reducing the gray economy, combating monopoly behaviour and all forms of economic crime. For that fight, we have the full support of our leadership and of all citizens. Therefore, in the implementation of the rule of law and legalisation of economic flows, we will be maximumly determined. Honored MPs, success in rebuilding and successful implementation of reforms are the main guarantee of rapid and successful economic growth and development. Fast economic growth in the next and next years is imperative. With low growth rates and a small social product per capita, it is not possible to achieve the goals of rich, human and just society. Therefore, our development path must be upward, with high, preferably two-digit annual growth rates. This must be the basic framework of thinking in determining the objectives of economic policy for the next 2000, but as a basic strategic definition. Our perspective is in the construction of an offensive, export-oriented strategy, with the support of values Serbia already has, as well as those it can quickly create and for which foreign capital will also be interested next to the domestic one. It is about such economic, technological and financial integration with the world, which has a strong feedback on the country's accelerated socio-economic development. This is why it is most important to increase the international competitiveness of our products and services on a market basis and with an efficient structure and development policy. This is possible only by increasing the efficiency of innovation, the rational use of human, material resources and public consumption, adapted to the needs of accelerated development. In particular, a significant change in the economic structure in the direction of which much more favours final and high-end production, the use of new technologies, the development of modern and service activities and much more benefits Serbia-Yugoslavia's favourable geographical position. We also have in mind large infrastructure projects, whose implementation through the reconstruction programmes we are already accessing. In doing so, we do not give up the created and recognised advantages that we have in the production of energy and raw materials, the agrarian, who has great opportunities, we will give meaning that he deserves. The most important thing is that when we restructure, we respect the world market criteria much more, and that we look for our chance everywhere where there are opportunities to develop small and medium-sized enterprises and to create new productive jobs, where good profits and profits are achieved. In this process we also entered into the successful realization of the economic social programme, the employment of workers destroyed and damaged enterprises, the creation of new jobs, especially in small and medium-sized enterprises, and, on the other hand, by training existing businesses to continue the production process without surplus employees. This is one of the most important steps to make in a socially acceptable way the necessary market restructuring of the economy. The vision of future development and its sectoral and spatial components are based on scientific and government-verified development documents, such as the spatial plan of the Republic for the period up to 2010, a visionary Serbian development strategy by 2020, a strategy for the long-term development of agriculture, villages, food industries, forestry and water industry, strategies and traffic development policies by 2010, a strategy for tourism development in the Republic of Serbia. Dear People's MPs, we have before us a great task of restoring society after a difficult decade, in which it is destroyed, economically and culturally, and even physically. We want to achieve this restoration, building a society in line with the modern development of our era. That is why we believe that renewal and reform should go as one process. It's a serious and big deal, and that's why I'm proposing that at the level of the federal state, the Institute for the Reconstruction and Reform of our society be organised. The Yugoslav left, as the entire public is known, offered a proposal to the federal government several months ago for a project of material and spiritual reconstruction of the Yugoslav society. This could be an incentive for other parties and other political and creative entities to contribute in a similar way to the development of the overall concepts of material and spiritual restoration of society. To that end, I call on the MPs, all political parties, scientific and professional institutions, other institutions and organisations and all citizens, to actively engage in this most important, I can freely say, fateful social project, which should give all of us, and above all to the young generation, a clear answer to our material and spiritual opportunities, and to ensure the perspective of social development. Dear President and honourable Members of the People, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, all resolution ministers, or ministries and organisations, have made every effort to implement the programme and measures of economic policy that we have received the support of the National Assembly as consistently as possible. In order to continue to work even more effectively, appropriate organisational changes are needed, in terms of ministries, and in order to carry out the tasks ahead of them, appropriate changes in the government's composition are also needed. To that end, we have defined ourselves to separate the current Ministry of Education into two ministries, the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Higher and Higher Education. You have given support to this amendment by voting for amendments and additions to the Ministry Act. Dear People's MPs, in light of the above, I propose that current duties in the government of the Republic of Serbia be resolved: Life Ćosic, Minister of Mining and Energy Jovo Todorovic, Minister of Education Slobodan Tomovic, Minister without portfolio and Bogoljub Karic, Minister without portfolio. At the same time, I propose to elect in the Government of the Republic of Serbia: Dragan Todorovic, Vice-President of the Government of Serbia, born in 1953, graduate engineer of the organisation of work, National MP of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia; Slobodan Tomovic, born 1946 for Minister of Mining and Energy, National MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Minister of Finance; until now, Ratko Marcetic, born 1942, Minister of Transport and Communications, Director of Organizational Sciences, National MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, from Ćuprije; Jovo Todorovic, born in 1937, Master of Engineering, Doctor of Science, Professor of the University of Belgrade, Minister of Education; Academic Prof. Jevrem Janjic, Minister for Higher and Higher Education, was born in 1939, a regular professor of the Natural-Mathematic Faculty in Novi Sad. For ministers without portfolios in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I propose to choose, read in alphabetical order: Bozidar Vucurović, born in 1951, economist, National MP of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and MP of the Greater Republic of the Federal Assembly, from Belgrade; Jovan Damnjanovic, born 1947, graduated from the Higher Food School of Zemun; Life Ćosic, born 1942, graduated machine engineer, former Minister of Mining and Energy. Dear People's MPs, I am convinced that, given the results so far, the proposed candidates will contribute even more effectively to the work of the government and therefore I call on you to accept the proposed solutions, and I wish the future members of the government much success in their work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-09-0.u1765	I thank Prime Minister Mirko Marjanovic. I am opening an investigation into the Prime Minister's proposal to resolve a number of members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? He wants to. ) Gorica Gajevic, head of the SPS Parliament Club.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-09-0.u1766	Dear President, honourable MPs, I would like to begin by expressing my support for the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mirko Marjanovic, who convincingly presented the results so far and accurately outlined the government's policy and priorities in the coming period. The government of the people's unity in historical crucial moments by our people and the state, responded effectively, rationally, with dignity and above all patriotically to the problems we faced. The concept of the Government of National Unity has also been confirmed in the defense of the country against NATO aggression and in the restoration of what the criminals have destroyed and destroyed, in order to conquer our country and our people. The functioning of the Government of National Unity during that period was high, and it will be recorded in history as worthy of the challenge it faced. The courage, self-sacrifice and the great unity of the people and the state leadership in defending the country against the aggressors was the greatest support for the heroic position of members of the Yugoslav Army and the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Serbia. The great energy of unity from the country's defence has been transformed into a strong mobilization for the country's reconstruction. By forming a Directorate for the Reconstruction of the Earth ten days after the beginning of aggression, we have shown all the strength of our people, its creative energy and vitality. In the days of heroic struggle, determined and organized, it was planned and prepared to rebuild. The restoration of our country is not a mere reconstruction of individual objects. Everything that has been done, and so much has been done, from objects of traffic and energy infrastructure to houses, apartments, schools, hospitals, fills with the sense of pride and self-respect of our citizens, causes the admiration of the free and free world, and just as much anger and anger as our enemies, whose intention was to destroy Serbia. Much has been done in a short time, according to the highest technological, construction and economic standards, its own strength, its own resources, the intelligence of our people, our engineers and workers. The restoration of the Government of National Unity was not only treated as mass work to repair what the enemy destroyed or destroyed. The reconstruction is treated as a process of overall national and spiritual rebirth, reform and development. Reforms, from businesses through ownership, management, technology, are also part of the reconstruction, especially its second phase. The Socialist Party of Serbia welcomes the government's determination to continue the reform processes in all areas that will also mean standardisation of our normative solutions, technologies in our economy, business methods, state organisations, the tax system with modern states in the world. But the reforms for us are not and will not be just a determination to apply what is effective and modern in the world. Reforms mean those solutions that will bring our citizens a better life. This means - reforms that will bring economic growth, higher employment, higher productivity, higher exports and a more real economic growth standard for citizens. Reconstruction and reforms should be the basis for the development of our country and our society in the coming millennium. This development is based on real economic and human resources. Our position, which in the communication system represents an inevitable hub of the east and west, the north and south, the position of the Danube country with a distinct ability to produce healthy food, with a compatible industry in the metal complex, is undoubtedly a comparative advantage that is interesting for foreign partners, which they show by numerous contacts with our businesses. They're components for real development and we'll take advantage of it. The government of the People's Unity managed to bring the process together as a development process and a reform process and should therefore give it full recognition. The importance of such a policy and the definition of the Government of National Unity is seen by helping the most vulnerable citizens, on the one hand, train vital infrastructure and energy facilities, on the other hand, which is simultaneously increased production and an open perspective of development. The concept of those who thought it would destroy our country, stop economic life in Serbia and turn us into a colony. Serbia, despite the brutality of unrecorded aggression, has neither kneeled nor strayed from a firm commitment to continue on the path of reform, economic and political co-operation with the world on an even basis, for which we have the support of a large number of states. It is not just the moves and work of the Government of National Unity. This is primarily confirmed by the enormous vitality, mobilization, solidarity, unity of constructive forces facing the country's progress and better and better quality lives of citizens. Law proposals submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption and on the agenda of these sessions are also a confirmation of the quality of the new steps we take as a state and as a people. I will look at only two areas that are modernly regulated, noting that other legal projects of the government are also handled with these values and are directed in that direction. The legal set relating to the tax system is aimed at harmonising our fiscal regime with modern market economies, and for discharging economic operators, on the other hand. This approach will facilitate the business of business operators and allow for a more successful reconciliation of budgetary commitments. And the law on local self-government is fully in line with modern democratic definitions in this area. This law will put us in line for those countries that fully respect the recommendations of the European Charter of Local Self-Government. With regard to the scope of the rights of municipalities, organisations, ways of establishing bodies, protection, sources and methods of financing, the law on local self-government is fully in line with the solutions of that Charter of Local Self-Government. At the same time, this matter, regulated in a series of laws, is now codified and in a specific way created by a kind of small constitution of local self-government, because this law develops a series of constitutional rights and responsibilities that citizens perform in the most vital part of social order, where they live and work. Dear MPs, the Socialist Party of Serbia supports the proposed legislative solutions because they agree with the government's policy to effectively and consistently implement the policy of reconstruction, reform and development, and this is the basic requirement and objective of citizens and will therefore vote for the adoption of proposed legislative projects, organisational and humane changes, i.e. solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-09-0.u1767	Thank you. There is a word from MP Stevo Dragisic, head of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary club.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-09-0.u1768	Ladies and gentlemen, the first result of the establishment of the Government of National Unity in 1998 was political stability in Serbia. It's something Serbia's been missing for years. The political stability has provided Serbia with the opportunity to prepare for the Cypriot terrorism, secession and aggression that followed this year. Cele1998. The government of National Unity, the government of the Republic of Serbia, has conducted preparations to defend against possible attacks on the outside. Unfortunately, that attack occurred. The government also passed several very good laws that year. First of all, the Information Act and the University Act, which, each in their own field, contributed to the defence of the state against aggression. It showed how good the Information Act was only when America decided to bomb the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. At the time, Serbia was only able to win a media information war in its space. When it was clear, in 1999, that under pressure from the West, the government of the Republic of Serbia would not yield to aggression. The aggression lasted 78 days, although it was obvious that it was planned to last much shorter, as it was expected that Serbia, which has been under economic sanctions and blockades of various species, would bow down to pray for mercy, would not be able to defend itself for years. The results of political stability and preparations for the aggression showed that Serbia was able to oppose the enemy, resist all their attacks and that their initial plan had to change. During the 78 days of aggression, the NATO Pact destroyed everything it could. It has not crossed even from targeting civilian targets, housing, and besides, many infrastructure facilities have been completely destroyed. Many routes have been cut off. A lot of bridges are down, refinery, electrical-energy systems, and most tragically, we've had civilian casualties. After the aggression, the work of the government of the Republic of Serbia was - rebuilding the country. In doing so, the government has achieved a tremendous success. As successful as he couldn't expect, neither could the greatest pessimist in our country, nor our greatest enemies. It was completely unimaginable that for such a short period of time, the government would restore the almost complete travel network in Serbia, build all the important bridges that have been destroyed, enable all the important routes, enable the electrical energy system to sustain consumption in the winter period, and fortunately, we have not yet come into the situation that we have to do some havarian exclusions, power restrictions and so on. The government has achieved huge success in the country's reconstruction and this is the priority of the government of the Republic of Serbia. Priority above all priorities - to restore the country, to provide people with a roof over their heads, to those who have lost their houses, to their apartments, and to train the country's infrastructure so that the economy can function normally. We're still under lockdown. Nothing's changed in the past year or two. There's more pressure on our country. We are being organized inside by those who want to reduce the importance of what the Government of the Republic of Serbia is doing and those who want to finish the work for the NATO Pact, which failed to complete the bombs. Following the signing of the agreement and the adoption of the Security Council resolution, the resignation of ministers from the Serbian Radical Party in the government of the Republic of Serbia took place. The possibility of a government reconstruction has been opened. All parliamentary parties that mattered in this country were offered to enter the government of the Republic of Serbia. None of them accepted that. It's just an expression of avoiding responsibility for what state leadership should do. But the government has to form. Someone must form a coalition in Serbia. If there's no coalition, we'll have to go to new elections. However, in the situation in which we are located, political instability is what we least need. Because our country's aggression isn't over. She just changed her shape. They're throwing more bombs at us, but that's why we're being organized by various traitor groups, political parties. They finance the work of political parties in Serbia in order to break the regime in Serbia, violently shoot down the regime, and in such a situation, the government of the Republic of Serbia had to form itself. The Serbian Radical Party also accepted the part of responsibility, to participate in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, when the state needs to be renewed, when it is necessary to train the state to exit the economic crisis, and when it is necessary to liberalise the conditions of rejuvenation, when it is necessary for businesses to provide free conditions for the adjustment, when this is the only condition for the country's recovery and exit from the economic crisis. This time leaving the economic crisis won't be easy and won't be short. It's a road that will take many years. It takes a lot of knowledge, wisdom, and responsibility on that road. The Serbian Radical Party, as part of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, is ready to accept that part of the responsibility, and we, as a responsible party and people participating in the government, accept all the legislative proposals that the government has offered to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia today, because we believe that this is a step towards liberalisation in our economy. We believe that every next step has to be further, even more, to liberalise the conditions of engagement with us, in order to enable that part, a healthy part of our economy and economy to develop, and thus extract our country from the economic crisis. This is what the Serbian Radical Party will make its full contribution to the Government of National Unity, as this is the only way out of the economic crisis that we have been in for years. We believe that in the area of privatisation, property transformation, we must move far more radically. Privatisation must be mandatory. The government of the Republic of Serbia should come out as soon as possible with a new concept of privatisation with us, whether in the form of an amendment to the Law on its own transformation, or with a new law, however, but privatisation must be implemented as quickly and as effectively as possible. Finally, the Serbian Radical Party also wants to contribute primarily to political stability with its participation in the government of the People's Unity, and thus to stand in the way of all political parties, which, for the sake of NATO's pact, want to violently get their hands on the authorities. We want to endure all the pressures on the outside, they cannot be eternal, they will last as long as they need to make sure that none of their methods, that none of their political exhibits in Serbia, have any chance of winning power in Serbia in such a way. We're ready for the election, we're ready for the election at all levels, but that these elections are conducted according to the laws of this country, that these elections are controlled by our state authorities. Well, if their political parties, the NATO Pact, deserve citizens' trust, let them rule Serbia, but we are sure that what Serbia has been through with the Government of the People's Unity will not be noticed and that in the next election of the NATO Pact they have nothing to look for. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-09-0.u1769	Thank you. He has the word Dr. Zivorad Djordjevic, deputy president of the Yugoslav Left Parliament Club.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-09-0.u1770	Dear People's MPs, on behalf of the Yugoslav Left MPs, we support the definitions contained in the presentation of Serbian Prime Minister Mirko Marjanovic, and our efforts to meet the demands and needs of our people to live happily, in peace, free and dignifiedly. We also support the proposed legislative solutions, which allow for the very same renewal and reform of society. The Yugoslav Left, as a peace party, whose political foundations are covered by the reconstruction and reform of society, immediately after the end of the war, aggression actually adopted a comprehensive reconstruction programme in all areas of society. As a party of fundamental changes and reforms, it was natural to offer the first comprehensive programme of society renewal, which we believe seriously and we are convinced that its achievement will be guaranteed stability and progress today and in the future. We are therefore prepared to fight in an equal, tolerated and democratic game of ideas and solutions in all the institutions of society for its life. The Yugoslav left gives great recognition and due respect to many builders in rebuilding the country. New heroes of labor were born, heroes of war overnight became heroes of labor. Only with the help of brilliant design solutions, day-to-night work and courage and determination in making these decisions could we build and rebuild all of this in less time than it took for NATO villains to destroy thousands of planes and missiles. Only one such vital, conceited and lucid people and people who know the value of freedom, independence and dignity can successfully defend themselves against the impertinent murderers and defiance of all the cruelty of these time barbarians. The people who heroically resisted brutal military aggression and preserved the country's freedom and independence, and with their bold struggle encouraged the free part of humanity and thus marked the bright side of history from the end of the 20th century, such a people can only be defined for the policy of peace, restoration and reform of society. This modern left offers work, a game of knowledge and creation, offers security, offers equality of people, people and their ideas. Our favourites on the social scene are the best scientists, the most lucid designers, brilliant computerists, gifted students and students, field recorders and factory. We believe that because of all this, we will gain the trust of the people in the restoration of the earth. Our political competition, which even believes that it slows us down and slows us down in all of this, performs a team of senior losers in the election, failed students, who replaced the alleys, these time-renowned politicians, who deal with politics from old age boredom, or thus treat their life failures, their marginality, or their lusts. They still need to be recognized in one thing -- they've made a very good assessment that they don't have the support of their own people, so they turn to international political trade, they want to sell their own country. All these political losers, antiheroes, vases, subjects, five-coloners and other members of political and media prostitution are today the main asset of NATO's political and media aggression. They started with street chaos, and "lock", now they're other Western bosses' directives, and they're getting them on their feet. The caravans are organized in Herceg Novi, a class in Banja Luka, and in Budapest, and even in New York. They usually have one-hour instructions and a directive, without the right to object. These NATO subduers don't even have a chance to compete in front of the bosses in the skills of humility and vassalism anymore. They are promised money and glory for the betrayal of the land. As for the division of money, they are already very much fighting each other, and as for the acquisition of fame, according to the unfulfilled directives in the destruction of the country, their foreign bosses are already telling them - glory. They're fighting over the division of the vassal charity, they're fighting hard and they're fighting the main sheriff's election. Still, they are dominated by the problem -- who is the main one: the one who has just turned 80 and already wants to be prime minister or the one who loses the elections six times in a row or the one who wants to be the Serb chief, but has forgotten the Serbian language or the Roma from Obrenovac, as one of those two wolves said? By the importance of this party, "Klintons" are marching towards their own parastoss. They're on their way to rest in oblivion. But the free Serbian people can't forget this much shame. To this people, the winner of war and the builder in peace, nothing can be a hindrance to society's restoration and reform, neither militaryly or morally discredited NATO armadas, nor the plowing and loose "Klinton's" party. The government of Serbia, the country's Renewal Directorate, our leadership led by SRJ President Slobodan Milosevic, with the support of the people, will continue to sovereignly and boldly defend freedom and dignity, build the country, make citizens rich and happy.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-09-0.u1771	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Veselinov.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-09-0.u1772	I expected more from Mr. Prime Minister today. A lot has happened in the past six, seven months. And today you called this government the Government of People's Unity. I don't believe you're the Government of People's Unity. You are united political groups in the destruction of the people, you are united in destroying the state of Serbia, destroying the economy, destroying our country's political integrity. Since you've been in power, this little political space we've been able to move freely and without visas disappears. Out of two eyes in the head are two currencies, where again a better currency is not in your pocket, but in the pocket of the Montenegrins. The people stayed on the dinar. I warned this government, and before the war with the NATO Pact, we will enter the greatest destruction, lose our territory. I warned that only Serbia from three parts would be whole. Serbia stayed in two parts, and now I want to be perfectly well-intentioned, because I believe I've always done that, to tell you. Only Serbia in two will remain whole. I hope that you will gain strength, not in this government, but in some future, to organise inner life, to change the Constitution and to form a state so that we can live equally and unitedly in a single border. I don't expect this government to do anything else with reconstruction from what it's done so far. I'm here for you to resign, I'm here for this government to leave as I've suggested so far. The reconstructions of the government cannot be achieved because of you, apart from the simplest phrases, I have not heard any new economic or political programme. You can't mention Vojvodina, you don't mention Sandzak, you don't mention constitutional reform. You're talking about major economic successes. We've suffered a huge failure. The social product per capita is now $1,000, and at the beginning of the year was 1,300. That's your score. You're responsible for that. Okay, you're responsible for that. (He speaks to the Prime Minister. There is no greater traitor than you, Mr. Marjanovic. Because you participated in the destruction of the state and the people.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-09-0.u1773	Mr. Vesenov, please do not speak personally to Mr....
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-09-0.u1774	But he insulted me first.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-09-0.u1775	I didn't hear, but you insulted him.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-09-0.u1776	And you didn't hear? Put on your headphones.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-09-0.u1777	Please, please, don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-09-0.u1778	Well, then you're fighting to maintain order here in the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-09-0.u1779	Of course.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-09-0.u1780	You're talking about economic success. I've seen the president of the Republic of Yugoslavia come to Pancheva at the highest speed and drive a long time ago to build an oil refinery. He didn't let anything go. He didn't even let it go. He didn't even let it go. He didn't even let it go. Pure demagogy and propaganda. The president of the Republic of Serbia found himself on an unfinished highway between Panchev and Belgrade to announce the opening of works on about five, sixkm of a new road. I hope that ends. I wish you success in that. But sometimes the roads of five, six kilometers were opened by the presidents of the local communities, not by the president of the republic. Panchevo City, this is the result of your policy. Now all I'm talking about is him, and I can talk about all the other cities. The city of Panchevo, of its total income, kept only 5.59% in its pocket. Serbia's strongest industrial city does not have 96%, i.e. 94% of the money that goes to the Republic of Serbia, is leaving the Federation, which is no longer there. Poverty is at every turn, you haven't managed to build anything. You fix it, you patch it. It's your only interest, and you'll fight for it, however much government reconstruction should be in the future, that there's still a sale from state value capital, that some of that money is put in your pockets, so these days you'll probably sell off the Vojvodina oil industry, which you're wrongly calling the oil industry of Serbia. Tomorrow you'll do it with Elektro-distribution and other capacities. You'll probably leave then, but this people will be left with nothing, no savings, no foreign exchange savings, no capital, no people without state capital, no investments, worldly isolation from the continuity of political and economic madness. That's why we won't support your reshuffle of government, but we won't tell you to leave. It is necessary to immediately call free elections, to form a new government, because you are not the only one responsible for this. You're not the only one responsible. Until this side gets rid of its hybrid president, you'll never be a socialist. While this side, not only of this, but of some order, but down, does not release its imperial nationalism, nor will it be your opposition. It's a spring and a wheel. There are great difficulties and simple reconstructions are not going to happen. I expected you today, when you announced a government reconstruction, to at least warn us and to tell us why some of the ministers are no longer of your taste. Let's say, Bogoljub Karic, or maybe someone else. I haven't heard that word from you. None of us have heard of why some of the ministers, in your opinion, cannot be in the government. They're not obliged to explain their resignations. But we expected some consideration from you about the work of those ministers. I wish they'd let us know. But if you do, we won't support the new reconstructed government.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-09-0.u1781	He has the word of Deputy Prime Minister Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-09-0.u1782	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I must admit that, with great interest, I follow Mr. Veselinov's statements, because unlike serious politicians, serious MPs and serious ministers, Mr. Vesenov shows his example that a man who thinks he's dealing with politics must not behave. A man who deals with politics, first of all, has to speak meaningfully without inventing or expressing nebuloses. Mr. Veselinov keeps saying nebuloses because he has one great burden. He neglects the fact that he should deal with politics and as an opposition criticise the government. Its burden is contained in the fact that it must constantly overshadow Nenad Chanka and appear to be greater Chanak than Chank himself. That's his burden. From all of this is his exposure. Being a bigger lunatic than Chanko, let's not be too easy. If you explain all this Mr. Veselinov said, you will see that there is no logical connection, no sober court, no fact-based criticism. You need to say more hate, you need to say more nebulosis, and you need to be as funny as possible. That's what Mr. Veselinov often did. This time we weren't laughing at him, and that's what hurt him the most. I suggest we never laugh at him again, you'll see very soon they'll shut up. Mr. Vesenov, as a pretender of the greater Chank and from Chank himself forgets that the fate of a man in politics determines something called his ontological nature, an ontological being. Mr. Vesenov must not criticize us for what his ancestors did, to mention Jovan Vesenov, Žarka, Stanko Vesenov etc. They're all his closest relatives. He is now attacking us for trying to correct what his relatives are highly established, and he, as a child of that establishment, did so. We are now trying to implement reforms. In those reform moves, we have success. Success would be incomparably greater if it wasn't for those who were holding us back and trying to destroy us. And Mr. Vesenov courts those who wish to destroy us. Serbia suffered damages of nearly $100 billion due to the bombing. Not to add that damage due to blockades, sanctions, cancelled projects, contracts, confiscation of our goods, confiscation of our facilities, including ships abroad, etc. Well, I guess next to those of yours, Jovan Vesenov and Stanka Vesenov, etc., is the biggest fault in those who blocked us, to destroy us and those who bombed us. How do we match those who bombed us? We cannot mate with them by eventually accepting what they require of us. It would only help them achieve rapid success in their purpose. What they're asking us to do needs to be our orientation so we can't do it. How we must not put ourselves in a position that today holds Romania, Bulgaria and Macedonia. That's the fate they've given us even worse. At least for a while Romanians are guaranteed borders, but it won't be long, because the Hungarians asked them to. Bulgarians have not yet begun to dispute the borders, and they will probably not last long, as Turkey has asked them to. As far as Macedonia is concerned, Macedonians themselves are best recognised on their skin by the fate of Western forces. Praise the regime in Montenegro. That regime has now received $40 million. Why? To be against Serbia. You, who work against Serbia here in Serbia, are destined for $100 million. Madeline Albright said a few days ago that $12 million had already been delivered. Now some of you are wondering where the money is. Well, come on, find out where the money is. Someone got that money, whether Veran Matic, whether Zoran Djindjic, whether Batic, whether Canak, might not have reached you yet. What's the basic problem with Americans? The basic problem with Americans is they never have enough money to satisfy all your appetites. And when they give you money, which much of that money never comes to Serbia, they stay somewhere in foreign banks or in deep, deep pockets. And they, to hide it from our government, seem to give sometimes without a signature, sometimes give without documentation. You should propose to these Americans to pay you money through these banks, there is payment traffic, so you can use Beobanka, via Jugobanka, through the Commercial Bank, Karic Banka, etc. Here, let's make a commitment that we won't make any interference, let them deliver you through the banks, let it go through the accounts, so that we know who gets the money. Money is paid by Americans, and money is mostly not used for what it's meant to be. Here, a couple of failed students got the money, I got information about it, she got a few, and it's gonna be a big fight soon. Why are there so many small parties like yours, Mr. Vesenov? Why is constant dispersion only among pro-Western parties? Why don't all these parties unite in the Democratic Party, the Civil League, your party, so you can be stronger, stronger, well-organized, more active and capable? Why is the process going in the opposite direction, why are all these parties constantly tearing each other apart? Well, it's because when Americans share money, share the leaders, share the president of the Democratic Party, the president of the Civil Union, and then the parties split up, so that there are as many leaders as possible, and that as many individuals as possible get direct money. That's the point. And now you're criticizing, you dare criticise a government, which has really been working day and night with superhuman efforts, has managed to get the roads ready, to train the power potentials, to fix some factories. Unfortunately, not all factories yet, but some are already recovered and some are already working and are already being produced in those places, which almost died during the bombing. These are tangible results. Those results will testify on their own. When you leave Belgrade for Leskovac, you take the highway. The Americans cut that highway in several places, where the highway is the most sensitive, where the big bridges are. It's going well on the highway now. Now it's coming to Novi Sad on the highway. And you deny it. How can you deny it? Isn't that basic proof that something's wrong with your psycho? The bridge was destroyed, now the bridge exists. We're either wizards, or we're a successful government. Or did we just show it to you? Maybe it's some kind of mirage? Maybe it's just a bridge, shown somewhere in the air, so you try to cross, you get in the water. Don't ever go to those bridges, you'd better swim, rather than find yourself suddenly at a great height in the water. We, who believe in these mirages, will cross those bridges. You, since you don't believe in the results of this government's work, don't accidentally include electricity in your apartment. Who knows what might happen to you. We who believe in the success of this government have enough electricity to light all the rooms, we have enough for home appliances, we're afraid it won't be enough if we're heating up on electricity and so we're calling for alternative heating sources to be used. And we didn't collect electricity, Mr. Vesenov. We make it, it's enough, but it's not expensive. The pensioners are satisfied, they've received three pensions and we're now looking to preserve this order, that there are no new delays. We look to the future to reconcile children's supplements, to reconcile pensions to farmers, and then to settle back salaries both in education and in health care and in the state apparatus. In the state apparatus, the delays are now the biggest, just in the state's pay machine have not changed for several years. We're trying, unlike those who tried to take Galenika, and even at that point, we managed to get cheap drugs and the drugs were enough. So, in each field, a concrete result. Now, you can hate us, because we are not your taste, you can attack us that we are, that we are, but there is something called the language of fact, and with these facts we will go to elections. The elections will be in Serbia. The people will judge again. People can tell us we're like this or we're like this. I know, the people often curse us, and they should curse us, and they should criticize us, and they should criticize us, but at the end of the day, people curse us and criticize us because they feel like they do, and they'll curse us, and they'll criticize us, and tomorrow there's no one to show confidence, they'll point out to us who are making the government of the people's unity, because we're the only ones who have proven our ability and determination to stand up to the enemies of Serbia and to prevent the destruction and destruction of the country, unlike you, Chanaka and other cancalisms, who sell for green dollars, serve the enemy of your people and join his anti-Serb projects. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-09-0.u1783	We'll continue the session at 2:30. [[After break - 3 p.m.]] Dear People's MPs, we continue our work. National MP Dragan Veselinov is looking for a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-09-0.u1785	I'm sorry, fellow MPs, for having to report in the most unpleasant circumstances, when I was also accused by the Prime Minister of being a traitor, and also by his Reverend Vice President for the same thing, but I didn't know until today that I had received my psychoanalyst in Mr. Seselj. And in this congregation and in the government, if he's vis-à-vis anyone, you know what's gonna happen to him, because what a psychoanalyst like this, who hasn't been cured yet, can do to us. You still can't get your chart in Sarajevo. I may be able to, but you can't yet. You told a bunch of lies, but that's your thing. Today, every Serb, and the biggest fool if he says he's Serbian, can be vice president of the government. It won't take us far. I want to tell you that your whole speech was nothing more than just strengthening the fight, conflicting and turning the Assembly, at this point without a rifle, into the scene of civil war. That's what you're doing here. You have accused me, bringing me into contact with others, that I, for God's sake, enjoy any financial assistance from abroad. There's a police chief here, and I believe he can tell you very quickly that I live very modestly, without any financial contributions from abroad. I live only on what I have, but what you're not going to say is that you're a humanitarian aid thief. Explain to this congregation who stole humanitarian aid from Belarus and how much you shared in your party. That's what you should explain, it's about you. [[Laughter in the O.R.]] You are a traitor, you were in prison, and when you came out, you said - Slobodan Milosevic is the biggest thief. That's what you said, and you're with them and him today. I didn't betray anyone, I stick to my program, faithfully, as far as I can, trying not to insult anyone in this congregation, what you do. You seem skillfully prepared to give a pre-election speech in this assembly today, but you have the greatest privilege of using these microphones, until I can't get this microphone, because nobody can hear me anymore, and I can't even see me standing behind this speaker anymore. I've been thinking recently that maybe I'll try to learn that speech for the deaf, while at least the camera is following me, so that at least they can hear how they see it over their hands what I'm going to tell them. Now I can't do that. There's no democracy in this country, which you're supposed to stand for, there's no peace here, you destabilise it uninterrupted. You sent a message to our people to curse you. Let them curse us, say you and let them, you deserve to be cursed, which I agree with, but you say let them curse you more, which means you want to continue on the same path, make it worse, because apparently, there are no better ones than you. There are better ones, those are hundreds of thousands of dead who have fallen in the past wars because of your politics. All, 1.500,000 Serbs are better than you, who have moved, moved around the world, all of them are better than you and this whole nation, who stands outside, expects us to move closer, not split up. They're all better than you, maybe I'm not, but you're certainly not taking this country anywhere.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-09-0.u1786	Dr. Vojislav Seselj, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-09-0.u1787	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm not some special expert in the field of medical science and I've never dealt with the Vivinov section before, and I could start and that's a good idea, Mr. Vesenov. He could be the object of that vivi section, because the risk would be the smallest. I'd start with his head, I could cut his head off in every way I could, with no danger, and when his head opens, you can see, his brain is gone. Only a man who absolutely doesn't have a brain can perform that way. If we had come from Belarus as a humanitarian aid, maybe a pair of crazy shirts, two or three, wouldn't have taken any longer, it would have been good for Mr. Vesenov, one would have found herself for him. Mr. Vesenov suddenly opposes civil war in Serbia, the one Vesenov, who repeatedly claims that Vojvodina is not in Serbia. So, who's the one wishing for civil war in Serbia? I guess one who would like to separate Vojvodina from Serbia. He spoke about Sandzak just before the noon break, referring to the Raska area in Serbia, because Sandzak was in Turkish time a lot. Nearly the entire territory of Turkey's empire was divided into various Sanjaks. Why would one of these former Sanjaks be called today, when it has a much nicer old name - Raška area, a place where one of the oldest Serbian states was built, from which it evolved, from which the empire was created. Mr. Veselinov lies in an endless series. A lie in his case can be the only political means, because how else can someone whose father was ten to fifteen years ago, along with that of Tomislav Markinko, Slavko Vesenov, Dragan's father and Tomislav Markinko, have made lists that can't come from Serbia to Vojvodina. He couldn't fall far from the stake, couldn't get a pear anywhere but under a pear. Here's the example of the pear we see here. Why am I not hard on Dragan Veselinov? Regardless of all his chatter, all his chatter, I have to have some sympathy for him, because I'm a politician, and you know how hard it is to deal with politics, how hard it is to win the votes of citizens in elections, win parliamentary mandates, win ministerial portfolios, and so on. I'm grateful to Dragan Veselinov for helping me with that. The Serbian Radical Party won 82 parliamentary seats in the election, and thanks to Dragan Veselinov, we have 83 parliamentary seats today. That's why I can never get mad at him. I'm still expecting some split in his coalition, in his party, so maybe tomorrow and 84 mandates to have. Such people are not absolutely useless. Yes, what they are doing is confusing in the election campaign, and the people from pure confusion, with pure error, sometimes voting for them, and gathering together several parliamentary mandates, but again it is all back to their own, because they do not even know how to preserve those mandates. So, as for the parliamentary majority, Dragan Veselinov cannot do any damage to her, especially because she is constantly in a position to prove herself to the Americans. Jada he is here above his fate and the fact that in that division of American dollars somehow remains bypassed. He has yet to prove from which motive he drove Nenad Chanka out of the Assembly, from which he left him without the parliamentary Madames. While Dragan Vesenov proves it to the Americans, in an effort to get some dollar out of them, the mandate of this assembly will end and we will meet before the new elections.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-09-0.u1788	Thank you. Do any of the MPs want a word? He has the word National MP Marijan Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-09-0.u1789	I really promised I wouldn't go out again, but it was a condition that Serbian Television wouldn't interrupt at least one of my exhibits. Since that didn't happen, of course I'll get out again. Less than a year ago, I used perhaps not a rough qualification, calling the Government of People's Unity, the Government of General People's Failure. Today I regret to conclude that that name was even too harsh for such a government. We, from the Vojvodina Coalition, have nothing against people entering the government. Their fault is not that they are entering the government, but that they agree to be protagonists of the failed policy that has been being conducted in the last 10 years, the politics of primitive coffee nationalism and patriotism, which has led us to the last place in Europe. Ten years ago, we had all the Serbs in one country, with monthly incomes of 1,000 marks a month. Then one man realized that all Serbs should live in one state, which would be arranged according to his model and under his control. Governments change, they construct, they reconstruct, they create and they break up ruling coalitions, but one man's politics doesn't change. Of all Serbs in one country, we have reached all Serbs under one plum, and in economic terms we have reached all Serbs on one screen. Maybe we're already in the show. The government's reconstruction means nothing. It's makeup and cosmetics, there's no real change, except a few chairs will change owners. Or what the ruling families in Serbia are going to redistribute power, and rich and sweet. We, from the Vojvodina Coalition, know that this reconstructed government will also take from the poor and give to the rich. You've made 10,000 extremely wealthy and 10 million extremely poor. We'd like to believe that the government will cancel all the taxes, taxes, villa charges from the country, houses, apartments, properties, phones, cars, electric numbers, citizens whose salaries are below 1,000 dinars and of which you refuse the solidarity logs. You've brought a normal man without 1,000 marks in his pocket to the point where he can't even grab the handle from the hospital. Conditions in the same hospitals are nothing, as are health care workers' salaries. The physical and property security of citizens almost does not exist. The police are only allowed to arrest small criminals, while the big ones seem to have to keep them safe. The agricultural policy that the government is leading is such that it needs to be banned by judicial means. In this country, one kilo of artificial fertilizer is twice as expensive as a loaf of bread. The peasants no longer have a dog to bite for. Protective prices protect everyone but the peasants. Agriculture was the last green branch, pressed with the paw of the government sushi. The price of wheat for the last three years has gone up 40%, and inflation in the same period was 400%. In the judiciary, it is such that those who most should be tried cannot, because we have great thieves under the protection of the state. And the biggest ones don't work against the law, because they usually order themselves a law. The pensioners got electricity instead of money. Now they can cut their hair on that electricity. Your foreign policy is such that it is truly fortunate that this government does not have a foreign ministry, which could only be associated with free-loving nations, with Cuba, Iraq or Libya. The government's internal policy is that you had a fight with another eye in your head, Montenegro, and Vojvodina is either in a colonial position or better to say in a state of permanent husbands. In a reconstructed government, I see, the minister of traffic has progressed. I remember, a day before the war, the minister in question promised that NATO would send visas through the pipe, with unlimited importance. He did not, of course, do, and now NATO troops are walking on Kosovo's roads, which neither we nor the minister can anymore. And during the war, they destroyed our refineries, our fuel warehouses, our roads, our overpasses, our bridges, and all the traffic left for a while was just a minister. And now, here he is, making progress as Deputy Prime Minister. Last time we lost Kosovo, what are we going to lose now? The recovery is only going according to plan on RTS. They're being released into the work of a facility that was released 30 years ago. With each cart, concrete is taken half of the government. The government built this, the government built that, and there's no mention of that money being collected from the poor. If we duchess wait for the government to build us those three beautiful bridges, then we'll welcome it when they give birth to grapes and English grass on vervain. We can't even build these same bridges ourselves anymore, because we don't have permission from Belgrade. We, from the Vojvodina Coalition, think that even after these changes in government, this country will remain the government and two peoples, the Bosnians and the Golans. We're barefoot and barefoot, because the leader loves us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-09-0.u1790	There's a word from MP Lazar Marjanski.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-09-0.u1791	I didn't mean to answer, but I couldn't stand it with Mr. Vesenov. He was on KTV the other night, and he didn't answer a few questions. First he said, he has a salary of about 2,300-2,500 dinars, and immediately he said he went to America, to Luxembourg, to England. Who paid him that trip, who paid for his hotels and so on. He didn't want to answer at all why his uncle was tearing up my grandfather's mustache and the other peasants. Mr. Vesenov, as far as the Vojvodina is concerned, I have more rights than you to speak of the Vojvodina. [[Applause and laughter.]] They've been mine for as long as I can remember, from Vojvodina. I feed the family, I have 20 acres of land, I know what agriculture is, I feel agriculture. For the past 10 years, we've known what's happened. Don't speak for the peasants when you're not a peasant. Go to Zrenjanin, to Melence, to any village, and you'll see what the villagers think. If you had a foothold, you had only two members, you and the one next to you, and you'd buy it, and you'd have it. [[Applause and laughter.]]
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-09-0.u1792	Do any of the Members of the People want a word? You've spoken to Mr. Veselinov more than once. Since no one's answering for a word anymore, I'm closing the search. I remind you that the decision to dismiss members of the government is considered adopted if it is voted by most of the total number of MPs. We move to a decision on the Prime Minister's proposal to resolve a number of members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, by voting on each proposal individually. I ask the MPs to set up a quorum, put their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I put to the vote the motion of the Prime Minister of the Republic to resolve: Life of Cosic, the functions of the Minister of Mining and Energy in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The vote -- 157 against -- four, abstentions -- one, did not vote -- four, a total of 166 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has by majority resolved the life of Cosic as Minister of Mining and Energy in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia to resolve: Jovo Todorovic, the office of Minister of Education in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The vote was - 163, against - five, abstention - three, did not vote - three, a total of 174 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of the total number of MPs, has resolved Jovo Todorovic's role as minister of education in the government of the Republic of Serbia. I ask the MPs to set up a quorum to place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I am putting to vote the motion of the Prime Minister of the Republic to resolve: Slobodan Tomovic, the role of the minister without portfolio in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The vote -- 158, against -- five, abstentions -- three, did not vote -- eight, a total of 174 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has by majority resolved Slobodan Tomovic's role as minister without portfolio in the government of the Republic of Serbia. I ask the MPs to set up a quorum, put their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I am putting to vote the motion of the Prime Minister of the Republic to resolve: Bogoljub Karic, a minister with no portfolio in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The vote was - 159 against - five abstentions - two did not vote - seven, a total of 173 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has by majority resolved Bogoljub Karic's role as minister without portfolio in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I am opening a search on the Prime Minister's proposal to elect a number of members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since no one is answering for a word, I am concluding a search and moving on to a decision. Before we move to a decision, I remind you that Article 187. The Rules of Procedure, on a proposal by the Prime Minister to elect a number of members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, decides in general by a secret vote unless the National Assembly decides to vote publicly. Is there a proposal to vote publicly on the Prime Minister's proposal to elect a number of members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia? There is. Here you go. There's a word from the MP of Life Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-09-0.u1793	To ensure the efficiency of the work, I propose that today's vote be public through the electronic system.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-09-0.u1794	You heard a proposal from the MP to vote publicly on the Prime Minister's proposal to elect a number of members of the government of the Republic of Serbia, using an electronic voting system. Any other suggestions? No, I don't. ) I ask the MPs to put their cards in the MPs to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I am putting on the vote by MP Live Cvetkovic to decide on a proposal from the Prime Minister to elect a number of members of the government of the Republic of Serbia by public vote, using an electronic voting system. The vote was 167, against 5, abstained one, did not vote 3, a total of 176 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has broadly accepted the proposal to vote publicly on the Prime Minister's proposal to elect a number of members of the government of the Republic of Serbia -- using an electronic voting system. Since the National Assembly has decided to vote publicly on the Prime Minister's proposal to elect a number of members of the Serbian government -- using an electronic voting system, the National Assembly will declare this proposal as a whole. I remind you that according to Article 92(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 187(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of Decisions on the selection of members of the Government were adopted if voted for by the majority of the total number of MPs. Before joining the vote, I ask the MPs to put cards in the MPs' units to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I put to the vote the Prime Minister's proposal to elect a number of members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia as a whole. The vote was 164 against 8, the abstentioned, did not vote 4, a total of 176 MPs were present. Having voted for the Prime Minister's proposal to elect a number of members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia - using the electronic voting system - 164 MPs, representing most of the total number of MPs, I find that the National Assembly has chosen new members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia in the proposed composition, i.e. that they have been elected as new members of the Government: First, Dragan Todorovic, Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Second, Slobodan Tomovic, Minister of Education in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Third, Ratko Mrčetic, Minister of Transport and Relations in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Fourth, Jovo Todorovic, Minister of Education in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Peto, Prof. Dr. Jev Janjic, Minister for Higher Education in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Sjeto, Božidar Vuurović, Minister without portfolio in the Government of Serbia, Sedmo, Jovan Damo Damović, Minister for the Government of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Allow me to congratulate on your and my behalf the newly elected members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the election. I ask the newly elected members of the Government to, in accordance with Article 6. The Law on the Government of the Republic of Serbia approaches to take the oath. [[Applause]] Please stand up. (The President of the National Assembly reads, and the newly elected members of the Government repeat the text of the oath. ) "I swear to uphold the Constitution and the law in my work and to perform my duties as a member of the Government with responsibility and security." I ask the newly elected members of the government to sign and submit the text of the oath. We move to the 3rd point of the agenda - Stop the function and choose the bearers of the judicial functions within this point you have received: 1. Proposal for a decision on the termination of the court's office to judges of general jurisdiction and economic courts, with amendments and additions to the draft decision, submitted by the Committee on Justice and Administration; 2. Proposal for a decision on the termination of the office of public prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors, with the addition of a proposal for a decision submitted by the Committee for Justice and Administration, 3. Proposal for a decision on the discharge from the Judge of the Municipal Court in Sjenica, which was submitted by the Committee on Justice and Administration, 4. Proposal for a decision on discharge from the judge's office of Judge of the Municipal Court in Leskovac, which was submitted by the Committee for Justice and Administration, 5. Proposal for a decision on discharge from the duties of a public prosecutor in Pogorevec, who was submitted by the Committee on Justice and Administration, 6. Proposal for a decision on discharge from the office of President of the Municipal Court in Novi Pazar, who was submitted by the Committee on Justice and Administration, 7. Proposal for a decision on the election of the Supreme Court of Serbia, which was submitted by the Committee on Justice and Administration, 8. Proposal for a decision on the selection of judges of district and municipal courts, which was submitted by the Committee on Justice and Administration, 9. Proposal for a decision on the choice of judges and president of economic courts, which was submitted by the Committee on Justice and Administration, 10. Proposals for a decision to elect a deputy of the Republic Public Prosecutor, the District Attorney in Kragujevac, the deputy district attorneys, municipal public prosecutors and deputy municipal public prosecutors, submitted by the Justice and Administration Committee. In addition, you have also received an addition to the motion for a decision to elect municipal public prosecutors and corrections in the motions for a choice of deputy public prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors, submitted by the Republic Public Prosecutor, as well as a notice by the Republic Public Prosecutor to withdraw proposals for the election of the municipal public prosecutor in Uzic and the deputy public prosecutor in Vrbas. You also received a report from the Committee on Justice and Administration on the examination of the proposal for decisions to elect public prosecutors. I propose that all proposals for decisions on the termination of functions on the selection of judicial officers should be subject to a single search, and that the National Assembly should make a special statement on each proposal. I ask the MPs to, for the sake of the quorum's determination, insert their cards into the MPs' units. We've got quorum. I put this proposal to the vote. 157 MPs voted against no one, one abstention, voted six, 164 present in the hall. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. Consent to Article 156. Rules of Procedure, I am opening a single search on the motions for decisions on the termination of office and the selection of judicial holders. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? He has the word Justice Minister Dragoljub Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-09-0.u1795	Dear President, honourable MPs, I have only a small intervention in the material that you have received in relation to three proposals -- should be left out of the material at this time. The first is the candidate proposed for the President of the Municipal Court in Mionica, Branko Piper, that is the area of the District Court in Valjevo, under point VI, on the side of the 4th large material. Then, on page 10 of this material, at the district court in Novi Pazar, at point I, where Nazif Derdemez was proposed for the Judge of the Municipal Court in Tutin, as candidates withdrew their candidacy after holding the session. Also, on page 13, it should leave out the proposal to leave Vatroslav Nedic, as judge of the court, for the Judge of the Municipal Court in Apatin, so within the District Court of Sombor, paragraph II. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-09-0.u1796	Thank you. Do any of the MPs want a word? He doesn't want to. ( ) Since no one is answering for a word, I conclude a unique search and we move on to a decision. 1. We move to a vote on a motion for a decision to suspend the court's office to the judges of general jurisdiction and economic courts, with amendments and addition of the motion for a decision. I ask the MPs to, for the sake of the quorum's determination, insert their cards into the MPs' units. We've got quorum. ) I put the motion for a decision to vote, with amendments and additions to the draft decision. There were 156 votes against no one, no abstentions, five, 161 MPs in total present in the hall. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the motion for a decision, with amendments and additions. 2. We move to a vote on a motion for a decision to suspend the role of public prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors, with the addition of the draft decision. I ask the MPs to, for the sake of the quorum's determination, insert their cards into the MPs' units. We've got quorum. ) I am putting the motion for a decision to be voted on, with the addition of the draft decision. 158 MPs voted against no one, one abstention, voted three. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the motion for a decision, with an addition. 3. We move to a vote on a motion for a decision to dismiss the judge of the Municipal Court in Sjenica. I ask the MPs to, for the sake of the quorum's determination, insert their cards into the MPs' units. We've got quorum. I put the motion for a decision to be voted on. 151 MPs voted against no one, one abstention, voted eight, 160 in the hall. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the motion for a decision. 4. We move to a vote on a motion for a decision to dismiss the judge of the Municipal Court in Leskovac. I ask the MPs to, for the sake of the quorum's determination, insert their cards into the MPs' units. We've got quorum. I put the motion for a decision to be voted on. 154 MPs voted against no one, one abstention, voted seven, 162 present in the hall. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the motion for a decision. 5. We move to a vote on a motion for a decision on a discharge from the public prosecutor's post in Pogorevec. I ask the MPs to, for the sake of the quorum's determination, insert their cards into the MPs' units. We've got quorum. I put the motion for a decision to be voted on. 153 MPs voted against no one, one abstention, voted eleven, 165 present in the hall. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the motion for a decision. Six. We move to a vote on a motion for a decision on the discharge from the office of the President of the Municipal Court in Novi Pazar. I ask the MPs to, for the sake of the quorum's determination, insert their cards into the MPs' units. We've got quorum. I put the motion for a decision to be voted on. 160 MPs voted against no one, one abstention, voted three, 164 present in the hall. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the motion for a decision. Seven. We move to a vote on the proposal for a decision on the election of Serbian Supreme Court judges. I ask the MPs to, for the sake of the quorum's determination, insert their cards into the MPs' units. We've got quorum. I put the motion for a decision to be voted on. 162 MPs voted against no one, one abstention, voted four, 167 present in the hall. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the motion for a decision. 8. We move to a vote on the motion for a decision on the election of judges of district and municipal courts and the president of municipal courts. I ask the MPs to, for the sake of the quorum's determination, insert their cards into the MPs' units. We've got quorum. I put the motion for a decision to vote, with amendments proposed by the minister of justice. The 163 MPs voted against no one, one abstention, voted four, 168 present in the hall. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the motion for a decision. We move to a vote on the motion for a decision on the choice of judges and president of economic courts. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their cards into the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the motion to vote. 161 people's MPs voted against - no one, the abstentioned one, voted 7, a total of 169 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the motion for a decision. We move to a vote on election proposals: the deputy of the republican public prosecutor, the district attorney in Kragujevac, deputy district attorneys, with the correction of the decision proposal, municipal public prosecutors, without a proposal to elect a municipal public prosecutor in Uzic and deputy municipal public prosecutors, with the addition of the motion for a decision and correction, without a proposal to elect a municipal public prosecutor in Vrbas. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their cards into the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the motions to the vote. For the 163 votes against no one, with one abstention, voted 8th, a total of 172 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the motions for decisions. Before considering the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income Tax, I am opening a joint principle search on: Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income Taxes, Proposal for a Law on Changes and Supplements to the Act on Accumulations and Sales Taxes, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Taxes of the Republic of Serbia in 1999 and the Proposal for a Law on Changes and Supplements to the Law on Business Profits, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Amendments to the Law of the Social Programme of the Republic of Serbia in 1999. Since we have already agreed and decided on a single principle debate, I would ask Borislav Milačić, Minister of Finance, to submit a presentation on the draft laws on which a joint principled search has been opened.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-09-0.u1797	Dear People's MPs, at today's meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I propose that six laws be adopted in the area of the financial and fiscal system. These laws are part of the overall reform process and are in the function of fulfilling the obligations set out in economic policy. The present moment is characterized by intense reconstruction and the construction of our country. After the destruction, which she suffered during NATO aggression, Serbia is a major construction site. Regardless of all external constraints, the first phase of reconstruction and construction was successful, thanks to the maximum engagement of its own forces. As President Milosevic said, in addition to rebuilding the destroyed facilities, our country is about to have another major reconstruction -- the restoration of all dimensions of our lives, economic, political, cultural, moral. The state and society should recover while building a modern economic and political system. A series of laws are under preparation, which will form the basis for rounding the reform processes in the economic sphere, and above all the law on additional value tax, which should be passed by the end of the year. A significant part of the economic policy in the coming period will be the regulation of financial flows. In relatively narrowed economic frameworks, it is necessary to provide sound resources for the process of reconstruction and construction, while ensuring full regularity of financial flows, the fight against the gray economy and speculative business. The proposed laws should contribute to the realisation of the stated objectives. At the same time, they are an expression of the need for continuous improvement and upgrade of the tax system in the function of solving the most pressing problems in the economy and society. Our efforts are to preserve the basics of the tax system, but to constantly find concrete, operational and efficient solutions to solve practical problems. The country's responsible attitude towards this task is also expressed in establishing such rules that allow the tax burden to be deployed fairly and evenly. What is the essence of the proposed changes in the tax system? First of all, businesses are given a chance to arrange payment of tax obligations in a simpler way, and there is a reduction of certain tax obligations. Most importantly, long companies are regulated towards the state, which has so far been a significant restriction in business. In addition, small businesses are stimulated to carry out their tax obligations in a simpler way and with lower tax burdens. Afterwards, all businesses in the country are stimulated by tax policy to contribute to the country's rebuilding programme, by reducing the corresponding tax obligations. Then, a corresponding tax exemption is given to companies that have suffered war losses and have suffered direct war damage. Tax obligations are reduced to war participants and their families, tax burdens on personal incomes of regress workers, a warm meal, severances are reduced. It significantly reduces the tax burden on excise goods, whose traffic took place in the area of the grey economy. With a large tax cut and a reduction in tax burden in alcoholic beverages and tobacco at the proposed 30%, with other measures at federal level, conditions are created for the return of the traffic of these goods to legal flows and for the achievement of higher tax revenues on this basis. It is also proposed to regulate the situation resulting from the Constitutional Court's decision to regulate interest-paying matter by law, not regulation. The most important proposal that will greatly contribute to creating a better environment in the economy and accomplishing tasks of increasing production and rebuilding the country is the adoption of legislation on special conditions and the way in which public revenues are met. This law creates conditions for disbursement of the economy by over four billion dinars and an increase in public revenues of over one billion. At present, there are huge debts to the economy, to each other, to the banks and to the economy towards the state. According to data, on June 30, 1999, mutual debts between businesses amounted to over 100 billion dinars, while the debt of the economy to banks, based on short-term loans, amounted to over 40 billion. Such a situation is an obstacle to the normal development of economic flows and requires urgent resolution. The lack of crafts and indifference of businesses and banks in the conditions of blocking accounts and unregulated relations with the state further reduces the possibility of making reform changes in the coming period. For these reasons, the government has proposed this law, which, thanks to the fact that the economy could not be affected, which is sanctions and aggression from NATO, gives the possibility that this relationship can be arranged in such a way that the economy will disburse these commitments, which now amount to over 7.2 billion dinars for more than 7,000 businesses, in one positive way for the economy, which is left at the disposal of that amount. Our expectations and our efforts will be directed to implement the same process of regulation of the so-called debt crisis between economic operators, in which the Chamber of Commerce has made appropriate proposals, and between business and banks, in order to debalance the overall financial situation of these unrealistic claims and create conditions for full application of financial discipline and legality in the work of businesses. As a result, this law has more meaning than the discharge itself, which enables businesses. The adoption of laws on the agenda should be an incentive and a call for the start of the process of regulating mutual debt in the economy in general, to achieve a significant tax discharge of the economy and contribute to the implementation of the country's reform and reconstruction programmes. In light of the above, we suggest that you support and pass the proposed laws after the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-09-0.u1798	Thank you. National MPs Milan Mikovic and Zoran Jovanovic singled out their opinions on the draft laws on amendments and additions to the Law on Income Tax, Excise and Transport Tax, Corporate Profit Tax, Security of Means for the implementation of the Social Programme of the Republic of Serbia in 1999 and the Proposal for a Law on Special Conditions and How to Reciprocate Achieved Obligations based on Public Income. National MP Milan Mikovic is not there, does MP Zoran Jovanovic want a word? He's not present. Do any of the MPs want a word? There's a word from the Messenger of the People, Golden Peru.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-09-0.u1799	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Finance Committee, allow me to say a few words about this tax package, which is actually far more significant than it often seems in the dry legal texts. Amendments and additions to existing tax and fiscal legislation, a proposal to amend and supplement five tax laws, as well as a proposal for a new law, which we are considering today, constitute an expression of the firm definition of the government, citizens and the leadership of Serbia to ensure the continuation of our country's reconstruction and construction programme, and that, in conditions where external sources of funding are inaccessible, this programme is funded from real internal sources. I'll say more about it because of the various public dilemmas they were. Thus, today's legislative change package is aimed at achieving several strategic objectives. First, if economic operators, as well as citizens, who have suffered damage during aggression, get tax relief to recover economically. Secondly, to materially stimulate collectives and citizens, who participate in or help rebuild the country. Third, to regulate the reconciliation of the company's achievements in a way that will allow them to continue their work. And fourthly, to enable the return of goods traffic to legal flows, thereby significantly reducing the grey economy. These are extremely important government moves, and I particularly stress that we are adopting the amendment to this tax legislation in the otherwise difficult economic and social situation, which everyone is talking about mainly for political points, and the Government of the Republic of Serbia is trying and doing it in the most operational way and at this point I can say in the most qualitative way. The essence of the government's economic policy is definitely being resolved. Maintaining stable prices and a stable rate of dinar, at least mid-term, requires revitalisation of the tax system, a quick settlement of accumulated tax debts and the creation of a system environment, in which the economy will be able to restore the production cycle. And that, and I mean clearly, clears the dilemma of whether the alternative to revitalisation of the tax system is inflationary pressure and the replacement of real funding by inflationary financing. Inflation is therefore definitely not the measure of economic policy, which in this case our government has made clear that it will not resort, whether it is defence or reconstruction of the country. Inflation reduces the incomes of weaker social groups, leads to the escape of capital and thus weakens the economy and ultimately results in economic stagnation. Let me briefly explain the views of the Committee on the most significant solutions contained in these laws. The proposal on amendments to the Law on Income Tax, as we see it, and here it is said, aims to relieve the economy and the economic and social situation of citizens and businesses by spending, linked to the reconstruction of the country after NATO aggression. It foresees a fairer and more socially justified regime for taxing the additional income of employees - severance on retirement, regression for the use of annual holidays, etc. Also, donations to the Republic of the Land Recovery Directorate are recognised as expenditure on the tax balance in general, i.e. do not enter into the basis for the collection of income tax on citizens. The Law amending and supplementing the Law on Excises and Taxation on Transport is an obvious motive for the need to create, in parallel with a package of federal regulations in the field of credit-monetary, fiscal and goods transport regimes and at the level of the Republic, a normative assumption for more liberal conditions of business and to combat the negative effects of the gray economy, with the creation of conditions for more effective public income and the provision of means to remove damages from the consequences of war destruction. A significant reduction in excise rates for a range of products is foreseen, thus returning these goods to legal trade flows, and in the area of energy, a release from sales taxes is envisaged, which should speed up the consolidation of this business branch, which is particularly difficult to hit by war destruction. In order to overcome the problems of war destruction and the decline of the living standard of the population in small enterprises, which have been determined to pay the profit tax according to the total income achieved, the property tax is provided for in the property tax law. This tax is freed and all taxpayers who paid the income tax for the second half of the year according to total income. Second, gifts, or donations, intended for the restoration of the country. Third, taxpayers' tax obligations are to be written off, whose immovableities have been destroyed or damaged by war, as well as for all those who participated or members of their households participated in the defence forces of the country. Fourthly, the bonds of outstanding claims based on pensions and other social benefits can compensate those claims for the state's claims on the basis of the property tax. The draft law amending and supplementing the Company Tax Act contains three essential solutions. The first solution aims to speed up the conditions for revitalising and restoring the economy, to target the potential for development of small businesses. It is estimated that for this type of enterprise, which has about 63,000, there is a possibility of rapid reorientation, rapid introduction of innovation, as well as elasticity to overcome the economic crisis and absorbing the cost of economic recession. As a result, these economic operators were left with the possibility that tax obligations would settle in a more stimulating way for them. The second solution concerns taxpayers who have suffered war damage in NATO's Yugoslavia aggression, whose tax obligation will reduce the relatively suffered damage, and businesses that have suffered more than 50% will be completely exempt from the current obligation of tax. The third solution involves tax stimulation for legal persons who finance or donate to help rebuild the country. The Social Programme of the Republic clearly aims to build on existing mechanisms for the provision of funds to implement this programme, which are in the role of eliminating the aggression of the NATO Pact and the regime of international sanctions. Given the scale of these consequences, as well as the fact that the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia remains exposed to severe pressures from the work of the international community, the government is realistically assessing that the need for a more intense social pathway will exist even after the end of this year. Basically, this is about a specific kind of redistribution of economic and social difficulties in the country, so those who have more, more give. The proposal for a law on special conditions and the way in which public income-based commitments are met aims to definitately liquidate the established fiscal debts of the economy under the commitments made by 31 December 1998. It is the debts incurred during the international community's trade, financial, investment sanctions, whose return is difficult, and in a number of cases objectively impossible by NATO's pact aggression and efforts to remove its consequences. The beneficiaries of the tax benefits under this law are all economic operators that settle tax obligations for the current year, other than public and other enterprises, whose recovery, i.e. consolidation, is carried out under the Government's special programme. I will remind you that he is here, and I would like to say to the public, intervened by the amendment of the Committee, which the Government of the Republic of Serbia has accepted, for those enterprises that participate and accept this regime proposed in the law, by implying that this is how all obligations are met, and that means, it does not touch, in any personal right and it is considered, primarily from the areas of pension and social security, at peace, if it is accepted to regulate obligations in this way. Allow me, in the end, to give a few estimates of the motives for adopting these regulations, as well as of the effects that I think they will cause. First of all, the common characteristic of all the proposed solutions is that they mainly foresee different types of reliefs for taxpayers, whether entities of business or citizens, not new taxes are introduced, but bonds are released in full or in part from paying the existing ones. I believe it will be positively welcomed in the general public and in the economy. Secondly, in a number of cases, fiscal incomes are really decreasing at first sight, but if it is taken into account that the application of these charging mechanisms should increase significantly, then we are actually talking about a real increase in the charged fiscal revenues despite their nominal reduction. It's a calculation that's economically completely justified. Third, all legal measures contain one strong social dimension. On the one hand, those who have more and more to contribute, regardless of whether it is cities, municipalities or enterprises of social, private or citizens directly. This is not about abandoning the basic definitions for the market economy and further reforms, nor about introducing social egalitarianism, but about one normal, fair and healthy economic, social and political logic that has been applied in one way or another in most of the countries in difficulty. On the other hand, those who are poorer, damaged by war destruction or their contributions help rebuild the country will be relatively exempt from tax payments. In this way, the government, or state on its part, shows solidarity with victims of aggression and sanctions, as well as understanding for those who voluntarily engage in financing the reconstruction. Legal proposals contain a clearly present dimension of justice and the distribution of the total burden that awaits us, relative to the possibilities for its submission. Dear ladies and gentlemen, the Committee has instructed the Government of the Republic of Serbia to propose to the Federal Government, chambers, the National Bank of Yugoslavia that, in a similar manner and in the spirit of this model envisaged here, the way in which tax and fiscal obligations between the state and the economy are reconciled, the bank and the economy are urgently coming towards reconciliation and seeking ways of reconciliation between banks and businesses, the consolidation of the debt-confidential relations of the National Bank - the bank, the economy - the bank and the economy - the economy. We believe that this would be very important, given the figures and figures that the finance minister has presented here. Finally, I would like to stress that we welcome the government's decision not to complete these measures our tasks in reforming the tax system and that the government will constantly monitor and do everything to ensure that the creation of a system environment should ensure practical innovation of the tax system, within those options with which the Government has. The Committee on Finance, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, proposes that the Assembly adopt a package of laws as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-09-0.u1800	Thank you. There's a word from MP Jorganka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-09-0.u1801	I simply feel the need to say, as MP of the National Assembly, a word in favour of the legislative proposals that the Government has put before us today, above all not wanting them to have any kind of diminished importance, given the overall circumstances and too long lost, for example, in determining the agenda. I want to talk about the quality of these laws, first of all, from one aspect, from which I don't expect any of my colleagues to speak today. First of all, it is about the importance of resolving the debt-confidential crisis, which has been brought about by financial indiscipline, which we call an unwarranted term, almost calling it a financial failure, which is simply unforgivable. I think that the addition of the system solutions that the Prime Minister stressed, first of all, in the area of the Banks Act, forced alignment and winding-up, must resolve the existing situation in which someone may be portrayed as a successful firm and, in fact, at the expense of other people's assets, literally other people's assets and capital, represents themselves successful. Simply put, many companies that even receive prizes in certain competitions, which pay ads per newspaper, are actually huge debtors based on tax obligations towards the state and show very high debts to their suppliers and creditors in general. I don't think we could talk about the debt-confidential crisis today in figures of about 100 billion dinars if such a situation hadn't been tolerated, that someone's acting successfully by someone else's means. What we as a traditional host people, the Serbian people, say is that no one can be fired longer than their leper, that means you can't work so that your expenditures are higher than your income. Unfortunately, the debt crisis shows that many companies today behave that way. The basic quality of these laws that we are talking about today is precisely that of discounting tax obligations towards the state, and I really hope that the priority of economic policy and tasks of the Republic government, which the prime minister pointed out, will be to find enough hearing at the level of the Federal Government, to talk about the application of bankruptcy law, as the basic penalty for non-entrepreneurship or non-domestic behaviour, will be translated into reality, with respect for the Law on Liaison, which is a very high quality law, only to an insufficient extent. And to warn, on the other hand, the importance of the Law on Executive Procedure, which really does not find enough application in real life, and to find enough seriousness that when we talk about financial indiscipline, we ourselves work on its implementation. I think that after the government's example of discounting its expectations from the debtors, banks, which simply cannot act as if they live outside the environment. One more thing I would particularly like to point out, which is that the practice of economic courts would have to step up with these government solutions and that by delaying certain economic disputes simply cannot go hand in hand with the protection of debtors. That the time has come for us to act as a state that works for the benefit of the trustees, that is, in favour of the household behavior of every economic operator. How much the Government itself behaves as a domestic economic operator is also talking about the results of the reconstruction, which today is extremely much spoken of, regardless of the very slow and very reduced inflows in the budget. One more thing I would like to say is the fact that these legal solutions will reduce tax obligations, i.e. liberating all types of tax donors from rebuilding the country. I still want to express what I often point out in my conversation with the businessmen. In different ways, many of us bear the burden of restoration. Some do so more or less voluntarily, involving certain consortiums, and some also by accepting price control, realizing that this moment is seeking sacrifice from all of us, in a unique way, because they are engaged in certain production, they are participating in the restoration of the country. I have an example here, first of all, of the cement industry, where I have to say that no additional pressure has been made to increase cement prices. We know that in two years, only 9.5% of cement prices have increased. Exactly for the reason that we must all bear the burden of rebuilding in the way that is possible. I would like to commend, and to conclude my debate on these laws, the government's initiative to make the first example, by the reputation system, in fact, turn to all the businessmen, not wanting to talk about it, listen to what I'm doing, and don't look at how I'm acting, just by my good and domestic example, I want the economy to come to the logic of the opposite priest, and this particular government example is simply going to solve debt-confidential relations.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-09-0.u1802	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-09-0.u1803	Mr President, fellow MPs, here is the government today with this package, five amendments to the tax laws, with a new law that has fulfilled its promise here, that in a radical reform of the tax legislation, it will go to the end. Obviously, previous legal projects have produced results on the ground and these new five additions are aimed at not making a new strike out of taxpayers' pockets, but precisely to enable the tax burden to be applied as easily as possible, and to make the state more efficient as possible through the necessary means. I think that is one of the reasons, in addition to the reasons that are contained in the need to create parallel to a package of federal law related to credit-money policy, related to fiscal policy and the area of goods transport, and at the level of the Republic of Serbia, conditions or normative assumptions that the effects of the grey economy are also mitigated and conditions are created to collect damages caused by the aggression of the NATO Pact. The next motive is likely to run, and which is quite logical, that the government intends to quickly create conditions for revitalising the economy, or production capacities. It can only achieve this by focusing all potential on the development of small businesses, which have their advantage. We have seen that large economic systems have their own diseases and that, in this economic situation, the economic environment, which requires huge resources and efforts, they are slow or almost unable to deliver results quickly in reviving their production. It is precisely because small businesses are more flexible and faster to change their production programme, the fiscal policy throughout the whole thing must be monitored and able to achieve such objectives. In particular, of all these tax laws, it is interesting to propose a bill on conditions and how to reconcile the commitments made according to the dream of public income, accumulated from previous years. It is obvious that in such an economic and social environment, i.e. the social conditions resulting from sanctions and NATO intervention, this measure may have been a little extorted, it may have been necessary to go to this solution much earlier, but apparently that this government in which Serbian radicals are, the government of national unity has also shown much more courage and determination and efficiency to reach out for some measures. One of these measures is this measure of settlement of accumulated internal debts. It is that this is the initial step of 9.6 billion debts that companies have towards the state. This may be the 25th part of the total internal debt, estimated at around 240 billion between companies and businesses, businesses and banks, between banks, but I say we should commend an attempt to resolve these internal accumulated mutual debts, in order to create certain preconditions for a more serious economic development. Often, I see, there have been comments and there have been comments on the Committee on Finance, whether this is a reprogramme again. I think we've had reprogrammes before, that only certain companies were freed from certain reconciliations. This time in law form, businesses are given the opportunity to settle their obligations over a certain period of time. It is clear from the government's motive that these internal debts are still unrealistic, that from previous years and the interest policy that was led, the level of interest rates on all these commitments, both those regular, tight or revolving interest, was unbearable under the terms of the blockade. This way gives the legal opportunity for all of them, and I don't believe there will be any selections and that the government will reach or a certain ministry to free someone, but I say it must be commended one such brave step, to move towards the resolution of these internal debts, which they have clearly suffocating in every field of economic policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-09-0.u1804	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? Zivko Radovanchev and Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-09-0.u1805	Dear President, the Honorable Presidency, distinguished members of the government, fellow MPs, I feel the need, above all as a businessman, to take part in today's debate on tax laws packages so that, first of all, I would support my discussion with the government's proposal, which has remained consistent with the reform course, the interests of the economy and the interests of Serbian citizens. When I said -- in all situations -- of course, I meant the difficult and complex situations that this government was facing in its work. Besides, this government doesn't even know about easily solved situations and problems. The government, along with citizens of Serbia, police and military, has managed to defend the country against military aggression and demonstrate to the world that it is fighting to preserve its country's freedom, its country's independence. The government has won another big battle just these days -- a successful reconstruction of the country from the consequences of war destruction, whose first stage has been successfully completed these days. Regardless of party belongings, patriotic or treasonous feelings, recognised or disputed the government's success, walked and protested or worked, built up in ruins, this and this kind of success in rebuilding the country is before the public court. The court of the public is obvious and infallible. Now we must be unique, as we were in the war, in rebuilding the country and defending the country from the economic aggression that seems to be on the outside and on the inside, and in order to preserve economic and social security and the stability of society, and not to say, to preserve the country's fundamental national interests. It is precisely the tax settlement package in the fiscal sphere, which is on the agenda of this assembly session, that is to confirm the consistency and determination of the Government of the People's Unity towards the continuation of the reform programme and the objectives of the outlined economic policy. The main objective of the government's economic policy is economic, social, price and currency stability under many restrictions. The tax package on the agenda today has a common goal of creating real conditions for more economic activity, realising social programmes, encouraging donors to rebuild the country faster, making it easier for small businesses, making it easier for the victims to bomb NATO aviation. In particular, I would refer to the proposal for a law on special conditions and how to reconcile the company's obligations of public income, as the most significant solution in the package of new tax solutions. This legal solution frees the economy from commitments to the 5 billion dinar budget and funds, making up 505 total commitments in the period until the end of 1998. These are significant funds which will remain for business operators by accepting the proposal for this law for their economic activity and by increasing production and employment. I am convinced that today we will adopt the proposed package of tax laws as a continuation of the government's reform course in the fiscal sphere. The adoption of these proposals should, above all, be seen as a measure of unreserved support to the Government of the People's Unity for what it has done so far and a trust measure for the future work of the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-09-0.u1806	There's a word from MP Milivoja Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-09-0.u1807	Dear Prime Minister, the Honorable Presidency, fellow MPs, there is indeed a very important package of laws in front of us today, which in one truly right way regulates a segment of the process that we can call renewal, and I would add restructuring. What is today in front of us allows businesses to process restructure, change in the structure of the economy, even faster. It's the expression of this generation of businessmen, it's the challenge of all the resources and potentials of this society. I'd say there's no more important job and project, social and state-owned than a project to rebuild and restructure. In this process, everyone has work to do and this is an opportunity for affirmation of work, order and knowledge, but unfortunately some have seen both the way and the need to express themselves in another way, in a way that is not suitable for builders and those who want to create. Therefore, we give priority to such forces and to such people, and we must provide them today and in the coming period. We face a challenge when we look at these tasks through the profession, from the point of view of a patriotic act, and that is our most important task. We are witnesses, therefore, that when it comes to concrete legal proposals to run certain processes in many ways. As previous debaters have said, certainly one of the basic problems facing businesses and our economy is the solution to the issue of debt-confidential relations. Certainly, the initiative, provided by the Government this time by proposing one act, needs to grow into a general process, which should contribute to clarifying these debt-confidential relations between companies in a position to work on full restructuring, which includes programming, organisational and management restructuring, which should lead to and allow for the inflow of domestic and foreign capital. These processes are indeed very much started and these laws will significantly speed up these processes. It means what these laws are about. The shortest ones, primarily operationalise the strategy of economic development, facilitate the fiscal position of the company to restructure from the point of view of the level of tax intervention, but also keep tax records. It also contributes to decommissioning, consolidation and resuscitation of production. Business conditions are also liberalised, and conditions are allowed to be created for more efficient realisation and realisation of public income. There is no need to speak specifically about the importance of this detail. We need an export-oriented economy, with a changed commodity structure, in order to realise such an extremely important strategic business. In addition to these laws that we are adopting today, I am convinced that soon before us and the MPs in the Federal Parliament, others mentioned today, and so much for legal solutions and projects that will speed up once more, but also to contribute that we can work evenly with those who, when it comes to it, have already built or moved on. What is it that, specifically, these laws bring? I will also say that an initiative that has long been present by the Union is respected, which is that the level of the untaxable amount of personal income on the basis of severance, regression, warm meal is determined by the amount set out as the lowest in the general collective contract, rather than as the absolute amounts so far. The laws also regulate property tax, i.e. it shall not be paid by the obligors if it has participated in the defence forces of the country, i.e. it shall be made easier for those whose members of the household took part in the defence forces. Tax payments are also freed by those bonds that give their immovableity to a legal person who has direct war damage. There are other effects that are above all on the line of curbing the gray economy. They are extremely important, and these are all the practical reasons that say that these laws should be adopted and that one such extremely significant, crucial, reformal definition contained in these legal projects should be supported. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-09-0.u1808	Do any of the Members of the People want a word? He doesn't want to. ) I am concluding a common principled search. The National Assembly will vote individually on all draft laws on which a joint principled search has been carried out in principle, search in particular and vote in general. We move on to review item 4 of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Taxes on the Income of Citizens You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Milan Mikovic, Bojana Ristic, Jožef Kasa and Mihalj Secei and Nebojsa Atanakovic on the bill. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, which have adopted the bill in principle and in particular. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. Since the principled examination of this bill has been carried out in the context of a joint principled search, we move to a decision on the draft law in principle. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We've got quorum. ) I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Income Tax, in principle. The 162 MPs voted against no one, abstentioned two, voted five, 169 present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. National MP Milan Mikovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers that the solution proposed by the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We've got quorum. I put the amendments to the vote. Six MPs voted in favour, against 161 abstention one, one did not vote, 169 present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Mikovic. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the solution to be legally possible. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We've got quorum. I put the amendments to the vote. No one voted in favour of this amendment, against 164, abstention one, five did not vote, 170 present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Nebojsa Atanakovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the solution to be legally possible. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We've got quorum. I put the amendments to the vote. No one voted for, against 170, a abstention one, two did not vote, 173 MPs present in the hall. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Milan Mikovic and Nebojsa Atanakovic. The Government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendments, and the Legislative Committee considers the solution to be legally possible for the amendments. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We've got quorum. ) I put the amendment tabled in the same text. No one voted for, against 161 abstention one, ten did not vote, 172 present in the hall. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted these amendments. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Nebojsa Atanakovic. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the solution to be legally possible. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We've got quorum. I put the amendments to the vote. No one voted for, against 168, two abstentions, two did not vote, 172 MPs present in the hall. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Milan Mikovic and Nebojsa Atanakovic. The Government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendments, and the Legislative Committee considers the solution to be legally possible for the amendments. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We've got quorum. ) I put the amendment tabled in the same text. One MP voted for, against 160, no one abstention, six voted, 167 present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted these amendments. Members of the 8th Amendment were submitted to the same text by MPs Joseph Kasa and Mihalj Secei and MP Milan Mikovic. The Government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendments, and the Legislative Committee considers the solution to be legally possible for the amendments. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) I ask the MPs to put their cards in the MPs to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment tabled in the same text. One was voted against 168 abstentions -- no one, no two, a total of 171 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted these amendments. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Nebojsa Atanakovic. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the solution to be legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) I ask the MPs to put their cards in the MPs to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For - no one, against 168, with abstentions -- no one, voted one, a total of 169 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the provision of Article 8. The bill has a feedback. According to Article 137(3). The Rules of Procedure, when the draft law contains provisions for which a return fact is provided, shall, when voting on those provisions, decide in particular whether there is a general interest in this feedback. The Finance Committee considers that there is a general interest in the feedback of Article 8. It's a bill of law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) I ask the MPs to put their cards in the MPs to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to make the provision of Article 8. The draft law has a return fact that there is a general interest. 160 voted against two abstentions -- no one, not seven, a total of 169 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has found that there is a general interest in the provision of Article 8. The bill has a feedback. Members of the 9th Amendment were submitted to the same text by MPs Bojana Ristic and Milan Mikovic. The Government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendments, and the Legislative Committee considers the solution to be legally possible for the amendments. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) I ask the MPs to put their cards in the MPs to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment tabled in the same text. For he did not vote - no one, against 167 abstentions - no one, no one, voted three, a total of 170 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted these amendments. Anyone else want to talk about the bill in particular? No, I don't. ( ) Since no one is answering for a word, I conclude a search of the bill in particular. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their cards into the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on income tax for citizens in general. 170 votes against -- no one, with two abstentions, voted three, a total of 175 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income Tax, in general. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLACES ON ACCIASES AND ON TRADE You have adopted the bill, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Milan Mikovic, Bojana Ristic, Jožef Kasa and Mihalj Secei, Dražimir Marusic and Nebojsa Atanakovic, as well as the government's opinion on the amendments submitted. National MP Dražimir Marusic gave up, at the meeting of the Committee on Finance, the amendment to add a new Article 3 after Article 2. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, which have adopted the bill, in principle and in particular. Since the principled examination of this bill has been carried out in the context of a joint principled search, we move to a decision on the draft law in principle. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their cards into the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the bill to the vote in principle. The vote was 167, against - no one, abstentioned - no one, no one, voted two, a total of 169 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. Member of the 1st and 2nd Amendment was submitted by MP Nebojsa Atanakovic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) I ask the MPs to put their cards in the MPs to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For he did not vote - no one, against 171 abstentions - no one, voted one, a total of 172 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted these amendments. National MP Milan Mikovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. One vote against 166 abstentions, no one voted five, a total of 172 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by Nebojsa Atanakovic. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. No one voted against 169 abstentions, no one voted four, a total of 173 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Proposal to add a new Article 6a after Article 6. National MP Nebojsa Atanakovic has submitted an amendment, proposing that a new member of the 6a be added after article 6. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. No one voted against 166 abstentions, no one voted three, a total of 169 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Mikovic. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. No one, against 165 abstentions, voted two, a total of 168 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 9th Amendment were submitted by MP Milan Mikovic and MPs Joseph Kasa and Michalj Secei in the same text. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. No one voted against 169 abstentions, no one voted three, a total of 172 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the provision of Article 9. The bill has a feedback. According to Article 137(3). The Rules of Procedure, when the draft law contains provisions for which a return fact is provided, shall, when voting on those provisions, specifically determine whether there is a general interest in this feedback. The Finance Committee considers that there is a general interest in the feedback of Article 9. It's a bill of law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I put to the vote the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to make the provision of Article 9. The draft law has a return fact that there is a general interest. 168 votes against no one with abstentions voted five, a total of 173 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has found that there is a general interest in the provision of Article 9. The bill has a feedback. The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Bojana Ristic. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. No one voted against 166 abstentions, no one voted five, a total of 171 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Anyone else want to talk about the bill in particular? No, I don't. ( ) Since no one is answering for a word, I conclude a search of the bill in particular. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Act on Excise and Tax on Transport, in general. The vote was 164 against no one, with abstentions, had voted eight, a total of 172 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending and supplementing the Excise and Sales Tax Act. We'll continue tomorrow at 10 o'clock. Please take your seats. Dear People's MPs, we continue the work of the First Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 1999. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 150 MPs attend today's session. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the Members of Parliament to insert their identification cards into the Members of the Electronic System. We have a quorum. I inform the National Assembly that I have approved the absence of the following MPs: Radu Svilar, Dragan P. Nikolic, Srdjan Vulovic, Tomislav Markovic, Milan Rodic, Vladimir Štambuk, Miroslav Neskovic, Milos Jojic, Dragan Veselinov, Dusica Karabenc, Marijan Risticevic. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers, Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. Having obtained the conditions, I propose that we establish a confirmation of the candidates of the MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for the seats held, in order to enable them to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have been presented with a report by the Republic Election Commission on the selection of MPs in election units 4. - Pussy and 29. - Pec, to fill empty seats in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Also, you have been given a report by the Administrative Committee or will be presented during my reading, which has determined that conditions have been met for confirming the mandate of the Members of Parliament, with a proposal that the National Assembly, as set out in Article 30(5). Law on the election of MPs finds confirmation of the mandate to the MPs: - Zivko Selakovic, candidate from the Election List of Coalition Democratic Alternative - The Peasant Party of Serbia - Mr Nebojsa Covic, in Election Unit 4. - Kukarica, i - Branislav Hadzi Perić, candidate from the Socialist Party of Serbia's Electoral List - Yugoslav Left - New Democracy - Slobodan Milosevic, in Election Unit 29. - A furnace. On the basis of the report of the Republic Election Commission and the report and the proposal of the Administrative Committee, as referred to in Article 30(5). Law on selecting Members of the People, I find confirmation of the mandate to the MPs: - Zivko Selakovic, - Branislav Hadji Peric. Congratulations to the MPs of the election. We continue to work on the established agenda of the session. [[Applause]] We move to the 6th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Complementary to the Tax on Immigrants You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments, submitted by MPs Bojana Ristic and Zivije-Jota Jovanovic on the bill. You've received the Government's opinion on the amendments. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, which have adopted the bill, in principle and in particular. Since the principled examination of this bill has been carried out in the context of a joint principled search, we move to a decision on the draft law in principle. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I put to the vote the draft law supplementing the property tax law in principle. He voted 141 against five, no one was abstentioned, no 9 vote, a total of 155 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. On Article 4th, Amendment 2. was submitted by MP Bojana Ristic. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the solution is legally possible in this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For voting four, against 149, no one was abstentioned, one was not voted, 154 MPs were present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 4(1) of Amendment 4, MP Bojana Ristic submitted. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the solution is legally possible in this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Five voted against 161, no one abstained, one was not voted, 167 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Bojana Ristic submitted to Article 4 paragraph 1 of Amendment 6. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the solution is legally possible in this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. The vote was six against 160, no one was abstentioned, two were not voted, a total of 168 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 4th of the 1st Amendment 8, MP Bojana Ristic submitted. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the solution is legally possible in this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Five votes against 158, no one abstentions, no four votes, a total of 167 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 4th, the 1st Amendment was submitted by the MP of the People's Parliament of Life, Jovanovic. Since this amendment has been adopted by the Government and the Finance Committee, and the Legislative Committee considers that the solution contained in the amendment is legally possible, this amendment becomes an integral part of the draft law. On Article 4(2) of Amendment 3, MP Bojana Ristic submitted. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the solution is legally possible in this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Five, against 164, abstentions, were not voted by two, a total of 171 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 4(2) of Amendment 5, MP Bojana Ristic submitted. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the solution is legally possible in this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Five, against 160, abstentions, were not voted by four, a total of 169 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 4(2) of Amendment 7, MP Bojana Ristic submitted. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the solution is legally possible in this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Five, against 162 abstentions, were not voted by two, a total of 169 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 4(2) of Amendment 9, MP Bojana Ristic submitted. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the solution is legally possible in this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Five, against 164 abstentions, were voted by one, a total of 170 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Article 4 of the 2nd Amendment was submitted by MP Bojana Ristic. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the solution is legally possible in this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Five against 164 abstentions voted for, a total of 169 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 5, paragraph 1 of the amendment was tabled by MP of the People's Parliament of Life, Jovanovic. Since the amendment was adopted by the Government and the Finance Committee, and the Legislative Committee considers that the solution contained in the amendment is legally possible, this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. On Article 6th, Amendment 1st, MP Bojana Ristic submitted. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the solution is legally possible in this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Five, against 164, abstentions, were not voted by two, a total of 171 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 6(2) of Amendment 12, MP Bojana Ristic submitted. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the solution is legally possible in this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Five, against 163 abstentions, were voted by one, a total of 169 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 6th, paragraph 2 of Amendment 13 was tabled by MP Bojana Ristic. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the solution is legally possible in this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Five, against 163 abstentions, were voted by one, a total of 169 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 6th, paragraph 2 of Amendment 14 was submitted by MP Bojana Ristic. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the solution is legally possible in this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Five, against 160, abstentions, were not voted by three, a total of 168 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 6(2) of Amendment 15, MP Bojana Ristic submitted. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the solution is legally possible in this amendment. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Five, against 159 abstentions, no one voted four, a total of 168 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Bojana Ristic. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the solution is legally possible in this amendment. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Six, against 161 abstentions, were voted by five, a total of 171 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 10th Amendment 1 was submitted by MP Bojana Ristic. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the solution is legally possible in this amendment. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Five, against 160, abstained no one, voted five, a total of 170 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want to talk about the bill in particular? He doesn't want to. ) Since no one is answering for a word, I conclude a search of the bill in particular and ask the MPs to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the bill to the vote on the law supplementing the property tax law in general. The vote was 166, against six abstentions, no one voted, a total of 173 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has passed most of the votes a bill supplementing the property tax law. We move to the 7th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Taxes on Entrepreneurship You have adopted a bill, which has been submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Milan Mikovic, Bojana Ristic and Jožef Kasa on the bill. You have received a report from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, which adopted the bill, in principle and in particular. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. Since the principled examination of this bill has been carried out in the context of a joint principled search, we move to a decision on the draft law in principle. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the bill to the vote in principle. The vote was 166, against five, abstentioned no one, was voted by one, a total of 172 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. National MP Joseph Kasa has tabled an amendment proposing that after Article 2. The bill adds a new Article 2a proposing to delete Article 15a of the Law. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Five, against 166 abstentions, were voted by one, a total of 172 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Joseph Kasa has tabled an amendment proposing that after Article 2. The draft law adds a new Article 2b proposing to amend Article 45(1). The law. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Five, against 162 abstentions, no one voted five, a total of 172 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Milan Mikovic submitted to the 9th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the solution legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. One was voted against 166, with a abstention of no one, no five, a total of 172 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the provision of Article 9. The bill has a feedback. According to Article 137(3). The Rules of Procedure, when the draft law contains provisions for which a return fact is provided, shall, when voting on those provisions, specifically determine whether there is a general interest in this feedback. The Finance Committee considers that there is a general interest in the feedback of Article 9. It's a bill of law. Does anyone want a word? Nobody. ) I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I put to the vote the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to give the provision of Article 9. The draft law has a return fact that there is a general interest. The vote was 166, against six abstentions, not three, a total of 175 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly, by majority, has found that there is a general interest in the provision of Article 9. The bill has a feedback. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Bojana Ristic. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the solution to be legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Nobody. ) I ask the Members of Parliament to, in order to determine the quorum, place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Five, against 167 abstentions, were voted by one, a total of 173 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. Anyone else want to talk about the bill in particular? Nobody. ( ) Since no one is answering for a word, I conclude a search of the bill in particular. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their cards into the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Company Profit Tax Act as a whole. 168, against five, abstentions, were not voted by three, a total of 176 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted, by majority, the draft law amending and supplementing the Company's corporate tax law in general. We move to the 8th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Security Law for the implementation of the Social Programme of the Republic of Serbia in 1999. YOU have received the bill of law, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments, submitted by MPs Marijan Risticevic, Milan Mikovic, Bojana Ristic and Tihomir Marjanovic, as well as the government's opinion on the amendments submitted. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, which have adopted the bill, in principle and in particular. Since the principled examination of this bill has been carried out in the context of a joint principled search, we move to a decision on the draft law in principle. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the bill to the vote in principle. The vote was 167, against five, abstentioned no one, not three, a total of 175 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. National MPs Marijan Risticevic and Bojana Ristic submitted the amendment to Article 1. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. No one, against 163 abstentions, voted 9, a total of 172 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Marijan Risticevic and Bojana Ristic submitted the amendment to Article 2. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Nobody. ) I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. No one, against 160 abstentions, voted 11, a total of 171 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Marijan Risticevic, Tihomir Marjanovic and Milan Mikovic submitted the amendment to Article 3. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Nobody. ) I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. No one, against 161 abstentions, voted 9, a total of 170 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 4th amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Nobody. ) I ask the Members of Parliament to, in order to determine the quorum, place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For one, against 167 abstentions, no one voted three, a total of 171 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Bojana Ristic. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) I ask the Members of Parliament to set up a quorum to place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. No one voted for, against 160, the abstentioned, no 7. A total of 167 MPs are present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want to talk about the bill in particular? He doesn't want to. ( ) Since no one is answering for a word, I conclude a search of the bill in particular. I ask the MPs to set up a quorum to place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the provision of funds for the implementation of the Social Programme of the Republic of Serbia in 1999 as a whole. The 167 vote against no one with abstentions voted 8. A total of 170 MPs are present. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the provision of funds to implement the Social Programme of the Republic of Serbia in 1999 as a whole. We move to the 9th item of the agenda: - A PROPOSAL OF THE SPECIFIC CONDITIONS AND WAYS OF THE PEACE OF THE ACCRUING OBLIGATIONS ON THE BASE OF PUBLIC REFERRED TO IN THE PUBLIC REFERENCES You have received the bill, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Zoran Jovanovic, Nebojsa Atanakovic and the Finance Committee on the Bill of Law. National MP Nebojsa Atanacković withdrew his amendment at the meeting of the Finance Committee to Article 1(2). It's a bill of law. You've received the Government's opinion on the amendments. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, which have adopted the bill in principle and in particular. Since the principled examination of this bill has been carried out in the context of a joint principled search, we move to a decision on the draft law in principle. I ask the MPs to set up a quorum to place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I put to the vote the draft law on special conditions and the way in which the commitments reached are settled on the basis of public income in principle. The vote was 168, against one, with no abstentions, did not vote five. A total of 174 MPs are present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill in principle by majority. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. Member of the 1st point of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Jovanovic. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the solution is legally possible in this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) I ask the Members of Parliament to set up a quorum to place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For two, against 162 abstentions, there was no vote eight. A total of 172 MPs are present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Finance has submitted to Article 1 of point 2 of the amendment. Since this amendment has been adopted by the Government, and the Legislative Committee considers that the solution contained in the amendment is legally possible, this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. On Article 1 of the amendment, proposing the addition of Title 2, the Financial Committee submitted. Since this amendment has been adopted by the Government, and the Legislative Committee considers that the solution contained in the amendment is legally possible, this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Anyone else want to talk about the bill in particular? He doesn't want to. ( ) Since no one is answering for a word, I conclude a search of the bill in particular. I ask the MPs to set up a quorum to place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I put to the vote the draft law on special conditions and the way in which the commitments reached are settled on the basis of public revenue in general. The vote was 168, against three, with abstentions, was not voted by three MPs. A total of 174 MPs are present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the draft law on special conditions and the way in which public incomes in general are settled. We move to the 10th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLIES OF TURISM You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments, submitted by MPs Dr Zvonimir Budic, Jožef Kasa, Nebojsa Atanakovic, Ljubisa Selic, the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Legislative Committee. You have received reports from the Committee on Trade and Tourism and the Legislative Committee, which have adopted the draft law in principle and in particular. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? He has the word Minister of Tourism Cerovic.
