ParlaMint-RS_1999-12-21-0.u1872	Please take your seats. Dear People's MPs, we continue the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 1999. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 166 MPs attend today's session. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the Members of Parliament to insert their identification cards into the Members of the Electronic System. We have a quorum. I am informing the National Assembly that I have approved the absence of the following MPs: Ameti Ramadan, Kasas Dr Karolj, Milenković Blagoja, Djordjevic Dr Zivorad, Mijatović Milomir, Varagić Oliver, Nikolic Tomislav, Pavlovic Dragomir and Tiosavic Zivomiru. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. You were presented the minutes of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 1999, held on 9, 10 and 11 November 1999. Any objections to the record? There is. ) There is a word from MP Dragan Veselinov.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-12-21-0.u1873	Dear Mr. President, we have an objection to the text on page 18. The second paragraph said that you approved the absence of the MPs of the "Vojvodina" coalition - Dragan Veselinov, Dusici Karabenc and Marjana Risticevic. However, I did not ask you to grant leave, but in writing I informed you that we would not participate in the continuation of the session of the Serbian Parliament, given that the MPs of the "Vojvodina" coalition are systematically prevented from being heard in the people and that the persistent cracklers of RTS are covering us, as they are now doing right now, and that this is why we cannot continue the session and that we will give up at all from being at the session until this happens. So I ask you to enter this correction that we did not require you to grant us a leave, we have already protested the behaviour of RTS and that until then you have done nothing to normally transfer the session of the Serbian Parliament through state television. We also have a comment on page 24, where what happened was not said, and that is precisely because you did not inform the Assembly that we were protesting the coverage of MPs' speech "Vojvodina" by the speaker of state television, that, within the framework of tomorrow's agenda, the MP of the "Vojvodina" coalition Marijan Risticevic participated in a systematic search to just pass on to the Assembly so that we could not participate in the debate, since we are systematically prevented from being heard by the people. Please enter these corrections in the record.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-12-21-0.u1874	Thank you. Any other objections? No, there isn't. ) I ask the MPs to put their cards in the MPs to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I am voting on the minutes of the 1st session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 1999, held on 9th, 10th and 11th November 1999. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I'm closing the vote. The 173 vote against no one with abstentions voted two times, a total of 175 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the first session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 1999, held on 9 November and 11 November 1999, with remarks at the session. You have been given a letter from the Committee for Justice and Administration, which informs the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia that Slobodan Vučetic, in addition to the function of the Constitutional Court of Serbia, has assumed the second public office, i.e. one of the founders of the organisation G-17 plus and is now a member of the Management Board of the Organisation, which is contrary to Article 126(4) of Article 126. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. On this basis, the Committee proposed that the National Assembly, acting pursuant to Article 73 of point 10, and in relation to Article 126(4). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia finds that Slobodan Vucic has ceased to serve as judge of the Constitutional Court of Serbia because of his incompatibility with another public function he has assumed, which is a member of the G-17 Plus Management Board. Pursuant to Article 73(10) and in relation to Article 126(4), The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, on a proposal from the Committee on Justice and Administration, finds that Slobodan Vučetić has ceased to serve as judge of the Constitutional Court of Serbia because of the incompatibility of the Serbian Constitutional Court with another public function he has assumed, which is a member of the G-17 Plus Management Board. In accordance with Article 174(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be notified to the President of the Republic of Serbia and the Constitutional Court of Serbia of the term of office of the Constitutional Court of Serbia. We're moving on to the agenda. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before setting out the agenda for the session, in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we need to decide on proposals for the adoption of acts by emergency procedure and on proposals for amendments and additions to the proposed agenda of the session. 1. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that an emergency procedure be considered by the draft law on the use of agrarian budget in 2000, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 19 December 1999. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their cards into the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I am putting on the vote by the government of the Republic of Serbia to consider, by emergency procedure, the draft law on the use of the Agrarian budget in 2000. 175 votes against no one with abstentions voted four, a total of 179 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has accepted this proposal. 2. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the proposal for a law on special conditions of sale of certain state-owned immovableities, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 19 December 1999. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their cards into the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to consider, after an urgent procedure, the draft law on special conditions of sale of certain immovableities in state property. There were 172 votes against five, with abstentions, not one vote, a total of 178 MPs present. I find the National Assembly, mostly votes. I've accepted this proposal. 3. National MP Zoran Vukadinovic suggested that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law on amendments and additions to the Health Insurance Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 December 1999. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their cards into the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I would like to put on the vote by Parliamentarian Zoran Vukadinovic to consider, by emergency procedure, the draft law on amendments and additions to the Health Insurance Act. 96 votes against 66, with two abstentions, did not vote 14, a total of 178 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. 4. National MPs Marijan Risticevic and Dr Dragan Veselinov suggested that the draft law on political parties, which submitted to the National Assembly on 10 December 1999, should be considered after an urgent procedure. I ask the Members of Parliament to put their cards in the MPs to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I would like to put to the vote the motion of Parliamentarians Marijan Risticevic and Dr Dragan Veselinov to consider, by urgent procedure, the proposal for a law on political parties. It voted - 5, against - 169 abstentions - none, did not vote - two, a total of 176 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted, most of the votes, this proposal. (Marian Risticevic from the city: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) Please, we are now establishing the agenda, be kind enough to sit down, when the draft agenda is established you will have the opportunity. 5. National MPs Marijan Risticevic and Dr Dragan Veselinov suggested that the draft law on the financing of political parties, which submitted to the National Assembly on 10 December 1999, should be considered. I ask the Members of Parliament to put their cards in the MPs to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I would like to put to the vote the motion of MPs Marijan Risticevic and Dr Dragan Veselinov to consider, by emergency procedure, the proposal for a law on the financing of political parties. For - three, against -171, the abstentions - no, he did not vote - one, a total of 175 MPs are present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted, most of the votes, this proposal. Six. National MPs Marijan Risticevic and Dr Dragan Veselinov suggested that the draft law on the election of MPs and councilors, which submitted to the National Assembly on 10 December 1999, should be considered. I ask the Members of Parliament to put their cards in the MPs to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I would like to put to the vote the motion of Parliamentarians Marijan Rističević and Dr Dragan Veselinov to consider, by emergency procedure, the draft law on the election of MPs and councilors. The vote -- three, against -- 171, with abstention -- was gone, did not vote -- two, a total of 176 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted most of the votes of this proposal. Seven. National MPs Marijan Risticevic and Dr Dragan Veselinov suggested that, by emergency procedure, the proposal for a declaration on how to negotiate early elections at all levels in the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 10 December 1999. I ask the Members of Parliament to put their cards in the MPs to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I would like to put to the vote the motion of Parliamentarians Marijan Risticevic and Dr Dragan Veselinov to consider, by emergency procedure, the proposal for a declaration on how to negotiate on early elections at all levels in the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 10 December 1999. For voting -- three, against -- 171, abstentions -- none, did not vote -- one, a total of 175 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted, most of the votes, this proposal. Proposals for withdrawing certain points from the proposed agenda: MP Marijan Rističevic suggested withdrawing 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8 of the agenda from the draft agenda. Does MP Marian Risticevic want a word? Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-12-21-0.u1875	We at the Vojvodina Coalition are not savages, we're not gonna pull microphones, we're used to your famous bon-ton, and your bon-ton is like that to take our tone. [[You can't hear any comments from the gym.]] Now you've taken the right words from us.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-12-21-0.u1876	Mr. Risticevic, please stick to the explanation for the draft agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-12-21-0.u1877	Mr. Seselj, we can't all be as beautiful as you, tall, yellow and fat. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-RS_1999-12-21-0.u1878	Please don't throw it out of the bench.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-12-21-0.u1879	For the fourth time this year, the government of the Republic of Serbia has submitted amendments and additions to the same tax laws. At the same time, the Vojvodina Coalition proposed 12 acts, which is the law, which is a recommendation, which is a declaration, and none of these acts were found on the agenda of this assembly. So, there was no time to discuss life issues, for example the agricultural laws proposed by the Vojvodina Coalition, but it was time to discuss the proposals of the Government of the Republic of Serbia several times, and these proposals on amendments and additions to the law usually refer to taxes. So the government changes scissors four or five times a year in cutting taxpayers' taxes. However, I have an understanding for the government that counts so many ministers that at least two or three governments can be drawn up. Of course the ministers need to do something for you. There's a lot of them. I don't believe the Prime Minister himself knows how many ministers and how many ministries there are, and if five or six ministers were lost somewhere in the budget, none of us would have noticed they were gone. All these proposals for amendments to the law were signed by Deputy Prime Minister Vojislav Seselj. Tax laws, Mr. Seselj, you've signed so many tax laws that tomorrow when you don't become a minister you can automatically open a bureky shop and wrap a barrel in them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-12-21-0.u1880	Does a representative of the government want a word? No, I don't. ) I ask the MPs to put their cards in the MPs to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I am putting to the vote the motion of Parliamentarian Marijan Rističevićada withdraws 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8 of the agenda from the draft agenda. For voting -- four, against -- 170, with abstentions -- none, did not vote -- one, a total of 175 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted, most of the votes, this proposal. Proposals to expand the agenda. 1. The Committee on Justice and Administration has proposed that the agenda of this session be complemented by a point - the termination of office and the selection of judicial officers, under which the proposals for decisions proposed by the Committee on Justice and Administration, or the Republic of Public Prosecutor, would be the final point of the sitting on a daily basis. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? No, I don't. ) I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I am putting on the vote of the Committee on Justice and Administration's proposal to supplement the agenda of this session - Termination of functions and selection of holders of judicial functions and this will be the final item of the sitting agenda. The vote was 167, against one, with three abstentions, not five, a total of 176 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal by majority vote. 2. National MP Marijan Rističević suggested that the agenda of this session be complemented by the agenda item - Proposal for a Law on Free Transport and Export of Agricultural Products, which was subject to the National Assembly by Marijan Rističević and Dr Dragan Vesenov, 4 February 1999. Does the people sent by Marian Risticevic want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_1999-12-21-0.u1881	The draft law of the Vojvodina Coalition sent it to the National Assembly in February of this year, and although all parliamentary deadlines have expired, it was not on the agenda of the National Assembly. The purpose of this law is to remove monopoly in the trade in agricultural products, which the government has supplied to itself and to its neighbors. The government of the Republic of Serbia has set low prices for agricultural products and these premium prices do not pay, and if it pays them, it does so by printing money. Why does no one else offer more prices for agricultural products? Why do agricultural producers not sell or export their products? The answer is because the Serbian government, in order to obtain at cheap prices all surpluses of agricultural products, has banned the sale of agricultural products outside the territory of the Republic of Serbia without its permission. She thus created a monopoly for herself that she or the companies which export the agricultural products at two or three times the price of the ransom. This results in undeserved profits, for example, agricultural products exporting furniture factories, ironworks and many others, and they are the only ones who do not export them. The pockets full of companies and individuals, whose merit is that they were given the government's permission, and they didn't sow, or reap, or plant, and they were well sweetened. The damage of course is suffered by peasants who have been robbed. They're so robbed, there's no dog left to bite. That is why the Vojvodina Coalition has proposed this law to stand in the way of unfair intentions and procedures by the government, free to trade agricultural products without permission, so that farmers would get higher prices to force the government to buy agricultural products at the right prices and pay them immediately. The government is going one step further in the same wrong direction. The further regulation orders police to ban the sale of agricultural products in Montenegro, in breach of the federal constitution. When Serbia violates the constitution, it changes the Constitutional Court's judge, when it assesses it that way. That's why you replaced Slobodan Vučetić, who only warned you when you were violating the Constitution, the constitution you yourself wrote. You have banned the sale of agricultural products in Kosovo. You pulled customs deeper towards Belgrade, so you write off Kosovo. You don't need to write off parts of the market, you need to be written off. By banning imports, exports and trade, the peasants are easy targets for the harvesting, the "Vojvodina Coalition" has proposed this law on free transport and exporting agricultural products to stop you from stealing. We also proposed the Protection Prices Act, and on pension and disability insurance of farmers in the release of taxes on repromaterials, diesel fuel, machinery and spare parts, and you keep refusing to put it on the agenda. That is why four times changes and additions to the tax laws of the Government of the Republic of Serbia were found. However, there are some reductions. In the last session, the government decided to remove excise duties and sales taxes on heavy alcoholic beverages and cigarettes to 4%. So the excise on coke is 10% and on whiskey is 4%. It's going to be that some authorised families trade cigarettes and those drinks. However, the government has left us the opportunity to drink like Russians, smoke like Turks, and live like Kurds.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-12-21-0.u1882	I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs for the purpose of keeping the quorum secure. We have a quorum. I am putting to the vote the proposal of Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević to supplement the agenda of this session - the Free Transport and Export Law on Agricultural Products. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. Three, against 169 abstentions, did not vote four, while 176 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. 3. National MP Dr Dragan Veselinov suggested that the agenda of this session be complemented by the agenda item - Proposal for a law on the abolition of the Law on Public Information, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Dr Dragan Vesenov and Marijan Rističević on 4 February 1999. Does the MP Dr. Dragan Veselinov want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_1999-12-21-0.u1883	Dear President, MPs, I think today is an even more convincing request from the Vojvodina Coalition to abolish the existing Public Information Act. We tried to influence the Assembly in the last session to abolish this law, you almost unnaturally most of it, but naturally probably for you, you adopted and rejected it. Today after a month, a month and a half, I believe that some of you who thought it was good to leave this law in force, that it is now clear that it should be abolished. This law is the biggest instrument of information-state terror. He's an instrument of state repression against free journalism. He's a direct blow to professionalism, culture and professional morality. This law is not only a blow to journalists, it is also a deformation of basic legal norms. And that's that no one can go to court to prove he's innocent, but in principle he's innocent until whoever sues him proves that he's not innocent, that he's guilty. This law comes from the fact that we are all guilty, all who address ourselves through means of public information, whatever media, that we are all liars, traitors, to insult, to humiliate, and that it is we who must, not us, but those who want to serve the truth, the data, the document, we must go to courts, especially fellow journalists, respected newspapers, television, radio houses, to prove that they were telling the truth, not that whoever sued them to say so. It's against legal principles. This is the only reason why the law would have to be abolished. The law must also be abolished because of dragon penalties, which only independent media are exposed, although all media are biased. There's no independent in the fullest sense. The favors are permitted, each of us is the fruit of our literature, of our beliefs, of our home education, of the county morality in which he grew up. There is no neutrality, but if only one part of our press is exposed to these penalties, then they become an instrument of pressure to destroy the press, and it seems through their small money to complement the state budget and that those unable to organise production, and who constantly wants to tax the citizens and their assets to fill the budget, and this budget will appear to be filled with 44% taxing citizens' property, then why not attack both the property of newspapers, television houses, to supplement these funds. Some say -- these media spread lies, spread lies, they're traitors. What is wrong with talking about those who have said that Serbia's borders from here to Knin, to Tokyo, which is bad to talk about those who have betrayed the Serbian people, signed all the agreements that have caused us to lose Knin, Lika, Kordun, Bani, for which we have lost our people, who have disappeared, gone, we have lost territories, not only there, we have lost now and Cosmet, and those who have been in the alliance with our enemies and opponents, who have taken away our territories, they are preventing us from criticising exactly the domestic government, which has been issued by the Serbian people, both in Croatia and Bosnia and in Cosmet. They fight today that our truth about them is not heard, and while our people have executed houses, they can't even go back to their cemetery, until these great Serbs, who call everyone else traitors, have a good home today, have seats in the government, have more chairs for them today, than they have party members, well and the money seems to have been paid, and they are today struggling not to hear the real truth about the terrible loss and tragedy of our people. We just want this law to be abolished. There will be no legal gap in its departure, because we will return the law that was before this, until we agree, and in order to organise free elections, to improve party laws, to finance parties, to the electoral system. This new information law and in order to be noble, let us do our best to avoid almost physical conflicts. We sometimes see this congregation as a beast, so we're almost afraid to get in here instead of doing everything we can to ease the tension, which we would certainly do, if this law, unfair, unprofessional, unfair, abolished.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-12-21-0.u1884	I ask the MPs to place their cards in the MPs' units to determine the quorum. We've got quorum. ) I am putting on the vote by the National MP Dr Dragan Veselinov to supplement the agenda of this session - Proposal for a Law repealing the Law on Public Information. For three, 174 against, no one abstained, all voted, a total of 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. 4. The president of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group, Stevo Dragisic, suggested that the agenda be complemented by the agenda item - a proposal to amend the Decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia board, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 21 December 1999. Does MP Stevo Dragisic want a word? He doesn't want to. ) I ask the MPs to put their cards in the MPs to determine the quorum. We've got quorum. ) I am putting to the vote the proposal of the president of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group to supplement the agenda of this session - a proposal to amend the Decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. For 175, no one, abstentioned, one voted, 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. 5. People's MP Live Cvetkovic proposed that a joint principle search be carried out on the drafts of the law under points 1, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8 of the proposed agenda, as well as on the draft law on the use of the Agrarian budget in 2000, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia on 19 December 1999. Does the MP of Life Cvetkovic want a word? He doesn't want to. ) In accordance with Article 136(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on this proposal. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their cards into the MPs' units. (We have quorum) I would like to put to the vote the motion of Parliamentarian Life of Cvetkovic to carry out a joint principled search on the proposals for the laws under points 1, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8 of the proposed agenda, as well as on the draft law on the use of the appropriations of the Agricultural Budget in 2000. For 172, against no one, abstentioned no one, 6 didn't vote, 178 present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Six. People's MP Life Cvetkovic suggested that the draft law on the use of the Agrarian budget in 2000, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, be considered as the third item of the agenda. Does the MP of Life Cvetkovic want a word? He doesn't want to. ) I ask the MPs to put their cards in the MPs to determine the quorum. We've got quorum. ) I would like to put to the vote by MP Life Cvetkovic to consider the draft law on the use of the Agrarian budget in 2000, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia as the third item of the agenda. For 176, no one, abstentioned, two MPs didn't vote, 178 present in the O.R. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, all the new points adopted shall be included in the agenda of the sitting in accordance with their proposal, i.e. acceptance. The proposals for adopted acts, committees responsible, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, if they have not already done so, will submit their reports, or opinions during the session. Since we have come to the conclusion of all the amendments and additions to the proposed agenda, I would like the Members of Parliament to make a statement on the agenda of the session in general. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their cards into the MPs' units. We've got quorum. ) I put the draft agenda in general to vote. For 173, no one against, no one abstention, voted three MPs, 176 present in the O.R. I find that the National Assembly accepted the agenda of the 2nd session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 1999 as a whole. I ask the National Assembly's service to prepare the consolidated text of the session's agenda and hand it over to the MPs. Dn e v n ir e d 1. Bill on the Republic of Serbia's 2000 budget, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 2. Proposal for a decision on the Autonomous province of Kosovo and Metohija's 2000 budget, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 3. Proposal for a law on the use of the Agricultural Budget in 2000, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 4. Proposal for a law on the participation of municipalities and cities in sales tax and the volume of funds for the conduct of municipalities and cities in 2000, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 5. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Revenue and Public Expenses, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 6. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Company Tax Act, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 7. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income Tax, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 8. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Excises and Tax on Transport, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 9. Proposal for a law amending the Property Tax Act, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Ten. Proposal for a law on special conditions for the sale of certain immovableities in state property, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 11. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Health Insurance Act, submitted by MP Zoran Vukadinovic, 12. Proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly Committee of the Republic of Serbia, submitted by the president of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group, 13. Termination of office and selection of judicial holders. Under the proposal for a decision on a permanent MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly needs to make a decision on a permanent MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, established by the Administrative Committee. You've been presented with a draft on the handle. I'm opening a unique search. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? No, I don't. Do any of the MPs want a word? No, I don't. () Since no one is answering for a word, I conclude a unique search. I ask the MPs to set up a quorum to place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I put to the vote a proposal for a decision on a Members of Parliament on permanent work in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. For 175, no one, with abstentions, voted two, a total of 177 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the proposal for a decision on a permanent MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We're going to work on a set agenda. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2000. Before considering the draft Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2000, I am opening a joint principle search on: - Proposal for a Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2000, - Proposal for a Law on the Use of Agrarian Budget in 2000, - Proposal for a Law on the Participation of Municipalities and Cities in Transport and the Scope of Means for the conduct of Community and Cities in 2000, - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Revenue and Public Expension, - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Tax on Business Profits, - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Taxation and Taxation, I ask the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mirko Marjanovic, to submit the exposés.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-12-21-0.u1885	Dear President, honourable MPs, on the agenda of today's meeting of the National Assembly is the draft budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2000, which will be more detailedly notified by Finance Minister Borisla Milacic. Let me refer to the results previously in 1999 and the reform concept of economic policy that we intend to implement next year. This year's economic policy tasks have been achieved in the most difficult conditions, caused by NATO aggression and strengthening economic sanctions. The effects of war have also led to the destruction of and severe damage to road and rail infrastructure, the electricity system, the largest and total process of reproduction of the most important enterprises, a large number of civilian facilities, and a huge ecological damage has been done. All of this caused a major decline in production and overall economic activity during the first half of the year. The loss of social product due to NATO aggression is estimated at $3.7 billion this year alone. Large and in all areas of life, a positive twist was achieved in the second half of the year. This was possible with a timely start-up process for the restoration of vital infrastructure systems, training the largest manufacturing and rapid construction and repair of civilian facilities. The urgent and efficient reconstruction had great importance for the rapid normalisation of economic and overall life in the country while at the same time being a great encouragement and the best evidence of what can be achieved in the short term by relying on its own forces. Since the start of work on the country's reconstruction, 136 construction sites have been opened: 42 objects of road infrastructure, seven objects of railway infrastructure and 87 buildings of high construction, residential and other buildings. So far, work has been completed on 80 construction sites, or 395 buildings. Currently, it is working on 56 construction sites, of which 11 road infrastructure facilities, two railway infrastructure facilities and 43 high building buildings. The completion of the first phase of reconstruction in the co-ordination of the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia's Renewal Directorate directly affected the rise in production and overall economic activity in the second half of the year. During the June-November period, industrial production increased over 100%. The results in agriculture are also favourable. Corn production increased by 22% last year, sugar tails by 18%, sunflowers by 33% and soybeans by 54%. At the same time, there has been renewal of activities in construction, trade, traffic and other activities. Partly recovered and exports, all together in the second half of the year, made it possible to grow profits, wages, pensions and other personal incomes. The economic and social stability of the war year is also a very important result. The government of the Republic of Serbia has made a major effort to especially in the fourth quarter to prevent pressures on frontal price growth, caused by the elimination of price control, introduced in wartime conditions by the Federal Government's decision, speculation with a black exchange rate and blackmail of monopolies of all kinds. With the Serbian government's decisive measures, price growth was significantly slowed down in October and almost completely halted in November, when prices rose by only 1.3%. Full price stabilisation is expected by the end of the year. Key social objectives, pensions paid and the normal functioning of all public services and public authorities were also achieved. Serbia, therefore, has avoided recession and inflation in the war year, which is a great success and a boost to achieve much better results in the process in the next 2000. Dear People's MPs, the economic policy objectives for 2000, which are fully agreed with the federal government and the National Bank of Yugoslavia, are very ambitious, but also realistic. First, the implementation of the second phase of the country's reconstruction, with the development of market restructuring of the economy and the continuation of reforms. Secondly, ensuring economic and social stability is a priority goal, but at the same time a key assumption of the achievement of other economic policy tasks. The maintenance of full price stability is therefore of the utmost importance. The plans for next year are not forecasting any price hikes. At the same time, the participation of public consumption in the social product has been reduced to 49.5%, which opens up a space for increased investment accumulation. Third, strong dynamicization of production and exports. The planned double-digit growth of the social product, industry and exports enables a significant real increase in earnings, other personal incomes and the overall standard. The planned growth of the social product is 14%, industrial production 15%, agriculture 2%, construction 18%, traffic 25%, trade 17%, tourism 26% and other activities 26%. Exports should increase by 28% and imports by 26%. The achievement of such ambitious development and stabilisation objectives requires a comprehensive reform approach in their realisation. In the second phase of reconstruction, the emphasis is on strategic developmental definitions, which come from the comparative advantages of the country, long-term demand in the domestic and foreign markets and the gradual restructuring of domestic economy towards profitable production, which requires highly qualified and professional labour. In this way, training and modernisation of infrastructure, achieved in the first phase of reconstruction, will continue in the second phase with new qualitative and developmental content. In this direction, the Serbian government has already made significant moves such as the realisation of an economic and social employment programme, a policy for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and assistance in training and the work of damaged enterprises in line with market needs and criteria. At the same time, it will continue with a policy of incentive measures in agriculture, in line with the adopted strategy for the development of agrarians. The construction of a market economy system environment will continue. It is about the adoption of missing system laws, some of which will be adopted by the end of the year - the Tax on additional value, the amendments to the Tax System Law, the Law on Force alignment, bankruptcy and liquidation, as well as a package of fiscal laws, which are now adopted by the Republic Assembly. All these legal solutions are primarily aimed at strengthening financial discipline at all levels. Therefore, the emphasis must be not only on the adoption of new legal solutions, but on their consistent application. Full functioning of the rule of law in the economy is necessary in order to protect property and contract. Its transformation should be accelerated through faster company restructuring and linked to faster mobilisation of domestic and foreign accumulation. Under existing legal solutions, the work will end with the organisation of the Republic of Serbia's action fund and the central register. It will look at the possibility of setting up an agency for stimulating and permanent investment and agencies to encourage the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. I note that at a meeting of the National Assembly on 9 November 1999, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I proposed that an institute be organised at the level of the federal state for the reconstruction and reform of our society. The capital and securities market will play an important role in the process of reconstruction and development, as a mechanism for organising all available funds for citizens, businesses, banks, states and foreign investors. The adoption of a federal law on the financial market and the investment fund law will create institutional conditions for the more efficient functioning of the financial market and the acceleration of the property transformation process, in order to provide additional funds for the financing of reconstruction and development. The importance of modernising infrastructure and providing additional resources will also have concessions for the use of natural wealth, i.e. goods in general use, as well as for the exercise of a general interest activity. To this end, agreements on concessions for foreign investment in enterprises under a special government programme will be launched as soon as possible. The restructuring of the banking sector, on which the Serbian government has made a concrete proposal, will be carried out together with its own and market restructuring of businesses. Economic integration with the world is imperative in the next and next year. It is a matter of dynamicising external trade, increasing revenues from neural transactions, increasing foreign capital inflows on all grounds, strengthening technological links with the world, accepting international standards and business criteria. External and economic co-operation with Russia, China, Balkan and non-classified countries will be intensified. We strongly demand that Yugoslavia be lifted from all sanctions and that our country be equally involved in all international, economic and financial organisations and institutions. On the other hand, many reform changes are needed to train the domestic economy for greater international competitiveness, through market restructuring of the economy, reduction of fixed obligations and further liberalisation and simplification of the external trade regime. It is necessary to maintain price and overall economic and social stability throughout the year. On the one hand, only stable conditions create a favourable environment for increasing economic activity, for increasing the efficiency of the economy and for greater market respect and competition. On the other hand, the results achieved can be redistributed according to market criteria, social justice objectives, only in a stable system, where there is no redistribution at the expense of inflation and for the benefit of mopolists and other privileged groups. Dear MPs, within the framework of fiscal policy, the basic lever of the stabilisation-development policy is a restrictive budget and a coverage of all public expenditures from real sources. The principle of sound budgetary constraints means that in the following year budget expenditures will be relatively lower by 10% and amount to 28.9 billion dinars. These restrictive frameworks provide a space for financing the basic functions of the state, for social objectives and incentives in the economy. In the area of public income, the emphasis is on increasing revenues based on state property, concessions and ownership transformation, ensuring more favourable constitutional treatment for small and medium-sized enterprises, strengthening control in the markets of action products and legalising the grey economy. In the area of public revenues, it will continue to streamline the state administration, prepare for reforms in the pension and health systems, as well as changes in other areas of public spending, based on already prepared solutions. Monetary policy will be restrictive, with a basic task of ensuring price stability and financial discipline of banks and other economic operators. A stable dinar course policy will be conducted at the current level until conditions for its correction, i.e. the re-establishment and functioning of the official foreign exchange market are obtained. The basic task of politics is to maintain economic and social stability. Prices of goods and services will be created freely, except for infrastructure and municipal systems, as well as agricultural and food products relevant to the standard of citizens. Market stability for these products will be ensured by interventions from stock reserves and imports, through premiums, regressions and subsidies. In this way, the economic interest of the manufacturer and at the same time stable supply of the market with bread, flour, milk, sugar and oil at acceptable prices is ensured. The measures prescribed by the anti-monopolis law will be decisively applied to prevent the abuse of a monopoly and dominant position, and to conclude monopolistic agreements. It will also pass a price law, which uniquely regulates the area of prices, starting primarily from market access. Profits in the economy will be freely formed, in accordance with collective agreements and results achieved. Profits in public services, state bodies and organisations and compulsory social security will be paid in accordance with real budget options, i.e. funds. In order to protect employee standards, guaranteed earnings will continue to be determined, based on the movement of average earnings in the economy of the Republic, and in line with the real potential of the budget. Employment policy will create conditions for job creation, especially for the employment of those who have lost their jobs due to war activities, as well as for the overall increase in employment. Youth employment and talented professional staff programmes are particularly important. The realisation of the economic and social programme, which is financed from real sources by employment programmes for workers and broken down and damaged enterprises, continues to take over workers from enterprises in which work is disabled in another company. And, to solve the staff issues for whose work the need has ceased. Many more permanent employment programmes will be activated in small and medium-sized enterprises and in agriculture. One of the most important tasks of the Serbian government since the start of its mandate is the full emphasis on achieving social goals. Social protection for those most in need, the more regular payment of children's allowances, pensions, quality functioning of health, education, science and culture, the Serbian government has always paid maximum attention. It's quite visible from the planning documents for next year. The amount of individual items in the budget, relating to the financing of social expenditure and the firm commitment to implement reforms in the social sphere next year, in social action, in order to improve their functioning. In this regard, I would like to highlight the creation of conditions for implementing pension and disability insurance reforms. The recapitalisation of the pension fund of employees has been launched, and it is possible to put into operation the fund action from their own transition, and to achieve a combined system of compulsory and voluntary insurance. In the area of health care, the emphasis is on regulating the relationship between health care in the context of compulsory insurance and health care financed from other sources. In line with the proposed document, objectives and health policy measures in Serbia by 2010, appropriate changes will be made that continue to improve the health and health insurance system. Similar reform moves are foreseen in the fields of culture, science and education. Dear People's MPs, the next 2000 must be more successful in every way than this one. This is absolutely possible, because we have all the human and material conditions and years of experience in managing the stabilisation, development and reform policy, which has a fundamental goal of increasing the standards of our citizens. Strengthened in this year's most difficult year and encouraged by the large results of the first phase of reconstruction, we are optimisticly entering a new year. I therefore ask the MPs to adopt the draft budget law for 2000 and the accompanying legislative solutions, because they are an integral part of the comprehensive development and reform orientation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_1999-12-21-0.u1886	I thank Mirko Marjanovic, Prime Minister. I ask Borislav Milačić, Minister of Finance, to take the floor.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-12-21-0.u1887	Dear President, honourable MPs, the presentation of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia outlined the basic objectives and definitions of economic policy in 2000. Starting from that, let me say more about public spending policy in the Republic of Serbia next year. Public consumption policy constitutes one of the key grounds for the implementation of planned economic policy tasks. It depends on how successful we can make public spending policy have a stabilising character, depends largely on the stability of the overall economic movement. Therefore, public spending for next year is planned with a highly restrictive mark. The participation of public consumption in the social product should be 49.5% and in this context all expenditures in this area should move. Public spending has a double role to play in achieving economic policy. On the one hand, it needs to support the reform and construction process to the greatest extent possible. This means that as much resources as possible for economic operators, for the material stimulation of employees and for investment in development should be left in the distribution of social products. This is also a condition for the recovery and development of production, which suffered great damage after NATO aggression on our country. In view of this, in public spending policy in 2000, we insist on a strategic definition of relatively reducing public consumption and its lower participation in the social product. On the other hand, at the same time, we must be aware of the wider role played by public spending. It is about the social security of a large number of citizens: pensions, health insurance, child benefits, the functioning of vital segments of social upgrade, education, science, culture, as well as the smooth functioning of key state functions. In order to enable those social and economic requirements to be met, public spending policy must have precise defined frameworks, with the means identified being explicitly managed and the policy of clearly established spending priorities. The stabilising character of the public spending policy in the coming year will be based on a strong budgetary limit, which means that expenditure will only be financed from real resources. With regard to total public spending on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, a redistribution of funds in favour of the Federation is proposed. Accordingly, the participation of the federal budget in total public spending would be around 18.3%. This redistribution was made to allow the functioning of key functions of importance for the defence of the country, for which funds are provided in the Federation budget. As regards public revenues and expenditures in the Republic, the proposal is to maintain the same allocation relations in 2000 for individual purposes, which were established by the general public spending balance in 1999, i.e. from determined consumption in 1999, which was not realised due to NATO aggression, and then total consumption and its individual segments were increased only to carry prices of 31.1%. A significant instrument for the implementation of a established public consumption policy and for the preservation of its stabilising character is a general balance of public income and expenditure. The proposed general balance for 2000 sets quantitative public spending limits in general and for certain purposes, which allows strict control and financial discipline in the field of public expenditure. In addition, this balance clearly defines the cost-of-funds dynamics, i.e. ensuring uniformity of execution during this year. According to these starting bases, the total fixed funds for public spending in the Republic of Serbia for 2000 amount to 87,695.000 dinars. The largest amount of funding is planned to achieve social functions in the Republic, a total of 48,555,000 dinars. Of this, 30,892,000,000 dinars were planned for pension and disability insurance, which was planned for an additional 7.3 billion in comparison with the funds last year. This will ensure regular pension payments for about 1,250,000 pensioners in the PIO Fund, as well as for 227,000 pensioners in the PIO Fund of Farmers and Independent Works. To provide health insurance and the functioning of health institutions, with about 175,000 employees, 16,321,000,000 dinars will be provided, an increase compared to last year of over 3.8 billion dinars. In the general balance, the Republic's budget was planned, as President Marjanovic said, amounting to 28.9 billion dinars, while the framework for municipalities and cities' budgets is 10.2 billion dinars. The largest amount of funding in the Republic's budget is planned for the work of education, culture, physical culture and science, a total of 8.8 billion dinars. In this context, nearly 7.5 billion dinars are foreseen for education, which is an increase of 1,725,000 dinars last year. In addition, around 100,000 dinars of additional funds will be provided from the current budget reserve to improve material conditions for the needs of the student standard and over 60,000,000 dinars for the construction and equipment of schools. These funds will also provide resources for the smooth functioning of educational institutions and conditions to improve the material position of some 166,000 employees in this area. It is similar with the funds provided for other social activities. The funds for the implementation of social programmes, financed from the budget, will amount to 3.7 billion dinars and have been increased compared to last year by around 500 million dinars. These funds are intended for social protection, for the achievement of social care for children, as well as for fighting and disability protection. In addition, more than 400 million dinars will be provided from special sources, fees, taxis and other sources for the additional financing of these social obligations. In the following year, an active budget policy will continue and provide 2.3 billion dinars to boost the development of the economy. The maximum amount of funds, 1,370,000,000 dinars, is being spent on the Agricultural Budget. The appropriations of the Agricultural Budget will, above all, be used to stimulate primary agricultural production, as well as to compensate and grant, which should ensure the stability of the prices of basic agricultural and food products in order to protect population standards. For the Stock Reserve Directorate, an amount of 136 million dinars, to be used for market interventions, is foreseen to stabilise the supply and demand of certain products. 338 million dinars are planned for the Development Fund. This means, together with the funds from the sale of social capital, should enable the conduct of an active economic restructuring policy. The remaining funds in the Republic's budget will be used to perform classical state functions. Full rationality will be provided in the use of these funds, and to the extent possible, conditions will be provided for improving the material position of employees. In this regard, it should be borne in mind that there have been no corrections in the salaries of state administration employees for the past two years. With regard to the establishment of public expenditure policy, it is proposed to adopt and decide on a total budget of 83.8m dinars to finance the work of the interim bodies of the Autonomous province of Kosovo and Metohija. Consent to the economic policy definitions for next year, the republic will provide funds for reconstruction and construction, as well as for the implementation of social programmes for workers who have lost their jobs after NATO aggression. In addition to the funds from the solidarity logs and the funds provided at a rate of 0.15 from payment transactions, additional resources must also be provided, i.e. to provide a realistic increase in available funds for these purposes. In particular, it can be counted on funds from the sale of social capital, on foreign capital in commodity and financial arrangements and on additional assets that would be provided by selling certain fixed assets in state property. It is estimated that about 5 billion dinars could be provided from domestic sources this way. Given that the programme, as well as the social programme, provides for additional resources, these funds are also proposed to be presented separately for the following year. The total consumption framework in municipalities and cities has been established, as well as for other purposes with a growth of 31.1% compared to the planned funds in 1999. Given the growth of the social product, this will be a real reduction and public consumption of municipalities compared to the general balance. The general balance of public income and public expenditure, as I have stated, sets out a framework of 10.2 billion dinars for the consumption of municipalities and cities, which is the amount to be obtained from the budget of municipalities for this year when funds for the transferred functions of the Republic are excluded. In this regard, a law on the participation of cities and municipalities in sales tax and the scope of funds for the operation of municipalities and cities in 2000 was proposed. The basic solutions in this law are consistent with the solutions set out in the new Law on Local Self-Government. First, according to the Law on Local Self-Government, entrusted businesses are funded from the Republic's budget, instead of the municipalities and cities' budgets, as was the year 99 and earlier. Based on this, around 800 million dinars have been excluded from the budget of municipalities and cities, which is practically a new commitment contained in the Republic's budget. Secondly, according to the Law on Local Law, municipalities do not limit the following funds - part of a 5% turnover tax, in all municipalities, 10% of the sales tax achieved in cities and 15% of the sales tax in Belgrade. It's a legal solution. Local public revenues remain to be financed by municipal or classical budget spending. These include municipal administrative fees, local communal fees, utility fees, city building land use, roads, rents, etc. According to this, consumption in municipalities is not limited to 7 billion and 700 million dinars, which accounts for 75.4% of total funds. For municipal consumption, 6 billion are foreseen. For the classic budget spending of a billion and 600. Third, the Law on Local Self-Government introduced broader and more objective criteria for the distribution of funds. They are applied to the classic budgetary spending that is limited, i.e. to the distribution of the remaining 2.5 billion or 24.5% of the total funds allocated to local self-government. When determining the amount of funds per municipality, basic criteria were used - the number of inhabitants of the municipality, or the city, as the most important criterion, the number of primary and secondary education departments, the number of children covered by direct childcare, the amount of funds spent for special expenditure in the fields of culture and physical culture. The application of these criteria distributed 90% of the funds. The new criteria set out in the Law on Local Self-Government are - the area, the degree of development, the rate of natural growth, the suburban municipalities - used as additional criteria for the distribution of 10% of the balance, i.e. the sum of 250 million dinars. Since no data are available for the application of all criteria provided for by the Law on Local Law, in particular on migration movements between individual municipalities and cities, the Republic's budget has planned additional funds of 55 million which will subsequently be allocated under these criteria. The introduction of new criteria has led to some redistribution of funds in favour of less developed municipalities. According to this largest growth of funds, of more than 40%, they have municipalities, for example. Babušnica, Dimitrovgrad, Svrljig, Black Grass, etc. This redistribution of funds is on the line of ensuring a more even regional development of the Republic. On the basis of the criteria laid down for the allocation of resources for classical budgetary consumption, which is limited, the law provides for rates of participation of cities and municipalities in sales tax that is being achieved on their territory. In this respect, it should be borne in mind that the rates are only a technical instrument implementing that public consumption policy. As a result, not all those assessments which, by comparing or extracting rates, conduct generally negative assessments on the proposed policy, in particular in the case of only one quarter of the resources available for consumption in municipalities and cities are relevant. In fact, the average traffic tax rate, which remains for municipalities for part of their consumption, was reduced from 18.4 in 1999 to 13.5 in 2000. Ali is, in accordance with the new Law on Local Law, to finance trusted functions in the Republic's budget, additionally provided 800 million dinars. If it were not for any effort to reduce funds to municipalities and cities, it is best to show that all municipalities and cities are allowed to introduce so-called in 2000. a municipal contribution, i.e. compensation for the use of municipal goods to finance the activities and development of municipal enterprises in its environment. Of course, in the spirit of our efforts to reduce the fiscal burden on the economy of the upper limit of this rate of municipal contribution is limited to 3%, and we couldn't and we couldn't accept it being introduced to be 4 or 5%, which was a particular requirement of individual municipalities and cities. In addition, the proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Excises and Tax on Transport suggests extending the payment of a special fee to the city of Belgrade at 3% in 2000. This was done to provide funds for municipal infrastructure, traffic and the continuation of the construction of a railway node, but also for the economic consolidation of public enterprises, in particular the obligation to pay energy debts. When it comes to public income and expenditure policy, I have stated that in order to increase the resources available to finance the reconstruction and construction of the country, the Government also proposes a law on special conditions for the sale of certain immovable properties in state property. This law gives existing tenants the opportunity to buy out a state-owned business space. It's just a possibility, not a ransom obligation. Those tenants who decide to do so will be able to buy out their business space in a short time and at favourable prices. Those tenants who do not want and cannot enter the ransom are guaranteed to use business space under current conditions. I want to underline that under no circumstances can threaten legal certainty as long as the existing law applies, based on this law. What are the basic reasons for the law? The Republic has over a million square metres of business space, which from the point of view of state authorities is not in use, i.e. it does not serve to directly achieve state functions. This area is leased, and income on this basis is not achieved by the Republic, but by the rule of local self-government. In this respect, it should be borne in mind that in the budgets municipalities and cities of income on the basis of leases from the issue of business space do not represent a more significant item. Over the past few years, around 2% of their total budget expenditures have been moving. On the contrary, the sale of this property would result in significant resources that would allow for the financing of reconstruction and construction from real resources. It is estimated that some 2.5 billion dinars could be achieved on this basis. Most of these funds will be used to implement a programme of reconstruction and construction at the level of the Republic, while up to 10% of the funds achieved by the sale of a business space on the territory of the municipality or the city would be used to achieve a programme of reconstruction of the municipal and other local community infrastructures with the immediate consent of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The sale of a business space will carry out its commercialisation, i.e. create conditions for its further use on more efficient market criteria. At the same time, it goes towards meeting and creating conditions for achieving reform processes in the privatisation sector. The sales prices were established on the basis of the so-called profit value, i.e. derived from potential revenues that the owner would have from the collection of the lease over a long period. On the basis of the amounts established on the basis of the amendments, this means that this contribution would be made over a period of 60 years. The prices thus established were reduced by a certain amount, as it was borne in mind that current tenants were, as a rule, investing in the business space. The basic prices of business space per zone have been established for Belgrade's territory, with them as the basis for setting prices in other cities and municipalities. When prices are compared to commercial space market prices, and in particular with business space prices in construction, it follows that existing tenants have the opportunity to buy the business space under favourable conditions. In view of the fundamental purpose of the law, the acquisition of funds for the reconstruction and construction of the country, existing tenants who decide to buy the business space within a short period of time, practically in the next 30 days at a fixed price and with one-time payment. The honourable MPs, in addition to public spending regulations, are proposing to present-day meeting of the National Assembly of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to amend and supplement a number of tax laws. It is about amendments and additions to the Company Tax Act, excise duties and sales tax, citizen income tax and property tax. The proposed changes set out the following - tax incentives for concession investment. It is proposed to exempt the payment of income tax up to 5 years after the completion of the concession investment, the tax incentives for investing citizens based on capital, the reduction of the base of the tax on fixed shares in a limited liability company, the new non-taxable amount of net income of citizens in determining the annual income tax of citizens of up to 120,000 dinars, the amendment of the Finance Committee to the reduction of the untaxable base for income tax, as well as the exemption from the base of the amounts allocated to the solidarity logs, the increase in the amount of non-taxable incomes in the daily, field supplements, fees for the use of its own vehicles for official purposes. In the case of sales taxes and excise duties, the exemption from the payment of excise duties on motor and other mineral oils obtained by re-pererade, the reduction of the sales tax on books, brochures and item from 9 to 3% as a determination of the sales tax of equal to 9%. When it comes to the tax system, it should be said that the next session of the Federal Assembly will discuss the proposal for a law on additional value tax, which would create conditions for preparing for its application and its application from 1 January 2001, which would end the process of reforming the tax system in the Republic of Serbia and Yugoslavia. Dear Members of Parliament, starting with the objectives and tasks of economic policy in the coming period, given the importance of public spending policy in their achievement, I ask you to adopt the proposed documents establishing public spending policy in 2000, which is proposed to amend and supplement tax laws.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-12-21-0.u1888	I thank you, he has the word of Professor Jovan Babovic, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-12-21-0.u1889	Dear President, honourable MPs, thanks to the government of the Republic of Serbia's incentive measures and the maximum engagement of agricultural producers, we have achieved good results in agricultural Serbia this year. This is best reported in the report that during the period 1992 - 1999 we increased agricultural production at an annual growth rate of 3.1%. At the same time, this year we expect a higher growth rate than planned, with five basic war crops achieving a higher growth rate of 20% compared to the previous year. All this says that the balances of basic agricultural food crops are surplus, that they provide fully secure food security for our people, while providing strategic reserves and we will have significant amounts of food to increase the exports of agricultural and food products in the following year. It should not be forgotten that the government of the Republic of Serbia has invested more than 10 billion dinars in the promotion and development of agriculture over the last three years. This means practically one third of the agricultural budget refers to total investments in the incentive and development of agricultural production. And in this year we'll continue with that incentive. The government of the Republic of Serbia has defined that, based on a long-term strategy for the development of agriculture, villages, food industry, forestry and water production of Serbia and established agricultural policy for 2000, the priority is to further increase agricultural production by 2%, change the production structure in agriculture, particularly in the direction of the development of livestock production and production of industrial plants, then invest funds in the recovery and more versatile development of the village and to significantly increase the exports of agricultural food products. Given these basic definitions, the government of the Republic of Serbia has defined that over 2.2 billion dinars in the agrarian budget amount to a billion 370 million dinars or 61% of total incentives. The proposed funds for the agrarian budget of a billion and 370 million dinars are 31% higher than the previous year's budget. In line with established development priorities in the following year, we will make a dominant investment in promoting the development of livestock production, better said meat and milk production. So from the total agar budget, we will invest a billion and 10 million as an incentive to develop livestock, namely meat and milk production. These incentives are higher than the previous year by 60%. At the same time, the conclusion is that the priority will be to further bridge the production of fresh milk and on this basis, through investments in the overall development of livestock production, to ensure further increase in breeding cows, to raise milk per throat, and on this basis to increase the total production of milk and meat in our Republic, which is the backbone to use and build up the processing industry rationally, while at the same time, meat and milk production are the backbone, especially through the development of high-final and high-quality products, for a significant increase in Serbia's agricultural exports. On that basis, I would like to point out that 650 million dinars will be invested in the depletion of milk production, which is 80% higher than the previous year. The other part of the funds, which we will invest in encouraging the development of livestock production, refers to the regression of the breeding rejuvenation. In national language, we aim to raise the level of productivity or production by one throat through the improvement of the breeding spring, and therefore increase the total production of milk in our Republic. For these purposes, we will invest 55 million dinars. To improve livestock production, better said, for measures of selection and genetics, as well as for the improvement and development of livestock production, 100 million dinars or 55% more will be invested compared to the previous year. The rest of the 115 million dinar funds will be invested in animal health. By safeguarding health, by establishing adequate diagnostics, treatment, and, of course, animal health, we will allow the conservation of the livestock fund, but at the same time the health of all people in our Republic. The second key item in the agricultural budget is investment in water supply systems. The government of the Republic of Serbia will invest 170m dinars in water supply systems. What is important is our key commitment to protect ourselves from the harmful fact of water, but at the same time, to build and complete three dams in the following year and to continue building regional water systems and, most importantly, to bring water to 300 of our villages and, therefore, raise the quality of life in our villages. Surely, the fourth item, which is of particular importance, from the agrarian budget, is investment in building and restoring anti-building protection. Namely, NATO's aggressor has destroyed a significant part of the anti-building protection technique, and therefore the government of the Republic of Serbia has defined itself as restoring the anti-building systems, providing the necessary missile resources, while building and continuing to build anti-building protection in the Vojvodina area, and on this basis we are exceedingly providing the entire space of the Republic of Serbia from the fact of the elemental disasters and the damage to our agriculture. I'm sure there's something to point out about forestry. Foresting is a treasure of our Republic, and on this basis in the area of foresting, cultivation, care, forest protection, as well as further finalisation of wood and forest fruits, is a key definition to invest 115 million dinars in the next period in the area of forest incentives. And of course, in the end, I would like to point out that professional agricultural services are one of the vital elements of the further improvement of agricultural production primarily in our village. And therefore, in addition to the adoption of a single law on professional agricultural services, all 2,200 workers, who are dominantly high qualifications, will be involved in working in the next period to improve agricultural production on peasant land, to transfer scientific and professional knowledge in agricultural production and thus to raise yields and total production to rural land. For these reasons, the government of the Republic of Serbia has been defined as a priority in the next period of funding from the agrarian budget to revive and versatile development of the village. We aim, on the one hand, to encourage the development of production in our village, to balance economic policy with the conditions of living and working on the countryside as well as in the city, mostly through an adequate economic policy, but at the same time to build and urbanise our village and, on this basis, create conditions for young people to remain engaged in agricultural activities, to make agricultural interest through economic policy cost-effective and to keep young people living and working in our village. Dear People's MPs, Your Honor, the proposed agrarian budget is just one of the incentives from the government's policy area of the Republic of Serbia to further develop agricultural production, forestry and water production. We will continue to encourage from other means the development of agricultural production, the Development Fund and, on this basis, we will contribute to the faster overall development of our agriculture, the increase of agricultural production, and what is most important, to significantly increase the exports of agricultural and food products. And this year, when we had the hardest time, we were able to establish an agrarian budget of one billion dinars, and the government of the Republic of Serbia invested over a billion and seven hundred million dinars in the area of agriculture. All this suggests that even in the most difficult conditions, the Government of the Republic of Serbia takes care of its agriculture, its village, its farmer, its worker, and that policy will continue to be pursued, in order to ensure overall development and agriculture and Serbia's economy. I suggest that the MPs of the National Assembly pass the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-12-21-0.u1890	I thank Minister Babovic. Gorica Gajevic, head of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary club, answered the words.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-12-21-0.u1891	Dear President, honourable MPs, the Socialist Party of Serbia supports the draft law on the Republic of Serbia's 2000 budget and accompanying documents, which are essentially operationalisation and instruments for successful implementation of the government's economic policy. The proposed economic policy measures allow for the preservation of social and economic stability, the continuation of economic growth, the continuation of the successful reconstruction process through development projects and greater employment, more work, as a basis for the higher standard of living of our citizens. These are the basic objectives of the government's policy of unity, which it will successfully achieve, as well as in the most difficult current year, in which we have been exposed to savage, brutal aggression and continued aggression through sanctions and pressures. The Government's definition of financing public consumption from real sources, reducing public consumption's participation in the coming period, and in particular further reducing tax burdens on the economy, clearly shows the government's definition of re-distributing social income to the area of production, thus providing economic assumptions for faster economic development and reforms. In particular, I would like to point out that the proposed legal solutions are treated in a realistic way by the government to achieve state and social functions, pension insurance, health care, education. It is well known that the rights in the sphere of social activity are very diverse with us, that the government's policy not to reduce these rights, but to create material assumptions through production at real sources to satisfy these rights at a high, guaranteed level. The agrarian budget, which we are adopting, has been best confirmed for several years by our relationship to the economic potentials of agrarians and the need to raise production levels, on the one hand, but also by the overall quality of life in the country, on the other hand. Economic policy in the area continues to encourage food production, as a significant factor in economic and overall social stability, as well as the political independence of our country. Without the intention to sum up the government's great effort to design and establish economic policy measures, we have before us a package of laws that practically ensure the stability of social and economic flows, an intensive continuation of the process of reconstruction, with expressed development and reform components, the resuscitation of production in all areas and the rise of standards on real-time basis, which means, on greater work, more productivity and more production. This economic policy confirms the successes we have achieved in the country's defence and reconstruction process. The effects of reconstruction have shown us and the world our economic potentials and our opportunities. The result of the renovation is evidence that we can work faster, better quality, more successful and rationally, that the whole profession, entire branches, businesses, individuals, and the collective force of our people have been confirmed. In this process of measures and determination of the Government of National Unity, the great engagement of workers, solidarity and self-sacrifice of all citizens, we have restored what is vital to the lives of citizens, to the work of the economy and to further development. Rehabilitation, development and reform are what protects us from the enemies of our people and the state, which represents a defense for those who worship the aggressors, who kiss the hands of a war criminal, that freak who committed the most serious crimes against our people and the state, the murderer of our children. Impressive restoration is evidence of our vitality and willingness to defend our sovereignty and territorial integrity with our own forces and not sell for any loans. Dear MPs, there is a difficult and complex year behind us, a year in which brutal aggression has been committed against our people and the state, a year in which we have defended unity and heroism against aggression, which, with successful renewal and accelerated development, are now successfully opposed. I am sure that the next 2000 will be another confirmation of the policy of preserving freedom and independence, a confirmation of the great unity of the people, its vitality, creativity and energy to resist, through solidarity and great work, anything that is retrograde and promotes everything that leads to development, progress, peace, co-operation of peoples and states on an equal footing. The policy, proposed for 2000 by the Government of National Unity, is real and economic, both socially and politically. It will be achieved to the extent that everyone, including us MPs, and not only the Government, we will achieve what is our obligation and what is in our domain. Therefore, as representatives of the Socialist Party of Serbia's MPs, they will vote in favour of a package of proposed laws, confident that it will also be the decision of the National Assembly. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_1999-12-21-0.u1892	Thank you. There is a word from MP Stevo Dragisic, head of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group, to prepare Milan Rodic.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-12-21-0.u1893	Ladies and gentlemen, a package of proposed laws, which we are considering today, together with the budget law, can only be observed together. Because when they look at each other as a whole, then you can see the government’s intentions in the next year’s economic policy area. But in our situation, we cannot ignore the fact that we want to obtain public income and how we can spend it. The circumstances in which our country is located are more than unfavourable. This year, there has been an increase in economic sanctions, which have been back in force for several years against our country. This year, we've had huge material destruction due to the NATO pact bombing and the obligation to fix everything that's been destroyed by NATO bombs. It should certainly be mentioned that this year we have had unforeseeable extraordinary costs in the country's reconstruction. Almost complete infrastructure has been destroyed, many vital traffic flows have been shut down, the power system has been destroyed, the refineries have been destroyed and their destruction has caused disturbances in the supply of major energy, which are necessary for the functioning of the economy and personal consumption of citizens. These are all the circumstances under which we live today and where we have to make public income laws. This certainly reflects the government's economic policy for next year. Since opportunities are as unfavourable as they are, the government could only do what it predicted for next year. And this is that in the area of public spending, it runs a restrictive policy, which is seen from the Budget Proposal, which for this year is only 34.8% nominally increased compared to the previous year, and the price rise to a little by October was 44.5%. This means that the real budget for 2000 is lower than it was for the previous year. As far as tax laws are concerned, it should be noted that this is a continuation of liberalisation in the area of tax policy. The government proposed that in the event of a concession investment, the concessionaire was exempt from the profit tax resulting from the performance of a performance concession within five years, which is an increase in the time limit provided for by the previous Company Tax Act. Then, the property tax, on property rights, on actions entered in the name shall not be paid when that right is acquired on the basis of enrolment or purchase with a discount in the property transformation procedure within five years of the date on which that right is acquired. A three-year-old release has been prescribed for the solution so far. Then, the planned exemption from paying the property tax increases from 60,000 to 90,000 dinars, and for capital, i.e. shares, recorded on the name, from 50,000 to 70,000 dinars. The Law on Income Tax, revenue subject to payment of personal income tax, excludes actions carried out by the employer in the process of property transformation. It is also proposed to increase certain non-taxable amounts of personal income, journals, field supplements and the like. In some other cases, there is also a tendency of liberalisation in the area of taxation of citizens or legal entities. All of this needs to be added that the tendency of liberalisation is necessary, so that we can count on recovery and exit from the economic crisis. We think it is necessary to improve the Law on its own transformation, in the sense that privatisation will be placed on business as an obligation. Certainly, the state must count on this kind of privatisation, which would provide it with a real source of privatisation revenue and the funds, obtained in this way, could later be used to rebuild the country, cover some social benefits, social programmes and the like. In this regard, we believe that the proposed law on special conditions for the transport of immovableity in the state property is also the direction of liberalisation, privatisation and its own transformation. It is certain that a good part of the business space, which in most cases will be the subject of this law, will be sold in the way provided for by this law and that it will be a real source of income for all that the state planned in the coming year to cover from its own sources. It is only one segment of state property, which can be sold in this way, but it is necessary to find a model and way for companies, which are still in social or state property, to be sold in a similar way. Of course, this should also be taken into account by employees of these companies, who could eventually become excess labour when privatising these enterprises. If this were not to be taken into account, it would then appear as a negative consequence of privatisation So privatisation must be accelerated, it must be mandatory, but also to take account of potential negative consequences, which could later be pressure on the social funds of the state. We believe it is possible to reach a compromise between the state's interest to privatise the state's businesses and interests so as not to create a social problem after that privatisation. In this kind of compromise, we think the state would benefit double. First of all, it would provide an additional real source of revenue to cover some of its taxes, and on the other hand, it would protect the interests of employees in these companies by guaranteeing them working status in the company, except under the conditions of some disciplinary responsibility. We believe that this package of laws, which is proposed today with the budget, which we are about to adopt today, is a step further in liberalisation in the economic sphere, and certainly also an expression by the government that it wants to run a restrictive budgetary policy, so that in the conditions in which we are located, we can manage in the best possible way to get out of the crisis we are in.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-12-21-0.u1894	I thank you, he has the word Milan Rodic, head of the Yugoslav Left Parliament Club, and should prepare Dusan Matkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-12-21-0.u1895	Dear President, members of the government, fellow MPs, the Yugoslav left parliamentary group supports the bill on the budget, assessing that the proposed budget volume is in line with the state in which our economy and the country are located. At the same time, we support the amendments and additions to the laws that are in the role of its implementation. As particularly significant, we point out that despite the nominal increase, the total funds for public consumption will not exceed 49.5% of the planned social product. The Yugoslav left's stance on consumption rates has always been clear, it must be consistent with the scope of the social product, and in no case should it be the factor that would send inflation. The financing of real-source budgets makes a literal assumption of providing conditions for the restoration and further development of the economy and the country as a whole, while meeting the basic needs of the public sector. By proposing this magnitude and way of financing the budget, the Republic government has shown the highest degree of responsibility and respect for the real situation. Hence, the Yugoslav Left that participates in the Government of People's Unity commits to making a full contribution to its functioning, governance and restoration in the coming time. Dear Members of the Parliament, as particularly important, we highlight the development function of the budget. In general, insufficient, estimated funds of around 2.2 billion dinars provide a basis for the initial achievement of the most necessary development activities. Deeply aware of the situation in which the economy and the country are in general, during the time of NATO aggression, the Yugoslav Left formed a project of material and spiritual renewal of society and delivered it to the Republic and the Federal Government for evaluation and implementation. This document also contains a large number of fully developed and development programmes, which represent a very significant basis for the operation of the recently established Centre for Strategic Research and Reform. Also, we highly appreciate the fact that other professional, economic and scientific institutions have created and delivered to the Serbian government a large number of projects of equal purpose. Our programmes are based on the use of existing resources in the country. Among them, a special place belongs to the development of a mountain - mountainous area, which I will talk about wider. Although over 60% of Serbia's territory is affected and have huge opportunities, these areas have not been developed to the required extent. These areas provide exceptional conditions for the production of healthy food, mushrooms, medicinal plants, cultivation and use of game, numerous aspects of domestic work, the production of wood briquettes and galanetries, chamurs, essential oils, forest decorative seedlings, hunting, recreational rural tourism and other numerous contents. The basic characteristics of these, conditionedly, small programmes are reflected in the fact that they do not require large initial investments. They provide an opportunity to make significant profits, as their implementation produces high quality products, which pass on the world market. It is of particular importance that their implementation enables about 70,000 workers to be employed. The organisation and all comprehensive implementation of this concept is aimed directly at achieving the following basic objectives: to enable the proper use of existing resources for the production of healthy food and other goods, to ensure the employment of free labour in the countryside, and especially workers who have lost their jobs due to NATO aggression, to create conditions for retraining and new forms of employment of workers, as well as the implementation of property transformation, to re-enhancing and developing the concept of production through co-operation with rural people and land owners, to create conditions for improving the quality of life in rural areas, especially mountain-mounted areas, with the construction of facilities and infrastructures, such as PTT and the electrical network, health and veterinary medicine, the creation of conditions for organising cultural activities and many other facilities. The implementation of the above-mentioned development programmes, as well as the overall recovery of the domestic economy, requires adequate funds, i.e. fresh capital. There's more than one way to secure them. Recently, the most prominent representatives of the diaspora were in our country. It is indisputable that a large number of these people are willing to invest some of their capital in the domestic economy. The question is, what have we done to introduce these people to investment opportunities and business co-operation? It is necessary for government members, i.e. ministers and their co-workers, and especially domestic experts to visit clubs and other associations of Yugoslavia, and to bring them directly to know the content of the programme in terms of business, especially about the possibilities of profit acquisition. To this end, we consider the overall efforts of the Republic and the Federal Government aimed at creating favourable legal frameworks that allow free flow of capital, customs and tax relief and other necessary for the realisation of joint transactions. This is how organized, professional and determined work can be successfully animated by numerous investors of our origin. The situation in which our economy and the country are pointing to the unquestionable need to implement comprehensive reforms, including their own transformation. It must be implemented efficiently, organised and rationally, in accordance with the interests of most non-citizens. The Yugoslav Left believes the funds achieved on this basis should be focused primarily on economic and development projects. Only when creating new values will there be conditions for achieving overall economic and social stability. For many years, a significant part of the economic activity takes place outside of legal flows. The action of the so-called grey economy is inevitably followed by all societies that go through the root changes. This phenomenon is particularly manifested through non-payment of tax and other obligations, which directly leads to a reduction in funding of all types of consumption. The need for accelerated development and the results achieved in the country's recovery oblige all system institutions to curb this phenomenon through their actions. This would in the most direct way contribute to the reduction of pressure on the economy and citizens, which are becoming increasingly more difficult to meet their tax and other fiscal obligations. All this unequivocally suggests that the grey economy is also a sort of human question. It is known that conditions have been created in our country to grant concessions. We estimate that there is a full justification that this kind of collection of funds, as well as funds collected on the basis of special road charges and the like, is directed towards construction of traffic and other infrastructure facilities, which are in mountain-mounted areas. This will create basic conditions for the improvement and cultural development of these areas and countries in general. We believe that all these jobs must be carried out comprehensively and organised. Hence, it is necessary to determine the bearers of these activities. These would primarily be major business systems, which would carry out their activities leading to the achievement of the above-mentioned development objectives. Dear People's MPs, the Yugoslav Left estimates that the restoration and overall development of the country exclude all aspects of economic harmful activity. In addition to the grey economy, which I was already talking about, we cannot accept the fact that our country imports products made in our factories and that we have enough to export. In any case, scarce foreign exchange funds are unnecessaryly spent on imports of a number of types of goods. Thus, it is unacceptable to import root paper, cellulose, furniture and similar goods, for whose production there is a developed chain. Instead of providing home furniture for example, we provide facilities built in our country, as well as facilities that our companies are building abroad, we continue to import, instead of hiring numerous domestic factories. When we add to this the fact that foreign exchanges are unnecessaryly spent on imports of textiles, food products and other goods of broad consumption, then all the harmfulness and economic indifference of these phenomena is more than obvious. All this damages our economy, which, despite all the pressures and restrictions on the outside, manages to preserve its vital capacity. Also, this kind of action prevents the implementation of reforms, which makes one of the main directions for the Yugoslav left to operate. During NATO aggression, all citizens and institutions of the system have shown the highest degree of loyalty to their country and freedom. At this point, patriotism must be manifested in all kinds of social and economic activity. Therefore, these phenomena represent the most eloquent example of non-patriotic behaviour and the application of direct damage to the economy and to the country in general. Dear fellow MPs, the Yugoslav Left sees the proposed volume of budgets as one of the types of contributions to stabilising and achieving the country's basic functions in the period of reconstruction and its further development. Hence, in front of the Yugoslav left parliamentary group, I call on you to support the draft budget law and the package of amendments to the accompanying laws, which create the basis for its implementation. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_1999-12-21-0.u1896	There is a word from Minister of Property Transformation Jorvanka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-12-21-0.u1897	Dear fellow MPs, I have been announced minister and I am minister, but I will speak, above all, as an MP for the Serbian Radical Party in this assembly hall. Since 1993, I have had the pleasure of discussing the budget adopted in this building and among the like. That satisfaction to talk about the budget was very often contained in the opportunity to be fully justified to criticise, above all, the expenditure side of the budget, where there was always room to save, show revenue in a completely different way, which would allow full insight into the way in which the budget was spent, and that all constitutional standards on the revision of public income and expenditure could be respected and respected. Today, both as an MP and as a minister, I am pleased to notice one thriftful hand of the host, who, at a difficult time, is building a republican budget on different grounds. That my pleasure is primarily reflected in the fact that this year's budget represents a relatively reduced amount, almost obvious. The cost of living by the end of the year will exceed 50% of the figure. Price rises to a little by October of the month were 44%, and the nominal increase in this budget for 2000, compared to 1999, was only 34.8%. It is quite clear that it is a relatively small amount of funds intended for redistribution through the Institute of Budgets. Something that especially delights me and has been slowly introduced into practice in recent years, but this time fully defined, is avoiding the budget deficit and avoiding the intention to fund the state from the show. On a very realistic basis, we have a very modern budget, in which the items of income are formed not as the ignorance and unwitting MP said that 40% of the assets of the property tax are, are all about 3.8% of the estimated revenues, which the state would spend on its budget expenditures. When I say a world-wide budget, I mean the fact that 43% of the revenue, which will be pooled into the budget, is foreseen from the sources of excise duties and sales taxes. Each modern state counts that most of the tax revenues are collected from the taxation of consumption. On the other hand, 40% of the income tax on citizens, most of which is a personal income tax, is also a very positive item in the formation of a source for state spending, which means we are counting on the incomes and revenues that we will be able to make in production and from which the state could have one real source of funding. The tax on corporate profits is one fact that we can comment on and not be used by saying that businesses do not operate with some significant gain because of aggression, but simply, the fact that we have been working on sanctions since 1992, in various kinds of forms and forms, and that the rate of 5.6% of income, based on this basis, is something that indicates that we are counting on an increase in this source of income, but under the given circumstances it cannot be higher. I'm very often used to role-playing examples. We have always tried to talk about how positive examples should be followed, not how others work. The state does it the most direct way this time. Anyone who had this material in their hands, if it comes from Article 32. The budget law, which states that -- "the beneficiaries of the budget, if they do not comply with the obligations set out in Articles 14, 28, 29 and 30 of this law, will not receive the funds allocated to them by this budget. "These members read -- "the transfer of funds for salaries, financed from the budget, will take place exclusively according to the request and in the forms submitted in the prescribed manner for each payment. "Article 28 says: "Budget users can use funds only for those purposes, for which these funds have been transferred." Article 29 says, "Only those who earn 10% of the material costs for 1/12, the ideal, as projected by the budget, can use this savings gap to stimulate their employees." Article 30 says "That the report on the implementation of the annual financial plan must be submitted by all users to the authority for public expenditure audits." They have to show each of their incomes, otherwise they won't get a penny of budget funds. Is there such an example of budgetary discipline? When I say budgetary disciplines, I mean the discipline of all those who make revenue, they have expenditures, and for that someone needs to be accounted for, as the state, on this case and this budget indicates. In addition to this, the way to invest next year and the way to obtain what is called the status symbol of the functionors is particularly about the domestic relationship of this country. The procurement of means of transport exclusively goes through the Republic of Serbia Property Directorate. No one can even register a vehicle or a functional car without obtaining the consent of this directorate. No one can have extra cars, but the Property Directorate can redistribute within these budget users. This is really an example to follow, and the one that will give its positive results, I guess, is going to be an example that will unwittingly keep quiet. A way to invest, exclusively through the Property Directorate, which at the same time allows for maximum control and household use of funds, hopefully, will be a matter that no one will be able to keep quiet. With all the praises of this budget, as he could have been good at the moment, and I mean the amount of funds, as an MP for the Serbian Radical Party, I am giving and voting, not for the reasons of participation in power, not out of obligation, but out of my personal conviction that this is indeed an extremely real and very well-designed budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-12-21-0.u1898	Thank you. The word is Dusan Matkovic, a National MP.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-12-21-0.u1899	Dear President, the Honorable Presidency, fellow MPs, I am pleased to say a few words about the basic instrument of economic policy for next year. So the budget has the following three characteristics -- it's non-inflation, it's restrictive, and it's a budget based on real resources. He deserves respect and support, with the desire to be implemented as such in the following year. I'd like to present a few characteristics of today's presented budget. First of all, the budget represents a bridge, a continuation towards 2000, in terms of continuing the main business, which is the country's reconstruction. We end the first phase of reconstruction, we raise the infrastructure, the main building potentials, big firms and start making a big deal in this country, and it will be good to speed up the reconstruction wheel through the realization of the second phase, and in fact through the launch of that, the recovery and the right to launch all the industrial potentials Serbia has. The next very important feature of the budget is the reform approach and the reform character. Several of the key characteristics about this are - the trend towards privatisation, therefore ownership transformation, privatisation, as the Prime Minister announced today, that we need to speed up all activities on ownership transformation and privatisation in the coming year. Serbia has the capacity, has other economic and ownership performances that can lead to foreign capital entry, but also to the acquisition of capital that we own in the country based on the acceleration of privatisation. The next is the restructuring that will put this restrictive budget into effect, and above all, I'm thinking about the banking sector. So, tax reform, implementation of a new tax policy, and I see the budget as the main link to what's called the so-called "the so-called "tax" policy. the additional value tax to be entered into force in 2001. Therefore, it is necessary to create conditions for such a new tax system to come to life, and I see another new quality of the budget. The next is - the turn towards small and medium-sized enterprises, which is also very important. Turning towards market instruments and institutions in the functioning and realisation of the budget. As a businessman, on behalf of those who primarily work in production, I want to highlight the three characteristics this 2000 budget brings. First of all, there's further redundancy, which is the most important thing. The second is the social component of the budget, which is a relief to the economy that after aggression, at the stage when we create reconstruction and raise our production, in fact the state helps with a strong and serious social programme. That's what started this year. Many companies have also felt what this means through the realisation of agricultural loans, stimulating severances, etc. It is very important that the state has defined through this budget that it is doing and implementing this set social programme and this social dimension in the budget. The third thing is support for export production. We need to intensify our exports in 2000 as the main orientation of our economy. We have all the performances we need to make a big increase in exports, even bigger than what the government's representatives put out here. I'm sure because I know how much our market is, what our capacities can do, and given the proximity of the euro market, I think our exports will be at least 50% higher in the following year. It's one reality from the corner of the economy. I see first of all a chance for a metal complex. For production based on metal processing, we can increase employment and exports there most. This is the job of the number one economy, and related to this set of economic policies, i.e. The budget. I would only mention one version of the budget, an international political dimension, a stable budget. The budget based on real resources is a positive sign of international capital, a large-scale international business that wants to work with us. So a stable budget is actually a positive sign of the state, with one willingness to make the economy together, the economy, with the international business, work. I mean big banks and big European companies, which are already doing some jobs, not as much as they want and can, with us. Our advantages in this co-operation are both labour force, and capacity and in the context of this debate budget is stable, realistic, restrictive, which is a positive sign. But Serbia is now Europe's economic chance number one, and that capital knows it. It is in foreign magazines, that we are Europe's number one economic chance. The European business wants to enter, one part of the political elite in Europe and America is defending it for the time being, and I see 2000 as a year of twisting, where the interest of large capital and business will prevail over political obstacles and enter here to work. This is another positive signal. We with that capital, with the big business, with the banks want to work on an equal footing. We're not like some of us kissing hands to work with us and putting us in a second-rate position, but we want to work on what we have, and we have a lot to offer. We've shown it since the renovation. Therefore, this dimension of this set budget is well-designed and helps in fact the economy to go in the right way to realize economic policy, to greater employment and more exports above all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-12-21-0.u1900	Thank you. Break by 2:30. [[Continuation after break - 14.50]] Dear People's MPs, we continue our work. The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Veselinov.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-12-21-0.u1902	Dear Mr. President and People's MPs, I would like to say a few words about the government's draft budget for the Republic of Serbia for 2000. We will not vote in favour of this draft budget law, but we will support and we will vote in favour of a special proposal for the government's law on the agrarian budget. With a few words, I would explain our political views. We are convinced that Serbia's budget is only one financial structure already deformed political and economic situation in our country. I'm budgeting out, from our point of view, extremely leaning on the source of funds on the impoverished population. Some 44% of budget funds are collected based on the taxation of citizens' income and their assets. Since our population is already extremely impoverished, that net wages are about 85 marks, that the social product has fallen below $1,000 a year, then it is normal for us to reduce the budget not only relatively but nominally. At the very end of the line, I find it very interesting for the left to support the taxation of poor citizens, less than the left would be expected to attack the rich and to fill the budget with the tax of the wealthy, because in our country there is already close to 90% of the citizens, according to analyses of the ability of non-citizens in the consumer basket, or on the edge of hunger or living in the greatest misery. Secondly, Serbia's budget essentially continues to guard the country's deformed macro-regional situation, practically safeguarding the 1990 unilateral constitution, where Vojvodina's autonomy was abolished. So the budget itself follows the situation, not directly to disprove Vojvodina, but it follows its political disenfranchisement, so that in favour of the Vojvodina Assembly, it leaves 0.51%), as far as we have managed to calculate, from Serbia's budget. Of course, some other funds go to Vojvodina, go to the pension fund, social fund, salaries, judges, prosecutors, police, etc., and we can never find out which entry of Vojvodina into Serbia's budget. We could catch consumption and expenditure, but we have no idea how much Vojvodina participates in filling Serbia's budget. We're saying it's about 40%, but we'd love to, regardless of what the Vojvodina Statistical Institute was destroyed if the government came out with this data. Supporting this not only unpleasant, but colonial position of Vojvodina in relation to financial tutorship from the centre, we see as a contribution to strengthening the country's political regional, macro-regional tensions. Serbia's budget is finally tied, or in this package, which does not go very strictly, is not just about the budget, it is also about challenging the rights of large cities or opposition municipalities to participate in the sales tax with one noticeable percentage. Belgrade would remain with 2.2, Novi Sad also, Panchevo with 6%, so the lion's share of sales tax goes in favour of the Republic. And it's not just an inflow of extreme centralization, but we believe it's a political punishment for the position that lives in these regions, because a similar approach with some exceptions cannot be absoluteized. But this approach of financial punishment to the population, we are convinced that that is all it is, but for Belgrade, Novi Sad, Pancheva and other major cities, not to mention Kragujevac, who received 29 to 30%, he is exclusive, and we do not know why, but this situation is not good anyway. Finally, we cannot support the Republic of Serbia's budget from there that about 22% of the funds, more than a fifth, go to the police. The poor country with the poor people must have a small budget, and the police must be small, efficient. We seem to have a big police force, and this police force is no longer on Cosmet, there's no reason why she gets this much funding, and finally, if the police budget is bigger than the agrarian and social work, then the police become an extreme instrument of repression in society to protect the distribution of money within the poor people. We are also against the participation of the Development Fund in the distribution of funds. The Development Fund is some phantom institution with us, which has 338 million dinars, with about 15 million marks, to say the terms. With 15 million marks, there is no Fund for Development at the state level of 8 million inhabitants. It's a pompous name for such an institution. Finally, the Development Fund has so far not gone public with Mirko Marjanovic, the prime minister, to explain what the money is spent on. We think it would be nice if this fund were abolished and the money transferred from it to the Agrarian budget. For the first time today, I heard from Mr. Babovic that some of the money in the past went to some agrarian projects, which is certainly commendable. We will vote for the agrarian budget, not in all its parts, because we have objections, but in principle we will vote for it, hence what we believe the peasant deserves to improve his position. But our agrarian budget is very small in terms of necessity. In this budget, Serbia's agrarian budget accounts for around 4.7%. We are convinced that the agrarian budget must be far higher and must monitor the participation of the agrarian population in the total population, which is around 19%. In Serbia's social product, the primary agricultural producers participate with no less than 10%. The agricultural budget doesn't follow them, not far below. That's where we are to increase it, but at the same time we'd like to see restructured positions in the agrarian budget. The Vojvodina coalition is against the fact that the processors are being donated. It's done in the past. That's how we understood it, and we can confirm it. That's wrong. Only primary agricultural producers are financed at the level of the state and the state budget for agriculture. Processors and industry refer to banks and must borrow from them business loans. The state budget should not be used for subsidies, donations, regressions, but only the weakest agricultural producers are financed, and these are individual holdings. Hence, we recommend to the government, not wanting to challenge the agar budget, to engage as seriously as possible in an analysis of the consumption of the agrarian budget and to help the peasants as possible. The peasants didn't get milk premiums. Many agricultural products are not paid, we are convinced that Serbia could go forward with the breast donation, but donations on one side must pay by imputation. From here we warmly recommend regresses for fertilisers, which are not presently available, cattle regresses, seeds, and we recommend donations at the price of wheat, corn price, sugar beet price and sunflower price. Our country spends only a few dollars per oran, donations, and in the world, the global prices of agrarians are 40% lower than internal ones. This means that both the United States and Japan, and the OECD, and the European Union, have a difficult, extremely strong funding of low export price grants. We have to fight them as hard as we can. From there we will recommend to the government that almost the entire agrarian budget, regardless of the part that would go to improve the country's water system, hydromellation, etc. - where we have comments again, we don't know how these funds have been spent so far - but as much as possible on subsidies and grants, so that we can go out on the market and fight economies that have extensive agriculture, but they have strong donations, so that we can use at least some of our advantages, but with weak donations we can't do that. Finally, we also reject Serbia's budget because of the 29 districts that exist in Serbia, firstly, we think that all the districts in Serbia are political parasites, and that they are also financial parasites, it should be abolished, and in particular we cannot understand how it is possible that five Kosovo districts, by proposing the Serbian government's budget, get more money than seven Vojvodina. In Cosmet, practically, these environments don't even exist, and it would be extremely difficult to convince us, although we would like someone to try to do so, that five cosmetian districts have a better and more expensive administration than seven Vojvodinan districts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-12-21-0.u1903	Thank you. He has the word Borislav Milacic, the finance minister.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-12-21-0.u1904	From the presentation of Mr. Veselinov, I understood that Mr. Vesenov did not understand the public consumption policy that the Government of the Republic of Serbia established, and I am sorry, because this opening exhibition was quite extensive and I think it gave the whole picture. Extreme disagreement with regional policy, which is represented in the budget, has damaged one side, at the expense of the other side, etc. That's one grade. The colonial position of cities, where the government is not in line with the parliamentary majority, too much money for the police, the agrarian budget is good, but it would be good to be much better. And five counties in Kosovo have won more than seven in Vojvodina. I'm just gonna look back on that, so it's clear what we're talking about. The basic principle - this is the state budget and this is the budget of the Republic of Serbia, this is the public consumption of the Republic of Serbia, the whole of the state, with the obligation to first, in determining the revenue side, to establish obligations and burdens, to respect the basic principle of tax policy, which the world knows, that relatively economic strength is confirmed by obligations and to contribute to financing what is treated as public spending. It's completely inappropriate to make all the grades that are being made, from the local community to the city, to the local self-government, to the autonomous province, to make the balances of the revenue side, based on how much I give, and what you pay me back. Of course, the economically developed environment has all the elements to contribute more than the smaller environment on the basis of the same rules of payment obligations. And it is certain that the revenues collected from the territory that is economically developed, such as one area of Belgrade, where the entire Republic, of course, invested, not only Belgrade, which has also developed economy and population that has higher salaries, and property that is more significant than other parts of the Republic, will, in the same rules of tax obligations, have the obligation to contribute to the burden of these real categories and to fill the budget more than one undeveloped municipality, in which there is no property, in which citizens receive a small salary, in which there is no such useful burden elements. The government of the Republic of Serbia is leading a policy of a balanced regional development of the Republic, in which it treats equal to all municipalities, with a fundamental goal of ensuring that the whole of the Republic is provided with what is called the elemental rights of social protection and infrastructure development in order to improve the life and standards of the entire Republic. I accept a political option in which the Republic splits into something that can be and what's called a local community, means less than one local self-government, such as autonomous province, a city, a municipality. This is not an unfair burden on the tax burden and reduction of tax obligations. They are suited to the economic strength of taxpayers. I'll remind you -- it's true that income on a profit basis pays a tax, but it's paid at the same rate, in which, moreover, those who have a higher income, with the same rate, than those who have a small income, have to pay more. When it comes to contributions, there are special benefits, that the base for those who earn small profits is reduced and paid on the basis, so that this is a relatively multiple burden on those bases and the obligation to pay on small profits, for the sake of contributions, to fill the funds that would meet these total obligations. The argument is that only 0.51% of the total budget is provided for the work of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina, and it is correctly said, but so vaguely, that these are not all the money that goes towards Vojvodina, since this is where Vojvodina is treated specifically. It goes 0.51%, but it goes 0.51% on the same criteria, as is calculated for all other budget users, who are represented here. So, salaries for those who are employed in the Autonomous Region, according to the exact same criteria, with the same elements, material costs by the same elements and programming, what they finance, which is primarily financing the issue of sheets and helping to inform in Vojvodina, given the miles and number of nationalities there, that this is particularly supported by the additional resources of the Republic, these are the main holders of spending funds, which are planned according to a very realistic assessment. How planned and the funds for the administration, which is called the district, and whether five are given here, and seven there, depends on how large the county is administratively large, how many workers are employed, what material costs it carries, which number of people there should be financed and their material costs. There was absolutely no discrimination, and the budget doesn't contain them. I would agree with Mr. Veselinov that it would be good if the agrarian budget were ten times bigger than this, but I just don't have the answer to the other question -- the real source of resources to secure it, and now, as an example -- we've given a lot of money to the police, so that's why the agricultural budget is small. It's a very dangerous thesis. I just have to say, the truth is, the rise in funds to the police this year is below the average growth of funds in the Republic's budget. So let Mr. Vesenov look at how much was in the police budget last year, how much in this year, and he'll see that the rate, or the budget, is 34.8%, and the funds for the police have a 28% rise. Therefore, there are absolute and savings made there, and we have neither the right nor the government's policy to bring such a state service, as the judiciary, education, into a situation of material poverty and lack of basic working conditions. The ministries have taken over the obligation of maximum rational availability of funds and savings. Whose interests are to trouble police work and likely create dissatisfaction with the people who are employed in the police can be clearly judged. I must say that in the past three years, the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia has played a key and bearing role in the Programme for the restructuring of the economy and in all programming activities, which have not been the subject of the discussion of this assembly, which involved major economic systems and overall activities, monitoring of programmes that have been resuscitated, providing crafts, and contributing to the overall development of the Republic. Minister Babovic said that part of the Fund for Development, and not a small part, went to agriculture. Over 277 million were invested in the development of agriculture, primarily in livestock farming. In addition, support programmes are supported, practically there is no larger enterprise in Serbia that has not received the support of the Development Fund for its reconstruction and restructuring programmes. There's the flag, the min, Gosha, etc. This Fund is a valuable fund that promotes this process of resuscitation of production and gives a better source for what budget tasks are - spending, realistically and realistically.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-12-21-0.u1905	He has the word National MP Dobrivoja Budimirovic. Let MP Disic Miodrag be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-12-21-0.u1906	Dear President, dear colleagues, adopting the 2000 budget, surely we must keep in mind the year that is leaving and the year that is coming. Surely none of us would have wished in 1999 for our country's criminal activity, but every normal and honest one would have wanted us to continue our work as it has been in recent months. The visionation of our president that, when the aggression began, immediately formed a directorate, gave what no one could expect from the guardians and understand, which is our indestructibility, our reality and our commitment to work and development. The government's reaction to the perseverance, consistency, work and overall reconstruction of the country, which was destroyed by the evil enemies on the side, but also spiritually by the midwives of Yugoslavia, gave us all a guarantee of our success in restoring and returning to normal life. She gave us what few expected, which is that we will remain whole and only by work and only by mutual appreciation to restore what the villains have destroyed. Surely the nights of those who care about this Serbia have stamped time, life and success for everything promised to the people to be restored. The government knew in space and time to work, to manage and to rule. It has shown the best solution that we can only resist and work and hold certain deadlines to restore everything that has been destroyed. The whole of Serbia is a major construction site, a large polygon of all of us, which, by sweat and denial, is being restored to ruin, and in the world the truth about us is ever more present. There are also those blind people who don't see our truth, who demean it all, who mourn our perseverance, who kiss the hands of some grandmothers around the world, who want some change. What kind of people are these? Do those who boast that some of us no longer have the right to leave the country, and those who wrote lists that we humans can't do that, talk about some democracy. We are left here and our generations in the amanet that we have owed this country, that we are uncivilized and that we cannot cross our borders because they see another democracy. Do those who have spent wicked days of aggression in Montenegro or abroad give us a sermon on how to behave? Do they not know, in this land, that they have not sewn a stake, that they resent those who create, and who, on days and nights, and in good weather and in bad weather, restore this land? Do those who got money from the boss to tear down see that we're really building and that we did what we promised? Do those who have been ordered by the bosses to tear down all of Serbia and want to move us to The Hague, an enormous number, think that the people will be with them and that the people will believe them? Did they, who began to walk and give deadlines when we left, mention, the great lady, the little lady, and know not all that are feasting, and have fallen apart, and have not gone anywhere, think that the people will be with them? Or those who, when they didn't do anything, went to Grandma's for advice, where they asked for a little money to give Grandma, and Grandpa's cold sensed they didn't do anything but give her a kiss, came back empty bags. There, that's them. That's why today's adoption budget should be accepted, because the government has best combined our reality and possibilities. She was flexible, because all the remarks we made on Friday, by 19 of the presidents of the municipalities, who discussed, she had installed in 44 amendments and, as far as she could, she met. A large number of amendments have been adopted and incorporated into the budget law. It's left space for municipalities to provide some of the funds for their budgets, because now we're not in a position to ask the government alone. We must show how capable and flexible any of us are. But some cities, which are getting a little bit, specifically speaking for Belgrade, where we've essentially been spending a lot of money and giving, are now looking for an increase in prices or through any kind of vision that only more is taken from the state, show their incompetence, and how much they, who have promised the people hills and valleys, have just managed to deceive that people. You remember, for example, last year and last year, when 816 buses didn't come out but 800 buses, the whole city's transport was on strike. Where are they now promised buses and where is this transport and better comfort for those people and workers? It is a good thing that this 1999 momentum in the second half of the walk continues to be transferred in 2000. The first recovery phase is over, the second one is in progress, but I want us to have at least ten more stages like this next year and finally this momentum never stops. In the tax system, the government tried, as much as it could, to bring tax policy down to the ground and try to make it possible for the discharge to finally begin. This is from indicators that there is a 100% increase in industry, and other ministries show how much work increases for the last six months, to finally go and live from work and work. Improving the material position of education, student and student standards is certainly one of the obligations, respecting this budget, which the government has proposed, we must improve the situation in these spheres. It is good that the government has made it possible for everyone to work for themselves and for the state now. It's a good thing the government's been flexible so far, we could always open her door. If there are any objections here, the government is here, and we'll probably find a solution in agreement with them by now and intervene somewhere, if necessary. That's why I think this budget should be adopted, because of the ten years I've been in this assembly, this is the only budget that's best. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_1999-12-21-0.u1907	The People's Messenger Disic Miodrag has the word, and let the People's Messenger Zivko Selaković be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-12-21-0.u1908	Mr. President, respected members of the government, fellow MPs, I have no intention of defending the budget or this package of tax laws, and I have no intention of being an analyst of certain balance positions, both in income and on the bulky side of the budget. The budget will receive its approval during the financial year, whether certain balance positions have been left at the right place. On the other hand, as MPs who received the government's legislative proposals, or all those in the O.R., or directors or indirectly through committees participated practically in the business of getting to the final proposal of this law, we have had the opportunity to participate and to contribute to our proposals, to the advice that these legal projects be as the Government has proposed. The analysis of the budget items should deal with the opposition in this assembly. The opposition parties that fortunately we need them to be, constructive, they should deal with the problem, whether certain balance positions are good or should be changed. But unfortunately, I say unfortunately because every serious government wants to have a good opposition, they don't care about the Serbian budget, so they probably don't care about the Serbian people or the Serbian state. It is easier for them to take the burden of responsibility off their shoulders and walk the world, to beg for what tank fuel, to seek support for coming to power, because they obviously believe that tomorrow if they were to deal with this job, they would not have these problems, where to find the money and how to distribute the right and the money. But that's the problem with these political parties. We here, in this assembly, need, however, because of the importance of matter, because the law on the Republic of Serbia's budget is the highest and most significant act in the domain of economic and fiscal policy, an act which is the basis for next year and for which the public should be told what it represents and what the basis of the 1999 budget is. It should be repeated first and foremost, what the Government of National Unity intended in 1999 and what its basic economic policies were. It is clear that all the objectives of the economic policy of the Government of National Unity are in line with the federal government and the National Bank of Yugoslavia and that it is the basis for the transfer of this development momentum after the NATO Pact's aggression in the coming year. So, rebuilding the country is the cornerstone of economic policy. Furthermore, the development of the market and restructuring of the economy, the continuation of the start-up, serious reforms and liberalisation that this government has launched this year and the security of the economic and social security of citizens in the situation in which Serbian citizens live today. One more thing is that the key element of economic policy is to achieve social goals next year. First of all, the objectives of social protection, the protection of families with the lowest incomes, the regular payment of pensions and health benefits and education. All of these are elements of economic policy, in which the basic leverage is, so also stabilisation and development, is the budget that we bring, the budget that is restrictive this year, which aims to cover all public expenditures, but from real sources. In addition to the draft budget law, this package of tax laws should serve him as support. When I mentioned tax laws, I wanted to take the opportunity to say today that Ambassador Marijan Risticevic told the truth about this pay phone. He told a lie in terms of saying that the government of national unity had repeatedly intervened over the year and only changed the scissors for cutting taxpayers' hairs. It's just not true. You know that, this is the third time we've adopted a package of tax laws, the truth in that first package we've done certain attacks on taxpayers, but with the intention of discharging the tax burden, we're going in the direction that whoever has more and yes, but you know that we did it with a basic intention, that these funds be allocated to a special account of the reconciliation of these social benefits. At the previous session of the Assembly and today, we adopted a package of tax laws that make for the full discharge of taxpayers. Mr. Risticevic said all these and these tax laws were signed by Dr. Vojislav Seselj. Dr Vojislav Seselj, by nature of things, as Deputy Prime Minister and as chairman of the government's Committee on Business and Finance, signs all the laws in the area of economy and finance, and here is the draft budget law. What was the aim of Mr Risticevic, to tell the public of Serbia and the Serbian people that the reason for the entry of the Serbian Radical Party into the government of national unity was precisely that we were in charge of cutting taxpayers in the government of national unity. No, Mr. Risticevic, that's true, the SRS has entered the Government of the People's Unity for one single reason, to take on the burden of responsibility and the burden of defending the state and this people. The Serbian Radical Party has never run away from problems all these years of its existence. Where the problems were, where the Serb people were defended, wherever they were threatened, the Serbian Radical Party, the coalition party at the time, could only do so, as an opposition party, to lead the defence of the country and the people. These were, Mr. Risticevic, the reasons why the Serbian Radical Party is still in the Government of National Unity today and why it will remain in that government as long as it is able to help this people endure and overcome all the problems we have had. As far as the budget is concerned, we must say because of the general public, given that this matter is always dry and few citizens of Serbia know what the budget is, it is always thought that it is just a collection of funds for consumption and waste. Therefore, on the one hand, the budget, if I may say so, is a wish list, not a wish list, but a list of the needs of the budget users and, on the other hand, an opportunity to collect revenue for the reconciliation of all these obligations. It is clear that this type of policy, based on the principle of keeping public spending below 50% of the social product, means that 49.5% of this level, which is necessary for all public expenditures to be reduced to the lowest possible level, i.e. the next objective of this budget to continue through restrictive spending and avoidance of budget rebalancing, which we did not have for the previous year, and hopefully we will not have it for this year. It is clear that on one side of the request, the users of the budget were much more important than what is possible for the other party to pick up and see that these requests from the budget users were about 44 billion. However, it was taken into account that this proposed allocation, for individual purposes and for users, provides only the most necessary conditions, i.e. the means to perform those functions, both in the field of social protection, public services and other functions providing the budget. I have no intention of analyzing the budget, but I have an obligation to say just one part of the expenditure side of the budget, and that's, in terms of expenditures 1, a concept called special purposes. He can, with this definition, cause suspicion that special funds are being allocated and that someone can secretly spend those funds. Namely, the concept of specific purposes, where spending parties cannot be explained in detail, what they mean, and when the cost side of the budget is seen, they are even bigger in individual sections and than material costs. It has to be said that these are assets that are consistent with Article 86. The Law on State Administration provides for the purposes set out in specific laws in certain areas, certain needs for the work of the state authorities and I say, for the sake of the public, it should be stated what this part refers to. The Serbian Radical Party, as a member of the Government of National Unity, its ministers and MPs, through the work of the Committee, who discussed this matter, clearly supported this concept of the Government of National Unity, this way of harvesting and this kind of proposal to distribute budget funds, whose confirmation, whether the balance positions were good or not, will be seen during the financial year and we, as MPs of the Serbian Radical Party, will vote for this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-12-21-0.u1909	National MP Marjan Rističević - replica.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-12-21-0.u1910	In my performance, I said that amendments to the tax laws were made four times and that all these amendments and additions were signed by Mr. Deputy Prime Minister Vojislav Seselj. I didn't say he didn't do it authorized, I had no doubt he was authorized to sign those laws. I just realized that all these tax laws were signed by Mr. Vojislav Seselj. So, I didn't say anything wrong. If it's bad that I said that we had four amendments and amendments to the tax laws during the year, at the government's request, and we didn't discuss our proposals once, for example. We have not discussed the proposal of the Vojvodina Coalition, on the proposal for a law on the suspension of the tax on electric numbers. If, gentlemen of the Radicals, you really want to free the people of some of the burdens, support our proposal to lift taxis on an electric number, which we submitted in February. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-12-21-0.u1911	National MP Miodrag Disic - reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-12-21-0.u1912	Marjan Risticevic forgot, for two hours, what he said. He literally said that the government changed scissors four or five times for cutting taxpayers, and that it was all signed by Mr Vojislav Seselj. So, Risticevic, in these two hours, I don't know where you were when you forgot everything.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-12-21-0.u1913	There is a word from MP Zivko Selaković - The Peasant Party and the United Pension Party, and let MP Dusica Karabenc be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-12-21-0.u1914	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, today we have a very delicate and responsible task when we adopt the 2000 budget. Regardless of party belongings, we'd have to deal with a little bit and look at the overall problem, the situation, the situation in which we live, and then look a little bit more seriously at this budget. Given what hit us this year by NATO's aggressor, and given the year that's coming, which we're going to meet all, I think the question of the budget is one key question, how we're going to live next year. As large as the budget is large, large, it is always small and there would always be objections - which is not a larger budget, why it is no longer allocated for agriculture, for culture, for sport, etc. Looking at real income, how to come and make those revenues, then it's very difficult to make a distribution of such revenues. The Government's proposal for today's session, for the budget ahead of us, I think it's quite in place, and I'm particularly glad that this is all made on the basis of the real revenues that can be realised. We think that, let's say, the funds for social programmes are always behind it, because I represent those two coalitions -- Serbia's Peasant Party and the Pension Party of Serbia -- those funds are always small, but now I am particularly pleased by Minister Milačić when he said there is a chance that there is an increase from budget reserves during the year, especially for this item -- means to encourage development, or, for combat issues. As for the part that regulates the Agrarian budget, I can say that at the Council of the Coalition of our two parties, which I represent, we have considered and we are very pleased, especially that, compared to last year's budget, we are increasing by more than 30%. I say and repeat, having all other needs, and peasants, and pensioners, and for the development of education, and for the development of health care, education, sports, etc., I can be satisfied and not personally myself, but on behalf of our two parties, which is this amount of 1,370,000,000 dinars planned for the development of agrarians. I also have to pass on to you the position of our coalition council, because there was manipulation in the press, that an enormously large item, in general, for the work of the police. I now convey to you the following -- NATO's envoys, but domestic productions, which claim to be an enormously large item for police work, I ask them the next question, that first they of their employers tell us what their budgets are for the police, the CIA, etc., so when they bring down 100,000 marks on their budgets, I think we'll end the police then, because they won't touch us anymore. Therefore, the funds provided for the development of internal affairs, i.e. for the police, should remain for us, given the situation these NATO traitors have brought us. Finally, to say that in front of the Coalition of the Peasant Party of Serbia and the United Pension Party, we support, so I will vote, the 2000 budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-12-21-0.u1915	There's a word from the People's Parliament of the Souls of Karabench.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-12-21-0.u1916	Dear Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, I must tell you that I disagree with a colleague who spoke earlier and I will return... No, no, with Mr. Selakovic. [[Laughter]] Let me say what I want. These days, RTS informs citizens through its informative emissions that an accent in the Republic of Serbia's budget has been put on social programmes. The same thing the Proposer himself says in his explanation of the budget balance on page 2. According to the items shown in the budget, we see that Serbia's MUP has become a socially endangered category, as it carries the lion's share of funds and it is the only one that increases expenditure by about 35% and salary growth by about 10.5%. That's how we see it on page 6. Budgetary proposal, Division 5, MUP, item 6 billion 539 million 328,000 dinars of the total budget of 28.9 billion. Of those 6.5 billion, 4 billion 832 million 350,000 were planned only for wages. So, 17% of the budget is for salaries only in the MUP. All of faith. Also, the Ministry of Information provides 56 million 483,000 dinars of which as much as 51 million 726,000 per so-called. specific purposes. What are the purposes of this ministry's work so far to conclude. You can really see where the accent was put. In order not to be misunderstood, I want to say that both the Ministry and the Ministry of Information should have regular salaries. But also all employees in this country should have regular salaries, because it's the only way to raise funds for this budget. If our companies do what they've been doing over the past year, half the funds won't come into the budget. In addition to this, your report also states that the 1999 budget for the first 10 months was completed with only 52.1%. And the 2000 budget is still planned with a growth of 35% compared to the total budget balance for 1999. If we add that the Ministry of Information and the Ministry of Information will get their share, as planned by the budget, we can assume what will remain for the other budget users. I think he's quite unseriously planned. Finally, social protection funds, without children's supplements, account for only 3% of the budget or 876 million, which is an inappropriate situation in Serbia. Even if we analyze the entire government's social programme, in an explanation that the budgetor gave himself, we come up with the following facts. The enforcement of laws in the field of social protection, social care for children, and combat disability protection covers a total of millions of 243.549 users. To settle commitments in 2000, funds of 3,744.800 are provided, which when divided into the number of users and the number of months is that on average each user gets 251 dinar per month. If it is known that these receipts are one year late or children's allowances were last paid in December 1997, then there is no need to waste words on a programme like this, because this population category is exactly the shallowness of this government that puts it in place. It is clear that the government also meant autonomous provinces, I should repeat this because RTS covers the tone as usual, so that Vojvodina from which food, oil, gas, trafo stations are taken, and everything else you need gets 0.51%, and if that same budget is charged with more than 40%. I ask if that's why MPs from the only opposition parliamentary duchy coalition, the "Vojvodina" coalition, are taking off their tone during television broadcasts, in a more recent time turning cameras towards the hall so they can't even see themselves when they point to problems in Vojvodina, and growing growing dissatisfaction. This kind of policy towards Vojvodina will return to you as a boomerang. I would also like to say that the Autonomous Region budget for Kosovo and Metohija has been specifically planned. Given the situation in Kosovo and the influence of the government that has in Kosovo, both the Kosovo Serbs and the Albanians and Mr. Kushner, I see these funds as a beautiful black government fund that can leak without anyone knowing where.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-12-21-0.u1917	He has the word Marijan Risticevic, a National MP.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-12-21-0.u1918	I'm the funniest? [[Laughter, comments from the gym are not heard.]] Look at you in the mirror. Maybe there's someone more funny. Here, someone from the Vojvodina Coalition commends the government. I'll commend the government. The draft budget for 2000 was technically professionally done and processed, so it was easier for me to look for possible shortcomings because of transparency. Total revenues on page 2 have been allocated by species and have been collected totalling 28.9 billion dinars. We at the Vojvodina Coalition are carefully reading what is being delivered to us, it wasn't hard for us to add up a lot of digits, and when we add up, we get a sum of 52.16 billion. The conclusion is clear. The government has hidden some of the revenue of 23.2 billion dinars and we will not again know for what purpose that money will be used, who will use it, who will share it. The government that hides... I'm talking about page 2, collect these revenues, this is your material, Mr. Seselj, you signed this, collect these revenues, this column collect... And tell me what amount you'll get. The government that hides from MPs 24 billion cannot be considered an honest government. Since Mr. Seselj signed this draft budget, I can conclude he can't count. I suggest that he be bought out of the budget and used one founding computer as a manual aid. We at the Vojvodina Coalition know that you will try to move half of the budget planned from Vojvodina. The Duke's rich. It lives in poor people who work hard and hard. A strange sentence - Vojvodina is rich, living in it are poor people who work hard and hard. Strange, but true. For that reason, we duchess became sensitive to someone else's hand in our pocket. Between 22% and 23% of the budget or almost a quarter of the funds are projected for the MUP, 6.5 billion dinars, and I can bet that this amount will also be breached. For that money, you could buy 6,000,000 tons of wheat, 3 years old or 17,000,000 tons of sugar tail. A lot of big money stands out for the MUP, and the property and physical security of citizens is nothing. Patrols in Vojvodina, despite their large resources, drive car crashes or walk. But that's why when we come to power in Vovjodina, and we'll come soon, drive fast cars, have even better wages, and most importantly they won't have to guard the thieves because they'll have the authority to arrest them. Interestingly, the Ministry of Transport and the connections that it grows into the Ministry of Finess, with huge holes on the road and telephone connections that are such a quality to make the finder of the phone alive and that it can hear it safely ashamed of his invention he pulled out of use. Nearly a total of 350,000, envisioned for the Ministry of Transport, the railways gave way. The miracle is even greater when it is known that the same state has been empowering the railways to kill 3% of the total sales tax in their favour for years, which is at an annual level of three billion dinar sums. They no longer deal with the transport of passengers and goods, but charge taxes. You've given the right to be a state in the country, to collect an annual tax of 3 billion, to help them with 350 million from the budget, and from the high-speed railroads for the loved one, no sign of a voice. I proposed a law to transfer those 3% of taxes to the pension disability insurance of farmers, who carried the state on their backs for years, filling state budgets. And so, in fact, they're filling the railroad budget, which, when they're exempt from military and military travel, they almost didn't drive. This is your famous social justice. That's why you refused to discuss our proposal to relocate those funds to the peasants. The agriculture ministry had 1.4 billion dinars, twice as much revenue as the railroad and five times as much as the MUP. Agriculture in impossible conditions is exporting half a billion marks, which is 10 billion dinars, and the railroad is long ripe for waste. He can only export rust and corrosion off the rails. So much for your profitable projects. To avoid confusion for 1.4 billion new dinars and almost all government will not divide the robbed peasants, while they will be divided into processors given to the industry. The peasants are not given anything, they're just being kidnapped for years. The Ministry of Environmental Protection received half a percent of the budget. This country hasn't protected a man in a long time, let alone its environment. Serbs outside Serbia, and more and more, have received the proposal from Serbs from Serbia, and such are becoming less and less, if Dayton and similar agreements are not counted as profits, they have received only the ministry and nothing more. Those who advocate large Serbia in Knin, not regretting ammunition to retain power in Serbia, are now giving nothing to Serbs outside Serbia. The Autonomous Region of Kosovo belongs to 80 million dinars, Vojvodina 148. Of these funds intended for the Autonomous Region, Kosovo and Metohija do not benefit. The Autonomous District Assembly of Kosovo does not exist anywhere except in the budget. I ask you, who will they give these funds to sooner, Thaci or Vladika Artemis? I am in favour of the transfer of funds to the Serbian National Council. Knowing some of you, I'm afraid you'll give Thaci. The funds for the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina are half a percent. Of the 200 dinars paid in Vojvodina, one returns for the work of the Autonomous Region, I assume you've threatened. And finally, I'm going to wait for an answer to the question that I asked last time, why only every other dinar collected from the tax is in the budget, where it disappeared from this revenue of 23.2 billion dinars. That's huge money, that's 20 million tons of wheat. It's an eight-year-old, who'll disappear, we won't know what kind of thieving is planned. Mr. Seselj, you're always waving some papers that you signed, so I hope you'll explain it, whether it's secret divisions, or whether it's money to carry or take away in extreme need.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-12-21-0.u1919	He has the word Deputy Prime Minister, Dr Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-12-21-0.u1920	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this composition of the National Assembly was in great pain when the "Vojvodina" Coalition fell apart to which side we would agree, to assess where that majority wing was. We estimated that it was the wing of the followers of Slavko Veselinov, led by his son Dragan, as his father once made lists of people from Belgrade and the then Serbian rope, the terrible Serbia to cross over to Vojvodina, so he would now be acquittal to Vojvodina. But that wing, unfortunately, was not a smarter wing. It's different from Chank for Chanak's never read these materials. He was going out for a pay phone, and he wasn't talking about the materials, he was banging it out of his head, and it used to be funny. These, followers of Slavko Veselinov, act to read, and not all the letters are learned. They didn't learn math, and then they go out for a pay phone and they talk nonsense. Thus, one of them, Marijan Risticevic, collected both the budgetary positions and the interstellar names of members and figures, and so on and today's date. Then he's got some kind of non-stop number and he's asking us to explain that number to him. How do we explain it to him or go with Dragan Veselinov to get drunk in the break, and then maybe we can explain. Only a drunk man can explain this. When a man is sober, he can't conduct a dialogue. This year we had a whole package of very serious tax laws. Why do we change these laws more often and keep reducing tax rates? It's not our goal, it's how we're looking for another source of income, so we're reducing tax rates, excise rates, etc. And we bring them to an acceptable level, a single fund that involves liberalising basic economic flows. We have had frequent changes in tax laws, but they have always been in several members and it has always been a reduction in tax rates throughout this year and in this National Assembly and in the Federal Assembly. I was proud, as Prime Minister Resolute Vice President, to sign this, referring to the National Assembly, which the entire government has been preparing in a very professional way, which proves that this government is capable. I'll give you a few other facts that better confirm that. The inflation rate for this year is going to be about 50%, one percent or two below, so much inflation was in last year, and that's a great success of this government, because we had three months of war, three months of many factories didn't work and many factories were destroyed in the war. It's a real success. And the second success of this government is that it has managed to come out with this restrictive budget before the National Assembly. The budget is 30%, 34.8% nominally higher than this year. When you compare with this 50% inflation rate, you'll see it's actually smaller. Realistically, every beneficiary of the budget has less polarised money for next year. You're making a fuss about this pay phone about how the duchess are taking money. No one gets paid, all the money the state collects through taxes and contributions is immediately spent through certain budget items, a certain type of budget beneficiaries. Whether that money will concentrate in Belgrade or Novi Sad, it doesn't matter. The key drinking is who are the people in power who decide to allocate funds, and Serbia in its history has never had a more disciplined and thriftful government than this current government. You who are used to it, the rest of your fathers, to kidnap, to rob, to crush Serbian lands, now envy them. While they were current, while they ruled, they could kidnap to the will, now you have no opportunity, count if the degree of autonomy increases, and if the Vojvodina splits, then you too will be able to sit in their former armchairs. You're wrong, you wouldn't have any of it, and if it did, some other parties would win the election, and you poor thing you get, you get confused. You won with some wrong poster of the Socialist Party, where it said - the Vojvodina I love, so your voters voted out of confusion for you, connecting your people coalition with that poster and nothing else. On the other hand, I know what's bothering you. Here, the Risticevic, who steals other people's teeth and comes out before the National Assembly, suspects the government will pass Thaci's money on to Kosovo. You are inclined to enter alliances and coalitions with Serbian enemies, not us. Well, it's no accident that you and Sulejman Ugljanin were yawning together recently, a few days ago, which they didn't invite you to Berlin either. You in this congregation want to prove to those who won't, because you got rid of them Chanka, and Chanak prefers it, that you deserve to be invited to Stamboll, to Bosphorus, to invite you to Berlin, to share a little charity, to give you a chance to have some bloody lunch there, too. I know, Mr. Vesenov, who, by his looks and attitude, is trying to imitate Vuk Draskovic, is convinced that he would love the hand of Madeline Albright much better than Vuk Draskovic did. Well, Mr. Vesenov, you may also have a chance to kiss someone's hand, even if the hand of Madeline Albright, may be more honored to show up, since you and Vuk Draskovic are competing to be the main Serbian Monica Levinski, to jump in on Bill Clinton once, there's something to kiss with, but don't make fun of us here.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-12-21-0.u1921	People's MP Veselinov, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-12-21-0.u1922	I don't want any of you to mention your parents. I assume you're all proud of your blood, of your origin, of the cemetery of your ancestors. And I'm proud of my parents, no matter what anyone thinks of them. I don't want to mention Mr. Seselj's parents, whether his father is alive, I don't know if his mother is alive, I don't know. The worst thing is to mention other parents, especially when they passed away. My father wasn't a criminal, my father wasn't a traitor, he was a revolutionary, he was a partisan, he was a bearer of medals. I don't interfere with his ideology, his political life has been and gone. He had the right to his opinion, to his literature, to his constitution, as we do today. You mention that someone among us is indecipherable. I could ask you with ease - aren't you the most invaluable among us? Ten years ago, you secretly swam over Drina at night, entered Serbia, moved to Vojvodina, for years you haven't paid a residence tax. Someone mistakenly gave you citizenship, and after ten years you thought you could be president of Serbia. In which country is it possible, only if there aren't enough immature people in it, that someone who came yesterday wasn't born, still wants to rule others? You're the only one who did this to him. And as for the traitor, wasn't it you who no longer had Serbs in Knin, no longer in Bani, no in Kordun, no in Lika, who signed Vens-Oven's plans, who signed Dayton, who signed the capitulation on Cosmet? You, your government and your politics. If anyone loved Mrs. Albright's hand, there are those who love it, usually women kiss their hands to welcome something in return, those who did, they expected something and didn't get it, but you kissed all that click and lap, and you washed her legs, because you signed agreements that destroyed the Serbian people and we lost our territories. And if anyone's a traitor, it's you, not the Duke's Coalition.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-12-21-0.u1923	Deputy Prime Minister Vojislav Seselj, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-12-21-0.u1924	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am proud to repeat at the speaker of this National Assembly that I was born in the heart of Serbia, in Serbian Sarajevo. I may have been secretly swimming Drina, perhaps secretly settled in Vojvodina, according to Vesenov, but in any case, in the elections in Vojvodina I always get ten, fifteen, twenty times more votes than Dragan Vesenov and the followers of Slavko Vesenov. Many people can be proud of their fathers and mothers, and other ancestors, and relatives, but there are some people who cannot possibly be proud of their fathers and other ancestors. Not one whose father divided and torn up the Serbian people and served Serbian enemies to be proud of his father, and when he declared it, he was actually lying. He is there ontologically simply predetermined to go astray, because every step towards the truth means a blow to what his father tried to create, and we know what a pain it was in the late 1980s to demonstrate what Slavko Vesenov is, and what a company, Bosko Krunic and others, Žika Berisavljevic etc. What they did on the Serb people's coat of arms, to destroy Serbia, to definitely tear up Serbs, to divide the Serbs so that they don't have any left. We know who our enemies are, and it's easy for us in principle with our enemies, but that evil domestic, betrayal in our ranks, when it appears, it's the most dangerous thing to do, and it needs to be resisted by all means. We did not lose Serbia's Krajina, at least temporarily, or parts of Republika Srpska, or welcome to occupy the Republic of Serbia and Kosovo and Metohija because we wanted to, we were struggling, the truth someone more, someone less, but the Serbian people certainly didn't want to, or wanted what happened. But traitors in Serb ranks, various separatists, followers of American ideology, the new world order, those who receive money from the NATO Pact, the NATO Pact parties in Serbia wanted, they celebrated every defeat of the Serb people and every, at least temporary triumph of Serb enemies led by the US and NATO pact.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-12-21-0.u1925	Thank you. I'm concluding a joint principled search. The National Assembly will vote individually on all draft laws, on which a joint principled search has been carried out, on the principle of voting, searching in particular and voting in general. We are crossing the 1st point of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2000. YOU have received the bill of law, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments, submitted on the bill by the MPs Dobrivoja Budimirovic, Bojana Ristic and Mr Tihomir Marjanovic, as well as the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the amendments submitted. You have received a report from the Finance Committee, which has adopted the bill in principle and in particular and proposes to the National Assembly to adopt it. You heard the exposés of Prime Minister Mirko Marjanovic. As the principled review of this bill was carried out in the context of a joint principled search, we move to a decision on the draft law on the Republic of Serbia's 2000 budget, in principle, as well as on the exposure of Prime Minister Mirko Marjanovic. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We've got quorum. I put on the vote by Prime Minister Mirko Marjanovic's exhibition and the draft budget law of the Republic of Serbia for 2000 in principle. For 165 for, against two, no one abstained, two MPs voted, 169 present in the O.R. I find that the National Assembly accepted the exposés of Prime Minister Mirko Marjanovic and the draft law on the Republic of Serbia's 2000 budget in principle. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. The 9th Amendment was submitted to article 8 by MP Bojana Ristic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For two, against 169 abstentions, 172 MPs are present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On article 8, the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Bojana Ristic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For two, against 173 abstentions, a total of 175 MPs are present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On page 8, 17th, the 108th amendment was submitted by MP Bojana Ristic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For two, against 170 abstentions, no one voted two, a total of 174 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Bojana Ristic to article 8 of the 18th division. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. No one voted in favour of, against 168, a abstentioned no one, voted five, a total of 173 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Bojana Ristic to article 8 of Section 20 of the 132nd Amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. One vote against 171, the abstentioned no one voted three, a total of 175 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Mr Tihomir Marjanovic to the 8th division of the 20th positions of 133th and 135th. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Three, against 166, were voted by a abstention of five, a total of 174 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th division of the 20th position of the 134th amendment was submitted by MP Bojana Ristic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. One vote against 175 abstentions was not voted by one, a total of 177 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Dobrivoja Budimirovic to the 8th division of 20 positions 136, 137 and 138. He's giving up. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Bojana Ristic to article 8 of the 21st Section. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Three, against 164 abstentions, had not voted five, a total of 172 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 8, the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Bojana Ristic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Three, against 167 abstentions, had not voted five, a total of 175 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 8th of the 24th Amendment, MP Bojana Ristic submitted. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Three, against 169 abstentions, had not voted four, a total of 176 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 8, the 25th Amendment was submitted by MP Bojana Ristic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Three, against 165, abstentions, no one voted five, a total of 173 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Anyone else want to talk about the bill in particular? He doesn't want to. ( ) Since no one is answering for a word, I conclude a search of the bill in particular. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I am voting on the draft budget law of the Republic of Serbia for 2000 as a whole. The vote was 173, against four, no one abstentioned, all voted, a total of 177 present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the draft budget bill for the Republic of Serbia for 2000, mostly with votes. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: - Proposal for a DECISION ON BUDGET OF THE AUTONOMAL SUPPORT OF COS AND METOCHY FOR 2000. [[Applause]] YOU have received a proposal for a decision, which was made by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received a report from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, which proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the draft decision. I'm opening a unique search. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? He doesn't want to. Do any of the MPs want a word? He doesn't want to. Since no one's answering for a word, I'm closing the search. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I put to the vote the draft decision on the Kosovo and Metohija Autonomous Area budget for 2000. Please press the corresponding key. The vote was 172, against three, no abstention, three did not vote, a total of 178 present. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft decision on the Autonomous Region of Kosovo and Metohija's 2000 budget. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: - PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON USE OF AGRICULTUREAL BUDGET IN 2000. YOU have received the bill of law, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received reports from the Committee on Agriculture and the Legislative Committee, which propose to the National Assembly to adopt the bill. Since the principled Search on the proposal for this law has been carried out in the context of a joint principled search, we move on to a rule of law in principle. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I put the draft law on the use of the Agrarian budget in 2000 in principle. The vote was 170, against no one, no one abstention, five voted, a total of 175 present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. Does anyone want to talk about the bill in particular? He doesn't want to. ( ) Since no one is answering for a word, I conclude a search of the bill in particular. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I put the draft law on the use of the Agrarian budget in 2000, as a whole. The vote was 169 against no one, no one abstentioned, five voted, a total of 174 present. I find that the National Assembly adopted most of the votes the draft law on the use of meetings of the Agricultural Budget in 2000. We move to the 4th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on the participation of municipalities and cities in the tax on transport and the scope of funds for the performance of public and city affairs in 2000. YOU have received the bill of law, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Jožef Kasa, Mihalj Secei and Istvan Išpanovic; Dobrivoje Budimirović; Tihomir Marjanović; Veroljub Stevanović and Milija Sekulić; Bojana Ristic; Življe Jovanovic; Bojan Kekić; Aleksandar Milutinović; Zvonimir Budic; Jožef Kasa; Mile Jovičić, Mihalj Secei, Istvan Išpanovic and Anatal Biači; Zoran Jovanovic and Stanko Starčević; Stevan Vrbski; Milan Nikitović; Milan Miković; Ramadan Ameti; Ljubomir Pešlj; Živanko Radovan and Milan Budimir. You have received amendments from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Government's opinion on amendments to the MPs. You have received a report from the Committee on Finance, which proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the bill in principle and in particular and the report of the Legislative Committee, which adopted the bill. Since the principled examination of this bill has been carried out in the context of a joint principled search, we move to a decision on the draft law in principle. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the bill to the vote in principle. The vote was 171 against one, no one abstentioned, one did not vote, a total of 173 present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. Article 2 The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 2 of the amendment, with the correction of this amendment, which was presented by a representative of the government at the meeting of the Finance Committee. Since the amendment of the Government, with correction, has been adopted by the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Article 3 The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 3 of the amendment, with the correction of this amendment, which was presented by a representative of the government at the meeting of the Finance Committee. Since the amendment of the Government, with correction, has been adopted by the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Article 2 On Article 2 b. of the 36th Amendment, MP Ljubomir Pesalj submitted. Given that the amendment of the Government to Article 2 which has become an integral part of the bill proposal, the amendment of Parliamentarian Ljubomir Pesalj has been partially accepted, I ask the MP whether it remains with its amendment or accepts the solutions contained in the amendment of the Government? He's giving up. ) At point 2 b. of point 122 of the amendment, MP Bojan Kekić submitted. He's giving up. ) Article 2 and Article 3. The amendments related to each other to point 1 of point 2 of point 1 of point 1 and to point 1 of point 3 of point 1 of point 1 were submitted by MP Aleksandar Milutinovic. Given that the amendments made by the Government to Articles 2 and 3 that have become an integral part of the bill proposal, the amendments of MP Alexander Milutinovic have been partially accepted, I ask the MP whether it remains with its amendments or accepts the solution contained in the amendments to the Government? He's not present. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. No one voted in favour of, 163 against, admirable no one, eight voted, a total of 171. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. The amendments interrelated to Article 2(2)(a) and point 2 of point 2 of point 2 of the Annex were submitted by MPs Veroljub Stevanović and Milija Sekulic. Are they there? No, they're not. ( ) Since the government has accepted in part, we must vote again. Since none of them are here, then they don't want a word. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their cards into the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. No one voted against 170, no abstentions, no one voted, a total of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted these amendments. The amendments interrelated to Article 2(a)(3) and to point 3(a) of point 3 of point 3 of the Annex were submitted by the MP Dr Zvonimir Budic. In view of the government's amendments to Articles 2 and 3, which have become an integral part of the bill's proposal, the amendments of MPs of the People's Parliament are partially accepted, and we are going to vote, as far as I can see. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their cards into the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. No one voted against 169 abstentions, no two votes, a total of 171 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted these amendments. The amendments related to each other to point 4 of point 2 of point 2 of point 4 and to point 4 of point 3 of point 4 of the Annex were submitted by the MP Dr Stevan Vrbaki. Is he here? No, it's not. ( ) Since the government has accepted in part, we must vote again. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their cards into the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. No one voted against 166 abstentions, not two, a total of 168 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted these amendments. The amendments interrelated to Article 2 b(21) and Article 3b(21) were submitted by MP Bojana Ristic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. ) I ask the MPs to put their cards in the MPs to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. No one voted against 162 abstentions, no five votes, a total of 168 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted these amendments. The amendments related to Article 2 b(34) and Article 3 b(33) were submitted by MP Bojana Ristic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. ) I ask the MPs to put their cards in the MPs to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. No one voted against 166 abstentions, not four, a total of 170 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted these amendments. The amendments interrelated to Article 2 b(5) and to point (b) of point (f) of point (f) of point (f) of point (f) of point (f) of Article 3 of point (f) of Article 50 were submitted by MP Živanko Radovanchev. He gave up the amendment. The amendments interrelated to Article 2 b(64) and Article 3b(54) were submitted by the MP of the People's Republic of Živija Jovanovic. He gave up the amendment. The amendments interrelated to Article 2 b(87) and Article 3 b(72) were submitted by MP Bojana Ristic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. ) I ask the MPs to put their cards in the MPs to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. No one voted against 163 abstentions, not three, a total of 166 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted these amendments. The amendments interrelated to Article 2 b(89) and Article 3 b(73) were submitted by MP Bojana Ristic. We must vote on the amendment, although the government has partly accepted, Bojana Ristic is not there, as far as I know. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their cards into the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. No one voted against 160 abstentions, no six votes, 166 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted these amendments. The amendments to Article 2 b.b., point 114 and point (b) of Article 3 of subpoint 94 were submitted by MP Milan Mikovic. Given that the government's amendments to Articles 2 and 3, which have become an integral part of the bill's proposal, are partly accepted by MP Milan Mikovic's amendments and Milan Mikovic is not there, is not worth asking if he accepts the solution. Since no one wants a word, we have to vote. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their cards into the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. No one voted against 162 abstentions, not three, a total of 166 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted these amendments. The amendments to Article 2 b.b., point 124 and point 102 of point 102 of Article 3 were submitted by Parliament to Ramadan Ameti. Given that the amendments made by the Government to Articles 2 and 3, which have become an integral part of the Bill's proposal, are partly accepted by the amendment of MP Ramadan Ameti, I ask the MP whether he remains with his amendments or accepts the solution contained in the amendments to the Government? Ramadan Ameti isn't here. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. ) I ask the MPs to put their cards in the MPs to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. No one voted against 159 abstentions, not eight, a total of 167 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted these amendments. The amendments interrelated to Article 2 b. subpoint 134 and to Article 3 b. subpoint 111 were submitted by the People's MP Dobrivoja Budimirovic. Thank you, Budimirovic. The amendments interrelated to Article 2 b. point 148 and to Article 3 b. point 124 were submitted by MPs Jožef Kasa, Mihalj Secei and Istvan Ispanovic. Given that the amendments made by the Government to Articles 2 and 3, which have become an integral part of the bill's proposal, have been partially accepted by the amendments of these MPs, I am asking the MPs whether they remain with their amendments or accept the solution contained in the amendments to the Government? Since they're not here, we have to vote. I ask the Members of Parliament to put their cards in the MPs to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. No one voted against - 159 abstentions - no, no four, 163 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly did not accept most of the votes of this amendment. The amendments interrelated to Article 2 b. subpoint 160 and to Article 3 b. subpoint 135 were submitted by MP Milan Nikitovic. Given that the amendments made by the Government to Articles 2 and 3, which have become an integral part of the bill's proposal, are partly accepted by the amendment of MP Milan Nikitovic, I ask the MPs whether it remains with its amendments or accepts the solution contained in the amendments to the Government? Since they're not here, we have to vote. I ask the Members of Parliament to put their cards in the MPs to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. No one voted against - 168 abstentions - no, no three, a total of 171 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly did not accept most of the votes of this amendment. We move on to Article 3 b.b. of the 24th Amendment by the MPs Jožef Kasa, Mile Jovičić, Mihalj Secei, Istvan Išpanovich and Antal Biaci. Given that the amendment of the Government to Article 3 which has become an integral part of the bill, the amendment of these MPs has been partially accepted, I am asking Members of Parliament whether they remain in their amendment or accept the solution contained in the amendment of the Government? Even though they're not here, we have to plead. I ask the Members of Parliament to put their cards in the MPs to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. No one voted against - 169 abstentions - no, no four, a total of 173 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly did not accept most of the votes of this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by National Envoy Tihomir Marjanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) I ask the MPs to put their cards in the MPs to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. No one voted against - 159 abstentions - no, no seven, a total of 166 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly did not accept most of the votes of this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Milan Budimir. At the meeting of the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Finance, the Government's representative did not accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? He's giving up. ) Does anyone want to talk about the bill in particular? He doesn't want to. ) Since no one is answering my word, I conclude a search of the bill in particular. I ask the Members of Parliament to put their cards in the MPs to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I am putting to the vote the draft law on the participation of municipalities and cities in sales tax and the scope of the funds for the operation of municipalities and cities in 2000 as a whole. The vote was 171, against - no one, with abstentions - no one, had voted one, a total of 172 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly adopted most of the votes a bill on the participation of municipalities and cities in sales tax and the scope of the funds for the operation of municipalities and cities in 2000. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Arrivals and Public Expenses You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, which have adopted the bill in principle and in particular. Since the principled review of this bill has been carried out in the context of a joint principled search, we are moving to a vote. I ask the Members of Parliament to put their cards in the MPs to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on public income and public expenditure in principle. The vote was 170, against -- no one, abstentioned -- no two, a total of 172 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill in principle by majority. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. Does anyone want to talk about the bill in particular? No, I don't. ( ) Since no one is answering for a word, I conclude a search of the bill in particular. I ask the Members of Parliament to put their cards in the MPs to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on public income and public expenditure in general. The vote was 172, against - no one, with abstentions - no one, had voted one, a total of 173 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft law amending the Law on Public Revenue and Public Expenses. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Change and Complementary of Tax Taxes on Entrepreneurship You have adopted a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments, submitted by MPs Joseph Kasa, Michalj Secei and Istvan Ispanovic on the bill, as well as the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on these amendments. You have received a report from the Committee on Finance, which proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the bill in principle and in particular and the report of the Legislative Committee, which adopted the bill. Since the principled examination of this bill has been carried out in the context of a joint principled search, we move to a decision on the draft law in principle. I ask the Members of Parliament to put their cards in the MPs to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I'm putting the bill to the vote in principle. The vote was 169 against - no one with abstentions, no one voted. The National Assembly unanimously adopted the bill in principle. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. The People's MPs Joseph Kasa, Michalj Secei and Istvan Ispanovich submitted to the 1st amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) I ask the MPs to put their cards in the MPs to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. One vote against - 165 abstentions - none, all voted, a total of 166 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted, most of the votes, this amendment. National MPs Joseph Kasa, Michalj Secei and Istvan Ispanovic submitted an amendment proposing a new article 1a. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. One, against 168 abstentions, was not voted by two, a total of 172 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Anyone else want to talk about the bill in particular? No, I don't. ( ) Since no one is answering for a word, I conclude a search of the bill, on details. Please place your cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I put the draft law amending and supplementing the corporate tax law in general. 167 votes against no one, with abstentions, voted two, a total of 169 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft law amending and supplementing the corporate tax law. We move to the 7th item of the agenda: the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Taxes on the Income of Citizens has been passed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments, submitted by MPs Miloja Mihailovic and the Finance Committee on the Bill of Law. You have received a report from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, which proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the bill. Since the principled examination of this bill has been carried out in the context of a joint principled search, we move to a decision on the draft law in principle. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the income tax of citizens in principle. There were 169 votes against no one, abstentioned, no one voted four, a total of 173 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. I'm opening an investigation into the draft law in particular. The Committee on Finance has submitted to Article 3 of Article 1 of the amendment. Having adopted this amendment at the meeting of the Finance Committee, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that the amendment of the Finance Committee has become an integral part of the draft law. The amendment was submitted to Article 3rd by MP Miloja Mihailovic and the Finance Committee. The amendment of the Finance Committee was agreed by the Proposer at the Committee's session, and the Legislative Committee considers that amendments by MP Milo Mihailovic and the Finance Committee are legally possible. The Financial Committee has made amends to the amendment agreed by the Proposer. The amendment to the Financial Committee made it identical with the amendment of MP Milo Mihailovic. Having agreed with the same amendments of the Finance Committee, with correction, and MP Milo Mihailovic, the Legislative Committee considers that amendments are legally possible, I find that identical amendments have become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Anyone else want to talk about the bill in particular? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on income tax for citizens in general. There were 169 votes against no one, abstentioned, not two, a total of 171 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income Tax. We move to the 8th item of the agenda: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLACES ON ACCISES AND ON TRADEs The draft law, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, was adopted. You have received amendments, submitted by MPs Joseph Kasa, Michalj Secei and Ispanovic and MP Dusan Naric, as well as the opinion of the Serbian government on these amendments. You have received a report from the Committee on Finance, which proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the draft law in principle and in particular the report of the Legislative Committee which adopted the bill. Since the principled examination of this bill has been carried out in the context of a joint principled search, we move to a decision on the draft law in principle. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Act on Excise and Tax on Transport, in principle. The vote was 164 against no one with abstentions, not three, a total of 167 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. The People's MPs Joseph Kasa, Michalj Secei and Istvan Ispanovich submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. ) I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units to determine the quorum. We've got quorum. I put the amendments to the vote. The vote was voted by one MP, 164 against, no one abstention, one MP, 166 present in the hall. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dusan Naric has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 7a be added after article 7. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. ) I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units to determine the quorum. We've got quorum. I put the amendments to the vote. No one voted for, 169 against, no one abstention, everyone voted, 169 present in the O.R. I find the National Assembly unanimously rejected this amendment. Does anyone want to talk about the bill in particular? He doesn't want to. ( ) Since no one is answering for a word, I conclude a search of the bill in particular. I ask the MPs to place their cards in the MPs' units to determine the quorum. We've got quorum. ) I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Excise and Tax Act in general. For 168, no one abstention, no one against, two didn't vote, 170 present in the O.R. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Excise and Sales Tax Act in general. Please, let's make a deal, we still have a little work to do. Are you okay with this? (Glasses: Yes. ) We move to the 9th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments to Taxes on Property You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received a report from the Committee on Finance, which proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the bill, in principle and in particular, and a report from the Legislative Committee, which adopted the bill. Since the principled examination of this bill has been carried out in the context of a joint principled search, we move to a decision on the draft law in principle. I ask the MPs to place their cards in the MPs' units to determine the quorum. We've got quorum. I put the bill to the vote in principle. For voting 164, no one against, no one abstention, six didn't vote, 170 present in the O.R. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. ( ) Since no one is answering for a word, I conclude a search of the bill in particular. I ask the Members of Parliament to put cards in the MPs to determine the quorum. We've got quorum. ) I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on property taxes in general. 170 MPs voted in favour, no one against, no one abstentions, two MPs, 172 present in the hall. I find that the National Assembly passed most of the votes a bill amending the Property Tax Act. We move to the 10th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Special Conditions of Sale of Certain Immobilities in State Your State You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments, submitted by the Committee on Finance and People's MPs Istvan Ispanovic and Aleksandar Milutinovic on the bill. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, which have adopted the bill. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? He doesn't want to. Do any of the MPs want a word? He doesn't want to. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their cards into the MPs' units. We've got quorum. ) I put to the vote the draft law on special conditions for the sale of certain immovableities in state property in principle. In favour of 168, no one against, no one abstention, voted one, a total of 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly adopted the draft law on special conditions for the sale of certain immovableities in state property in principle. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. The People's MP Istvan Ispanovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. The Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. A representative of the government, at a session of the Finance Committee, has announced that the government does not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. ) I ask the MPs to put their cards in the MPs to determine the quorum. We've got quorum. I put the amendments to the vote. No one voted in favour against 166, no one abstentioned, four MPs voted, a total of 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Finance has submitted to Article 6 of the amendment. Since the amendment was adopted by a representative of the Government, at the meeting of the Committee on Finance, and the Legislative Committee considers that the solutions proposed in this amendment have been legally possible, this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Adding a new Article 9a. National MP Aleksandar Milutinovic submitted an amendment proposing that a new Article 9a be added after article 9. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. A representative of the government, at a session of the Finance Committee, has announced that the government does not accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the solution proposed in this amendment is legally possible and proposes that, if this amendment is accepted, the text of the amendment shall be sited after Article 4. It's a bill of law. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. ) I ask the MPs to put their cards in the MPs to determine the quorum. We've got quorum. I put the amendments to the vote. One MP voted for it, against 162, no one abstentioned, voted five, a total of 168. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Anyone else want to talk about the bill in particular? He doesn't want to. ( ) Since no one is answering for a word, I conclude a search of the bill in particular. I ask the MPs to set up a quorum to place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I put to the vote the draft law on special conditions for selling certain immovable property in general. The vote was 168, against one, abstentioned no one, not two, a total of 171 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft law on special conditions for selling certain immovable property in state property. We move to the 11th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Health Security Law You have received a bill submitted by MP Zoran Vukadinović. You have been served with an amendment, which was submitted by the Legislative Committee on the Proposal for this Law. You have been presented with a report from the Committee on Health and Family, which adopted the bill in principle and in particular and proposed that it be adopted by the National Assembly. At a meeting of the Committee on Health and Family Representative of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, he supported the bill. You were presented with a report from the Legislative Committee, which accepted the bill. I'm opening a principled search. Does the promoter, MP Zoran Vukadinovic, want a word? He wants to. ) There is a word from MP Zoran Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-12-21-0.u1926	Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I am obliged to thank you as a legislator of this law, thank you to the Government of National Unity, the Legislative Committee, the Committee on Health, the Committee on Finance. I am obliged to tell you that in ten days we will enter a new millennium (Shešelj: No, in a year and ten days. In ten days we enter eight centuries of Studenica Health Centre, eight centuries of health in Serbia, eight centuries of health in Europe and the world. I am obliged as a man to tell you that those evildoers, who have beaten our people, did not know that eight centuries of health in the Fresces of the Students is going on, that they have been behind us for eight centuries. Dear fellow Members of the People, thank you for supporting the proposal that users of the Services and workers of the Studenica Health Centre know that this Serbia is thinking about the people of Serbia. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_1999-12-21-0.u1927	Thank you, Zoran. Do any of the MPs want a word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the bill to the vote in principle. For 157, no one, abstentioned one, voted 11, a total of 169 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. The Legislative Committee submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. The amendment was agreed by lawmaker, MP Zoran Vukadinovic. I ask the representative of the Government and the rapporteur of the Health and Family Committee to plead on this amendment whether they accept it. They accept. ) Since the amendment of the Legislative Committee has been adopted by the legislator, MP Zoran Vukadinovic, the Committee on Health and Family and a representative of the Government, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Anyone else want to talk about the bill in particular? He doesn't want to. ( ) Since no one is answering, I conclude a search of the bill in particular. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Health Insurance Act as a whole. For 172, no one, abstentioned, has voted three, a total of 175 MPs are present. I find that the National Custodial adopted most of the votes a bill on amendments and additions to the Health Insurance Act, in general. We move to the 12th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Decision amending the decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia You have adopted a proposal for a decision, which was taken by the president of the Serbian Radical Party Group Stevo Dragisic. I'm opening a unique search. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? No, I don't. Do any of the MPs want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since no one is answering for a word, I conclude a unique search. I ask the MPs to place their cards in the MPs' units to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. For 170, no one, abstentioned, was voted by one, a total of 171 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority a proposal to amend the Decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We move to the 13th point of the agenda: – Stop the function and choose the bearers of the judicial functions within this point you received: 1. Proposal for a decision on the termination of the Judgeship of Judges of General Jurisdiction, which was submitted by the Committee on Justice and Administration, 2. Proposal for a decision on the termination of the office of the Public Prosecutor and the Deputy Prosecutors, which was submitted by the Committee on Justice and Administration, 3. Proposal for a decision on discharge from the judge's office of the Supreme Court of Serbia, which was submitted by the Committee for Justice and Administration, 4. Proposal for a decision on discharge from the judgeship of the jury of the District Court in Nis, which was submitted by the Committee for Justice and Administration, 5. Proposal for a decision on discharge from the court's office of Judge of the Fifth Municipal Court in Belgrade, which was submitted by the Justice and Administration Committee, 6. Proposal for a decision amending the decision on the termination of the Judges' office to the Judges of General Jurisdiction and Commercial Courts, which was submitted by the Committee on Justice and Administration, 7. A motion for a decision on the election of the Municipality’s Public Prosecutor in Uzic, submitted by the Republic’s Public Prosecutor, 8. Proposal for a decision on the selection of judges of district and municipal courts, which was submitted by the Committee on Justice and Administration, 9. Proposal for a decision on the election of judges of the economy, which was submitted by the Committee on Justice and Administration. You have received a report from the Justice and Administration Committee on the review of the draft decision on the election of the Public Prosecutor in Uzic. National MP Istvan Ispanovic, a member of the Committee on Justice and Administration, issued an opinion at the Committee session when laying down a motion for a decision on the discharge from the Serbian Supreme Court judge's office. I propose that all proposals for decisions on the termination of office and selection of judicial officers should be subject to a single search, and that the National Assembly make a special statement on each proposal. I ask the Members of Parliament to set up a quorum to place their cards in MPs' units in order to make a statement on this proposal. We have a quorum. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. For 167, no one, abstentioned, voted one, a total of 168 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. Consent to Article 156. Rules of Procedure, I am opening a single search on the motions for decisions on the termination of office and the selection of judicial holders. Do the representatives of the suitor want a word? No, they don't. ( b) Does the MP, who singled out his opinion, want a word? He doesn't want to. Do any of the MPs want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since no one is answering for a word, I conclude a unique search and we move on to a decision. No proposal has been challenged, so we can decide. 1. We move to a decision on a motion for a decision to suspend the court's office to the judges of general jurisdiction. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the motion to vote. For 165, no one against, no one abstention, six didn't vote, a total of 171 were present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by majority. 2. We move to a decision on a motion for a decision to suspend the office of the public prosecutor and the deputy public prosecutor. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the motion to vote. The vote was 160, no one against, no one abstention, ten did not vote, a total of 170. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by majority. 3. We move to a decision on a motion for a decision to dismiss the court's duty as judge of the Supreme Court of Serbia. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the motion to vote. The vote was 165, no one against, no one abstention, three did not vote, a total of 168. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by majority. 4. We move to a decision on a motion for a decision to dismiss the judge of the jury of the District Court in Nis. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the motion to vote. The vote was 164, no one against, no one abstention, eight did not vote, a total of 172. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by majority. 5. We move to a decision on a motion for a decision to dismiss the court's duty as judge of the Fifth Municipal Court in Belgrade. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the motion to vote. The vote was 165, no one against, no one abstention, four did not vote, a total of 169. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by majority. Six. We move to a decision on a proposal for a decision to amend the decision on the termination of the court's office to the judges of general jurisdiction and economic courts. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the motion to vote. The vote was 168, no one against, no one abstention, five did not vote, a total of 173 were present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by majority. Seven. We move to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the election of the Public Prosecutor in Uzic. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the motion to vote. The vote was 168, no one against, no one abstention, four did not vote, a total of 172. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by majority. 8. We move to a decision on the motion for a decision on the election of judges of district and municipal courts. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the motion to vote. For 167, no one against, no one abstention, two did not vote, a total of 169. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by majority. Nine. We move to a decision on the motion for a decision on the election of judges of economic courts. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the motion to vote. The vote was 164, no one against, no one abstention, eight did not vote, a total of 172. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by majority. Allow me to congratulate, on your behalf and on my behalf, the chosen holder of judicial functions and wish them success in their work. Give it up. Just two sentences, please. For us is an extremely difficult year, I can't help but express first of all my satisfaction that in this dangerous time all MPs are numbered, alive and healthy, yes, one died, but regardless of the tragedy we still experienced, we're stoic, like the patriotic front, standing firm on the back of the country. People's MPs, and this patriotic front, can boast that he participated in the most difficult time in defending his country. I thank you for your cooperation this year and wishes you a happy New Year, much easier and nicer than she was, because we're on the rise and I don't think there's any reason why we shouldn't be better. I wish you a lot of health, all of you and your families, and that right after New Year's Eve we meet at the jobs that the people expect from us. I want you to have a nice New Year's Eve too. Now we've organized a little cocktail and please take these little, humble gifts that are in these bags. It consists of one diary, calendar, simply to see that we were thinking of you. Cheers.
