ParlaMint-RS_1999-07-15-0.u1713	Dear People's MPs, I apologize for this delay. The committees of the National Assembly had to finish their work because without it the session could not begin work. After they've done it, we can start with the session. I am opening the Second Session of the Second Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 1999. According to official records, 200 MPs attend today's session. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, we have a quorum in the O.R. I am informing the National Assembly that I have approved the absence of the following MPs: Dr Leposavi Milicevic, Milivoju Miletic, Tomislav Markovic, Oliver Varagic and Živija Jovanovic. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend: - Mr Mirko Marjanovic, Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Vice-President, Minister and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. You were presented the minutes of the First Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia held on 23 March 1999. Any objections to the record? No, I don't. ) I ask the MPs to put their cards in the MPs to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I am voting on the minutes of the first session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia held on 23 March 1999. For 148, no one is against, no abstentions, 11 did not vote, a total of 159 MPs are present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on 23 March 1999, without objections. You were delivered the minutes of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia session during the war station, held on June 3rd 1999. Any objections to the record? No, I don't. ) I ask the MPs to put their cards in the MPs to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I am voting on the minutes of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia session held during the wartime on June 3rd 1999. For 160, against one, no abstentions, one did not vote, 162 MPs were present in total. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia session held during the wartime on June 3, 1999, without objections. You have been given a letter from the deputy president of the Socialist Party of Serbia, informing the National Assembly that the MP, Dr Miladin Ivanovic, passed away on 13 March 1999 and that conditions for the termination of the mandate of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Also, you have been given a report by the Administrative Board of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the examination of this notice, with a proposal that the National Assembly, on the basis of Articles 102, paragraphs 1 and 3. The law on the election of MPs finds the end of the mandate of MP Dr Miladin Ivanovic on the day of his death on 13 March 1999. According to Article 102, paragraphs 2 and 3. On a proposal from the Administrative Board, the Law on the selection of MPs of the National Assembly finds that the term of office ended before the end of the time elected to the MP, Dr Miladin Ivanovic, elected from the Socialist Party of Serbia, the Yugoslav Left, New Democracy - Slobodan Milosevic, in Election Unit 29-Pec, on the day of death, on 13 March 1999. According to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the vacancy in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be completed. Furthermore, you have been given a letter from the president of the Serbian Radical Strip Group informing the National Assembly that MPs Miroslav Vasiljevic and Dragan Milunovic have passed away and that conditions have been met for the termination of the mandate of these MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Also, you have been presented with a report by the Administrative Board of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the examination of this notice, with a proposal that the National Assembly, based on Articles 102, paragraphs 1 and 3. The law on the election of MPs finds the end of the mandate of MPs Miroslav Vasiljevic and Dragan Milunovic on the day of his death. According to Article 102, paragraphs 2 and 3. On a proposal from the Administrative Committee, the National Assembly finds that the mandate ended before the end of the time elected to the MPs Miroslav Vasiljevic, elected from the Serbian Radical Party's election list - Dr Vojislav Seselj in Election Unit 3 - Novi Belgrade and Dragan Milunovic, elected from the Serbian Radical Party's election list - Dr Vojislav Seselj in Election Unit 24 - Prokuplje on the day of death. According to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the vacancy in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be completed. You have been told by the Yugoslav Left and the Socialist Party of Serbia about the exclusion from the Socialist Party's electoral coalition, the Yugoslav Left, the New Democracy -- Slobodan Milosevic, the political parties of New Democracy. Also, you have been presented with a report from the Republic Election Commission as well as a report from the Administrative Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the discussion of this notice, i.e. the reason for the termination of the mandate of the MPs from the political party New Democracy, which found that the Committee found that the exclusion of this political party from the electoral coalition occurred in the case of Article 102 paragraph 1 paragraph 1 of Article 1 of the Law on the selection of MPs and I propose that the National Assembly, on the basis of Article 102 paragraph 1 and Article 1 of point 2 of the same law, cease its mandate to the MPs: Dusan Mihajlovic, Zarka Jokanovici, Tihomir Arsic, Slobodan Radulovic and Nebojsa Lekovic. According to Article 102(1), point 1 and Article 2 and 3. The Law on the Selection of Members of the People, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Administrative Board, finds that the term of office had ceased before the time for which the Members of Parliament had been elected: 1. Dusan Mihajlovic, elected from the Socialist Party of Serbia's election list, the Yugoslav Left, New Democracy - Slobodan Milosevic in Electoral Unit 1 - Palilula, 2. Zarko Jokanovic, elected from the Socialist Party of Serbia's election list, the Yugoslav Left, New Democracy - Slobodan Milosevic in Election Unit 2 - Vozdovac, 3. Tihomir Arsic, elected from the Socialist Party of Serbia's election list, the Yugoslav Left, New Democracy - Slobodan Milosevic in Election Unit 3 - New Belgrade, 4. Slobodan Radulovic, selected from the Socialist Party of Serbia, the Yugoslav Left, New Democracy - Slobodan Milosevic in Election Unit 4 - Chukarica, 5. Nebojsa Lekovic, elected from the Socialist Party of Serbia's election list, the Yugoslav Left, New Democracy - Slobodan Milosevic in Election Unit 16 - Kragujevac. According to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the discharge of seats in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be carried out. You have been handed resignations : - Predraga Trajkovic, acting as secretary of the National Assembly - for personal reasons, - Nebojsa Rodić, acting as deputy secretary of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia - for moving on to a new duty. That's the case, and that's the same thing as Article 40. The Rules of Procedure, the National Scepter can only determine that Predrag Trajkovic resigned as National Assembly Secretary -- for personal reasons and that Nebojsa Rodic resigned as deputy secretary -- because of the transition to a new post. Allow me to thank Mr Predrag Trajkovic and Nebojsa Rodić, in your name, for his work so far. Since the resignations of the secretary and deputy secretary of the National Assembly have left these functions vacant, it is necessary, in accordance with Article 40(3). The Rules of Procedure, due to the creation of conditions for the normal work of the National Assembly, immediately join the name of the new secretary and deputy secretary of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I'm informing you that I'm in accordance with the article. 24. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which provides for a candidate for the National Assembly secretary to propose at least 20 MPs, received one proposal from the National Assembly secretary. The proposal has been presented to you or will be presented to you during the sitting session itself. As you have seen, Snezana Djukic, who proposed 20 MPs, was the secretary of the National Assembly. I remind you, according to Article 12(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the rapporteur may explain the proposal. Whether lifetime rapporteur Cvetkovic would like to explain the candidate's proposal for National Assembly Secretary. He doesn't want to. Since we've received a proposal from the National Assembly Secretary, I'm opening a search on this proposal. Do any of the MPs want a word? He doesn't want to. Since no one's answering for a word, I'm closing the search. Let me agree. Item 12. I will set up a list of candidates for the National Assembly's secretary with only one candidate: Snezana Djukic. I remind you that according to Article 13. The Rules of Procedure, before joining the appointment as Secretary of the National Assembly, should decide whether to vote in secret or public. If the National Assembly decides to vote publicly, it shall be voted by the call of MPs. Is there a proposal on how to vote for the appointment of the Secretary of the National Assembly? Here's a word from the People's MP of Life Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-07-15-0.u1714	According to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I suggest we hold a public vote on the matter of the secretary.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-07-15-0.u1715	Thank you. You heard the proposal of MP of the Life of Cvetkovic. Any other suggestions? There isn't. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I would like to put to the vote the proposal of MP of the People's Parliament of Life of Cvetkovic, to announce the appointment of the Secretary of the National Assembly by public vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. End of vote. 162 MPs voted for this proposal, against no one, abstentioned no one, 6 MPs voted, there were 168 MPs present in the hall. I find that the National Assembly has decided by majority that the appointment of the Secretary of the National Assembly should be made by a public vote, by nominate. Since the National Assembly has decided to appoint the secretary of the National Assembly by a public vote, we need to make a call to the MPs. Before moving to the vote, I remind you that in the procedure of public voting, it is necessary: to make the call of the MPs in the alphabetical order of the last name, that each appointed MP should pronounce a word for, against, or abstaining, that the President of the National Assembly repeat the name and name of the MP, who voted and his statement, determines that he is absent or wants to vote and that a statement of the MP and his absence is recorded, with his name and last name on the list. I am voting on a proposal to appoint Snezana Djukic as secretary of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We approach the vote by calling out the MPs. I ask the Deputy Prime Minister of the press to call the MPs in alphabetical order and record their statement.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-07-15-0.u1716	Avramov Mita - za, Aksentijević Siniša za, Aleksandar Dr Gradimir - za,Ameti Ramadan - is not present, Andrić Dr Milena - not present, Andelković Zoran - za, Arsić Joca - za, Bašović Milan - za, Bjavić Sradžina - not present, Bijać Antal - not present, Dr Milovan - za, Barač Dragan - za, Božaljan Dragan - za, Bojić Draga - za, Bojić Prof. Mirović - not present, Borović Antal - is not present, Budimir - for, Budimirović - is not present, Budimirović - for Božija Bija - for, Božan Dragan Draga - za, Božan Draga - not present, Dr. Ivan - is not present, Koka Ljuban - za, Kostadinović Zoran - not present, Kragović Ljubomir - za, Krasojević Miodrag - za, Krkobić dr Jovan - za, Krstin Milorad - za, Krstić Slaviša - za, Krstić Slavaša - za, Krstić Spasoje - Paja - not present, Kurteshanin Simo - za, Kučević Šemsudin - za, Marinković Draga - za, Marjanović Mirko - za, Marjanović Mr Tihomir - is not present, Marjanski Lazar - za, Marković Dragović - za, Marković Tomislav - is not present, Marvić Ljubić - not present.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-07-15-0.u1717	Please, let's just count the votes. I'd like to inform you that Nenad Djokići later came to the vote, because I've been calling to say he's not here. Since we held a vote to appoint the secretary of the National Assembly by a noun, I hereby conclude the vote. Allow me to announce the results of the vote. Of the 170 MPs who joined the vote, for the candidate for the secretary of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Snezana Djukic, 168 MPs, two MPs against, no one abstentioned. Dear People's MPs, based on your vote, I find that candidate Snezana Djukic received most of the votes of the MPs, who joined the vote, and that the National Assembly has appointed Snezana Djukic as secretary of the National Assembly. Allow me to congratulate Snezani Djukic on his appointment as Secretary of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and ask the newly appointed Secretary of the National Assembly to take office. (Send of the Soul Karabench, from the O.R.: I was against it.) Just a moment, we'll make it right if it's true. I'm sorry, you weren't on this old list -- so Bug Karabench voted against it. So, he joined 170, it was 167 and three against. It's a result correction, but it doesn't change anything on this. We're moving on to the appointment of a deputy. You have been presented with a proposal for a decision taken by the Administrative Board. As you have seen, the deputy secretary of the National Assembly was proposed to Marica Savic. I'm opening a unique search. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? He doesn't want to. Do any of the MPs want a word? He doesn't want to. ( ) Since no one is answering for a word, I conclude a unique search. I ask the MPs to, for the sake of a fixed quorum, insert their cards into the MPs' units. We've got quorum. I put to the vote the motion for a decision appointing the deputy secretary of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The vote was 152, against three, no one abstained, four MPs did not vote. A total of 159 MPs are present. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the proposal for a decision to appoint the deputy secretary of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It is necessary for the National Assembly to make a decision on Members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You have been presented with a proposal for a decision taken by the Administrative Board. I'm opening a unique search. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? He doesn't want to. Do any of the MPs want a word? There's a word from the MP of Life Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-07-15-0.u1718	As far as the motion for a decision is concerned, I'm obliged to point out one technical error here. Namely, it stands for Nebojsa Lekovic, who is no longer a national MP.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-07-15-0.u1719	Please delete his name from his signature. Anyone else want a word? (A voice from the hall: Instead of Tonkovic, Toskovic Vuceta should stand. ) Well, please correct that mistake, it entered the stenogram, so it will be right there. Anyone else want a word? He doesn't want to. ( ) Since no one is answering for a word, I conclude a unique search. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, place their cards in MPs' units. We've got quorum. I put the motion for a decision on Members of the People's Parliament on permanent work in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. For 161, no one against, no one abstention, five MPs voted. A total of 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the proposal for a decision on Members of the People on Permanent Work in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It is necessary that the National Assembly make a decision amending the Decision to elect members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You have been presented with a proposal for a decision, submitted by the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group. I'm opening a unique search. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? He doesn't want to. Do any of the MPs want a word? He doesn't want to. ( ) Since no one is answering for a word, I conclude a unique search. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units to determine the quorum. We've got quorum. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. For 158, no one against, three abstentions, six MPs voted, 167 MPs were present in the hall. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority a proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Dear People's MPs, calling for the Second Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 1999, which was called upon at the request of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, pursuant to Article 79(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 162. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have been submitted to you for the maintenance of the Second Extraordinary Session - by emergency procedure - with the established agenda contained in that request. The agenda is as follows: 1. Proposal for a Law confirming the arrangements brought by the President of the Republic for the time of war, 2. Proposal for an amending and supplementing law on control, fortification and collection of public revenue, 3. Proposal for a Law on Solidarity Funds for Employees who have temporarily lost their jobs under wartime activities, 4. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Tax Act on the Income of Citizens, 5. Proposal for an Amending and Supplemental Law on Accises and Taxes Proposal for a law on security of land reconstruction funds. As you have seen, the Government of the Republic of Serbia is in line with Article 157. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in the reasons for the proposed laws, notified the reasons for the adoption of those laws by emergency procedure and of the adverse consequences that would arise as a result of the adoption of the law under emergency procedure. Proposals for a law on the agenda of this session will be submitted by the committee responsible for reporting during the session. National MP Slaviša Krstic has proposed that a joint principled search be carried out on all proposals for the law on the agenda of this session. According to Article 136(2), The Rules of Procedure need the National Assembly to decide on this proposal. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their cards into the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I would like to put to the vote the motion of Parliamentarian Slavo Krstic to carry out a joint principled search on all proposals for the law on the agenda of this session. For 162, there were four abstentions, one was not voted, 167 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal to conduct a joint review of all the draft laws of the agenda of this session. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to carry out a joint principle search, I am opening a joint principle search on all proposals for legislation from the agenda of this session. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? He has the word Dr Ratko Markovic, vice-president of the Government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-07-15-0.u1720	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have before you the government's proposal for a law confirming the regulations that the President of the Republic has brought during the war. War is usually a constitutional category. It is regulated by the constitutions, and this condition is one anomaly, otherwise compared to the regular, normal state in the lives of peoples and states. War is one anomaly when it comes to the creation of law and legal order as well. This situation in the area of legal order and the creation of rights entails a distortion of normative jurisdiction in relations between legislative, legislative and executive, executive authorities. With us, the legislative power is being exercised, according to the Constitution, by the National Assembly and by the Executive President of the Republic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. What's characteristic of that condition? What's the point of the disturbance? The disorder is that in this state, the National Assembly, as a legislator, is abdicating from the exercise of its legislative authority in favour of execution, with us - the President of the Republic and Government. In fact, during this state of law, since the Assembly is unable to meet, because it is a multi-human body, it has a large number of members, it is done by the Government, or by the President of the Republic. According to our Constitution, the President of the Republic in this state, by war, may, either by its initiative or on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, adopt regulations under legislative jurisdiction. Moreover, it can only restrict certain freedoms and rights of man and citizen, not all of them, but some, can still change the organisation, composition and authority of the executive and judicial authority, so the governments of the Republic of Serbia and courts and the public prosecutor's office. The proposal for a law confirming the regulations adopted by the President of the Republic during the war is in itself clear. He has only three members and does not require any particular interpretations. In our political life, however, he was widely widely interpreted, and that is why the government felt it was necessary to give an exposé and one explanation of the content of this law. In what sense is this error in interpreting this law? The mistake is that there's been a confusion of two concepts. The concept of the acts brought by the President of the Republic during this war, and the notion of the legal validity of those acts brought by the President of the Republic during the war. Confirmation of acts brought by the President of the Republic is a constitutional obligation. That act must follow the Constitution. The Assembly must confirm or deny all these acts, but the holder of those acts is obliged to submit them for approval to the Assembly. Just because they are confirmed doesn't mean that these acts are automatically kept in force, that they are valid. That's a whole other question. The issue of the legal importance of these acts is a particular legal issue. The issue of confirmation is a purely political issue, and the issue of legal validity is a purely legal issue. The issue of confirmation is turned to the past, and the issue of legal validity is facing the present and the future. The confirmation is dedicated to Article 1 of this Law and lists all the regulations that the President of the Republic has adopted on the government's proposal during the wartime. Legal validity is dedicated to Article 2 of this Act, and the entry into force of this Act is devoted to Article 3, and that is all the content of this Act. What does "confirmation act" mean? The Act of Confirmation is in fact an act of political verification and approval of the work of the entire execution in these special war conditions. The legislator, or National Assembly, now has the opportunity to confirm all these acts and thus politically approve the work of execution during wartime. It can also deny confirmation and thus raise the issue of a proposal for non-trust with the Government, as the initiator of these regulations and the President of the Republic, i.e. the question of the recalling of the President of the Republic as the holder of those Regulations. So, it's about an essential political act. Verification is a constitutional obligation. Confirmation is a constitutional obligation. And in line with that obligation immediately after the cease-fire of the war, which ended with the decision of the Federal Assembly on 24 June 1999, which came into force on June 26th 1999, the President of the Republic was through the government on June 25th 1999, because the government, which is due to draft a certification law, submitted all 16 regulations to the National Assembly, which it had adopted during the wartime situation, to confirm. So much for confirmation. Confirmation is a constitutional obligation that has political meaning, the meaning of consent or approval of parliament with the work of execution, the President of the Republic and the Government during this special war. As far as the validity is concerned, the validity does not automatically result in an act of confirmation. This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. However, this is where all 16 offices are held in four categories. The first category shall be covered by the Regulation referred to in Article 1(1). 2. these are the temporal regulations, the regulations that relate to the state of war itself and to the end of the war also ceases to apply them. The second point is the single regulation, the public spending balance in the Republic of Serbia for the month of April, May and June 1999 and by the nature of things, the importance of this Regulation has expired, on the calendar end of June, because with a limited duration, i.e. the validity of this Regulation has been adopted. In the third group, in the view of Article 2(2) of this proposal, there are regulations that will extend their lives, but not now in the form of a regulation, someone in the form of a law, and these are the laws that follow this point, so that the contents of those Regulations will be transferred, transposed into the laws of which you have the proposals at points after this point. In this way, the continuity of legal norms is maintained, since the content of these regulations is passed into law, and otherwise it is legislative matter. And finally, in the fourth group of regulations that remain in force, these are the only two of these 16 regulations in paragraphs 11 and 12. Namely, the war situation coincided with the time when it was necessary to bring the final bill, the final account was drawn up in the form of a regulation, however, by this act, this form was transformed by the regulation into law. So these two regulations, since the law confirmed them, have extended their legal life in the form of laws and in the form of laws are in line with the legal order. And finally, the third question concerning this law, which is covered by this law, is about the day of entry, the beginning of the validity of this law. This is usually the form that contains all the regulations, because of the nature of the regulation contained in this law. It does not apply to him to the classics of the legion, he stands the next day from the day of publication. Here, gentlemen, that would be all the law's normative and political proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-07-15-0.u1721	I thank Vice President Ratko Markovic. I'm asking Finance Minister Borisla Milacic to take the floor.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-07-15-0.u1722	Dear People's MPs, for today's debate at the National Assembly, the government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed a total of 6 laws. It's about laws that are directly related to the past state of war, the end of the war and the consequences that have arisen. First of all, it is proposed to pass legislation on the validation of regulations, a total of 14 regulations and 2 amendments to the regulations, which the President of the Republic adopted during the war. It is an exercise of the constitutional obligation, under which the National Assembly decides to confirm acts on matters of jurisdiction of the National Assembly, which the President of the Republic has brought during the war. At the same time, given the end of the war, this law proposes to suspend the importance of all the above-mentioned regulations, except for the final account of the Republic of Kosovo's AP and Metohija's budget. NATO's brutal aggression against our country has brought a large number of human casualties, the destruction of housing, businesses and infrastructure facilities. In such difficult and extraordinary circumstances, it was necessary to act urgently, create conditions for everyday life for citizens, smooth supply, maintenance of public security and functioning of the economy. Using its constitutional powers, the President of the Republic has, on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, adopted internal affairs and security regulations, on the establishment, control and collection of public revenues during the war, on the public spending balance for April, May and June 1999, on certain conditions on the transport of goods and services, on inspection controls etc. In particular, they were of particular importance to the Regulation on the provision of solidarity funds for the remuneration of employees who temporarily lost their jobs due to war actions. The government's assessment is that these regulations have also allowed the state authorities to take concrete measures and urgently address social and economic problems caused by aggression. Thus, the funds provided by the Solidarity grant Regulation so far have allowed the payment of two monthly guaranteed earnings, with social security contributions, for more than 70,000 workers and provided life-saving packages for more than 60,000 workers. It is also possible to employ more than 900 workers on the basis of these funds, and the implementation of the programme is under way through the Development Fund and the Republic Labour Market Office, which should allow the employment of thousands of workers from destroyed and damaged enterprises. The public consumption balance sheet Regulation allowed the achievement of the principle of balance in the implementation of obligations among all public consumers. The public revenue collection regulation has contributed to greater efficiency in this area. Regulations that regulated the internal affairs area enabled increased control and greater security for all citizens during the war. Because of this, the adoption of the law on the confirmation of the regulations, which the President of the Republic passed during the war, by the National Assembly is not just a formal act. At the same time, it is also an assessment to the extent that the state authorities were prepared and able to deal urgently and resolutely with the problems imposed by aggression and to respect the principles of solidarity, justice and protection of all citizens. As has been said, these laws also propose the abolition of all regulations passed during the war, except for the final accounts of the Republic and the AP of Kosovo. This creates conditions for individual issues to be regulated by laws in the decision-making process at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Dear People’s MPs, on the agenda of today’s meeting of the National Assembly, are two groups of laws. First, laws providing funds for rebuilding the country and addressing the economic and social problems of workers who are left out of work because of war. These are the proposal for a law on the provision of funds for the reconstruction of the country and a bill on solidarity for employees who temporarily lost their jobs due to war acts. And, secondly, the laws to be amended complement three laws in the fiscal area. These are the draft laws amending and supplementing the Law on Control, Determination and Compensation of Public Revenue, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Income Tax and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Excises and Tax on Transport. Proposed laws define an ambience in which reconstruction and construction of the country will take place. In that regard, we took over two large commitments. First, to enable public engagement for all who temporarily lost their jobs due to the war fact of the aggressor. The second, to complete the first phase of reconstruction by 1 November, covering the construction and reconstruction of priority facilities, transport infrastructure, housing and public buildings for 22 locations. It is about objects of vital interest in the lives and work of citizens and the functioning of the economy. We are aware that the proposal for a law on the provision of funds for the reconstruction of the country provides only one part of the necessary resources. We expect that a significant part of the funds will be provided on the basis of solidarity and through various types of humanitarian aid. Also, funds will be provided by investing in Serbia's economy based on concessions, joint investments and through privatisation. In this respect, Serbia's economy is open to all initiatives and various forms of co-operation. Dear People's MPs, let me briefly refer to the content of these laws. It is common to all of them that certain solutions of the regulation, which have proved to be effective in practice, are proposed to be incorporated into legal texts. First, the changes provided for in the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Control, Determining and Compensation of Public Revenue. The main reason for taking certain solutions in the regulation is that practice has shown that greater powers by the financial police allow for more effective public revenue collection and the elimination of the grey economy. It shall be shortened to the path of public revenue collection by establishing the authority of the inspector to issue a direct order to the payee for the transfer of funds from the obligor's account in case of detection and determination of the existence of unmistakable public revenue obligations. The existing powers of public income inspectors are then extended, by opening up the legal possibility in certain cases of serious violations of the debtor, unworthy documentation, non-performing of the daily market, black and similar employment, to impose a temporary ban on the performance of 30 days. The third proposal concerns the determination of the obligation to submit a certificate of reconciliation of public revenue in the registration of motor vehicles of aircraft facilities. Secondly, when it comes to the Law on Solidarity for Employees who temporarily lost their jobs due to wartime acts, it is a matter already governed by the relevant regulations in this way. This regulation provides for the continuity of the provision of solidarity and implementation of the economic and social programme of the Republic. Solidarity funds are provided by deviating from one to six solidarity logs, depending on the level of earnings. It is estimated that in this way n provides about 150,000 dinars a month. The funds realised are used primarily for profit benefits with corresponding contributions for non-employee employees, then, to create conditions for job creation, to take over the rites, to start up businesses and to start up agricultural production. To pay off24 average earnings, for one-time food and hygiene aid, and all according to the Serbian Government's special programme. Thirdly, when it comes to the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Income Tax, the proposed intervention in the existing law is necessary to ensure continuity in the exercise of certain rights and obligations. In particular, it is necessary to raise the limit of the untaxed amount for the payment of fees and severance payments in the event of the termination of the labour requirement of up to 36 months of net earnings, which is directly linked to payments made under the Solidarity Act. It is similar to the solutions relating to tax exemption in providing organised social and humanitarian assistance. In addition, it is proposed to cut deadlines for forced collection of public revenues. Fourthly, when it comes to the draft law amending and supplementing the Excise and Sales Tax Act, the proposed legislative changes are also directly related to a solution set out in the regulations that cease to apply and are contained in the following - is reduced by 10 percentage points of the excise duty rate for motor gasoline from 70 to 60% and for diesel fuel from 60 to 50%. The basis of sales tax and tax exemption at border crossings is aligned with the relevant solutions under the federal tax system base law. The negative effects on revenue on the budget based on the reduction of excise duty rates in oil derivatives will be neutralised by positive effects on the tax base, which will now be formed at the level of the customs base, which will enable the import of an oil derivative to be ensured at unchanged prices and contribute to the preservation of price stability. Fifthly, when it comes to the proposal for a law on the security of the country's funds, it is about introducing a special fee of 0.15% on business transactions under the same mechanism that has provided funds to eliminate earthquakes in the Kolubar district. The basis is the amount on the instrument of payment with the same exemption in the payment of public income, the transfer of funds to budgets and funds, the payment of prescribed obligations to public enterprises and pensions. Revenues from this source, expected at about 80 million to 100 million a month, are being directed to the Republic Directorate for the Reconstruction of the country, for the realisation of its programme. Dear People's MPs, given that the proposed laws create conditions for resolving important issues for the lives and work of citizens, for the functioning of the economy in the current economic and social conditions, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I suggest you adopt the proposed laws.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-07-15-0.u1723	I thank you, does any of the MPs want a word? There is a word from MP Miroslav Neskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-07-15-0.u1724	I would like to ask the president of the assembly -- we know that a certain number of Serbian government ministers resigned a month ago. Why are certain actions to be done in this regard?
ParlaMint-RS_1999-07-15-0.u1725	Thank you. Who's answering for a word?
ParlaMint-RS_1999-07-15-0.u1726	Dear Mr. President, dear fellow Members of the People, I am Dusica Karabench, MP of the Vojvodina Coalition, and I would like to say a few words about the regulations that Mr. President of the Republic made during the war. We were informed of these regulations through the means of public information, so we could not see the real meaning of these regulations. But now that they are before us, we see in them a bunch of terrible, illogical things and a great desire for this country to turn into a police state in which the government, with the help of the police and its support, will do what it wills. The argument for such a thought provides a regulation on internal affairs during the war, Art. 3., which literally states: "When the reasons for the defence of the Republic so require, the minister may place a threat to the security of the Republic with his solution a protective measure of referring to a stay in a particular place. The measure referred to in Article 1 shall continue as long as there are reasons why it has been said and for a maximum period of 60 days. After that period, such a person shall be transferred to the jurisdiction of the judicial authorities. "I wonder by what criteria the minister determines which face poses a danger to the security of the Republic. Secondly, to which a particular place such a person is referred, because if it were a detention, then the regulation would say that such a person is sent into custody, and this is how it can mean anything. Thirdly, this measure can last 60 days, and only afterwards does such a person surrender to the jurisdiction of the judicial authorities, and accordingly we need to be explained in whose jurisdiction that person was in those 60 days. Paragraph 2 of Article 4 literally states that members of the Ministry may, without any solution, perform a search of the person, the vehicle, the room and the other. I wonder if Mr. President considers it a democratisation of Serbia? Article 9(4) says that a serious violation of the labour obligation for employees in state authorities is considered, among other things, to be a step up against military, political and economic measures by state authorities, which can weaken unity in defence of the country. It literally means that when the state authority decides something, no one can even comment on it anymore, otherwise the minister will send it to a "determined place" until the insubordination becomes unique. As a culmination of this Regulation comes Article 13, from which the hair on the head rises. It reads: "The members of the police unit can also be hired by students of the Home Affairs School who turned 16 years old. "Is that Mr. President ready to send 16-day children to battle stations? I claim it is and since it's a war regulation, I don't think there's any comment here anymore. The preparation for such a thing is also adopted by the ID Regulation, under which children attending the 8th grade of primary school are obliged to act as military bonds, to report, to publish their place of residence, to change their home address and so on. For those who have failed to understand the previous regulations well, and to make it clear that there is no joke with the government and the president, a regulation on citizens' gathering is being adopted. I think you're too hasty with this regulation, because maybe before that, you should make a regulation on the unity of citizens. However, in any case, in this regulation, you are practically prohibiting any gathering of citizens, unless you organise it yourself. However, this public gathering regulation only shows your hidden desire to keep under control a part of the people who did not want to be unique. What is this part we can see every day on the streets of Novi Sad, Leskovci, Kurzumli, the reserve at the barricades and Dr. You were probably afraid of people happening to you, if you remember what that formulation meant. But the people as a people don't read the regulations, so they'll probably happen one way or another. The next regulation was the harrass regulation, as you called it - the regulation on regulation, payment and control of public income during the war. In Article 3 of this Regulation, it is said: "Without evidence of paid and received public income obligations, registration of motor vehicles and waterways cannot be carried out. "How this regulation works, I will give you an example from practice. The peasant comes to register the tractor, trailer or vehicle he has, and he finds out he can't because he didn't pay his taxes. The tax didn't pay because the state didn't pay him for the products delivered. But that's not what anyone's asking. So he goes to buy the oil he needs, and the state doesn't provide it and he has to take his unregistered vehicle. By the way, he's breaking foreign exchange law because he's buying black foreign exchanges, because we all know that oil is just the way to buy it. The militia stops him on the road and wants him to take away that oil, claiming he's a smuggler and a war profiteer, because apparently two liters of oil, which the state gives a hectare, is enough for the grain to be done and all the rest of the work is done. In fact, she forced the peasants to knowingly break the law, only so they could feed the people, risking their burden on illegal trade in foreign exchanges, smuggling and everything else. The highlight of disrespect for peasants and all other taxpayers, who have felt well and well-being on their backs for years from such a state policy, is that they are taken through this regulation or prey whatever you get, including crafts, raw materials and anything that comes to your mind. The main sentences in this Regulation are against the decision on forced collection, no objection is allowed. The appeal does not delay forced payment. The people must be thrilled because these are the regulations he had in mind when he chose you. As for other regulations of financial nature, they probably have their bright spots, but since I'm not a financial expert, I can't talk about it. All I'm going to say is that at first glance, I was drawn to the attention of the Budget Final Account Regulation for 1998, item on page 3. - The funds for autonomous provinces are 90,191,769,00 dinars. On page 10 of the same Regulation and the payment funds for the Republic hydrometeorol Institute are 30.013,975.00 dinars. Since we still had two autonomous provinces in 1998, I see how much it takes for Vojvodina to belong. Almost as much as meteorologists do for wages. And as far as you've dragged from Vojvodina, it's a question. And finally, I'm going to end my exposure to the last regulation of this series, that's the government's composition regulation. Given the importance of further accomplishing the government's tasks, all members of the government remain in place. Dear government gentlemen, there seems to be another member missing here, which could be said: The government is unchangeable and cannot be changed by election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-07-15-0.u1727	Thank you. The word is made by MP Zoran Nikolic, chairman of the Committee on Legislatives.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-07-15-0.u1728	Dear President, dear colleagues, I would like to say that the Legislative Committee has considered all the draft laws of today's session, including the draft law laying down the regulations adopted by the President of the Republic during the war. And I would like to say that the President of the Republic of Serbia has fulfilled the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia as soon as it is in a position to meet. Both the second act and the act of the President of the Republic would be against its constitutional obligations. So there is no formal - legal point of view to object to the way the President of the Republic has committed himself. As regards the introduction of a respected colleague on certain provisions of the Internal Affairs Regulations during the wartime situation, the ID Regulation during the wartime situation, the Law on residence and residence of citizens, the Law Regulation on the collection of citizens during the war, was to be read by the end. It clearly states in Article 2 that those regulations cease to apply on the day of the end of the war. And it can't possibly be imputed to this government that now it wants to strengthen some of the elements that were necessary to defend itself as a state against aggression. I'm sorry that I haven't heard from an esteemed colleague that all of these regulations were caused by a war that angered 11 weeks in these areas, and as far as that unity is concerned, I think that all the builders of the Republic of Serbia were witnesses of the unity of the army, the militia and the people in the heroic defense of our country. I'm sorry I didn't hear that from her mouth, as confirmation, in her statement.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-07-15-0.u1729	Thank you. He has the word National MP Marijan Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-07-15-0.u1730	This is the Constitution, this is the Rules of Procedure, which states that no one can interrupt the speaker, nor warn him except the President of the National Assembly in the cases provided for in this Rules of Procedure. So...
ParlaMint-RS_1999-07-15-0.u1731	Please allow the MP to speak, please.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-07-15-0.u1732	I am personally pleased that today there is a constitutionalist among us, one of the writers of the Republic Constitution, because the Constitution of Serbia says: "The National Assembly of Serbia decides on war and peace". The war wasn't decided, it was about peace. Further: "When the National Assembly is unable to meet, the president of the Republic of Serbia declares war status." Is that what he did? It's not. During the wartime, Serbia's president can bring in acts under the authority of the National Assembly until conditions for it to meet. If the president had adopted acts under the jurisdiction of the National Assembly, he could have passed laws on condition that he declared wartime, not regulations. The regulations are sublegal acts and they are not in the jurisdiction of this Parliament. Such laws and under the Constitution of Serbia are submitted to the National Assembly for confirmation as soon as conditions for it to meet. Is that done? It's not. The assembly met in 3.6.1999, and these regulations were not submitted to the National Assembly. That is why today, instead of confirming the regulations on the agenda, the National Assembly should assess that President Milan Milutinovic has violated the Serbian Constitution and initiated a procedure for its impeachment. Mr. Milutinovic carried out a coup with these regulations because he took more power than he belonged to. Since you voted, I suppose you don't think you should respect him. Of course, the ruling majority will reject my proposal, to help Mr Milutinovic leave, because of the violation of the Constitution, by constitutional proceedings for his impeachment, because he obviously believes that the President of the Republic does not have to read the Constitution, but only has to listen, I guess, to the Supreme Commander. Mr. Milutinovic had to leave 100 times for political reasons already, if he had personal dignity, he would have left the day he decided to pull the border stone towards Belgrade. In these regulations, the president has increased the repression against the population and against the insubordinated workers of the MUP, and with the aim of hunting for reservers, kidnapping of property, closing of various shops and closing of non-insects. The regulations on IDs and residence changes are not for the National Assembly at all. Those regulations are more like "Political Party", "Disnelend", and perhaps "Bambilend". They are proof that the pen suffers all things, that the pen has no soul, and the paper endures all things. The president orders that in one day, 700,000 minors must have their ID card. If NATO had thrown ID cards out of the plane, it would have failed to throw away 700,000 IDs in one day. The regulation on citizens' gathering is, in fact, a regulation against citizens' gatherings and has been made to maximise repression against citizens. Furthermore, the following regulations stipulate how to drain "dry" and collect as much funds as possible and to charge as quickly as possible, how effectively to confiscate the goods. There were no such things during the Turks. Well, then comes the game rule of luck. Well, if we were lucky, we wouldn't have this kind of state leadership. Mr Milutinovic orders ministers to perform their duties after giving their resignations. Under the constitution, only the government in resignations, therefore, the entire government, when it resigns, must until the election of a new one performs its post. So, government, not ministers. We weren't lucky to have our government resign. It is an interesting regulation on the final account of the Republic of Serbia's 1999 budget. The President of the Republic spent 30% more than planned, the Assembly 20% less, and the government almost 40% more than planned. The president and the government are expensive, the MPs are cheap. The MAP spent 80% more than planned, spent five billion dinars of the planned three and something. He spent two years of wheat, so about five million tons of wheat, or 127 thousand IT tractors. For the agrarian budget, 900 million were spent in agriculture, these are significant funds, given to the peasants. Most of the funds were spent on milk, oil, bread, and friends of the Ministry of Agriculture. The premiums were paid to friends of the Ministry for hundreds of heifers that do not exist, to fictitious false documentation. Maybe that's why the Minister of Agriculture refuses to meet me, although I've been looking for that meeting for weeks. The natural exchange programme has failed and the government owes the villagers tractors and machinery. It was saved on the protection of the environment, youth, sport, social issues, mining, energy, science and technology, culture. It was a quick save for the family. This country only takes care of one family, under a password: "All families for one family". The Association of Fighters since 1990 has received three times less funds from the Association of Fighters in 1945. I guess we still prefer Tito. The Ministry of Faith received little and saved one third of it. This government seems to believe not in the God of heaven, but in its earthly, during the war of the underworld, i.e. The basement. Is this account actually true? If so, here it is collected that the expenditures (this is your paper) are 16 billion 807 million 2,914 dinars. Incomes are the same, but when collected more carefully, revenues are not 16 billion 807 million 472 thousand 914, but over 30 billion and 208 million dinars. About 13 billion and 400 million dinars have been drained out of revenue. After last year's course here, there are two billion and 233 million marks missing. If this is true, then we're dealing with thieves, and it's no wonder you didn't provide us with the material for the session in time. You're here to provide funds for the rebuilding of the country. I don't know what you're gonna rebuild. You haven't been able to fix two holes on the road in five years. From abroad, you are offered help to rebuild the Balkans, but it is known under what conditions. Vojvodina was offered a bridge, you refused to issue visas to experts, who were supposed to assess how that bridge would be set up. For the AP Vojvodina, which participates in the budget with more than 30%, it was returned for its needs less than 1%. It's not the only robbery of the Duke. Just through the humiliatingly low price of wheat, you have facilitated the Vojvodina this year in half a billion marks and you ask us why we need autonomy. We need to protect not only natural and created goods, but also to protect ourselves from going through Kosovo tomorrow. With Serbia we always will, Serbia we won't, you've had enough -- your grain, our straw. We don't want any more straw. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-07-15-0.u1733	The break is until 2:30. We'll continue the session at 2.30 p.m. [[Pause.]] Dear People's MPs, please continue our work. There's a word from MP Dragan Veselinov.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-07-15-0.u1735	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would also like to protest regretfully for the TV Serbian procedure, which has again suspended the speech of MPs to the "Vojvodina" coalition Marijan Risticevic from today's session. We are deeply convinced that our people and voters, regardless of which MP and which political organisation in this House is speaking, in this assembly, that everyone in our people has the right to hear the word of the MPs. It is not as important at this time as these words will be to this or that political organisation or in our people individuals will like it or not. What matters is that our people have the right to hear the congregation. He chose her, he has the right to control her publicly. If he is unable to know what the MPs are saying, then we ourselves are cutting off the link of this congregation with the people. That's not the cut we voted for. We have voted in this assembly that RTS must convey this assembly, or these sessions, to everyone on an equal footing. So far, on several occasions, this has made it impossible for the MPs of the "Vojvodina" coalition to be heard in the people. We do not say that everything we say must be liked, but the people have the right to hear, not just our voters, but the others. The remoteness and isolation of the congregation from our people is a paradigm over it. Crossing ties with him doesn't suit us. Today, there are even fewer MPs here in the congregation than there were last time. Perhaps the figure will grow to 100 absent MPs. The fewer MPs in this congregation, the more and more peoples will be on the streets, the stronger the relationship between the congregation, which is increasingly losing political legitimacy, and the more external legitimacy on the streets will be strengthened. A state that loses its congregation and is unable to conflict rivalry, conflicts, different opinions, but allows it to get out of its control and move politics to the streets and that the government there is rolling, then you who allow it will be held accountable. The Vojvodina coalition will not vote for confirmation of the war regulations it was making during the wartime, the president of the Republic of Milan Milutinovic. We don't want to confirm the meaning of these war regulations, because we were the only political organization in this House who said that Rambui's agreement should be accepted, that we had nothing against the arrival of the international forces in Cosmet, that if we refused Rambui's agreement, that tomorrow we would lose even more and that just happened, that what was subsequently accepted, after two and a half months of war, that it was far worse than what we wanted here. We do not bear any political responsibility for the government's policy that we demand to resign from, we do not bear any political responsibility for the policy of the president of the Republic of Serbia, Milan Milutinovic, whom we also demand to resign, nor do we want to confirm his regulations, which he was making at the time. In these regulations, at the very least, it doesn't have to be all disputed, because it's normal when a state is at war to have to make extreme decisions, but we can't support those decisions because we're not able and we don't want to share any political responsibility with the Government and the President of the Republic. We can't support it, even in a state of war, it's the right of the police to persecute all those they believe don't serve the interests of the state. We do not allow police to interpret the political resemblance of a person and whether they are capable or not of defending the political integrity of the state. We, even in a state of war, do not support the right of the state to enter our citizens' apartments, to register property, the right to do so without witnesses, to sell this property only because it is allegedly possible to believe that they did not pay the tax. We do not support the right of the state to be remanded or to seduce the citizens, because he or she is unable to pay the tax. Whoever doesn't pay the tax, go to a litigation court with the state, and the state has no right to punish him for not paying his taxes to the other side. The state has no right to prohibit any of us from registering a car, a boat or anything else because one of us didn't pay our taxes. Whatever the reason, whether the farmer is because the state does not compensate for his price of agricultural products or for other reasons. We do not want this opportunity to support and amend President Milutinovic's regulations into laws, hence that this assembly has been convened again in an extraordinary way. I am now informed that this speech of mine is no longer broadcast by television, and at this point RTS has suspended the transmission of my speech. All right, you'll continue for me, but it's exactly the continuous provocation and extension of the de facto state of emergency in our country. The insistence of calling for extraordinary meetings of the Republic Assembly, with the distribution of legal proposals for a minute two before this assembly, makes it impossible for each of us to, in their own parties, in the extreme line with citizens and with experts carefully examine these proposals and do everything possible to make them even better. We refuse this opportunity to take part in the vote, and we will leave this assembly because we do not support the method of the extraordinary assembly. We submitted a proposal five months ago for a few laws, which cannot be reached on the agenda. An apology may be made that there was a war situation, but we have submitted several, in our opinion of extremely important legal proposals, where we ask that the existing public information law be abolished, free grain trade be seduced, taxes, customs, excise duties and all other tax-elements, which burden the imports of diesel, agricultural fertilizer, etc. We asked to lift the electricity tax because the state television that does not transfer the session of our assembly does not have the right to privileged funding for our money etc. We refuse to teach any MPs about patriotism in this assembly, so I am sorry, and from the Southbanat region, Mr Nikolic. In this assembly no one is more patriot than others, we do not want to race in patriotism, but when Mr Nikolic calls the MP at the "Vojvodina" coalition Mrs Karabench that she did not highlight enough the unity of the people and the army during the war, it does not need to be pointed out. It is necessary, this time, to say something else, that the president of the largest party in this country and the head of state has never once left his bunker to visit the army, never once left his bunker to go to the hospital, never went to the public, on television to explain why we are at war. Those who are such patriots from your party, think of them first. When you teach us about Partiotism here, where the Egyptians you made agreements with about Cosmet, where the Turkish woman who taught us Serbian here was three months ago. How many times have you managed to fight? 78 days. You teach us patriotism, but from 1914 to 1918, Serbia fought, lasted for four years, suffered indescribable victims of millions and five hundred thousand people. You have made our people ashamed of this government, of this leadership. And don't think of anyone here as a smaller patriot than you. Consider opportunities in your own ranks. We are coming out of this assembly today, not because we deny the meaning of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We have deep respect, and everyone knows it, and we pray to God that this congregation succeeds in turning its policy, to get out of this great state crisis. But with this policy of polarization, strengthening national relations in the country, tightening the relationship between... The party, we are inevitably falling into civil conflict, and perhaps war. We don't want to be involved in the politics that you care about in this way. So today we are coming out of this assembly, and for our war regulations, for your laws modified by these war regulations, vote you and you bear responsibility for the people.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-07-15-0.u1736	I thank you, if any of the other Members of the People are to answer for a word.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-07-15-0.u1737	Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament, on the debate on the functioning of the war rules and the proposal for them to be abolished and our Assembly to confirm them, allow me to say a few words about this debate. First, we, our people, our army, the police, the state leadership, this assembly, this government, are successful and heroic and in history will be recorded as having successfully defended ourselves from the greatest aggressor that has ever existed in the world both qualitatively and quantitatively. This is about our regulations that have not even been read by those who speak, because if they had read them, they would have been properly interpreted. And it is not said that these aggressors, past all the rules, all the regulations, all the international regulations and international organisations, have committed aggression to an independent, sovereign country represented by that nation, which lives in that country, and whom this assembly represents, you MPs and we from the Government. These people, who did it and committed major crimes, killed children, civilians, women, destroyed economic facilities, will remain the permanent conclusion of this congregation. We'll seek compensation for the crimes committed. If this isn't done in our generation, I told the people I met, they'll do our sons, and we'll have grandkids, they'll make compensation for those crimes. So what I'm saying is that we've been working past these regulations, and as far as internal affairs are concerned, I can tell you that only minor additions have been aimed at raising efficiency in work and these norms have not been applied. It's this one about referring to that measure of isolation, not applied during the war. Therefore, it's a shot in the blank. That means we have our colleagues with imaginary arguments who want to achieve certain goals and interests. I must say that the total number of crimes and disturbances in public order and peace have fallen in these six months. Except for those crimes and those crimes committed by the aggressors and terrorists in Kosovo and Metohija and other parts of the country. You know we discovered them here in Belgrade. So, there has been an increase in the conduct of crimes and violations by aggressors and by terrorist gangs of Albanian separatists. Otherwise, in this past period, the total crime rate was less by 28.5% compared to the same period last year, and in the economic sector by 13% less, in the general criminality by 30.5%, then, in public order and peace violations, less 29%. Car accidents with victims are lower by 28%, with killed persons in car accidents less than 24%, with injured 28%, etc. So, we have a total amount of crime on our hands, and directly to its increase has been affected by then aggression and increased and intensified attacks by terrorists, especially during the period of aggression, meaning from March 24th to the end of the war. As I was saying, there were no major changes in these internal affairs regulations. That measure was not applied. So regular regulations have been applied which were also in force under peaceful conditions, which is a lecture to the investigating judges, filing the prosecution's application and applying detention measures by the judicial authorities. I would like to point out that, although in these difficult conditions, all the state authorities, and you know especially internal affairs, have functioned as if there was no war. So, citizens were able to exercise their administrative rights, meaning the exercise of passport rights, other traffic permits, is at the same time effectively protected property and safety of people. That's exactly the result of what I read to you. I must say, it was created in difficult conditions, in conditions where almost all objects and equipment were attacked by aggressors. About 260,000 m2 of space was destroyed by aggressors, used by internal affairs authorities. Of course, we kept the equipment, the people, but big material damages were done, and in these conditions a system of connections was held to the overall functioning of the bodies of the unturned businesses. Therefore, there is no assessment of the regulations that have been laid down in such a way that they should not be accepted by the congregation, nor were these regulations beyond what other countries otherwise apply under such conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-07-15-0.u1738	There's a word from the Messenger of the People, Golden Peru.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-07-15-0.u1739	Dear President, the honourable MPs are no opportunity to enter the line with the already known "Vojvodina Coalition", and especially from the cabinet, a very pleasant job, which is called - I am building on everything, from everyone, from life, from events, from events, from people, I am building on all of you and I am leaving. From this cabinet performance and approach, I call on TV to publish everything Mr. Vesenov said, and I invite Mr. Veselinov to any dialogue, since he does not give me a chance to reach this dialogue. Respecting every MP, including him as an MP, to the extent that he wishes to perform his duties, I would like to speak to him as an apostle. I'm not interested in the second conversation with him for reasons that are political, and I'm going to say something about it in the end, simply put -- there's no way. This is about a lot more serious stuff, and that's why I went out for this pay phone. So this is one of the lines in the chain simply on the simple already read strategies, how to disabling the institutions of the system, which according to the recognition of the OSCE-A were made legally, legitimately, legitimately, appointed, elected by the people, the people's representatives, and no one slowed it down until yesterday. Nobody. It is almost a shame, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, that at this moment there are MPs who question even the enemies of this country as an absolute and nowhere seen unity of the people, the power of state defence and leadership. Never seen unity. The unity that came from all that was drama over this land. Maybe someone wasn't there. Unity in the square, on the street, on the bridge, in the factory, on the buildings of the electropivreda. Remember these individual heroes, and then, in particular, I point out with a lot of emotion, because of those who died for what is considered sacred in the world by defending the country. Because of those who were killed, wounded, because of their families, because of the many people who had lost their property, because of everything called the death of this country. Is it even possible to discuss regulations in such a way and, therefore, it is obviously not the point? By the way, since I should be discussing with the professor, teachingly speaking, the powers and use of these powers in the war, as the worst possible condition for one nation, which this people never wanted, are far less than could otherwise be practice in the constitutions of other countries, where governments and presidents are authorized to use certain powers in the war. It may not be mine, but I happen to know it, in the parallel states of government authority, and the president is bigger, here are the use of smaller ones. Used to measure necessity. To the extent that was necessary. In doing so, of course, the example is very simple, since the country of the Western alliance and its presidents were in the so-called peacetime state, we were a demonstration exercise, they were in a peacetime state, they did not declare war. They were doing peacetime things with incredible authority. As far as I can tell, our president and our government don't have that authority. The simplest thing is, I don't want everything else the minister talked about here, quite, and what was clear, I'm talking about. So they used, very interestingly, powers to kill, to do what they did for 78 days, to simply do it, and that's what it seems to be from some of our people, as part of the discipline that we're missing. I'm not going to use a single report, but I'm going to use only the following: since I have a tendency to read, and especially the side of the press I love, as many people like it, then all of this looks like a scenario that unusually calls on me that what is the same abroad a year or two ago has accepted -- a legally elected Parliament, a legally elected government, a legally elected president, and legitimacy and legality no one has disputed, today is trying to create an atmosphere of increased political tension, that what we all, without distinction, have all tried to do, to maintain the unity of the people, that, as the gentleman said, is tightening political tensions -- to completely avoid solutions to political arrangements in the institutions of the system and by the procedures that are envisaged. We are, of course, dangerously approaching something else, which the outgoing MPs wish for. Unfortunately, it is not a choice that can bring happiness to anyone in our country, nor a choice after whom any of us would be better. A government that would try to hit the street, like this, can't be happy, not legal, not for a long time. And we offered and said: that we should talk within the legal institutions of the system and the Constitution of the country about all the issues of transition, reform, privatisation, relations with Montenegro. All public, open, on one condition, we do it within the system and we open all these questions. And what's the problem, then, is the problem is that he doesn't want that argument to be met publicly and we want to share the labels and the lessons and the various announcements of everything and everything, in every way, by finding yourself in a position to defend yourself from it. Totally unnecessary. And especially to say two more things, firstly, building here from laws that represent a huge effort of the people and the state to bring the level of social justice to the highest possible level, perhaps even this is not enough, that, according to the economic power, those who have more and more to be solid in the situation where it is difficult for the people, that it should be built up and what else to do, and that funds and money should be put in place to get out of all the problems that have been imposed on us and done. And especially what I want to say here, to say, and everyone could see it, the president of our country and the commander-in-chief were there with his people and shared the fate of the people throughout the war. And again, and about that, and about that, the attacks on the president can't solve any of the problems, because they're getting more and more of their primitive expression of something that we have to stress again with completely cold intelligence. President of the Assembly, governments in this country have been elected according to the world's highest standards and can be changed according to the same standards in the elections and how the people will evaluate individuals, parties, governments, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-07-15-0.u1740	He has the word National MP Zoran Nikolic (replic).
ParlaMint-RS_1999-07-15-0.u1741	The Honorable Presidency, dear colleagues, I really had no intention of reporting twice for the word, this is a replica. So, two minutes, because my last name by Mr. Veselinov was used to take into account the activity of the President of the Republic and the Supreme Commander in a very ugly and degutant way. We were all witnesses, this people witnessed that our commander-in-chief for the entire time of aggression, with his entire family, was with his people and with his people, and that all the time, it was our public who could see for himself, with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, with the military and the militia, that we were making state moves, to come out of this unfair aggression on our country with as little damage as possible. This is why it is very ugly that Mr. Vesenov, who, by the way, with all of us, the MPs, participated in the estimates and in the relation of which the National Assembly also took up over Rambuje and other breaking points in this history, is now, in another way, talking about this history and the decisions in which he himself took part. All of this seems to me to be part of a scenario that goes through history in these spaces, which, a while ago, unfavorably ended with the failure to enslave our homeland, which now seems to be, with the appearance of peace in these areas, continuing to elevate the inner tensions and awakening of the inner enemy. May Mr. Vesenov consider all this, his conduct, his actions, and while time stands and shares the fate of this people, who voted him to come to this Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-07-15-0.u1742	Thank you. Does anyone else come forward from the People's MPs for a word? No, I don't. ) Well, if no one is answering anymore, I am concluding a joint principled search on all the draft laws on the agenda of this session. The National Assembly will vote in principle on all draft laws, on which a joint principled search has been carried out, on a level playing field, search in particular, and vote in general. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: the proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Regulations brought by the President of the Republic of Serbia for the time of war by the President of the Republic of Serbia, which provides the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia with the approval of an act on matters from the jurisdiction of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia which it has brought during the war. A team has been presented to you with a proposal for a law confirming the regulations adopted by the President of the Republic during the wartime situation, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You've been presented with a report from the Legislative Committee. Since the principled examination of this bill has been carried out in the context of a joint principled search, we move to a decision on the draft law in principle. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their cards into the MPs' units. We've got quorum. I put the bill to the vote in principle. For 152, no one, no one abstentioned, one voted, a total of 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. Does anyone want to talk about the bill in particular? He doesn't want to. ( ) Since no one is answering for a word, I conclude a search of the bill in particular. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, place their cards in MPs' units. We've got quorum. ) I am putting to the vote the draft law on the validation of regulations brought by the President of the Republic during the wartime situation in general. For 152, no one, no one abstentioned, two voted, a total of 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted by majority the draft law confirming the regulations that the President of the Republic has brought during the war. We move to item 2 of the agenda: the proposal for an amending and supplementing law on control, fortification and collection of public revenue has been passed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have been presented with reports from the Legislative Committee and the Finance Committee. Since the principled search under this bill has been carried out in the context of a joint principled search, we move on to a decision on the draft law in principle. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their cards into the MPs' units. We've got quorum. I put the bill to the vote in principle. For 154, no one, no one abstentioned, one voted, a total of 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. Does anyone want to talk about the bill in particular? He doesn't want to. ( ) Since no one is answering for a word, I conclude a search of the bill in particular. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their cards into the MPs' units. We've got quorum. ) I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the law on control, determination and collection of public revenue in general. For 150, no one, no one abstentioned, a total of 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted, by majority, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Control, Determination and collection of public revenue in general. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: the proposal for a Law on Solidarity Funds for Employees who were temporarily left without a job under the military action has been adopted by the Law, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have been presented with reports from the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Committee on Finance, which propose to the National Assembly to adopt the draft law, as well as a report from the Legislative Committee that adopted this bill. Since the principled examination of this bill has been carried out in the context of a joint principled search, we move to a decision on the draft law in principle. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their cards into the MPs' units. We've got quorum. I put the bill to the vote in principle. For 154, against one, no one abstained, a total of 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. Does anyone want to talk about the bill in particular? He doesn't want to. ( ) Since no one is answering for a word, I conclude a search of the bill in particular. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their cards into the MPs' units. We've got quorum. ) I am putting to the vote the draft law on the means of solidarity for employees, who temporarily lost their jobs due to the acts of war in general. For 154, no one, abstentioned, voted three, a total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted, by majority, a bill on solidarity for employees who have temporarily lost their jobs due to wartime acts. We move to item 4 of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of Taxes on the Income of Citizens You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have been presented with a report from the Committee on Finance, which proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the draft law and report of the Legislative Committee, which adopted this bill. Since the principled examination of this bill has been carried out in the context of a joint principled search, we move to a decision on the draft law in principle. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their cards into the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the bill to the vote in principle. For 148, no one was against, no abstentions, no vote of five, a total of 153 MPs are present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. Does anyone want to talk about the bill in particular? He doesn't want to. ( ) Since no one is answering for a word, I conclude a search of the bill in particular. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their cards into the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on income tax for citizens in general. For 133, no one against the abstentions has voted 21, a total of 154 MPs are present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted, by majority, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Tax on Income of Citizens. We move to the 5th item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF THE ACCISATION LAW AND THE IMPLEMENTATION ON MARKETING You have adopted the bill, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have been presented with a report from the Committee on Finance, which proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the draft law and report of the Legislative Committee, which adopted this bill. Since the principled examination of this bill has been carried out in the context of a joint principled search, we move to a decision on the draft law in principle. I ask the Members of Parliament to put their cards in the MPs to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I'm putting the bill to the vote in principle. For 153, no one against, no abstentions, no vote of four, a total of 157 MPs are present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. Does anyone want to talk about the bill in particular? He doesn't want to. ( ) Since no one is answering for a word, I conclude a search of the bill in particular. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their cards into the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Excise and Sales Tax Act in general. For 149, no one against, with abstentions, voted four, a total of 153 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted, by majority, the draft law amending and supplementing the Excise and Transport Tax Act. We are moving to the 6th item of the agenda - a proposal for the Security Act for the TERMINATION OF THE LAND YOU have adopted the bill, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have been presented with a report from the Committee on Finance, which proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the draft law and report of the Legislative Committee, which adopted this bill. Since the principled examination of this bill has been carried out in the context of a joint principled search, we move to a decision on the draft law in principle. I ask the Members of Parliament to put their cards in the MPs to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I'm putting the bill to the vote in principle. For 154, no one against, no abstentions, no one voted, a total of 155 MPs are present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. Does anyone want to talk about the bill in particular? He doesn't want to. ( ) Since no one is answering for a word, I conclude a search of the bill in particular. I ask the Members of Parliament to put their cards in the MPs to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I am putting the draft law on the provision of funds for the reconstruction of the country as a whole. For 154, no one against, with abstentions, voted three, a total of 157 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted most of the votes a bill on the provision of funds for the reconstruction of the country. Please, since the conditions have been met, I propose that we establish the mandate of Members of the People's Parliament in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for vacant seats, in order to enable them to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have been presented with a report by the Republic Election Commission on the selection of MPs in Electoral Units 1 - Palilula, 2 - Voždovac, 3 - Novi Belgrade, 4 - Chukarica, 16 - Kragujevac and 24 - Acquisition to fill the seats in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Also, you have been presented with a report by the Administrative Committee, which has established that conditions have been met to confirm the candidates of the Members of the People's Parliaments, with a proposal that the National Assembly be in accordance with Article 30(5). The Law on the Elections of the People's MPs finds confirmation of the mandate to the MPs: - Zoran Trninić, the candidate from the Socialist Party of Serbia, the Yugoslav Left - Slobodan Milosevic, in Election Unit 1 - Palilula, - Tatjana Lenard, candidate from the Socialist Party of Serbia's electoral list, the Yugoslav Left - Slobodan Milosevic, in Election Unit 2 - Voždovac, - Goran Perčević, candidate from the Socialist Party of Serbia's electoral list, the Yugoslav Left - Slobodan Milosevic, in the Election Unit 3 - Novi Belgrade, - Momir Markovic, candidate from the electoral list of the Serbian Radical Party - Dr Vojislav Seselj, in the Electoral Unit 3 - Slobodan Milosevic, in the Electoral Unit of Milosevic, in the Electoral Unit 3 - in the Electoral Unit 3 - Dragosevljevljevića, the candidate of the Republic of Slovićiljića, the Republic of Slović, the Republic of Slović, the Republic of Ljubljana. candidate from the Serbian Radical Party's electoral list -- Dr Vojislav Seselj in Election Unit 24 - Prokuplje. Please, on the basis of the report of the Republic Election Commission and the report and the proposal of the Administrative Committee, as referred to in Article 30(5). Law on the selection of MPs of the people, I find confirmation of the mandate to the MPs: - Zoran Trninić, - Tatjani Lenard, - Goran Perčević, - Momir Markovic, - Zivorad Milosavljevic, - Dr Marina Petrovic, - Zivana Vladimirovic. Congratulations to the MPs in the election. This session of the National Assembly is over.
