ParlaMint-RS_1999-02-04-0.u1555	Dear People's MPs, I am opening a session of the First Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. According to official records, 187 MPs attend today's session. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend: the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. You have been served with the resignation of Ratomir Vica, a member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and a report by the Administrative Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the consideration of this resignation, with a proposal that the National Assembly, on the basis of Article 102 paragraph 2. The law on the election of MPs finds the end of the mandate of MP Ratomir Vic on the day of his resignation. Consistent with Article 102. The Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Administrative Committee, finds that the term of office, before it was elected, to MP Ratomir Vic, elected from the Socialist Party of Serbia, the Yugoslav Left, New Democracy - Slobodan Milosevic, in Election Unit 24. - Probation, the day he resigns. According to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the vacancy in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be completed. Having obtained the conditions, I propose that we establish the mandate of the People's MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to a vacant parliamentary seat belonging to the Serbian Radical Party's electoral list -- Dr Vojislav Seselj. You have been presented with a report by the Republic Election Commission on the election of a MP in Election Unit 9 - Novi Sad to complete the vacant parliamentary seat in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the report of the Administrative Committee, which found that the conditions for confirming the mandate of the MP were met, with a proposal for the National Assembly to confirm the mandate of MP Vuceti Toskovic, elected from the electoral list of the Serbian Radical Party - Dr Vojislav Seselj, in Election Unit 9 - Novi Sad. On the basis of the report of the Republic Election Commission and the report and the proposal of the Administrative Committee, as referred to in Article 30(5). Law on the election of Members of the People's Parliament, I find confirmation of the mandate of MP Vuceti Toskovic. Congratulations to MP Vuceti Toskovic on the election. It is necessary for the National Assembly to make a decision on Members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You have been presented with a proposal for a decision, which has been made by the Administrative Board. I'm opening a unique search. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? He doesn't want to. Do any of the MPs want a word? He doesn't want to. ( ) Since no one is answering for a word, I conclude a unique search. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their cards into the MPs' units. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I put the motion for a decision on Members of the People's Parliament on permanent work in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. For 210, no one, with two abstentions, voted four, a total of 216 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, adopted a proposal for a decision on Members of the People's Parliament on permanent work at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I remind you that the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 1999 was called at the request of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, pursuant to Article 79(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 162. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, with the agenda set out in that request. As you have seen, the government has identified only one item on the agenda for this session: current issues for resolving problems in Kosovo and Metohija and the international community's views. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – ACTUAL QUESTION TO READ THE PROBLEM OF KOSOV AND METOHY AND THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY Please, Professor Ratko Markovic, Vice-President of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, submit an introductory presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-02-04-0.u1556	Mr. President, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today's session of the National Assembly has been sought by the Serbian Government, with a agenda point to which the drama of all Serbia, in which it is contained whether or not it is being. We all know it is the fate of Kosovo and Metohija, that spiritual legacy of Serbia. Kosovo and Metohija are the vessels of the entire nation from which all parts of the nation and the nation are fed with life equally. Cosmet organically belongs to Serbia. Without it, Serbia is not only not whole, but it is not alive. This is where the foreigners find it difficult to understand, so much so that the Serbs are bound to Kosovo and Metohija. The Serbian government has become the addressee addressed by the world's greatest powers, politicians, individuals, state representatives, the entire political and military organisation of states with one request, to respond to the call of the so-called Contact Group and to take part in the negotiations on Kosovo and Metohija on the basis of the principles and elements set out by the same Contact Group. It is the type of decision whose decision, regardless of the constitutional division of jurisdiction, can only be a nation directly, not a body derived from the national representation. But how we live in a time where state sovereignty is more effective than a legal issue, in which the one who has more power and who is stronger, the Serbian Government, is narrowed down by a time limit of only seven days, the only thing he can do, and how much he respects the principle of national sovereignty, is that by making a decision on the issue he has raised to the people's representation. However, its constitutional position obliges the Serbian government to present its comments to the people's representatives on acts brought by part of the international community in the North Atlantic Alliance and the Contact Group in connection with the cosmetic crisis. What falls first in the eyes is that before the Contact Group's meeting, without knowing its conclusions and principles and elements for resolving the cosmetic crisis that it adopted a day later, NATO openly threatened Yugoslavia with aggression as its secretary-general expressed "a complete support for the unscheduled decisions of the Contact Group in military terms". And, before the Contact Group decided the same, the NATO Council said on January 28th this year that authorities in Belgrade and representatives of the cosmetic Albanians must agree to a proposal that will be made by the Contact Group on a transitional solution within the time period to be established. The same thing NATO repeated on January 30th this year, as the Contact Group made basic decisions on the cosmetic crisis on January 29th this year. NATO then expressed its readiness: "to act and not exclude any option, to ensure full respect for the demands of the international community from both sides in Cosmet, as well as to give full support to the Contact Group's strategy on the negotiations on a temporary political solution, which should be completed in a fixed timeframe, and that both sides must accept calls to start negotiations in Rambuje by 6 February 1999 and end within a fixed timeframe. NATO's council has thus agreed that NATO's Secretary-General can order air strikes against targets in Yugoslavia's territory. The federal government has given a proper qualification of this "last warning" to NATO Secretary General, that this is an open and clear threat to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia's aggression as a sovereign and independent country and a simultaneous violation of the express provisions of the United Nations Security Council's Charter on Security of the United Nations. NATO has thus ignored not only the sovereignty and integrity of an independent state, but the entire international legal order, which regulates relations between states in the international community of states. Before these threats, regardless of the power of those who make them, we will not give in. We are aware that we defend our own, that we do not reach for someone else, and in that attitude we are as a people and states united and determined. Paradoxically, someone who pleads for a peaceful solution presents air strikes as a means of reaching a peaceful solution. And in the Contact Group Act there is an assessment that cannot be accepted. The Contact Group persistently silences the origin of the cosmetic crisis. It lies in the decades-long separatism of the Kosovo Albanians, whose ultimate goal is to secede Cosmeta from Yugoslavia, and the ultimate means, which they have reached for its achievement, is terrorism. The closing of the eyes to the truth is also calling for the Contact Group act to put both sides in a political solution to the cosmetic crisis. The call was to be made to those who so far refused such a solution, who had been his permanent obstruction and who tried to place the state before the final act by means of an ethnic cleansing and possession of the territory before the final act and strengthen its position in the imminent future political negotiations. Despite such truth, the threats of refusing to negotiate for the sake of finding a political solution have only been addressed to the state, whose delegation went to scheduled negotiations in vain. In this sense, the Contact Group's appeal, equally addressed to both sides for a political and peaceful solution to the cosmetic crisis, can be assessed as hypocritical. It is also unsustainable to assess the Contact Group, which equates responsibility for the state of the state of Cosmet of state organs and terrorists. And more than that, the Contact Group of Legal Action of State Authorities calls in its document a repression against civilians, atheorism in all forms - attacks, assassinations, kidnapping - called provocation. In general, it is unacceptable that the Contact Group is equating terrorists, identified in the so-called Kosovo Liberation Army and state bodies. The state authorities are establishing and safeguarding the security of citizens, and terrorists are disrupting and suspending it to achieve political goals. The Contact Group does not assess the essence of the action of the so-called Kosovo Liberation Army, which is purely terrorism, and does not accordingly take steps towards it as it does towards other terrorist organisations in the world, but is, on the contrary, equating it with legal state bodies, calling it the same as those of the parties. Moreover, estimates and views of the international community's work on the functioning of the legitimate and legal state bodies of Serbia and Yugoslavia are directly supporting Albanian terrorism. This, especially the military and police, has been prevented from responding in an adequate manner, as the armies and police would do to all countries in the world in similar situations. On the same line is the re-adjustment in the document Contact the group of mounted events in the village of Račak, as a massacre against the cosmetic Albanians, civilians, as well as the prejudication of the guilt of the Yugoslav Army and the MUP demands for suspension of those who participated in these actions. Although we have repeatedly expressed our willingness to co-operate with the international criminal tribunal as a state, we will never be ready to deprive the legal state authorities of their exclusive jurisdiction under co-operation. When it comes to the content of the political solutions proposed by the Contact Group, our position remains unchanged. It was presented in a document entitled "The Joint Proposal has agreed on the political frameworks of self-government in Kosovo and Metohija", which stemmed from talks by a state delegation with representatives of all national communities, which account for at least 600,000 citizens of Cosmeta, including Albanians who are for peace and equality of all national communities. First, the Contact Group's demand for "significant autonomy" or "high degree of autonomy" for Cosmet not only cannot lead to an independent Kosovo and Metohija in further negotiations, nor to the status of a third federal unit, but such autonomy cannot mean breaking legal, political and economic ties with Serbia. The initial thesis on the territorial integrity of Yugoslavia, which the Contact Group advocates, means that Kosovo and Metohija cannot be derived from Serbia, because it is in Yugoslavia because Serbia is in Yugoslavia. The issue of the territorial integrity of Yugoslavia falls, such territorial integrity is only nominal, if Kosovo and Metohija are a corpus separatum within Yugoslavia, as well as a provision on the necessary consent of Kosovo and Metohija, when it comes to changing its borders and declaring the state of emergency. These are all elements of the sovereignty of that space. Kosovo and Metohija can only achieve their autonomous status within Serbia. Differently, Serbia and Yugoslavia's sovereignty is limited, despite the declaration of it as a starting principle. Anyone who participates in negotiations on Kosovo and Metohija, however they are conceived, cannot agree to a solution that means limiting the country's sovereignty and breach of the country's territorial integrity. Not even the emphasis on the principles and elements of the Contact Group on the resolution of the crisis in Kosovo and the Metohija beyond the reach of the negotiations, nor the threat of NATO aggression can be a reason for giving up on us the unimpeached principle of preservation of state sovereignty and territorial integrity. This is a principle beyond the reach of negotiations for us. No one, who represents Serbia and Yugoslavia, must, under any excuse, agree in any form to restrict their state sovereignty and territorial integrity. In no way does the understood "significant autonomy" nor "high degree of self-government" mean that the authorities of Cosmeta originally and exclusively perform state functions such as police, judicial system, taxes, as well as institutional participation in the exercise of the Federation's competence. Such functions stem from an empire unique to sovereign states. It is unacceptable to discriminate against other national communities in the proposed solutions for Kosovo and Metohija, by bringing their interests down to the recognition of legitimate rights by the Contact Group and the promise that the Contact Group will "to ensure that their interests are fully included in the solution". This approach does not correspond to the mutual equality of all national communities, nor the total number of members of other national communities in Kosovo and Metohija. They cannot be deprived of participation in the dialogue by those entities whose position the dialogue is concerned. The real political solution for Kosovo and Metohija is only what excludes majorisation from the majority Albanian national community. Majorisation ranks members of the national communities on those who are also full of justice, who have been disproved. Majorisation in Kosovo and Metohija under the 1974 Constitution has led us to where we are now. It has driven more than 500,000 Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija. The most reliable way of ethnic cleansing Kosovo and Metohija from the non-Albanian population is precisely majorisation. The Contact Group document uses the term "the People of Cosmet", as if such a people in Cosmet really existed. The reality of Cosmeta is that there are members of different national communities on it and that the main basis of citizens' orientation in Cosmeta is ethnic and not political. Majorisation in Cosmet must institutionally prevent mechanisms of known parallel law. Principles and elements for the political solution to the crisis in Kosovo and Metohija count with the transitional character of the agreement. This transitional status of Kosovo and Metohija cannot in any case mean either hidden or express the way to separatism. As temporary a solution for Kosovo and Metohija, it can never include independence, in terms of possibilities for secession. Therefore, the relationship between the transitional agreement and the federal and republican legal order in the Contact Group document was set upside down. The Constitution and the legal order cannot be addressed once the political agreement is reached, but can only be vice versa. It's not the whole thing that can be adapted to its work, but it's the other way around. It's the whole thing that's adapted to the whole. Yugoslavia and Serbia have their own founder, over whom there can be no Contact Group. Gentlemen, we have a difficult decision to make. The difficulty of making such a decision is for the government to share with you, the people's representatives. As has to be done quickly, the government has drawn up draft conclusions regarding the exposed demands of the international community's work, starting with the significant views that have been discussed here. But the government wants to hear the opinion of the MPs on their views and then to go before the National Assembly with a final proposal for conclusions. After listening carefully to the opinions of the heads of parliament and MPs in the National Assembly, the Government would establish its proposal for conclusions in the afternoon break and then forward it to the National Assembly for discussion and decision-making. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-02-04-0.u1557	Thank you. You heard the presentation submitted by Professor Ratko Markovic, Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. I'm opening a search. There is a word from MP Gorica Gajevic, head of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary club, to prepare Vojislav Seselj, Serbian Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-02-04-0.u1558	Dear President, honourable MPs, Serbia and the people are again facing threats and pressures aimed at jeopardising territory, freedom and independence. The threats come from the NATO Pact, the world's gendarme, the on-call bully and police officer in the international community, beatings in the hands of major forces. He's preparing military machinery, a bunch of weapons, and he's threatening our country, the founder and member of the United Nations. The United Nations Charter explicitly says regional organisations cannot threaten the forces of sovereign states. With its stance, the NATO pact tramples out the Charter of the United Nations, destroys international relations, and wants to impose force politics as new principles in the relations of states and peoples. Yugoslavia and Serbia are sovereign states, which respect the still valid principles of international relations, set out in the Charter of the United Nations. That is why NATO's behaviour of the pact is seen as a threat to our country and people, and it is known that we have always responded to such threats. We're not a threat to anyone in our environment. We are a factor of stability, peace and well-being in the region. That's how we'll behave in the future. But in the event of any attempt at aggression, uncompromisingly and with all means, we will defend our sovereignty and integrity. Why is NATO threatening our country? Is it because we are determined to deal with terrorists, not to give part of our country to separatists, what do we want to solve problems in Kosovo and Metohija by political means? NATO is not concerned about human and civil rights, it is not about the fate of Albanians, it is trying to establish a new strategy in international relations, and this is about our country, the symbols of freedom in the Balkans and Southeast Europe. What NATO is trying to military, the Contact Group is trying politically. With his views, he wants to be the supreme arbiter in resolving the country's internal issues. It equates a state that defends its sovereignty, integrity and separatists and terrorists that threaten it. By ambiguous formulations and vague attitudes, the Contact Group supports the sovereignty and territorial integrity of our country, while at the same time wanting the status of Cosmeta with the president, police functions, independent taxes, the judiciary, with the right to have no changes in borders without its consent, etc. What is it if they're not elements of the state? Where there's this in the world that autonomy or self-government have what states have. Is that what the Basques in Spain might have, perhaps, given to the Corsicans or the Irish? Where was the model offered to Kosovo separatists and terrorists found? The principles they say are also proposed -- there are no negotiations, and these principles are such as to leave doubt in good intentions and to openly suggest institutional solutions that could limit our sovereignty and link Serbia and Yugoslavia's territorial integrity in Cosmet to some time period. The space for talks, diplomacy and politics is therefore essentially narrow and limited. The tone and language that are written, the time frames and principles that suggest, are beyond the limits of good intentions and responsible diplomacy. So far, the Contact Group's actions, in particular some of its members, who have not called any terrorists a real name, have condemned the atrocities they have committed, which have prevented their condemnation in the Security Council, and have enabled financial, political, military and any other assistance, give us the right to be reserved according to the good will of the Contact Group and its impartiality to solve the problems in Cosmet by peaceful means, dialogue, political means. Serbia and Yugoslavia have done their best to resolve the Kosovo problem peacefully with political means. We will insist on that definition. In peace and dialogue, no one should force us or threaten us with force. It's our supreme, national and state interest and permanent determination of our country. Our principles are crystal clear and more than once spoken. The problems at Cosmet can only be solved by dialogue -- full equality of all citizens and national communities, full respect for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Serbia-Yugoslavia, broad autonomy, without the possibility of creating any new republic, as a cover of a new independent Albanian state on Serbia's soil. We will not allow the presence of foreign soldiers on our territory under any excuse to implement the agreement reached. These principles were fully elaborated in the joint proposal for an agreement on the political frameworks of self-government in Kosovo and Metohija, which were accepted and signed by Serbs-Montenegros, Muslims, Turks, Roma, Gorans, Egyptians and political parties of Albanians, all except those whose programme is the secession of Cosmet from Serbia, terrorism, the summoning of military intervention and war in the region. Now the Contact Group is calling for a conversation in France. Principles have been dictated as conditions and intonated, with the expectation that we would reject them, so that in the international public, who knows which way, they would Analyze us as opponents of peace and dialogue. Dear MPs, our today's views and decisions define the course of our further struggle for Kosovo and Metohija in Serbia. When we make decisions about it, we are confident that we are all starting with that Kosovo and Metohija are not any part of Serbia. Cosmet is only the heart of Serbia. This is the point where throughout history, everything that is fatefully related to our country and our people is broken today. In Kosovo and Metohija, Serbia rose as a state, powered by the power to endure and survive at the crossroads of the European north and south, east and west. They're telling us -- forget history, look to the future. We're also facing the future. Cosmet is not just us, Cosmet is real interest, strategic territory, wealth of natural and economic resources. That's why there's been such a storm over Kosovo and Metohija. That's what we're talking about today. This is what this congregation decides today. Everyone in this room and every citizen in Serbia stands before this issue today. Serbia is giving its answer today. It is not a problem in dialogue, nor is the problem in Kosovo and Metohija resolved by political means. As far as Serbia and Yugoslavia are concerned, we have always been in favour of dialogue. It's our commitment and our interest. The problem is that in the international public and under the influence of the factors in the world, the condemnation to halt the political process is being imposed on us, on Serbia and Yugoslavia, not on separatists who do not want dialogue and a solution, but on violence and secession. Instead of condemning them, they are being protected and everything under the company of human rights, democracy and humanitarian problems. It's not a problem in minority rights, not in self-government and broad autonomy. Serbia has defined this by the highest standards and offered for Kosovo and Metohija. The problem is that separatists in Kosovo and Metohija do not want human rights, neither minority nor citizen. They want Kosovo to the republic on Serbia's soil, they want secession and all that with the help of the international community. So it's all about other intentions. Instead of peace, there is a crisis, instead of autonomy - secession, and instead of equality, majorisation is being made, instead of multiethnic, multi-cultural and multi-confessional environments, such as Cosmet today, instead of Kosovo and Metohija for all people living on it, Cosmet is only wanted for Albanians. That's what this is about. They want to talk outside Serbia and Yugoslavia, to go to France. This meets the requirements of separatist-terrorist organisations and as if it wants to prove that there are not enough conditions in Serbia and Yugoslavia to discuss all issues. That's not true. All the leaders of Albanian and separatist parties, and Rugova, and Cosja and Demac, both in Belgrade and in the Ring, everywhere in Europe, freely expressed their views, their views, their demands and their interests. They, like all who support them, must also know when talking about Kosovo and Metohija and its fate, whether in Pristina or elsewhere, as far as Serbia and Yugoslavia are concerned, will always get the same answer. The Albanians, our citizens, have and will have in the future all human, civil and minority rights. They will have freedom and democracy, they will be equal. They'll have autonomy along with other communities that live in Cosmet. No one will ever get the Republic and never achieve secession, or a crazy dream about the Greater Albania. Our position is our policy regarding Kosovo and Metohija and it is crystal clear and unchangeable. Cosmet is an integral part of Serbia and it will always be. Serbs and Montenegrins, Albanians, Muslims, Turks and Roma, all who live there are our citizens, and with everyone we want to solve problems, be equal, live in peace, tolerance, respecting all our personalities. Our response to the Contact Group is clear. If you are well-intentioned, you should condemn terrorism and separatism and make it clear that there is no Kosovo and Metohija as a republic, that there is no secession and that Cosmet will only be resolved within Serbia. This will be a real contribution to peace, to speeding up the political process and to a fair and lasting political solution. The Socialist Party of Serbia is confident that the National Assembly will confirm our firm determination to solve problems in Kosovo through political means. Serbia is able to defend Cosmet in front of everyone and anywhere as its vital state and national interest, and we are able and ready to prove to everyone and at all times, just as we do in Pristina and Belgrade, that we are for political dialogue and we are not for war. That we are for equality, not for majorisation, to offer broad autonomy according to the highest European standards within Serbia and that we will not allow secession or the third republic and that we will respect all agreements consistently. That we would not agree to foreign military troops in our territory and that terrorism would be eradicated. To this we are bound by the people's unity, the responsibility for the fate of generations to come and I am convinced that the decision of the National Assembly will confirm these expectations through great unity, as the greatest support and best argument, and that Kosovo and Metohija, as a broad autonomy of equal citizens and national communities, will continue to develop successfully in peace, within the Republic of Serbia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. As for the specific question and the call to France, it is a special and separate question for us. It is the stance of the Socialist Party of Serbia to accept the invitation from the firm commitment of our people and the state to fight for peace, to defend Kosovo and Metohija as the vital state, national interest of Serbia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia in any place where Kosovo and Metohija are being discussed. We are taking another step to resolve the problems peacefully, and to affirm the truth about Kosovo and Metohija in front of the world once more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-02-04-0.u1559	Thank you. He has the word Vojislav Seselj, vice-president of the government of the Republic of Serbia, and let Milan Mikovic, head of the Serbian Renewal Movement Parliament Club, be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-02-04-0.u1560	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it has long been known to the entire Serbian people and to all citizens of Serbia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia that the goal of the United States and the Western forces is to destroy the Serbian people and our country. There's no doubt about it anymore. It's just how they get there as soon as they can. They perform on a political, economic, diplomatic and military plan. They're doing everything in their power to destroy our economy, destroy our economy, and keep our people without bread. We know what methods are used. In diplomatic terms, the pressures of the worst kind are constantly being put on the table. The diplomacy in their hands has lost its basic elements, its purpose of existence, and the diplomatic dictionary has been completely destroyed. There are no more diplomatic considerations. Only threats and blackmails in an endless series. Politically, they use all methods of subversion from a special psychological war. The money that stands out for these purposes is constantly increasing. But our people have long been clean with whoever is receiving money from the Serb enemies and how that money is used. I can't, therefore, go that way to achieve what they want. If they cannot make an economic, political and diplomatic path, there remains a military threat. The military threat has been open for a long time. The military threat is present, and it's so close that it can be touched and touched with its hands. That's obvious. We have repeated many times in this National Assembly that even a military threat will not intimidate us, that even the military threat will not sway us and that the military threat will not make us give up our country's defenses, our territory and our own country. I am convinced that today the National Assembly will take such a stand. This paper, which we got from the Contact Group, proves everything I just said. The contact group in general runs an extremely anti-Serbian policy. The Contact Group supports Albanian terrorists, assists their organisation, helps carry out terrorist actions and is placed in their protection when major terrorist actions are carried out and when our police are to catch the perpetrators. This is seen from the second point of the Contact Group paper, which says, "Ministers have unreservedly condemned the massacre of Kosovo Albanians in Račka." What massacre, who determined the massacre, what inspection, what experts? One spot on the same paper says the results of the investigation and autopsy have yet to be analysed, and the progress is said to have been a massacre. No civilian was killed, no child was killed, no civilian object was destroyed. Only terrorists have been killed, and among them three citizens of the Republic of Albania and our police have concrete evidence. Citizens of Albania, with Albanian documents, persons who have never had anything on our territory, who have never lived on our territory, have been liquidated in that terrorist gang in the village of Racak. What is further in this paper that we received from the Contact Group - The Contact Group praised the work of the verification mission and its head, which is openly classified with Albanian terrorists. In the village of Dragobile, houses to the house are the headquarters of American verifiers and the headquarters of Shipatarian terrorists. Where American and British verifiers are deployed, there are terrorist actions most intense. And in this paper, the Contact Group ministers claim that we are repressing the civilian population. And how in those places where the Albanian majority lives, and there are no terrorist acts, there's no repression? Whether it was in Gjilan's repression, whether it was in the surrounding municipalities -- it wasn't. Why didn't it -- because there was no terrorist action, there wasn't a gun fired anywhere. There's no repression against the civilian population. The repression is applied only to terrorists, in the same way that all other civilized countries in the world would do it. We are denied the right to defend the state, to suppress terrorist activities. This same paper requires full co-operation with the International Tribunal in The Hague. So we want to co-operate, our country, she's never refused co-operation, but what it means is co-operation, exchange of information, help with already initiated procedures. Co-operation involves two equal partners, but what they're looking for is not co-operation, but subjugation -- to accept someone on the outside as senior judicial authority over our judicial system. And when it was supposed to be a permanent international court, who was against it, they were Americans. Who has committed the most crimes since World War II in all the world - Americans. From Hiroshima and Nagasaki, when they killed the innocent Japanese civilian population on his territory, to speed up the end of the war, it was a motive, to speed up the end of the war, to cost them less. Money was a motive for 350,000 people, civilians, women, children, to disappear under American atomic bombs. So whoever waged a war in Korea, who killed the Korean civilian population, who fought a war in Vietnam, who killed the Vietnamese civilian population, who destroyed Cambodia, Laos, who destroyed many countries around the world -- all Americans did it, and no court, no law, does not apply to Americans, does not apply American law. International law is only important to Americans when it's useful to them. When he's not useful to them, he's trampled unscrupulously. In this same paper, they present some elements of the plan, as imagined by the Americans, and the Contact Group ministers blindly follow them, and say: "Free and fair elections in Kosovo and Metohija, municipal and rural, under the supervision of the OSCE." Well, we've always been for free and fair elections in Kosovo and Metohija, but Albanians didn't want to go to the polls, with their boycott, Albanians prevented it, in the majority, in the vast majority. We have never avoided foreign observers coming, but not OSCE surveillance, in the variant in which it is conducted in Republika Srpska, so that the OSCE performs all the electoral actions and sets out election results as it pleases. I'm not going to say that we have the ideal choices, but what the OSCE is doing, nowhere in the white world has been experienced, nowhere in the white world has been realized. We know that on specific examples. Since they did so in Republika Srpska, all over Bosnia and Herzegovina, how can we trust them here? We cannot trust them here, and the elections we will hold throughout Serbia, at various stages, at various levels, we will not close from the domestic or the public. Everyone will be able to control the scene, watch them, react if they notice any irregularities, etc. And what is said on the last side of the paper: "Coordination of the Serbian and federal legal framework with the cosmetic transitional agreement". Now, that can't be. Any cosmetic transitional agreement should be in line with the Republic Constitution of Serbia and the Federal Constitution of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Who's going to change our federal and republican constitution? Let's see what that factor is that's going to change for us, and how does it change for us? Maybe the tanks, then make sure he counts immediately on how many tanks he needs for every member of the constitution that he would change. Ladies and gentlemen, the Serbian Radical Party, to which I belong and which is a coalition partner in the government of the national unity of Serbia, will not send its representatives to a Paris conference. Our representatives won't do it. We, the Serbian radicals, would prefer to respond to these Contact Group ministers in the same way, as according to the famous image of the great Russian painter, the Danube Cossacks wrote to the Turkish Sultan, because the Contact Group ministers deserve nothing else. But in the great dilemmas that have hit us these days, we understand the need to avoid condemnation in the world public opinion that the peace solution is impossible because Serbs will not talk and we will not do anything to oppose the departure of the Serbian government delegation to Paris. We understand the need to try once again to prevent the aggression against our country, the intervention of the NATO Pact, the bombing, to try to declare to the international public once again that things are standing, which are the principles that the Contact Group is over, that we have offered Albania's national minority and democratic rights, and autonomy, and full equality, and that all this is happening, because the aims of Americans are not to fulfil the civil rights of the Albanian national minority, the goal is not to democracy in our country, as they were not targeted by democracy in any Latin-American, African-American state, where Americans have dealt with subversive activities, to bring down legal and legitimate regimes, to bring down tyrants, criminals to rule on their behalf. And this same Walker, who is now mixed in Kosovo and Metohija, is an expert in subversive activities, says the US Army general, he already has experience in killing civilians in Salvador, Nicaragua, Chile, Colombia, who knows what other state. He even personally participated in the organization of the murder of a group of Catholic priests in Salvador. He came to Kosovo to raid and prepare conditions for a possible military intervention of the NATO Pact. We have here today to make clear, loud, decadent, yet again - not taking into account any solution to the Kosovo-Methohic problem that involves the exclusion of Kosovo and Metohija from Serbia's legal system. Kosovo and Metohija must remain in the membership of the Serbian state at all costs, even if they attack us, even if they bomb us, anything to direct us. And the second principle -- at no cost comes into consideration that NATO troops, or any other foreign country, come to our country's territory, under any excuse. These are two principles of which there is no giving up, and I am convinced that in today’s congregation conclusions, first of all, we will insist. Of course, I'm aware of the temptations that await us all, and I'm aware of what all of the West is new to us, and we have to endure it all. The people in our country are in grave trouble, hard to live on, the basic problems are caused by the functioning of the outside, but the people in our country are determined to defend Kosovo and Metohija. Since the people are determined to defend themselves at all costs for Kosovo and Metohija, we, its representatives, must not go beyond our people. We, representatives of the Serbian people and citizens of Serbia, must do everything we can to preserve what is ours. I am convinced that Kosovo and Metohija will be preserved, and that the Western forces, no matter what else they plan to do to us, no matter what aggressive intentions they have in the future, must eventually give up stealing Serbian territory.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-02-04-0.u1561	Thank you. There is a word from MP Milan Mikovic, head of the SPO parliamentary club. Have Milan Rodic, head of JUL's parliamentary club prepare.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-02-04-0.u1562	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, we've still only 50 hours until the start of our meeting in France. Obviously, and with this time, we have to count and it's clear that, with our full responsibility, we really need to define ourselves, what to do and how to do. I'd like to try not to make it difficult for those people to negotiate in France on our behalf. I'd like to draw attention in the front row to what's next, and it's certain that in terms of what's happened, on other occasions, for other analyses, not forgetting anything that's happened. The government of Yugoslavia has already taken certain measures on issues that will be partially covered by either a girl or a statement, which we will take in the afternoon, but we have to point out one thing -- right from the very beginning. Kosovo's autonomy is the topic of the meeting, the only autonomy of Kosovo. Kosovo and Metohija autonomy, it is not an unknown thing for us. It is a matter that is regulated by the Constitution of Serbia, not possibly until the end, and it is undoubtedly a constitutional category and a way of regulation that allows us to take action within the provisions of Article 108-112, which we can also enable the functioning of this atunomy, and which has not been done in the past 7-8 years, in fact since the day of the adoption of new constitutions. It is clear, and I think that in this respect everyone stands at the point of view, it is not going to any talks, either there or here, or on the topic of the existence of a great Albania, or the existence of an independent Kosovo, or the existence of Kosovo as a third federal unit within Yugoslavia. So, I don't think there are any misunderstandings between us in this respect, and there's one thing that is certain that we must absolutely calmly, wisely and responsibly take all the steps of the next day, Sunday, so that we don't, again, agree that we have arguments, normal arguments that have to be accepted, if not tomorrow, the day after tomorrow -- because, let me, all these arguments are based on those provisions that exist in the Charter of the United Nations, in international law, in all these provisions that are sometimes applied, sometimes they're more difficult to apply, sometimes they don't apply -- but there's no doubt something behind which, perhaps not so loud, but believe me, most of the peoples and states in the world are certainly standing. We can't say, and we can't let the argument go that we won't be able to defend and defend, not at once, but surely in a certain period. Since this is not indicated in previous exhibitions, there have been efforts and states so far, and political parties, and prominent individuals from this country, who have been making certain arguments from day to day in favour of the country's views and people living in its territory. It didn't work out much, but something did, but some results were achieved, yet there are responsible people in the world, and people in office, and people representing certain nations and states, who don't speak the same way they spoke a few months ago, when these issues were first seriously put on the agenda. So we have to believe that there are opportunities to get certain things, already now, already in the first meetings, in some way to determine, in a way, to come to the point, to face the arguments directly, to the situation, that there is no other answer. The SPO has already made a statement in advance, and we have publicly stated that we believe that we should travel to France. I'll tell you one thing, in addition to all the other essential reasons, one reason that would absolutely be misused if we didn't do it. If we didn't go to France, we would cancel the 20th departure of our delegation to Pristina, because they would tell us then -- you went to Pristina when you believed the Albanians wouldn't come, and now that it's safe to come, right? Therefore, we must not allow all that has been done or done by the delegation of the Republic of Serbia to be thrown into the water, because there has undoubtedly been no small effort to prove in some way that every moment we were ready to defend and defend our national interests, our state interests. I'd like to point to two more things. One is, if certain results are achieved, and we certainly believe that, even those who have the most reserves and they say -- maybe something can be done, in such a situation, if we were to succeed, that would be the first step in our approach to the world, Europe, that would be the first step behind which the following things, which would affect the abolition of sanctions, the establishment of normal economic life, the issues of those essential life issues in our territory, the territory of our country, the question of employment, the problem of education, health, justice, the issues of pensioners, farmers and all others. Therefore, we stand at the view that this approach is serious, responsible, through responsible persons from the delegation, through experts who will not allow any solutions to be made that could lead to ugly consequences. Because in a situation like this, I think we're standing at the point where most of the citizens in this country are standing, regardless of their political definitions. Finally, one more thing to point out. You are also familiar with yesterday's position of the Serbian Orthodox Church, which has asked her to in some way testify to the situation in our space. It's not someone without a reputation, it's not someone without a reputation in the world, it's the church that said, we would make our views to protect this people who live in that space, to protect our sanctity. But at the same time, it is with constant participation in all this, in a certain way, and a guarantee that in the name of our country, in the name of our people, no solution that would be made, which we would agree with, would not be such as to endanger members of other religions and other peoples. Obviously, it is not once mentioned - we want solutions, we want solutions for our people, for the space of Kosovo and Metohija, but we never want it to be to the harm of other people. Every time, in every statement, besides everything else, it's said -- let's be people, let's be Christians. So we find that right now, this is the only way, this is the way we have to go. I think some results can only be then if we don't dispute each other's arguments, if we're confident that we want the same goal.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-02-04-0.u1563	He has the word Milan Rodic, head of the Yugoslav Left Parliament Club, and let him prepare Zarko Jokanovic, head of the New Democracy Parliament Club.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-02-04-0.u1564	Dear President, members of the presidency, representatives of the government, honourable ministers, respected fellow MPs, the Yugoslav Left feels that the peaceful resolution of the Kosovo crisis leads to the achievement of our basic and highest interests, which are the preservation of peace in these areas, the survival of our country and the improvement of the conditions of our citizens' lives. Since its establishment, JUL has focused a significant part of its operation on understanding the current processes in Kosovo and Metohija. We tried to affirm the policy of peace and the highest humanistic values of modern civilization with extremely responsible behavior. Any solution to Kosovo and Metohija that would ignore the constitutional solutions of the Republic of Serbia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia is unacceptable. Inadmissible cynicism is contained in numerous attempts to challenge the right of a sovereign country to defend itself against terrorism, separatism and other forms of aggression. Most recklessly and without straining, part of the international community is giving uninterrupted threats to Yugoslavia, and they are the loudest when it comes to the insignificant threat of their interests. Only the malicious will not and do not want to see the separatism and terrorism of Cosmet being challenged from the outside. The awakening of these extreme reverse phenomena, followed by unbearable threats and blackmail, is in direct co-operation with long-standing economic, propaganda and armed violence. All this for the achievement of famous conquerive and violent ambitions. Suspension is the basis for the international security system, with the faceless repression of all principles of justice and truth and through open support of terrorism and separatism, the NATO Pact threatens direct aggression. Contrary to the Charter of the United Nations, without a legitimate decision of the Security Council, for the first time in the history of humanity, the NATO Council has authorized one man to order a military aggression against our country on his own and on his own. By imposing political solutions with NATO military means, the pact openly shows the intention of establishing its responsibilities, not only in Cosmet, but in the entire territory of Yugoslavia. In line with such objectives, two alternatives to the same outcome are imposed: firstly, to accept the role of NATO's colony, which would further justify the existence of this alliance as a religious peacekeeper, and secondly, to be exposed to the combined action of external intervention and cosmetian separatists and terrorists, as well as other carriers of disintegration of the community. Only in a less procedural way would the previous objective be achieved. Prior to such alternatives, this assembly remains to find, support and strengthen a peaceful political solution. For such a solution, we have at our disposal a force of argument and principled policy, which is also supported by a significant part of the international community. The key misery facing the threat and violence towards Serbia-Yugoslavia makes public confidence in the state-level top policy and a high degree of agreement of all major political actors within the country on issues of general interest, which exceed party ideological disputes. The unity reached on these issues must not be broken by any manipulations, ultimatums, blackmails and issuers. The act condemned the international community's intentions, primarily NATO's pact, to create dissension among the most significant political actors and unjustified accusations of allegedly not agreeing to the talks, to find a cause for intervention. Dear fellow MPs, our country has been pushing for a peaceful solution since the outbreak of the Kosovo crisis, through open and unconditional negotiations with representatives of all national communities and political parties. Many times, the government of the Republic of Serbia has urged representatives of Albanian political parties to negotiate all issues. Instead of negotiations, separatist policymakers, encouraged and encouraged by the unhidden support of the international community's work, have been identified as continuing violence in the face of the most violent terrorist crimes. Terrorists are the instrument in the hands of the most influential part of the international community, which protects and arms them. However, they failed to wash them from blood, crime, and rely on the darkest part of the world's drug mafia. For the extreme Albanian political leaders, terrorism is the path to the goal -- the Kosovo Republic, and for their arrogant incentives, an instrument for destabilising Serbia, Yugoslavia and the wider region. So, expendable material. Contrary to these objectives, JUL's position on terrorism has always been clear. The decomposition of terrorism and Nazism is a crime against man and human civilization, which we will never accept, nor will we allow to create a fascist-terrorist despotia on our own territory. The true interest of Albanians in Cosmet is peace, work and equality, which is in line with the general interest of the state community. Yugoslavia is one of the few countries that has preserved all the values of a multinational common life. Dear fellow MPs, as one of the founding members of the United Nations of Yugoslavia, form an unbreakable part of the international community, without questioning at any time the fulfillment of its international obligations. So far, patience has shown in resolving the issue of Cosmet unequivocally shows our full willingness to discuss the crisis. The proposed principles of the Contact Group on the preservation of Serbia and Yugoslavia's sovereignty, the equality of all national communities and the citizens of Cosmet and the political resolution of the crisis form an integral part of our current action on these issues. These principles provide sufficient grounds for sending a delegation of parliamentary parties to the Paris talks. On the other hand, failure to respond to the talks in line with the principles mentioned would give a malicious cause for further Satanisation of Serbia and Yugoslavia, which would create direct assumptions for new pressures. We believe that this delegation, which should express the representation of political parties in the Assembly and the multinational character of Cosmeta, must fully represent our views, contained in the Constitution, the current decisions of the National Assembly and the state bodies on issues of resolving the cosmetic crisis, and above all legitimately expressed will of free and equal citizens. I would like to remind you that at last autumn's meeting, dedicated to the state of Cosmet, the Yugoslav Left firmly advocated full and unforgivable respect for all the Constitution and the legislation of the established mechanisms for the preservation of the territorial integrity and sovereignty of our country. The above principles limit every participant in the interview. No delegation act will be valid until this assembly confirms it. Dear fellow Members of the People, in political action, as well as in life, there are cases that require an increase in party interests and disagreements, requiring the mobilisation of all forces in the preservation of the state and its citizens. Building awareness of the need for peaceful resolution of the cosmetic crisis, while removing the continuing threats to the work of the international community, and especially our willingness to show good will, encourages us to define ourselves, despite numerous disadvantages, to refer the delegation to the upcoming talks. Havala nice. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_1999-02-04-0.u1565	Thank you. There is a word from the people sent by Zarko Jokanovic, head of the "New Democracy" parliamentary club, and let MP Dragan Vesenov, head of the Voodovina Coalition, be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-02-04-0.u1566	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the seriousness of the situation in which our country and our people are located, require us to consider, soberly and without inter-party competitions, all aspects of the problem we have found ourselves in and to find the best mechanisms to protect national and state interests. The new democracy has always seen the best solution to the Kosovo-Methology problem as a political solution. It's better a hundred years to talk, negotiate, than one day to fight. A new democracy believes that the Serbian state delegation should participate in the Paris summit, that the best, most professional and best-quality individuals should be part of the state team, that all good services of the international community should be used in our favour, with the primary goal being to preserve the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the country. In our near past, in co-operation with the international community, the Dayton and Paris Peace Accords, a brutal war was interrupted in our environment and an agreement was reached, which provided peace and normal life for the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, both entities and all three peoples. There is no reason not to do so now, given that arguments and facts are largely on the Serbian side and that the international community makes it very clear to the Albanian side that secession, independence and change of borders are unacceptable. New democracy has always advocated finding solutions on the line of broad autonomy and respect for human rights and freedom, and against secession, terrorism, war conflict and human suffering. The mutual rejection of the extremism of any kind is only the first step in starting dialogue. The new democracy believes that the greatest patriotism today is not to take any false step that would contribute to our enemies and enemies of our country. We have no right to succumb to any kind of euphoria, emotion and myth. At the same time, New Democracy, as an extremely pro-European party, has the obligation to strongly condemn any threat to foreign military intervention and the bombing of our country, because this is not only contrary to international law, but also contrary to the principle of humanity, and not only to lead to a solution to the problem, but to give concealment to extremists of all kinds. Let's talk to everyone, convince ourselves, lobby for our views, fight facts and arguments, which are really on our side, go into diplomatic offensive, accept dialogue and promote purely political solutions. Let's not run from the world and engage in further confrontations with the international community. Let us make peace with the world, let us join as a full member of European and world integration flows, because only this can ensure that the citizens of this country live with the lives of decent people and only in collaboration with the world can we preserve and defend national and state interests. The new democracy is against imposing final solutions by the international community, convinced that the Serbian and Albanian sides, as best known for opportunities in Kosovo and Metohija, alone in mutual dialogue, can come to mutually acceptable solutions. It is necessary to accept the international community's good services, but not the solutions imposed. Because imposed solutions are not permanent solutions. The only solution for both Serbs and Albanians is peace, agreement, respect for human and minority rights and a common path to European and world integration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-02-04-0.u1567	I'm hanging in there. The People's Messenger Dragan Veselinov has the word, and let the People's Messenger Zeljko Simic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-02-04-0.u1568	Dear People's MPs, how could we have come this far and been forced into such a tight time that we must declare our historical decisions? We got there as early as we tried to talk about this in a place like this, and 48 hours before Paris, we'll do a little bit if we do anything. There is no President of the Republic of Serbia here today, there is no President of the Republic of Yugoslavia, and he is the one who holds the most important information about the talks and negotiations with international representatives so far. Even today's speech in this assembly was given not by the prime minister of Serbia, but by the vice president. How long will it be secretly negotiated and signed, and we can argue and argue in public? Should we or should we not go to Paris? It's clear, but what are we carrying in the bag, what are we making? The mistake was committed a long time ago. A mistake was made when we did not politically exploit the fact that Albanians gave up cosmetic autonomy in 1981. They made a big mistake back then. Wasn't supposed to end Cosmet's autonomy, she's the one she should have kept. Would Albanians later agree to return to it or not, it is hardly possible to believe that, but it was not necessary to abolish what they have given up and lost political support in the international public. We should have gotten it by saying, "You won't, we leave it to you, take it." And they lost federal autonomy. They lost federal autonomy, they gave it up. It shouldn't have been like that. We shouldn't have done it ourselves. We should not have destroyed the decentralisation of government in Serbia, it was only to be reorganised by a modern constitution. If we had kept the cosmetic automy, perhaps many in the international public would be on our side today, and we probably wouldn't have suffered such an economic terror, which the abroad imposes on us, a great political isolation. We could've been better. What will the government go to Paris with? She will leave with a proposal on cosmetic autonomy, which she signed with everyone but Albanians. Some Egyptian group has also been catapulted from a historic negotiator. Soon the Sioux will be there, too, if the negotiators in this government find them. It can't. We don't know about that platform or that program. No documents of the Contact Group, Holbrooke or other negotiators who arrived and spoke with President Milosevic, President Milutinovic or Serbian Prime Minister or ministers have ever been forwarded in this assembly. We never got a single document. This assembly did not even receive a document on the agreement between the Serbian government and the representatives of the so-called "Smalls". National or national communities in Kosovo from a month or two ago. We have not been informed today about the Contact Group Plan, which will be discussed in France. We don't have a single document in front of us again. Individuals have it. What should we do? It's hard to advise you in any way, because you've almost missed every historic deadline. But one thing is clear -- at all costs, it is necessary to safeguard Serbia's territorial integrity, because no one is against it. But the political system of Serbia, which you represent, is not worth keeping. I'll tell you one more time - only Serbia from three parts will be whole. If you are not reasonable in France, Serbia will soon be whole, and then you will really be alone. You have to understand that. You can't just go to Paris with an offer to solve the cosmetian issue. It's not Cosmet, it's the whole of Serbia. It's the necessity to reorganize power. Someone said, I think Vice President Seselj, that this government or former government has offered free elections in Kosovo. When did we have free elections in Serbia and not in Cosmet? Didn't Mr. Seselj just lose the presidency because of the manipulation of the number of voters in Cosmet, that several hundred thousand new voters were invented? When was the free electoral system, when we had fair elections? - We didn't. Can we convince the international public that the Serbian government is serious about Kosovo's autonomy without offering to those who really want it? Why is autonomy offered under duress to the cosmetian Albanians who won't offer it and who won't offer it to Vojvodina? Only on the assumption that a new political system is being offered, a decentralised government, will, perhaps, be offered by this government at the last moment seriously in Paris. We're telling you to go to Paris. You're doing your best. You're doing your best. You're doing your best. We don't know your proposal for a conversation. We've never seen your document on an agreement with the Cosmetic National Groups. Negotiate how you know and know, and maybe it's wrong for some to come back. But we wish you success, if you ensure peace, at least peace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-02-04-0.u1569	Thank you. There is a word from MP Jožef Kasa, head of the parliamentary club of the Alliance of Dukes of Hungarians, and let Zeljko Simic, a national MP be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-02-04-0.u1570	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to be very brief because the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians has been representing the same attitude for over a year, and there's no reason to change it today. The Kosovo crisis can only be resolved through negotiations, through talks, dialogue. That is why today we welcome the decision of the SPS, the JUL, the New Democracy, the SPS to go to Paris for negotiations. I think Serbia has a lot of fake heroes, who here in front of the microphone play size, and they're ruining the whole country. Their services need the government to give up in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-02-04-0.u1571	Thank you. There is a word from MP Zeljko Simic, and let the Deputy Prime Minister and MP Tomislav Nikolic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-02-04-0.u1572	Dear Mr. President, honourable members of the presidency, honourable Members of the People's Parliament, to be a national MP in the Parliament of the Republic of Serbia today represents a great honor and challenges increased personal and political responsibility, as we are all ahead of a decision of fate for our people and the future of Serbia and the SR Yugoslavia. Our country is exposed to the most difficult and brutal pressures in the new political era, but also to serious military threats that may pose a question of the survival of peoples and states. Although some comparisons are imposed in themselves, in vain in historical memory we will seek time that may be similar to that of today’s participants and witnesses. This paradoxical century at an end will also record the greatest political, international and civilizational absurdity: that a state that defends its sovereignty, its independence, its territorial integrity, its constitutional and legal order and the freedom of all its citizens will be subjected to repressals that do not have their stand in any legal and legitimate document of the international community. The decision on the isolation of our country and the possible military aggression on its territory, the most cruel violation of established standards of international law, has self-authorised a military organization that, with its dragon measures at the end of the 20th century, marks the greatest threat of peace and security in all parts of the world. With its highly anti-democratic, imperialistic and unilateral policy of double arches towards the situation in Kosovo and Metohija, the NATO Pact has put itself above all international bodies, trampled the UN Charter, showed that the entire international order has been put aside and that the future can only function as a cover for all arbitrary acts of a single force. If the state authorities of Serbia and the SR of Yugoslavia have been publicly insisting for months in efforts to bring only Albanian minorities to dialogue, which can only lead to a peaceful solution to the crisis, while one military alliance accuses themselves of a lack of good faith, then it is more than clear that the NATO Pact's goal is not to establish peace and stability in Cosmet, but to put Serbia and the SR of Yugoslavia in a neo-colonial position, breaking our country's territorial integrity, and putting Europe in a subjugated and dependent, both economic and political position. Serbia is legally and legitimately defending itself against terrorism that threatens the security of all its citizens, regardless of its national and religious membership, and resists separatism that threatens its sovereignty. In return, Serbia and the SR Yugoslavia suffer indictments and military threats, and terrorism and separatism by a major force, the NATO-painted force, are given the right to citizenship. So we are facing a precedent that can have far-reaching devastating consequences on the appearance of the modern world and the future of international relations in general. By defending its legitimate interests, Serbia and the SR Yugoslavia, right now and here, defend not only the dignity and honor of their citizens and the commitment to the free-loving activities of their traditions, but also the legal foundations of the UN Charter. Efforts to respect equality, peace and stability in the world, to defend their southern territory, the origin of which is most credible to bear witness to over 1,300 sacral monuments, 64 of which are embodied in European traditions, the fight for the status of national minorities according to the highest standards -- the principles of which we will not give up, all of which are unequivocally saying that Serbia is unique to a peaceful solution to the crisis through the direct political dialogue of representatives of national communities living in Kosovo and Metohija and state bodies. In this sense, to appeal to Serbia to start a dialogue, and to help terrorism openly, means to make a hypocritical mistake about the address to be addressed. Our people, I am convinced, again hard, but proudly survive all the historical events, all our dramas, chaos and noise, the noise of the almighty who think we will lose our breath, but because of which we will never lose hope that we must resort to our spiritual tree, or the belief that the pursuit of truth is the greatest passion of the human mind, and that devotion to justice is the most important element of the Serbian national character. That is why I am convinced that going to the negotiations will confirm our true commitment to a peaceful solution to the crisis in Kosovo and Metohija and be another in a series of evidence and a real step towards defending the sovereignty and independence of our country and preserving the fluids of authentic democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-02-04-0.u1573	Thank you. Vojislav Seselj, deputy prime minister of the government, volunteered for the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-02-04-0.u1574	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my replica is sent to Dragan Veselinov and Joseph Kassi, especially Joseph Kasi. The man who comes out for this pay phone is looking for Vojvodina as much as for Kosovo. Actually, he meant something else to say. He is seeking for the Vojvodina Albanians the same thing as for the Kosovo Albanians. Of course, that doesn't answer the essence of the question either. Vesenov is in fact seeking for the duchy separatists what he would like to receive from Kosovo separatists. It's not the nationalists, it's the separatists. Until yesterday, he had a companion in the party, and fortunately he got rid of him, who also advocated terrorism. He even started planning terrorist action. As far as Joseph Kasa is concerned, his problem is quite clear. Many national minorities live in Serbia, and all of them are well treated by the Serb people. No minority has ever been denied equality, civil law and freedom. The Serbian people live extremely well with the Hungarian national minority. There are about 300,000 Hungarians in our country and all rights are guaranteed. They have schools in their native language, cultural, informative institutions, political organisations. When it comes to this political organization, there is one problem. They're always forced by a group of people who want their creativity, their nationality to abuse other people's interests. The striking example of such a man is Joseph Kasa. He wants to conflict the Hungarian national minority with the Serb people, to be courted in this way by foreign forces, to tear up Serbia's unity and produce some results that are not in the interest of neither the Serbian nor the Hungarian people. But we would be in his interest, because Joseph Kasu is not interested in the Hungarian national minority in our country. He doesn't care if Hungarians live well or bad, he's only interested in money and personal wealth. Here's your proof. For years, Joseph Kasa has abused the President of the Subotic Assembly for his personal wealth. In that period, and this is the list of parks that he transferred to his daughter, a social property plot, all in the Catastrian municipality of Stari Grad in Subotica. Now I'm going to read you these parcels in a row.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-02-04-0.u1575	Please, the time of the replica is up.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-02-04-0.u1576	Like this, a field - Kelebia, a house, a yard, a field, if you want numbers - 29.032, 28.577, etc., a orchard of Kelebia, a field of Kelebia, an orchard, a vineyard, a field of Kelebia, a field of fields, fields, meadows, etc. A total of 14 hectares, 49 acres, 68 square meters of municipal land, which, according to these solutions and sales contracts, he transferred to his daughter named Fide King of Subotica. He abused the office of president of the municipality for personal and family wealth. Some people here are laughing who have similar experience in running community affairs like this, but I wouldn't look back on them today. The problem is Joseph Kasa and similar to him. That's why people like that are subject to foreign funding, every pressure, every speech. These people, who have no cheeks, morals, who kidnap where they come from and don't think first of all about their people. Who is in the interest of a possible dispute between Serbs and Hungarians? It can't be for Serbs, it can't be for Hungarians. We live well together. According to the Hungarians, we are as the majority people always favored and here is evidence. We gave up one seat among the vice presidents of this assembly, we worked, because according to the proportional structure of the Assembly it was meant to belong to us, and we said no. A Hungarian should sit down and be the vice president of the National Assembly, because we have that attitude, that attitude towards the Hungarian national minority. Such people, led by a Hungarian national political party, simply use every opportunity to eventually challenge Serbs and Hungarians, to profit from the troubles of their people. [[There's a round of applause in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-RS_1999-02-04-0.u1577	He has the word Dragan Vesenov, the answer to the replica, and Joseph Kasa. Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-02-04-0.u1578	It's been a long time since I've heard such nonsense said by Vojislav Seselj. That's all.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-02-04-0.u1579	There is a word, or response to the replica, of the People's Messenger Joseph Kasa.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-02-04-0.u1580	I'm so glad Mr. Seselj showed you a new fake CIA document. By the way, Serbia's MUP has long gone through and given its answer to that. Otherwise, Mr. Seselj's lies are not the first here for this pay phone and he raises false hope in this country and breaks the whole country. I've listened to his versions here in a few years, from Karlobag to Varazdin and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-02-04-0.u1581	Vojislav Seselj, Deputy Prime Minister, responds to the replica. That's the last one, please.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-02-04-0.u1582	Ladies and gentlemen of the People, an immoral man cannot be expected to speak the truth. Mr. Kasa denies my allegations, but why doesn't he go into detail? Is this a solution to the transfer of the municipal land to his daughter, is this a solution, is this a solution? Here, let me give you the purchase agreement between the municipality of Subotica and Fajduk Kinge, one, two, third, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth, tenth, etc. Since a municipality of one person so much land to sell, city building land, because by law, that's not possible. Under the law of the municipalities of one citizen can only give one parcel of compensation or no compensation. If given with compensation, a public auction is required, if it is given without compensation, a similar explanation is required as to why a building plot is given. When given 14 acres, there is no explanation, it is stealing, kidnapping and abuse of official position.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-02-04-0.u1583	There is a word from MP Tomislav Nikolic, vice-president of the Republic government, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Spasoje Krunic Mr. Kasa, you have no right, please. [[Employer Joseph Kasa is looking for a replica.]] You challenged the replica, you had the right to answer, and that's over, you have no right to do it by the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Kasa, you have no right, you have caused a replica, he has answered, you have answered, and by the Rules of Procedure only twice. Please, you have no right. I'm sorry. Please, I ask the Assembly to return to the basic subject.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-02-04-0.u1584	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the fate of this call to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is that there is almost no normal session, no session called calmly, no haste and no burden. The fate of this calls on the National Assembly to address the most important national issues of the Republic of Serbia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. The fate of this parliament was determined by elections held at the end of 1997, where no one achieved the majority, the elections that led us to co-operate in this assembly. I would like, after this term is over, each of us individually can look into the eyes of every citizen of Serbia and say proudly, yes, I was a national MP at a time when the fate of Serbia and the Serbian people broke. Today we have another one in a series of difficult sessions, and I know it's a bright and unhinged desire for our enemies to take advantage of each other in this session, who knows which way, that we are fighting, and the third one to use. Today he has spoken, and he will speak many messengers. I suppose each of the MPs spoke from the heart and had only one wish in mind - to contribute with his speech and work to ensure that Serbia remains as much as it is today, not a higher rate, but a lower rate. Today, we should decide how to respond to another blackmail and another ultimatum, to show courage and reason, and to care for the state, and to care for the people, to leave aside the disagreement over who has greater trust in the people, who is more successful, to relive everyday earthly life after this session, and to rise up in this session, because we are guided by the past, because rare Serbian parliaments, which did not rise above the everyday life when the fate of Serbia and the Serbian people were to be resolved. I'm convinced you shouldn't go to France. There's so much evidence and facts to support my claim. The call, the way we call ourselves there, the composition of participants, blackmailers, tutors, mentors, terrorists on one side, and Serbia on the other. Are those who think, or at least say they should go, convinced that they can remain strong and strong enough there, are they really sure that the results will be favourable for Serbia and the Serbian people? If the National Assembly today decides that a delegation of the Republic of Serbia travels to France and thus eliminates a direct threat to bombing, no Serbian radical will be included in the delegation. It would break the heart and the radical that was going, and the radicals who would stay waiting for him. For many reasons there is no place for us there, not only because we know that Serbia's attempt to resolve things peacefully and diplomaticly -- to end up with failure, not only because many of us, who are at the top of the Serbian Radical Party, will be banned from entering France under normal circumstances, and why we should be asked to let us go under the pretext that circumstances are abnormal, not only because there will be an advantage for the enemies of Serbia and the Serbian people, not only because Serbs will sit opposite those who beastly kill Serbian children, and something with them calmly talk, not just because we are in this assembly and in the referendum to not allow anyone to interfere with our internal affairs. We will not be because the computers have solved the problem of Kosovo and Metohija, because everything is already written, to the last point. But if our expectations turn out to be wrong, if it turns out that those who advocate today are right and that attempt to settle things peacefully, if Serbia remains as much today, if Kosovo and Metohija remain in Serbia's legal system, if the verdict is not already written, if something is agreed there without tightening the Serbian door and bending Serbian hands behind their backs, I will, and I suppose the other Serbian radicals, publicly congratulate those who return with such voices. I must confess that I will send those who go to him with anxiety and coldness and that I will not wait for their return. The Serbian Radical Party will always bow to the will of the majority in the National Assembly, the will of most MPs in the National Assembly is for us the will of the people. If the people's will today is to accept the talks in the dungeon that NATO has prepared for the Serbian delegation in France, a happy trip to those who go there. Always keep in mind only one thing - in this Serbia, which you leave waiting for you, not just you and your children, in this Serbia live our children, the children of us who love Serbia more than anything in the world, whom we want well more than anything in the world. That's why our thoughts will be with those who are in France. Today I do not ask for words, which I would in any way condemn the MPs who plead here in favour of leaving. Goes "bears to the hole." I can't believe there's someone there who's willing to betray, although there are some who didn't want to go to talks in Serbia's Pristina, and they would go to French Paris. If you're going, be prepared for all temptations, there you won't be engaged in diplomacy. They'll drag you into prison with guards outside the door, you won't see the day white, you'll be alone, isolated from everything. Outside NATO guards, don't forget, the greatest enemy of the Serb people. A NATO association of villains, usurper of power, a defence alliance that has never and never defended itself, but only attacked, under the pretext that democracy and security of America are at stake. NATO is the ugliest word in the world, the word our children have been afraid of for seven years. Remember, you've never sat across from such an enemy. Hold on well, what you experience there is nothing compared to what is waiting for you in Serbia, if you give in. You must not accept the governor and the occupation army. Put Serbia, its citizens and the Constitution above every piece of paper, if you can. If you can't, get out of France. If you're taking my advice, don't go. Representatives of the Albanian national minority should talk to them in Serbia, so they can attend whoever they want. We can't make them talk for ten months, we've been suffering terror for decades, harassment, murder, rape, kidnapping, humiliation, night terror in our houses, on our roads, in our fields, in our factory. How can we acknowledge all this as a war, that the two states have been at war in Kosovo and Metohija, so one has lost, and now agrees to a peace conference and is seeking the support of the great forces to preserve some of their territory? Think about what this departure means internationally. In addition, try not to turn out after that, Serbia will not calmly solve Kosovo and Metohija's problem. Unfortunately, it is obvious that the solution to Kosovo and Metohija will be a military defeat for all those who attack Serbia with a gun in their hand. All over the world, the states are peacefully solving conflicts with terrorists. Terrorists are defeating to ensure peace for the citizens. We are ready to bring that defeat to Albanian terrorists even when we return. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-02-04-0.u1585	There is the word of the Messenger of the people, Spasoi (Kronić), and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Zivorad Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-02-04-0.u1586	Ladies and gentlemen, going to France is inevitable, necessary, necessary, I'd say he's welcome. It is an opportunity to defend Serbia by defending it and it is an opportunity for the truth, which is hard to break into the world, to be brought out, not once, not twice, but more times. To prove to each other the truth, we've trained quite a bit, but it's not too much use. What is important and important to us today? Who will represent our country at negotiations in France. It must certainly be respectable, wise people, measured, patient, and reasonable, aware of their work. God forbid there should be any possibility of someone, in accordance with their nature or in harmony with the tendency to make a simple point, saying something that will be offensive or unreasonable. This is the most difficult and most important national task our country currently has. It is therefore important that the team be composed of non-partisan, but national, of wise, sober, and collected people. It will be a confirmation of this country's readiness to solve the disaster we are in politically. It will be a confirmation that we have more wisdom than others think. The sign, by God's will, is also a cross at the temple of Christ's salvation in Pristina. As others raise arms to this country, Serbs raise the cross. It's a message to the Christian world and the whole world, who we are, what we are and what our intentions are. It is a message that we are for equality of all in Kosovo and Metohija, but also equality in the legal order of Serbia and Yugoslavia. No major Albania, no independent Kosovo, no third republic. France, chosen by someone else's will, will have the opportunity to remind one of our delegations that the respected Mr. Ziskar de Esten, when he visited Serbia and Belgrade, said in his first sentence: "The Notre Dame bell is still moaning today by celebrating the victory of your army in Kosovo." There is no sacrifice for Kosovo we will not bear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-02-04-0.u1587	There is the word of the Messenger of the people, Živorad Djordjevic, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Vojislav Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-02-04-0.u1588	Dear People's MPs, our country and our leadership have a difficult task to defend sovereignty, freedom and their dignity from the attack of a cruel and raw international group of tragically unintelligent politicians and politicians. There was no such case in history that so much power and power would shine to endanger the independence and freedom of a small, and such a proud people. It is not a comfort that unlived lovers, senile military leaders, political mediocrity, stupid politics, as well as the tragic support of this Western violence by the government of the once imperial state, and today a country whose government is founded its survival on the mercy of the West, which is precisely the state that wants to humiliate and destroy. They're all doing this because we dared to be complex and independent and dignified, because we don't give our wealth, which we want to be hosts, not servants in our own country. They need vases, informants, assholes. They need undisturbed harassing of our roads and uninterrupted looting and devastation of our treasures. So they bowed to a dangerous alliance with the most vicious army of modern humanity, an alliance with Albanian terrorism based on Islamic fundamentalism. From there, they are not disturbed by the corpses of innocent people in rabbles. They don't blink when young men die in cafes. They don't have a conscience for the grief of citizens who have been killed or taken by force by relatives. But all those time generals, with their political ambitions coming up, all those white-world ladies of different levels of complexity and other different fools, get so excited when terrorists get hurt. Whenever we want to stop terrorism, they want to punish us. Those who swear to the rights of man, tell us that they will kill us today, that we may live better tomorrow. NATO is an executioner and in history unrecorded, incorrect, dangerous and cynical policies. Moreover, NATO plays an increasingly decisive role in creating such a policy. NATO is becoming a demented political association, with violent ambitions to harass beyond all laws and relations in modern civilization. The latest decisions, to bomb innocent countries at the mercy and intent of its sad leader, NATO has thrown the UN under its feet. The United Nations practically doesn't exist anymore. They are today a scandalous sicko, with no life under NATO umbrella. International law has come down to Mrs. Luis Arbur's tragic role, which shows an overwhelming desire for circus acrobatics. Today, the international community has broken down by a group of penalizing states and nations with the help of mujahedin and then the gendarmes. The Hague court is not threatening Albanian terrorists, but our forces of order that prevent terrorist crimes. I believe there will come a time when they will be tried by NATO leaders, who are trying to make it impossible for us to prevent terrorists and their crimes. The path of Mujahedin from Cosmet to Western Europe is not too far. When mujahedins start killing innocent citizens in the West, their public and their courts will have to raise a question of NATO leaders' responsibility for today turning their cannons on those who want to prevent terrorism. Today's silence of Western civilization before the arrival of mujahedin and their crimes against the cosmetic citizens will be fatal to them, just as much as the underrated threat of Hitler and fascism before World War II. The JUL also demands and hopes that the upcoming negotiations will respect the indications of the definition of the Contact Group on the preservation of the sovereignty of our country. We will not allow any moment to endanger the sovereignty of the country. The preservation of sovereignty and independence in our country is a major flow of policy of our leadership and President Slobodan Milosevic and their defence in such difficult conditions is the extraordinary achievement of this people. Accepting the Contact Group that problems in Kosovo can be solved by political means is a recognition of our efforts to give dialogue an absolute primate over each other. It encourages the suggestion that equality of all ethnic communities in Cosmet is achieved. I remind you that JUL advocated the equality of all peoples and peoples and at a time when such an attitude was a great political heresy. That is why today we are giving full support to the efforts of all the national communities in Cosmet to be equal, because that is the only way they can survive. The honourable MPs, despite all the obvious struggle with Goliath, translates into the field of political solutions, showing that David’s wisdom and courage surpassed Goliath in warfare. If there were more Davids like this in the world today, Goliath's topaz would have gone into oblivion. I believe that one day future generations will do much better than this present world to assess who David really was and who Goliath was. Because history will remember this time by being dominated by the greatest world power on the world stage, not by its technology, development and intelligence, but by the violent seduction of alleged democracy and human rights around the world and the scandals of its supreme sheriff. So, by shame. They will remember history this time and by the heroic struggle of this people, never more politically unique in preserving freedom, sovereignty and dignity, by that, and not by shame, we will leave deep traces in history.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-02-04-0.u1589	There is a word from MP Voja Zivkovic, and may MP Stevo Dragisic, head of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary club, be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-02-04-0.u1590	The Honorable President, respected members of the government, fellow MPs, Kosovo and Metohija are today at the heart of the world's public and are being imposed by world powers as Europe's most important political problem. The core of the cosmetic problem, however, has been found many times, in an effort by a larger number of Albanians to separate this part of Serbia's territory from Serbia. To that end, part of the Albanians reached out for weapons, as in some regions last year we had extremely massive and serious terrorist activities. In addition, the years-long homogenisation of Albanians on an anti-Serbian and pro-fascist platform has grown into open hatred and terror during last and early this year, which has taken many lives. Cosmet has become the biggest temptation for Serbia and Yugoslavia and our country is now facing the most responsible task in its recent history. The sovereignty and integrity of our country are directly at stake. This time, the entire international community is involved in the problem and its resolution, and above all the United States and NATO pacts. It is, unfortunately, the reality that we must respect, however heavy this burden is for this generation and, through years of conflict and isolation, our country is exhausted. The international community would be welcome if it were well-intentioned. However, we are witnessing that Albanian terrorism has grown thanks, above all, to the well-being of the West. Such a relationship with the West has allowed terrorists to consolidate and uninterruptedly raise funds and weapons for new bloodshed in Cosmet. Blackmails, pressures and threats are the means that the international community communicates with us when it comes to the Kosovo problem. In such conditions, we must set a long-term strategy, not only when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija, but also when it comes to the future of Serbia and Yugoslavia. We must be aware of the fact that the basic condition for the survival of Cosmet in Serbia is that Serbs and Montenegrins stay in Kosovo and Metohija. The Serbian element in the province must be strengthened, Serbs must be motivated to stay on their hearths. To do so, we must ensure security and strengthen the feeling that they are not left to themselves. This generation in Serbia and Yugoslavia has been given a heavy duty to set off the Kosovo knot. We can't let terrorists and road robbers take part of the country on the threshold of the 21st century. That is why we must fight for a just solution, which will finally bring peace to those areas and allow all citizens to live in peace and freedom. The main goal of the Western countries, and above all America, is to keep Serbia from Kosovo and Metohija and they do not hide it. We must not agree to this, not only because of the historic Serbian deeds in Cosmet, but because of the Serbs living in the southern province, but because of the future of the entire Serbian and Serbian people. There's a threshold of endurance and threats and blackmail beyond which you can't cross when threats and blackmails lose effect. Serbs and Montenegrins from Kosovo and Metohija have shown a high degree of endurance and patriotism. They remained despite the zoom of terrorists despite kidnapping and murder, in their hearths, thus protecting the state's interests in those areas. The situation in Kosovo and Metohija has been radicalised by the operation of Albanian separatists and terrorists, with the support of primarily the work of the international community, and served as such for a new campaign against the Serbian country. The crimes of Albanian terrorists, kidnapping, killing civilians, as well as the deaths of police officers and soldiers are being silenced. A media machine for the anatising of Serbs and Serbs has been restarted. This time, it seems with an open intention to preserve the remaining groups of Albanian terrorists. The West is actually giving Albanian terrorism a chance with threats and blackmail. Part of the Western countries has sided with road robbers, kidnappers, murderers, criminals, and it is against the efforts of a sovereign state to establish peace, protect its citizens from terrorism and preserve their own integrity. We are faced with another injustice and the double arches of powerful countries, which encourage Albanian terrorism and anarchy and thus openly become allies of the breaking of a sovereign state. We don't have much choice. We can choose to enter this century as a blackmailed and broken country of humiliated citizens or as a dignified state that can defend itself and defend itself. We will not, we are at a historic turning point, responsible for the past and the future. Serbs and Montenegrins, and all the decent citizens of Kosovo and Metohija, are aware that this time requires a lot of denial and are ready for new temptations. They are aware that if we give in to terrorist demands, then they remain at the mercy of those who have organised the killings, the kidnapping of civilians, those who seek to separate Kosovo and Metohija as far away as possible from Serbia, those who produce crimes and hide the real criminals. The people of Cosmeta know well that only the unique and the wise can resist the great pressures that we are exposed to. Six centuries ago, we lost the state because of our disagreement in Kosovo. This generation of Serbs must not allow it. That's why our unity and our style at this point is the greatest weapon in the preservation of our country. If the Albanian political parties could unite on terrorism and support the so-called Kosovo Liberation Army, with all its criminals, political parties in Serbia must remain united to defend their territory. We can't go without the world, but we can't and we can't accept dictatorships and blackmails. That's why we think the trip to France is a priority at this point. I support the proposal by the Secretary-General of the Socialist Party of Serbia and the head of the parliamentary group to make a decision and send a delegation to Paris. Not because we believe that they will be able to fight for all that, but simply, we have to open that dilemma, whether Serbia is to talk or not. Serbia has always been and always longed for problems in Kosovo and Metohija to be resolved peacefully.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-02-04-0.u1591	There is a word from MP Stevo Dragisic, head of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary club, and be prepared Verko Stevanovic, a national MP.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-02-04-0.u1592	Ladies and gentlemen, the problems with Albanian separatism last year have come to a culmination. Albanian separatism took on all characteristics of terrorism last year. The organisation of cowardly actions from the ambush and the shooting of members of the interior ministry, the abduction of civilians, their massacre, the throwing into a credential form of terrorism and separatism that the Republic of Serbia faced openly last year. However, the problem of terrorism is being solved in our country as well as in all other countries in the world. If this terrorism had no support from the side, the Republic of Serbia would have resolved the problem very quickly. The problem is those who support Albanian separatism and terrorism. These are, above all, the United States, Great Britain and other Western forces. This is where the question arises - why? The answer to that question is quite clear. The United States, above all, and its Western allies, aim to place their land forces on the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. With his army to set foot on the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. This is the ultimate goal of this whole crisis, which is designed and supported by the United States. To achieve that goal, they needed first of all the crisis. They needed Albanians to motivate terrorism. The Republic of Serbia's response was expected to curb terrorism by means allowed by every sovereign state. They used this as an argument for pressure on the Republic of Serbia, allegedly excessive use of force, violation of human rights, repression of the state, etc. They couldn't say -- Albanians are terrorists, they deal with terrorism, because in some situations, when their vital interests are threatened, they fight terrorism, and in the world they are allegedly the main leaders of the fight against terrorism. That's why they were embarrassed to admit that Albanians were terrorists in Cosmet. All this has been masked by the Albanian struggle to protect their human rights and freedoms that are allegedly threatened in the Republic of Serbia. On the pretext of fighting for their human rights, the Americans set out to protect the Shipars. But so far, no one has told them what their rights and freedoms are at risk. Our Constitution guarantees the protection of all human rights and freedoms that exist today in modern legal denials. For example, freedom of movement and housing, is that freedom denied to the Shiptars in Cosmet? No one's questioning that. The right to judicial protection means that no one can be convicted of a criminal offence and deprived of liberty before the court gives him the sentence of justice. And it is understood that during the trial, they can exercise the right to defend themselves and these rights today, even those engaged in terrorism, can use it. For example, Azem Vlassi was a lawyer for some of the Shiptar terrorists that our court tried. Right to the protection of health. All the hospitals in Kosovo and Metohija territory are state hospitals and are packed with Shipara. Even their children are being treated in some hospitals in Belgrade. The right to school - they denied it to themselves. They refused to go to regular state schools and formed some kind of parallel school system. They also denied themselves the right to work. Many of them do not work in state institutions, state institutions, and those who work were exposed to the repression of their countrymen, some even lost their lives because of it. The right of property and entrepreneurship, the richest people in Kosovo and Metohija are Shiparians, they have private businesses, they deal with large businesses. So they're not denied that right either. The right and freedom of religion, whether any Shiptar complained of freedom of religion, none. Election rights have denied themselves, as have many other rights and freedoms, guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, are available to the Shiptars, only the problem is that they do not want to use them. If they don't want to use them, then they can't even say their rights and freedoms are compromised. Already some of their representatives have recently started to speak openly about what their ultimate goals are. The ultimate goal of Shiparian terrorism is independent Kosovo, the creation of an independent state. In fact, they reveal their true face, and those who defend them, who weigh them in the world, have also come to the face of the truth, and at one point they will have to tell us what they really want from us. This peace conference was designed, as I said, to give NATO the legality to set up its forces on the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. All it takes is for someone from here to sign it, to guarantee that they can safely settle and deploy in Kosovo and Metohija, for God's sake, to carry out the peace that needs to be achieved in Paris. The problem is that this Contact Group has firstly given itself the right to handle issues of a sovereign state on its own. Principles, which they say should be accepted in general and that there should be no talks in Rambujeu, are such that Kosovo and Metohija really give all the prerogatives of statehood. Here, in the opening statement, the Deputy Prime Minister listed some of these prerogatives. I'll remind you. It is an independent system of judiciary, executive power, legislative authority, tax management, etc. These are the basic prerogatives of statehood. Let's just take, for example, taxes. Taxes are fiscal instruments, to which the state fills its budget. Where these fiscal instruments go, it's called the state register. If taxes from Kosovo and Metohija, which are collected, go to Kosovo and Metohija's register, then Kosovo and Metohija have their own state register. It's similar with some other questions. According to these principles, Kosovo and Metohija should even have a president, president of Kosovo and Metohija. However, they do not say - the republic, but they say - the president of Kosovo and Metohija. It's one of the principles that the Contact Group has adopted as one that is not questionable. The question then arises what should be decided in Rambouje, if they have solved everything in advance. We need to decide how these basic principles will be developed. So they're not being questioned, they're just asking questions about their development, their implementation into life. When they do, then someone needs to guarantee the implementation of the agreement. And as I hear these days, some are already offering to be guaranteed that agreement, it's NATO. If we allow NATO to come to our territory, Kosovo and Metohija will no longer be in the constitutional and legal system of the Republic of Serbia and one moment Kosovo and Metohija will be fundamentally independent and will be able to formally declare their independence without us being able to prevent it. Therefore, whoever goes to France should keep this in mind: that no foreign troops should be on our territory, they must not, with our consent to come to our territory, forcefully try, we will resist, and we will see what success we will have. But with our consent, that can't happen. Not in the light of Kosovo and Metohija's status in these negotiations, which will mean changing the constitutional -- legal order of the Republic of Serbia, which is established by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Anything else can be negotiated, provided that Kosovo and Metohija remain in our legal system. You can talk about broad autonomy, but it's really autonomy, not statehood. To guarantee them an independent resolution of some issues, which could be of interest to the national communities, living in Kosovo and Metohija, to ensure that they do so themselves, but that none of the attributes of statehood get into their own hands. Otherwise, Kosovo and Metohija will not be in the constitutional and legal system of the Republic of Serbia, we will not be able to implement our own laws on the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. And one who is unable to enforce his laws over a territory means that he is not in control of that territory means that it is no longer Serbia. This is what will be discussed in Rambuje and I hope those who leave here have it in mind and will never agree to Kosovo and Metohija leaving our sovereignty [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_1999-02-04-0.u1593	There is a word from MP Verko Stevanovic, let the MP of the people be prepared, Mr Cvetkovic. Please, just to warn you, you've seen that we've continued the discussion, there are ten other discussions that have been reported, and when we're done, we'll take a break, because then the government will be able to, on the basis of the discussions that have been presented here, draw conclusions that will be proposed to the National Assembly for adoption.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-02-04-0.u1594	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we are truly in an extremely delicate situation. For a long time or more, we have never been in a relative situation, nor as a state, nor as a people, nor as a people, nor as MPs. Neither I, who have been here for five years in this house, nor those who are just over a year or longer than I have been here, have been in a more delicate situation. Why am I telling you this? Because the MPs from the MP group that I belong to from the beginning of this crisis have chosen every word they say, think about it, know that each one of them is measured, each one worth, that each one is carrying his plus or his minus, but that's why it bothers that some of them today were unmeasured. So I ask you that these MPs who speak behind me take care of it, and that these conclusions, which will come from the Government, be with measured words. The situation that's getting wet, which is standing in front of us, asks us to act in the following way: firstly, responsibly. What does that mean, and did we act like one? Let's say we did. We really are. We heard, we know, twenty times a delegation of the government of the Republic of Serbia tried to talk to the other side. Unfortunately, there was no real co-operation and no real meeting. What bothers us if we continue to act responsibly? Nothing. If someone says it's that this meeting isn't in Serbia, but in Paris, and I say, it doesn't mean anything if they're real people. There is no question, there is no such thing as cannot be justifiedly defended anywhere in the world as in Serbia. And if we don't leave, then we'll really tell those who don't love us, that we've targeted those previous meetings, that we haven't done it with good faith to solve the problem, which, of course, is not true. So let's decide responsibly and send our delegation to Paris. Second, we must act bravely. What does that mean? It doesn't mean brave to say "no" to Paris because of some things we don't like about the proposal that really exist. That means thinking a little differently. Wonder who we are, who we are as a people? The answer will be found, we are a people who, in their souls, have Kosovo in their hearts. We are messengers who have Serbia in their souls and hearts and have a people. So that's how we have to look at things. We need to be as MPs, who have been elected and come here, to ask what they think we're representatives of here. I can honestly say that most of them think we have to go to Paris. Finally, we have to ask ourselves individually, me as Verko Stevanović, what does the Shumadi think, what does Kragujevac think, what do these people think? We must remember that in this Kragujevac, next to us who have been in it for a long time, over half the population or about half the population has come from Kosovo in the last 40 years. It's similar in Arangelovac, it's similar in the King, it's similar in Smederev. They remember and think of their graves, their grandfathers, their fathers, and we all together on our sanctities, our spirituality. So if we think that way, we must boldly decide to go to Paris. Thirdly, we must behave wisely, rationally, and wisely. What does that mean? We need to take a reasonable look at the facts ahead of us. The real fact is that we have a proposal to contact the group, we do have it, he's here. The second is the fact that there's a meeting in Paris. The third is the fact that neither major Albania nor the Republic of Kosovo nor Kosovo are seen in the proposed document. The fourth is the fact that 85% of things suit us, that they can be accepted. The next is the fact that this is the last offer in a series of offers that we have, that it may be the last one and that there will be no more offers, and maybe, if there are, it will be worse than this one, because we must have it as experience from experience with Croatia and Bosnia. So no doubt all the facts are on our side. These are, therefore, some facts that we must bear in mind and we must wisely, wisely, responsibly, and courageously go to Paris. If we do, and we have to do this, we will take the first step towards resolving the crisis in Kosovo and in our country. It's a first step, a very significant step, perhaps a last step, but if we do it, which I don't doubt, then we'll be able to take a second step, which is also very important, very important, and this second step, we'll decide and determine a delegation, a group of people going to negotiations in Paris. And that's one delicate question. We have to choose the most responsible, the least, the most educated, the most tolerated people and the smartest people we have, and we have them. We all know we have them. Not a single member who doesn't have all these elements that I've listed. He can't, because he can, with one word, influence the process of all of this coming. So, in my opinion and in the opinion of all of us, it has to happen. If we do this second step rationally, wisely, if we don't act partyically, because today and in the future the party can't be, blackmail can't be, then we'll do the right second step. If, therefore, and we do so in the right way, which I have no doubt, then we are followed by a third step, so the departure of these people, the best among us, in Paris and the attempt, and hopefully by success, to repair this plan for some percent. If this works, which I have no doubt, if the right people go there, the proposal will be acceptable to us. So, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am convinced that we will vote unanimously for the departure of our delegation to Paris. Anything else would be devastating for both the people and the state. That second, believe me, I can't imagine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-02-04-0.u1595	Thank you. There is a word from the MP of Life Cvetkovic, and let the MP of the people Jorvanka Tabakovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-02-04-0.u1596	Dear MPs, what has been happening in Serbia in recent months must be the harshest precedent in international relations in this century. The unprecedented pressures and military threats, which Serbia and Yugoslavia are exposed to only because they defend their national and state unity, their state integrity and sovereignty, are governed by world powers. And this time they're acting on the already seen scenario. For years, media lies have been invented against us. We've been persecuted. We've closed the doors of the international community. Our people have suffered and suffered the consequences of sanctions and all other measures. We were found guilty only because we defend ourselves against open and merciless Shiptarian terrorism. At the same time, they help, gather, organise, train, arm, and fund terrorists, and their only goal is the secession of Kosovo and Metohija from Serbia. Let us remember in 1981, when the Cypriots openly went out into the streets, demanding that our Kosovo and Metohija be their Kosovo republic. When that didn't work, they changed tactics. Terrorism is considered a more adequate method now, all with the help of the great forces, who, in their greed to subdue other nations, have laid down the basic principles of international relations and their own documents, joining the grips on Serbs and Serbia. All of this is packaged in the area of democracy, reportedly caring for the endangered human rights of national minorities. Whenever solutions were reported, they would fall into fire, to finally offer their assistance to terrorists these days by bombing Serbia. Serbia cannot hesitate, it will not give up its basic principles, protect its territory and sovereignty, from ensuring equal rights for all citizens, regardless of religious or racial membership. The world's powers are well aware of who's right. They don't tolerate terrorism in their country, but they deal hard with it. When terrorists threaten their direct interests, they don't choose the means to deal with them. They chase them out of the country, and when Serbia defends its own, they openly put themselves aside from terrorists. That's what we call a double standard policy, and they'll get that boomerang back. Terrorists, weapons, drugs, mujahedins are being inserted from Albania. Everyone knows about tourist centers in Bajram Curi, Tropoji, Hasa. Is Serbia responsible for that too? Who is responsible for the chaos in Albania, who is being threatened and disproved there. Terrorists at Cosmet today are killing soldiers, cops, kidnapping children, women, old men, and for all of this, the powers make us guilty. Will America and Europe, where Serbia is, come out of the sand. Our representatives, President Milutinovic and concrete experts left 18 times, but the Cypriots did not come and pressure us again, instead, by NATO military force. Does this mean that their 50-year anniversary of NATO wants to increase bombs against Serbia. He said, "Whose law lies in the topless?" His tracks smell like inhumanity. In the name of truth and justice, in the name of our unjustly accused people, we ask that you world powers here in Serbia call all things by your real names and show that you are for true justice. Serbia, gentlemen, is a major test for both America and Europe. Is history going to give you a transitional grade, depending on you? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-02-04-0.u1597	Thank you. There is a word from MP Jorgovanka Tabakovic, and let the MP Ramadan Ameti be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-02-04-0.u1598	Kosovo and Metohija will not be outside Serbia, they promise us all. We must not allow Serbia to be in Kosovo and Metohija. The Balkans are defined as an area of unfinished peace for the United States. They're trying to finish the job. Yugoslavia is still being treated as a symbol of its failure to build a new world order, which is why the situation in Yugoslavia and its policy are a threat to the national interests of the United States. We have clear main American interests at this time, which is the security of raw materials, and above all energy in the Persian Gulf, all the way to the Black Sea, because they need to keep their reserves. The goal is also to control the territorial approach in the area, so control of the Balkans. We also know that foreign policies of all countries do not motivate feelings, past friendships or war alliances, but exclusively interests. However, again on the NATO scene, one alleged massacre and a Contact Group. In the middle of 1993, the U.S. was reintroduced to the new role of the North-Atlantic Pact, which had to leave its framework of action or to leave the historic scene. In the fall of 1993, when the intention faced strong resistance from Moscow, a compromise solution was found, some waiting room for NATO they called a partnership for peace. Under these circumstances, the crisis in Bosnia has become an important test in which NATO's alliance was to show its need to exist as such or prove unsuccessful, as before KEBS, the Western European Union and the European Community. In February 1994, what a coincidence the case of Markale was created. Although it was not determined who was responsible for this attack, the West immediately accused Serbs and on February 6th, NATO performed the first operation in its history, so-called. An operation outside the framework, referring to the ultimatum of the Republika Srpska Army. Two months later, an international Contact Group was created covering the United States, Russia, Great Britain, France and Germany. For the first time since 1991, Russia has been accepted in this group as an equal partner of the United States and Western European countries, but has mostly left the US initiative behind in its work. The Contact Group remains, unfortunately, the main form of harmonisation of the interests of the external crisis actor in Yugoslavia and the entire international community. All further events in 1995, including the Croatian Operation "Storm" against Krajina, along with, if not the green one, then the yellow light given to Croatia. It only speaks in favor of the planned activities of the NATO alliance, which at that time had to prove its role, and today I point to a similarity. NATO bombings in Republika Srpska had the formal occasion of a re-explosion at the Markale market. Ten Tomahawk cruise missiles were fired, which had more political than military messages. In the media, it remains undetected that the result of an operation called peace enforcement was, in fact, ethnic cleansing and refugee several hundred thousand Serbs from Krajina and Western Bosnia. It didn't happen again. The neglect of these experiences would be a real political blindness. They're trying to make peace again today, and that's why we're talking. I would like to remind myself that from the signing of the Holbrok-Milosevic agreement, from 13 October to 1 February in Kosovo and Metohija, the pedantic and language statistics recorded - 677 terrorist attacks, 65 killed, of which 48 civilians, 17 police officers, 50 kidnapped, and the number of injured is not known. Thirty attacks on the army, two killed and a hijacking of soldiers. The attacks on the border with Albania, whose inviolability is sworn by all who are allegedly uninvited and blind to Albania's role in creating a crisis in Kosovo and Metohija. The role of the verifier was to create a line of separation between the two sides, just as in the conclusions of the Contact Group and mentioned. They stepped in as mediators in the exchange of hijacked terrorists. Contacted them as with the other side, forgetting that the basic role of the verification mission was, in fact, monitoring the implementation of the agreement and reporting to the OSCE, and so on. international communities. Mr. Walker has given himself the right to present himself and the investigative judge, the pathologist and the prosecutor in the framework of this mission at the same time. Then, in a surprising short time, he "successfully" ended an action to liberate the abducted Serbs from the village of Nevoljana. Believe me, it's very difficult for me to rise up and talk about this as a politician, because the names of the people I know, the time I grab on Fridays to get home before nightfall, it's not easy to forget. All this raises doubts about the good intentions of the Contact Group, because one extremely malicious, tending statement by Mr. Walker, concerning events in the village of Račak, made its conclusions and without any valid arguments that the current authority is guilty of alleged massacre and even requires suspension of members of the Yugoslav and MUP armies, and I am afraid that the Finnish pathologists are also in the role of preparing the scenarios that we have already seen. It says the fact that the official report was not delivered, was postponed by a month and travelled back. Won't the real truth about the autopsy be learned late, like the truth about the Markals, when, based on the UNPROFOR's secret report, David Byner wrote an article called "Anatomia Massacre", and the existence of the report was confirmed by Yasusi Akashi, a special adviser to the secretary general, to German television. About massacres in Peca, bombings on cafes in Pristina, almost nothing, or just any news in the world media. The transitional agreement resembles the treaty of the gullible, within which one who looks at it will objectively serve the conquering goals of the other, but I doubt the warm and even agreement. Paul Valerie, many of you known today would have a lot of rights to say that civilizations are mortal, as well as human beings, if we don't defend them. For us today, supporters of the religion of human rights demean not only the right to defend Kosovo and Metohija, but also every patriotic thought and feeling that the nation and country are already turned into fascist values. Not for no reason, because patriotism today has become the final obstacle to the progress of the new planetary American empire, with its tyrantic freedoms and human rights, which are limited to political rights only. Today America does not choose funds, it is ready to use military aggression, without the legitimacy of the United Nations, economic pressures, with or without the support of the world trade organisation, trade wars and the continued use of the ideological-moral human rights arsenal. This commitment to human rights has long been clear, benefits only them, and we are offered protection, protection that is never innocent, nor free, and is mainly paid by addiction and loss of sovereignty. At that price, we must not pay for NATO's action to impose peace. Kosovo and Metohija will not be outside Serbia, everyone promises, and I ask that we do not allow Serbia to be in Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-02-04-0.u1599	The People's MP Ramadan Ameti has the word, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Fevzi Muric.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-02-04-0.u1600	Dear MPs, the Honorable Presidency, I had no intention of discussing, nor was I prepared for a big discussion, but it led me to apply for the speaker to the opening presentation of Mr Markovic. Namely, he unilaterally declares one side wrong, not seeking out the cause of the situation. It is known that Kosovo has been violently demoted by the constitutional position, that this assembly has imposed extraordinary measures, that temporary measures have been imposed on collectives and that a chaotic situation has arisen there. In defence of their rights, Albanians from Kosovo demonstrated, and the government ruthlessly murdered innocent children, women. If I'm lying, the international community is not lying. Secondly, no one paid attention to the democratic movement in Kosovo. It's just that he's been denied, and that's how this situation is today. Furthermore, he persistently insists on evicting Serbs from Kosovo. The pay phone has been repeatedly used by members of the Bujanovac MPs, Veljkovic Rangel, to move a large number of Serbs from Bujanovac, who are in Belgrade today, and this same Veljkovic Rangel is the first violin 30 years old, the first official of Bujanovac. A hundred analyses have been performed, no moment has ever been established. So these things were unnecessarily frustrated by the people, and there's been this situation where we are today. All nations are on their premises, they have the right to regulate their relations in accordance with international rights, and they need to be able to do so.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-02-04-0.u1601	There is the word of the Messenger of the people, Fevzija Muric; and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Radovan Pankov.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-02-04-0.u1602	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, here, this behavior of elected men, elected MPs, speaks enough of the position of all others, who do not think like them. This kind of primitiveism, I think, in the next election, the people won't forgive them. Also, no wonder the Messengers are like this, when their leader is like this. Today's spoken words and the behaviour of Deputy Prime Minister Vojislav Seselj, as well as the relationship between this government and all previous governments towards one third of non-Serb nationalities, speaks sufficiently of the unsustainable position of one third of the citizens. Someone just asked -- how did you get into this parliament -- well, we came here believing that we could agree together and that there would be a different opinion. There's no need to talk about your primitiveism. (Employer Dragan Todorovic throws out the bench. )
ParlaMint-RS_1999-02-04-0.u1603	Please, Mr. Todorovic, allow the MP to speak. Mr. Todorovic, I warn you.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-02-04-0.u1604	Well, it's a shame to participate in the choices you're in. (He speaks to the MP Todorovic. ) The issue of Kosovo is just one of the unresolved issues, which, like all other issues, should be resolved in the continuity of the international conference on the former Yugoslavia. I recall that the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia was an active participant in an international conference on the former Yugoslavia, which addressed the issue of Slovenia, Croatia, Macedonia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. The issue of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia has not been resolved yet, nor has its international legal status been resolved, nor have many of the problems that remain in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia been solved. These are, apart from Kosovo, Sandzak, Vojvodina, as well as the unresolved status of the Bosniak people, Albanian, Hungarian, Croatian and other peoples living in the territory of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. To that end, here you can see from your discussion, it is necessary to call an international conference on the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, in order to resolve all unresolved issues in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, in line with European and world principles. In this way, they would use the international community, its assistance to solve all existing problems, and to resolve all unresolved issues by means of an agreed and peaceful path. At the same time, the conditions for international recognition of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia would be met. Kosovo's problem exists for decades, just as there is a problem with Sandzak and other problems. That is why it is necessary to approach all these problems at once, based on the principles and criteria adopted to address the Yugoslav crisis. If a solution to Kosovo's problem were to be approached, primarily because of armed conflicts, it would be a bad message to all those whose status has not been resolved and seeking a solution to their status by political means and by political means. I point out that besides Kosovo, there is also a very serious problem of Sandzak, which must be solved. Unrecognized or fuelled by this problem is not possible, for by its very existence it will force it to acknowledge. Up until a few months ago, officials from Serbia and Yugoslavia have publicly said that Kosovo's problem does not exist, even Mr Milutinovic and Mr Lilic in the election campaign. Now that the fire is so loud that it can't hide, the whole world has to shut it down. I therefore present my concrete proposals - I propose calling an international conference on the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, which would address all issues that remained unresolved after the break-up of the SFRY, which were discussed at the international conference on the former Yugoslavia. I propose to the Serbian Parliament and the government, then to the Assembly and the Government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia to accept this proposal and to instruct the official request to the United Nations and the EU to call an international conference on the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-02-04-0.u1605	A 121 police officer was killed.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-02-04-0.u1606	Mr. Minister, we're fighting through political means and this is our proposal, you don't have to welcome him to the knife.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-02-04-0.u1607	Mr. Muric, you can't have a dialogue. He has the word of the head of Parliament's Stevo Dragisic, who sought a replica on behalf of the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-02-04-0.u1608	Ladies and gentlemen, from the speech of the previous MP, we could hear exactly what follows Serbia if it yields to the Kosovo and Metohija issue. We are followed by open separatism after that, in the Raska area, separatism in Vojvodina. This was announced by Mr. Muric, if I remember his last name correctly. He just forgot one thing, there's no Sandzak problem in Serbia, because there's no Sandzak. The Sandzaks existed during the Turkish rule and there were many. It's the time when Serbs turned into Muslim faith, so there are in Serbia today. One such one is Mr Muric, a descendant of Serbs who have accepted Islam and today live in our territory, they lack nothing, they can even enter the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to represent their political views, their political views. But he forgets one thing, that anyone can deal with politics in Serbia, but under the conditions laid down in the Constitution. All political opinions are allowed, but no violent collapse of the constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia is allowed. That's what's happening in Kosovo today. If that's the way, if you want to follow, if this separatism is successful in Kosovo, then you will become a separatist, then you too will use terrorist methods. Take good care of what is happening in Kosovo, because this is exactly how the Republic of Serbia will solve all the problems with terrorists and separatism. You can participate in all the elections held, just as you are now, if you are elected MP to speak before this assembly, but make sure that you are in the sovereign state of the Republic of Serbia, which must protect your own integrity. Don't ever let that out of your sight. These proposals you have, there is no need to propose to the Serbian Parliament, because you know in advance that they will not pass. You can suggest that to your foreign mentors, the United States, so if they think you're interesting enough, they can schedule a conference. You just need to think about who will participate in this conference. Serbia certainly won't.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-02-04-0.u1609	The word has a folk MP, Fevzi Muric.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-02-04-0.u1610	This is evidence that some suggest that we do not have the right to use our political resources in political struggle and national struggle, but that we are referred to another time. Mr. Dragisic, as many times as I want to run from here or elsewhere, I will fight politically. You can't force me into the extremism and separatism that you advocate. You're separatists. You and your party and the others. You've broken the previous Yugoslavia, you're breaking this one. Where's your Montenegro? You're going to France without brothers, aren't you? Is that their interest? And there, their children, in Kosovo or in Sandzak, or where you advocate. You're a wreck, you're a separatist. And don't accuse us of some things that really have no basis for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-02-04-0.u1611	National MP Stevo Dragisic - a reply to the replica and thus ends this replica.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-02-04-0.u1612	Mr. Muric, I have just boasted democracy in Serbia, because a representative of a national minority, or representative of the Serbs of the Muslim religion, can be an MP in this assembly. We boast and invite you to run every time. We also offer the Shiptars to participate in our elections, that they too have representatives in this assembly. And you are telling us that there will be a problem after Kosovo and Metohija, the problem of the Raska area, the problem of Vojvodina. You warn us that separatism is also possible in these sensitive areas in Serbia. You said it openly, what you wanted, and everyone understood you very well.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-02-04-0.u1613	The Messenger of the people, Radovan Pankov, has said, "Let the messenger of the people be prepared, Milena Andric."
ParlaMint-RS_1999-02-04-0.u1614	Dear President, distinguished fellow Members of Parliament, the SPS as a state-run party has persistently and resolutely defended and protected our fundamental values, both state and national interests. We have done it, we are doing it and we will do it with a policy of peace and now that the pressures and threats of aggression have reached their peak in the form of the NATO Pact ultimatum, through its Secretary-General Solana, which is an unprecedented and open support for Albanian separatism and terrorism in Kosovo and Metohija. They're threatening us with bombings and force, and we're not jeopardizing anyone, and we have any claim to something that doesn't belong to us. NATO, thus taking over UN intelligence, assembling a world-wide peace organisation on the mere transmission of one force. Serbia has been attacked macholy, on the side and openly from the Cypriot terrorists and separatists, whose insane dream is, but also a political platform -- the secession and creation of another Albanian state on Serbian territory. The SPS initially advocated dialogue and a peaceful solution, the equality of all citizens and all national communities living in Kosovo and Metohija. It is a democratic concept that prevents majorisation and represents a dam of secession. It is the only democratic, fair and true solution to Kosovo's and Metohija's problems. In the conclusions of the Contact Group, the basic political message is formulated by the language of open demands and hidden intentions. The Contact Group offers "significant autonomy for Kosovo and Metohija". Where I live, in Vojvodina, the issue of autonomy has been resolved safely better and lives in practice, and is based on the Constitution and the laws of Serbia. All these rights apply equally and it doesn't matter whether members of a national community have 20 or 70, or several hundred thousand, have no majorisation, nor can it pass. No one is favored, nor can he be master and govern others. And we differ both national and religious and political, but we talk and negotiate and we don't call anyone on the side to solve our problems. We are constantly seeking to improve practices and enrich its content. It is also a formula for Cosmet, a formula for lasting peace, for tolerance and coherent international relations, a policy of national equality always advocated by the Socialist Party of Serbia. That's how we keep our house, that's how we keep Serbia. That is why the position of the Socialist Party of Serbia is unequivocal and crystal clear -- respecting the equality of all citizens and national communities and solving all problems exclusively through political dialogue. It is the lower limit below which no sovereign state and people, who hold to their dignity, can go. The vast majority of Vojvodina citizens are defined to defend and preserve Serbia-Yugoslavian sovereignty and integrity and their message is clear -- preserve their country and accept nothing that could endanger Serbia-Yugoslavia's sovereignty and integrity, which could lead to Kosovo and Metohija being isolated from Serbia. And that, with the support of the government delegation going to Paris, would be my own message, as well as citizens throughout Vojvodina. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_1999-02-04-0.u1615	The People's Messenger Milena Andric has the word, and let the People's Messenger Marijan Rističević be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-02-04-0.u1616	Mr. President, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as Mr. President has said, I am Dr. Milena Andric, an MP from Chukarica in front of the Coalition of the Democratic Alternative, the Peasant Party and the United Pension Party. This must be one of the most difficult moments in the history of the Serbian people and the state of Serbia, a moment that represents our being or not to be. The fact that parliament is now discussing what to do about Kosovo, when the maneuvering space is extremely cramped, shows no doubt that someone needs responsibility for the consequences of the policy so far transferred to us. We've got an abandoned patient, a patient whose disease is in a more advanced phase. What kind of doctors are these, and what kind of drugs can lift him to his feet? Both me and the citizens I represent would be calmer and more confidently looking at future events if, together with us, in search of the best solution, we were also top experts, best scientists and political wise men. I believe I share the disquieting of the citizens of Serbia because of the fact that Kosovo is being abused here and now for interpartisan battles to win voters. And this should be a battle for the defence and preservation of Serbia's state and its national interests. Many opportunities are irrevocably missed, chances are lost forever. This may be the last, however unfavourable. We won't use it by shouting empty passwords, threatening empty weapons, throwing false patriotism into the eyes of citizens. Because when time clears out the view, the truth is that there's a play here played for the purpose of stunning the local audience, it's going to catch up with all of us with its tragic consequences. Evidence of seriousness and accountability would be an approach that would seek the best answers to the question - how to defend the national interests, what are the circumstances in which we have to do this, are there any advantages in the extreme unfavourable conditions? Who are they and how do we get to the people who would best represent our interests? Where and who can provide us with allies? What's the minimum that you can agree to if you have to? How can we build a strategy to alleviate future solutions, wisdom, and endurance? If someone asks a question - whether or not to go to negotiations in France, they have to give a clear answer to the question - do we get something by not leaving, and what do we lose? The papal repetition that Kosovo is the internal issue of Serbia and Yugoslavia, at a time when it is already widely internationalised, is pure manipulation and dishonesty of playing with sincere patriotism and feeling, if their authority is doing everything in their best interest. The true power kneels for the nation to stand upright. The people defeated by the moves of the uplifted and the proud authority of God are truly humiliated. As the people say, "whose shame, that and shame." And in order for the damage not to be national, we need to force the government to shrink, convince and pray. He can threaten, but only if that threat brings good to the people. It's a false dilemma of false patriotism to go or not to negotiate. Do we have a choice, except for the one that some of us offer, to fight with the whole world, even if they all die? Who has the right to make such a decision on behalf of the born and not to give birth to the condemned generations to come? The real question should be - who should go and with what mandate? Not only must those who have failed with their inexperience, political incompetence manage to challenge the odym, not only to the government, but to the entire Serbian people, which has never happened in history. People who enjoy professional and human reputation here and in the world should go. We find it crucial to choose the members of our negotiating team with extreme wisdom, responsibility and party duty.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-02-04-0.u1617	He has the word National MP Marijan Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-02-04-0.u1618	MPs of the Vojvodina Coalition protest an unheard act of discrimination by Serbia's Radio-Television, which was exposed to the president of the "Vojvodin Coalition", MP Dragan Vesenov, because during his speech, TV turned off the tone, so that viewers could not hear his words. Mr. Chairman, I don't know if that's going to happen to me. Serbia defended itself in Knin, you defended it in Bosnia, and God forbid you can defend it in Belgrade tomorrow. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, except for showing that he's a good geometry, has gone a little far in the condemnation of the Americans, since in 1991 he offered George Bush to take his troops to help the U.S. military in the Gulf. They remain two days before the verdict day for the National Assembly to discuss Kosovo by emergency procedure. It's like there's been an earthquake, God forbid, not a crisis that lasts more than ten years. And to be honest, this congregation does not even wonder, nor has it ever decided on such important and big problems. Decisions are made elsewhere, we know who, and then because of the division of responsibilities, the congregation decides that it has already been decided in an unauthorized place. The attitudes of the international community are such that everyone against us except the Russians and the Chinese. Is that how it is? Of course not. To deceive the people, the Russians will condemn any military intervention, but for one good loan they will close their eyes even though foreign policy is not market policy, however, they are trading. And Chinese-made rifles have been shot at by our police since recently, civilians. Speaking of weapons, I'd like someone in power to answer where the rebel Albanians got so many weapons? Is that a housework thing, I don't believe in, or is it an import, what do I believe in? At no point in support of terrorism in Kosovo and external pressures, I would like to say that a good part of the guilt lies with our authority, which has been drawing continuity since the 1980s, which instead went into political and economic reforms to preserve power at all costs and the price of conflict. In those conflicts, we lost everything, and our opponents got everything. The government represents itself as the protector of the people. And since they were protecting us somewhere, they better not have. Thousands of people were sacrificed for territories to lose both people and territories. The government wants to make an impression that it is sacrificed for the people, but in fact it sacrifices the people for the sake of power, and it is rich and delicious. Are we going to be patriots, and based on that referendum, on which we spent millions of dinars, better if we had built a factory or paid farmers for products, will we, based on that referendum, invite citizens of Serbia to defend Kosovo and the state, in which neither basic political and economic reforms have been carried out? And that's not only the cause of the Kosovo crisis. Political reforms have only done makeup. For political forces our people rightly say: They are all alike, only parties are called differently. The opposition was choked because now it's going like two sticks along with the ruling party. There's nothing left of objective information except the number tax and one liar in the house, telling us everything's in our office and everywhere in the world is a flood. In Serbia, except for the freak Latino-American privatisation, where a small number of people filled their pockets, there was no economic reform. Will we defend Kosovo and the state in which the bandits, lawlessness, crime, violence and corruption reign? If Dusan's code were in force in Serbia and the arms were cut, a fifth of the state would be debilitating, at least according to this on Dedinj. How to defend a country where someone cheats millions of savings for hundreds of millions of marks and walks free? The state has introduced hundreds of taxes, taxes, contributions, various harraches. It's a country where agricultural products are not sold but turned over, not bought, but taken over and not paid. Money isn't a means to buy goods, it's a means to buy foreign currency. Our government loves nothing from the West except Western money and Western cars. Will the authorities in Kosovo's defence invite citizens to Serbian heroism? Well, we were Serbs before this power, and we'll be after it, and for God's sake, some were Serbs and when they were called communists, of whom today a decent Serb cannot enter the church. Our objection concerns the fact that no representative of the Serbian Orthodox Church, such as the bishop of Artemia, has been invited to this session. It is Kosovo's turn today, and what about Vojvodina, its autonomy, which today is such that we cannot even issue fishing permits on our own. Or, if we can, we must send a copy to Belgrade. The people of Vojvodina are peaceful people, they don't want guns, they want their wallet back. They seek only such autonomy, with which they can successfully protect natural and created goods, to manage the entire Vojvodina themselves, the territory to "Gazale", with the duke's hand in the Duke's pocket. We don't want a fight with brothers through Sava and Danube. We are brothers, but our bags are not sisters. We just want a clean bill, a clean bill is a long love. You've already made your decision on Paris. We're supposed to vote against her, but we won't, since you're going to Paris. We are the opposition to power, but we are not opposition to the state and the citizens. Travel to Paris and the advice of the Vojvodina Coalition is that on every paper you sign, including a hotel account, it says any possibility for Kosovo's independence is excluded. Then join serious political and economic reforms in Serbia. Because of the situation described, in which the state is located, travel to Paris, compromise for the sake of good citizens of Serbia, although it might be best for them not to come back from there. If you decide not to travel, then it'll be as bad as in that folk song: "Run, Milan, my rose, NATO - the pact is armed". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-02-04-0.u1619	There is the word of the Messenger of the people, Alexander Vukic, and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Jemail Suljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-02-04-0.u1620	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Serbia has hardly ever been tempted in its history. This sentence is like we've heard it or we've repeated it over and over again in the past few years. And indeed, every next time those trials were greater. Because the attacks of totalitarian and non-democratic Western countries on the sovereignty and territorial integrity of our Republic and our country and our Serbia were becoming increasingly severe. Because their blackmails and ultimatums were won in number, in force. Their threats are becoming more and more frequent and their desire to finally deal with our Serbia is no longer hidden. The saddest thing is when some of them try to think of themselves as some kind of Democrats, as some kind of fireman in the Balkans, as people who allegedly want peace. Are these the same people, who want peace in some other countries, sovereign countries of the modern world, so that the bomb falls five miles away from where they wanted to throw it, kill twenty innocent civilians, including women and children, and still claim that these bombs were democratic, and that these people must have been guilty of living so far, on those five kilometers from the targets they targeted. They're trying to convince us that democracy is that they bombed our people, that they killed our people. Some here today spoke, reminding us of our traditional friendly relations with the French brothers, about Giskar d'Esten. They could mention some others, to us even more favoured Frenchmen, whose names bear our streets today in Belgrade and many other cities across Serbia. But it's strange that they forgot to say that these same French were criminally executed by Dragan Gagovic in a Serbian Serb, a man who drove five children in his car. Afterwards, they said the action was, therefore, a criminal murder, professionally done. Besides, when it was said that there were children in that same car, they said, no, they weren't children, they were teenagers. For them, teenagers aren't children. For them, teens are cannon food when necessary, when they belong to other nations, when they belong to the Serbian people. They forgot to say that these same French were involved in the bombing of Republika Srpska, in killing innocent Serbian people, in killing our people. Forgive me, perhaps, on heresy, but Serbs in Republika Srpska are much closer to me than Ziskar d(Esten and than all the other French and I trust them much more and I love them much more, we are the same people. A common feature of all foreign proposals for resolving the problems and issues of the Albanian national minority in our country is the overwhelming disapproval of the constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia, which, of course, applies in all its territory. We have here, perhaps, formally made one material and legal mistake. We talk all the time about Kosovo and Metohija. For what? Why are we giving a territorial definition of a piece of our territory? We here need to talk about the rights of members of the national minorities, including members of the Albanian national minority. As soon as we talk about Kosovo and Metohija in the way many of us have spoken, we gave them the widest territorial autonomy in advance. I will try to legally and explain it, unlike those who generally speak about the lack of independence of Kosovo and do not even try to get into some deeper analysis of the legal essence of violence of those who call themselves an international community, and they do not know what that means. Speaking of the Charter of the United Nations, many who did not read books and who knew nothing about the law said anything. They said they advocated broad autonomy, not knowing that, in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations, the general regime of protection of the rights of national minorities does not know at all the full, comprehensive and broad autonomy they are talking about. The particular minority protection regime has started to be introduced since 1966 by the international pact on civil political rights, most represented in 1990 by the KEBS and OSCE documents, not the United Nations Charter. As far as the Charter of the United Nations is concerned, the Republic of Serbia guarantees in its constitution greater rights than any rights established in all international legal acts, all international legal norms, which have been ratified by both our country and which have ratified all other countries. That's the case when I'm talking about a general regime for the protection of minority rights. There are no rights that do not exist in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. We're talking here, and we often make mistakes, about national communities. "National Community" is a term that is not based on law. There is a term "people", "national minorities", "ethnic groups", but the term "national communities" was introduced by Lord Carrington in his documents, wanting to operate on differences between national minorities. There are, according to him, national minorities representing an isolated part of the population, national minorities representing that part of the population representing the majority of certain territory and national minorities representing the majority in certain territories. I will read to you what Rudolph Perina and Richard Miles said in May 1997 about the rights of members of the national minorities in our country, but about the special status and what some here are talking about, about the broadest autonomy of Kosovo and Metohija. They said "The government in Belgrade should consider the idea of autonomy or special status as a means of resolving legal problems that the ethnic Albanian majority in Kosovo has." What kind of ethnic Albanian majority is that? In what state? Did they recognize any new country? Since when is this part of the territory of a sovereign part of a state singled out and determined by it who the majority is and who is the minority? Can we at times hear in this assembly the unreasonable tones of those who will say that there is only one part of our country's territory in Kosovo and Metohija, the ratio of the population of 9-1 to the benefit of Albanians to the Serb population, and aside from the fact that it is incorrect? It's an American trick. It's something they try to do all the time. That's why those who don't read enough and who don't want to take it seriously, they have to take it. The general regime of minority protection in our country is absolutely respected. There's not a single right that our country doesn't respect. Does anyone know what the real thing is? They don't know how to say it either. When you ask them a question -- which is the right or freedom that Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija, or in any other part of Serbia, have no difference, they will say -- so it doesn't matter, but there is some repression in Kosovo and Metohija, there are some problems that we have to solve differently. The problem is that representatives of major forces, primarily the United States, are trying to introduce us at all costs, so speaking of the legal model, "model 1974 plus". It's not enough for them anymore. The 1974 retromodel already wants us to be told, under what they're going to say about the widest autonomy, there's autonomy, and in fact they want to make Kosovo and Metohija not only a federal, but a confederal unit. The Contact Group's plan on the intentions of the execution of the so-called The crawling secession is perfectly clear on that. All members of the Contact Group Plan, the conclusions of the Contact Group, from a meeting in London, are absolutely talking about it. After all, just listen to some of them. First, all ministers, in preamble, condemned in the first members an unreserved, massacre that took place in the town of Račak. What kind of massacre are they talking about? Is there even one proof? Did anyone say there was a massacre besides William Walker? Did the Finnish pathologists say that? Did the Belarusian experts say that? Is that what the sprawl experts said? Whether anyone in the world can confirm it or if someone has thought to tell it, and we've finished the story, we'll condemn the massacre. After that, there is talk of some repression against civilians, carried out by Serb forces. What kind of repression is this? Do they shoot at those who cowardly and criminally, behind the bushes and bushes, at innocent people who are moving the roads of southern Serbia? Are they brave, and cowards are those who try to protect citizens who move freely? What's this about? This is about the most direct participation of the Contact Group, their blackmails, everything they want at all costs to take and ask us to stop the offensive actions. What offensive actions are they talking about? Did we kill those 20 people, innocent civilians in Iraq or them? Are our police forces or any of the national security forces behind the bushes and killing innocent people who are moving on the roads or are they doing exactly that that protects them? Their protégés do it. As far as the Contact Group Plan goes on, it's almost completely unacceptable for our country, and it doesn't need to be hidden, but it needs to be told to the people. Anything they say about the high degree of alleged self-government, in which they will have a president of Kosovo, in which they will have absolute legislative, executive and judicial authority, has nothing to do with autonomy but try to create a confederal unit, not to mention what they will at all try to bring international troops to Kosovo and Methya, primarily NATO pact troops or any other foreign troops. To what end? To separate us from someone? Save us from someone? To save us in the same way they do in Republika Srpska? That is why they are seeking responsibility or to carry out all the procedures for which the UN tribunal is responsible. Are they to carry out such acts as they did toward Sima the Smuzzlers? Let me remind you, this is the man they cold-bloodedly liquidated by shooting him in the temple of our friends, the Vane Brits, when a man lay in a slave, whose son was present. Will such peace forces bring us? Will they bring us such peace forces that as criminals in jeans take people and legs to beat them up, 30 hours to beat them up? Is that something that someone can accept and say -- it's the democratic forces that we have to and we want to accept. Someone said -- there's no telling what is the program of those who, if they're already going and if they want to go, go to Paris. The programme must be the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It's the highest legal act of our country "lex superior" and no one can and no one is authorized to step on it. No one can coordinate our Constitution with the Contact Group documents, but vice versa. They all have their plans and their wishes and their intentions to comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Everything they're up to, it's hard to implement, if we secure here in our country of national unity. It is certain that the people are ready for all temptations. Serbian citizens are fully aware of all the dangers that are over our country and that are floating above us. They know what can happen, but they are also very determined and very ready to defend the country at all costs. We don't have a spare homeland. I'm a lawyer, but I'm a soldier. I've got a one-year-old son, and I don't know if he's gonna be a lawyer or an economist, but I'm sure, and that's what I'm cooking for, when he needs a soldier, and he needs to know that pervert who thinks he can kill everyone in the world. Thank you very much. [[There's a round of applause in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-RS_1999-02-04-0.u1621	There is a word from MP Djemail Suljević, and let the last reported Milovan Bojic, MP and deputy prime minister of the government be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-02-04-0.u1622	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have to admit one of my subjective moods by listening to today's great number of debaters and I'm afraid that the agony of this country and the people of this country will not be resolved soon, and it will certainly go to the expense of most of those who are neither guilty nor responsible for this situation that we have today. I urge and demand that the relationship with existing problems be changed, that the relationship with the international community be changed, that once and for all we realize that the problems that this country has and the problems that exist in this country in international relations and other rights cannot be solved without the participation of the international community. I would like to point out here that we must take seriously the proposal made by Mr Muric, an MP from Sandzak, and I beg you, and we cannot deny something that exists because it exists. The Bosniaks exist in this country, they exist and their status has not been resolved and we need to understand that it has to be resolved. Our rights are here, and my previous debate has said that the rights are not compromised. I'm asking a question that our rights are not compromised, national rights, civil rights, cultural rights, educational rights and other rights? I'll take just one example, the latest one, the "Sandzak List" coalition Dr. Sulejman Ugljanin won the election, the case works, in Tutin. Of the 60 leading posts, only 9 seats or posts are held by representatives of the people, or the winning coalition. Not to talk about kidnappings, robbed businesses, not to talk about economic discrimination, and so I say that if we want this country to get involved in international flows and engage in European and world institutions, it will not be enough to solve just the problem of Kosovo, but also the problem of Sandzak must be solved. Of course, and the problem of the Vojvodina and all the people who live in this country. I ask you, if you do not accept and admit the problems that exist and are not taken to solve, agony and the people and this country will continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-02-04-0.u1623	He has the word National MP Milovan Bojic, vice-president of the Republic government.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-02-04-0.u1624	Dear President and honourable Members of the People, before us, the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia stand the most difficult task not during and for the duration of our mandate, but perhaps for our lives: to spend their freedom through the freedom of history, and to remain upright and upright both before the ancestors and before the descendants. The ancestors who have been defending their freedom and homeland with blood, and the descendants who today publicly claim to be for peace. But not just any peace, the peace of the defeated, the peace of the humiliated, the peace of the trampled or the bribed. Our task is a team that's bigger and takes place in an environment where everyone condemns violence and delivers weapons. In an environment where humanity has lost its global counterweight when everything is within the reach and scope of one force. A force that behaves like an elephant in a glass shop by destroying everything around it, the force that brought the United Nations down to the level of the meat community. Insolent Americans today are the little mother of the planet. They'd go and hit other planets. They'd hit the sun, even though today it's the only thing that's capable of burning them. The task is their policy to form countries that do not function or that are only a mere transmission of their interests. They promised Albanians Greater Albania, and neither did the previous Albanians themselves, nor did they know how to create it, nor do they know how to preserve it today. It is a crisis generator, not just for the Balkans, but for Europe and all mankind. At the same time, the most punishable state in the history of human society and culture. There are no more dilemmas about Albanians fighting for rights or the use of rights. They publicly say they're pushing for their country and the Americans know about our arguments and admit themselves that we're right, with a remark -- they're stronger. The dilemma is to leave or wait here. It's my thinking that you should be there and here. There with arguments to defend the interests of the state of Serbia and its people, but here in the fighting machine to wait at all costs to defend Kosovo and Metohija. If our thinking is to be there and here, the delegation that is there should be in deep knowledge and awareness that this is our survival so that our country is not only defended by pencils, and that the pen in their hands and their hand can never and must never accept and sign the removal of Kosovo and Metohija from the constitutional and legal order of Serbia. Which, by war itself, and psychologically, both the special and the one currently running in the time extortion can be said that regardless of all their strength, power and force that does not know how to set their limits, the first round has been lost. They expected to destabilize both Serbia and its delegation by 15 hours today. That's not what happened. The universal unity that we have achieved in the defense of the country confirms that we have learned our history well and learned lessons from it. I believe that this ratio of Serbian intelligence, the ratio of Serbian unity, does not make us weak, regardless of economic fatigue, long sanctions and constant threats. A complex and unique defence of Kosovo. They'll do it in Paris, and we here, who are willing to defend him with our hearts and physically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-02-04-0.u1625	Thank you. I'm finishing the search. Having obtained the conditions, I propose that we establish confirmation of the mandate of the People's MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for the vacant parliamentary seat, which belongs to the Socialist Party of Serbia, the Yugoslav Left, the New Democracy -- Slobodan Milosevic. You have been presented with a report by the Republic Election Commission on the election of a MP in the Electoral Unit 24-Prokuplje, to complete the vacant parliamentary seat in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the report of the Administrative Committee, which found that conditions had been met to confirm the mandate of the MP, with a proposal that the National Assembly would recognise the mandate of MP Radan Lakicevic, elected from the electoral list of the Socialist Party of Serbia, the Yugoslav Left, the New Democracy - Slobodan Milosevic, in the Electoral Unit 24-Prokuplje. On the basis of the report of the Republic Election Commission and the report and the proposal of the Administrative Committee, as referred to in Article 30(5). Law on the election of MPs, I find confirmation of the mandate of MP Radan Lakicovic. Congratulations to MP Radan Lakicovic. I'm taking a break until 4:00. [[After break - 16.30 p.m.]] Dear People's MPs, please take your seats and continue our work. We're continuing to work on the first item of the agenda. In the morning part of the session, we heard the opening presentation, submitted by Prof. Dr. Ratko Markovic, Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. 24 MPs participated in the debate on the current issues of resolving problems in Kosovo and Metohija and the international community's views, which followed. On behalf of the government of the Republic of Serbia, President Mirko Marjanovic will introduce you to the text of a proposal for conclusions established by the government. He has the word Mirko Marjanovic, president of the government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-02-04-0.u1627	Dear People's MPs, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, at today's session based on assessments, views and proposals from a debate held at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia session on current issues to address problems in Kosovo and Metohija and international community positions, proposes that the National Assembly adopt the following conclusions: First (I) - 1. The National Assembly strongly condemns NATO's threat to our country and the people. The threats are in complete contrast with the international community's declarations that a peaceful solution in Kosovo and Metohija is open to separatists and terrorists. 2. The NATO Pact's behaviour is an open threat to aggression against the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia as an independent country, founders and members of the UN organisation, a violation of the UN principles and in particular of Article 2(4). It's the UN's command. 3. NATO Pact is a regional military organisation, members of Article 53(1). The UN Charter explicitly stressed that regional arrangements or regional organisations cannot take any forced action without the authority of the Security Council. The UN Security Council did not mandate NATO to take measures to force against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, and therefore the threat of NATO is a direct violation of the UN Charter and a threat to the sovereignty and territorial integrity of our country. 4. The National Assembly estimates that NATO's attitudes pave the way for the basic principles of international relations, the very basis of international order and poses a threat to international peace and security. 5. The Federal Republic of Yugoslavia is leading an open policy of peace, good neighbourhood and equal co-operation with all countries and organisations, which accept such an organisation, endangers no one, nor threatens anyone from its territory. The next consistent policy of a peaceful settlement of all open issues, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia is a factor of peace and stability in the region. We are determined to protect our legitimate, state, national interests, and above all, the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the country in accordance with the principles of the UN Charter, the completed document from Helsinki and the Paris Charter. Six. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia points out that in the event of aggression on our country, sovereignty and territorial integrity, freedom, independence, lives and property of our citizens, we will defend ourselves by all means. In defense of our country, we are determined and unique. Second (II) - 1. The Republic of Serbia remains committed to a peaceful political solution to the problem in Kosovo and Metohija. We are determined to seek a way to address problems through dialogue, with respect for the territorial integrity and sovereignty of our country, by ensuring full equality between all citizens and all national communities living in Kosovo. 2. Calls for negotiations Contact group knocks on the open door. Serbia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia have proven that they are for a political solution and that everything seems to be achieved through dialogue between all national communities from Kosovo and Metohija. 3. With the commitment to a peaceful and political solution to the current problems in Kosovo and Metohija, the National Assembly also points to large, inadmissible and extremely unilateral views in the Contact Group proposals, which are inappropriate to one sovereign state. 4. With a declaration of sovereignty and territorial integrity of Serbia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, solutions that threaten and challenge our sovereignty and integrity are also offered, even proposing confederal elements, such as the mandatory consent of Cosmeta when it comes to changing the borders of Cosmeta and declaring the state of emergency. 5. From countries that formally advocate the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Serbia and the SR of Yugoslavia, millions of dollars of financial assistance, weapons and equipment are being sent to terrorists at the same time. Six. In particular, it deserves the condemnation that part of the international community on an internal issue, the country's right to fight separatism and terrorism, supports the subjectivity of separatists and terrorists, and puts a sovereign state and those who want to destroy the state in the same level. Seven. It is particularly unacceptable to equalise the responsibility of state authorities and criminal groups for the situation in Kosovo. Legal actions by state authorities against terrorism cannot be called repression against civilians, and terrorism in all forms - attacks, murders, kidnappings - provocations. 8. The international community has not assessed the essence of the work of the so-called KLA as terrorist organisations and does not take measures towards it as against other terrorist organisations in the world. Nine. It is not acceptable to make efforts so far to seek solutions to political means and to repeal the SR Yugoslav agreement with the international community, expressed in the government's positions of 13 October and the OSCE agreement of 18 October 1998 and established principles: that it is an internal issue of the sovereign state, that terrorism and separatism must cease, that any solution must be compatible with the constitutions of the SR Yugoslavia and the Republic of Serbia and cannot question the sovereignty and territorial integrity of our country. Ten. The National Assembly points out the democratic essence of a joint proposal for an agreement on the political framework of self-government in Kosovo and Metohija since 20 November 1998, which has been accepted by all parliamentary parties in Serbia, as well as the Declaration from Pristina since 25 November 1998, signed by two political parties of Albanians, representatives of the national communities of Muslims, Turks, Roma, Gorans and Egyptians, as well as representatives of parliamentary parties from Kosovo and Metohija. It is unacceptable to ignore and belittle the existence of national communities and ethnic groups, as well as the necessity of full equality of all national communities living in Kosovo and Metohija. 11. With regard to the requirement for the parties to accept the level and character of the international presence that the international community considers appropriate, the National Assembly finds that the scope and character of the international presence in Cosmet is finally defined by SR President Slobodan Milosevic and Ambassador Richard Holbrooke and in accordance with that agreement by the federal government and the OSCE on the establishment of a verification mission of the OSCE in Kosovo. 12. The National Assembly expresses the extreme surprise of the requirement to bring the federal and republican legal framework into line with the cosmetic transitional agreement, because it is in line with every logic and principle of constitutional law and would mean a legal and constitutional precedent, that the wider community is adapting to the work of the narrow community. 13. By bringing other national communities' rights in the Kosmet solutions to some kind of cultural rights, it seems discrimination and opens up the possibility that concrete solutions allow majorisation by the Albanian national community and thus directly destroys the principle of equality and would introduce the existence of first and second-row citizens. 14. The National Assembly points out that any requirement for significant autonomy or high-level self-government for Cosmet not only cannot lead in further negotiations to an independent Kosovo and Metohija, nor to the status of a third federal unit, but that autonomy cannot mean breaking legal, political and economic ties within the Republic of Serbia. 15. The National Assembly indicates that the so-called transitional status of Cosmeta cannot be hidden or express its way into separatism, but only the possibility that, after a number of years, the signatories of the agreement can reconsider with the aim of improving its implementation and considering the proposals of any signator for additional measures whose adoption will require the consent of all signatories. Third (III) - 1. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia points out that the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia and the SR of Yugoslavia have done everything and are making a political solution available. We fully respect the signed agreements. The OSCE verification mission in Cosmet has been established to monitor and objectively inform the international community of the situation on the ground. Serbia has nothing to hide in defending its citizens and its territories from separatists and terrorists. Verifiers and the international community have been given full and smooth access to all parts of Kosovo and Metohija and to monitor the overall situation. 2. The SR Yugoslavia, as an independent and sovereign country, leads a policy of peace and peaceful co-operation. He's not jeopardizing anyone, not even from her territory, he's threatening anyone. In line with the above principles, the SR Yugoslavia is prepared to address all open issues with peaceful and political means and to resolutely protect its legitimate national and national interests and particularly sovereignty and territorial integrity in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations. Fourth (IV) - 1. The National Assembly reiterates that the cause of the crisis in Kosovo and Metohija is long-standing Albanian separatistism, whose ultimate goal is the secession of Kosovo and Metohija from Serbia-Yugoslavia. Terrorism has become the highest stage of Albanian separatistism. 2. That is the main obstacle to reaching a political solution. All efforts, offers and the good will of the state to join the political dialogue and, together with others, seek solutions, Albanian separatist parties and their leaders responded to rejection and obstruction. Their attitude encouraged and encouraged the continued crime of terrorist gangs. They abused the respect of the agreement by our country and the presence of the OSCE verification mission and continued with the crimes. 3. The Republic of Albania is open and directly in the role of Albanian separatistism and terrorism. Albania has been transformed into a terrorist state, a terrorist base and a fundamentalist, the centre of arms training, financing and any other support for their criminal objectives towards SR Yugoslavia and other countries in the region. 4. A part of the international community has by no means condemned separatism and terrorism unreservedly. No act has prevented the Republic of Albania from being a logistics base of terrorists and separatists in Kosovo and Metohija. The European Security and Co-operation Organisation has not completed two thousand verifyers in Cosmet within three months and has not been fully qualified to report to the international public and international organisations on the truth in the field impartially and accurately. And the truth is, since the treaty was signed and the verifier's arrival, there's been an escalation of terrorism. 5. Part of the international community has been running a policy of double standards all the time, preventing any and the easiest attempt to condemn terrorist gangs by the Security Council in the organisation of the United Nations. Thus, the international community's behaviour is, in fact, the support, assistance and encouragement of separatists and terrorists. Six. Designed and incorrect estimates that the military and police are using too much force to prevent the legitimate defence forces of the people and the state from reacting against terrorists in an adequate manner, as do armies and police in all countries around the world, which are facing this evil. This seeks to annul the position agreed with the international community, which explicitly states that state authorities retain the right to adequately respond to any form of terrorist activity and violations of laws that could endanger the lives and security of citizens and representatives of government. Fifth (V) - 1. Kosovo and Metohija are Serbia's internal issue and can only be resolved through the dialogue of those entities whose position is concerned. Kosovo and Metohija cannot move from Serbia. It's been in it for centuries, and it's the only place it can stay. Kosovo and Metohija are not a polygon for testing military and political doctrines, under constructed charges of alleged violations of minority and ethnic rights. Cosmet is not a protectorate, nor is it a reserve for some new geopolitical configurations, as Serbia does not provide material for new ultimatums, even though these ultimatums today appeared on behalf of human rights and democracy and other beautiful goals that serve only as a mask for hegemonism. 2. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia confirms the principles on which the crisis in Kosovo and Metohija can be resolved successfully, permanently and in the interest of all. These are: - political means and dialogue, as the only way of peaceful and democratic resolution of the crisis in Kosovo and Metohija; - full respect for the territorial integrity and sovereignty of Serbia and the SR Yugoslavia; - full equality of all citizens, all national communities and ethnic groups in Kosovo and Metohija, without the possibility of any majorisation; - solutions consistent with the constitutions of Serbia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and international standards in the fields of human and civil rights and rights of members of national minorities; - Kosovo and Metohija cannot obtain the status of the Republic but autonomy by the highest international standards within Serbia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia; - we do not accept any measure that would alter territorial integrity and sovereignty and try to take the secession of Cosmet from Serbia; - we do not accept the presence of foreign soldiers in our territory under any excuse of an agreement. Sixth (VI) - The occasion calls on the Contact Group to discuss problems in Kosovo and Metohija in France on 6 February 1999 to the Government of the Republic of Serbia: 1. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has decided to accept the call for talks because it is a firm definition of the people and all political parties to fight for peace and to defend Kosovo and Metohija in any place where Cosmet is being discussed anywhere in the world. By accepting the talks, we are taking another step to help solve problems peacefully. 2. The National Assembly empowers the government to appoint a delegation to participate in the talks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-02-04-0.u1628	I thank the Prime Minister. I ask the Members of Parliament to put their parliamentary cards in the MPs for the purpose of determining the quorum. We have a quorum. I would like to put a vote on the draft conclusions tabled by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. For 227 MPs, against three, three abstentions, three were not voted, a total of 236 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft conclusions submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia Please, at the end of this session, let me say a few more words. [[Applause]] The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia today confirmed its strong unity and determination in defending the country and rejecting all aggressive threats to our freedom, independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity by its views, decisions and conclusions. Kosovo and the Metohija are Serbia's most important national and state issue. Today we have confirmed our unity and willingness to address the problems of Cosmeta through dialogue on two fundamental principles: peaceful means, political means, with full respect for the equality of citizens and national communities and only in the context of the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Serbia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Today's conclusions affirm our principled policy and show that Serbia chooses neither the time nor the place to defend its vital, national and state interests. Thank you. This is where our session is over.
