ParlaMint-RS_1999-03-23-0.u1629	Dear People's MPs, I am opening the First Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 1999. I believe you have been informed that during the period between the previous and this session of the National Assembly, two of our colleagues have passed away -- MPs Dr. Miladin Ivanovic and Miroslav Vasiljevic. I invite you to pay our respects to Dr Miladin Ivanovic and Miroslav Vasiljevic for a minute of silence. Praise them! We're continuing our work. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 180 MPs attend today's session. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, we have a quorum in the O.R. I would like to inform you that today's session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, next to the MPs, is attended by: - Mr. Milan Milutinovic, President of the Republic of Serbia, - Mr. Milomir Minic, President of the Council of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, - Mr. Mirko Marjanovic, Prime Minister of Serbia, Mr. Ratko Markovic, Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia and Head of State Delegation who participated in the talks in Rambuje and Paris, - members of the state delegation that participated in the talks in Rambuje and Paris, - Vice-President, Minister and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and - Secretary of the Republic of the Legis. Allow me to welcome all present guests on your behalf and on your behalf. You were presented the minutes of the 4th session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 1998, held on 28 December 1998. Any objections to the record? No, there isn't. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I am voting on the minutes of the 4th session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 1998, held on 28 December 1998. For 167 against one, there were no abstentions, and nine MPs did not vote. A total of 177 MPs are present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 4th session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 1998, held on 28 December 1998, without objections. You were presented the minutes of the 1999 National Assembly of the First Extraordinary Session of the Republic of Serbia held on 4 February 1999. Any objections to the record? No, there isn't. ) I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I am putting to the vote the minutes of the 1999 National Assembly of the First Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia held on 4 February 1999. For 165, against one, there were no abstentions, and 15 MPs did not vote. A total of 181 MPs are present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the first extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 1999, on 4 February 1999, without objections. You have been given a letter from the president of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group, informing the National Assembly that MP Radomir Djurdjevic has been excluded from the Serbian Radical Party and that he has obtained conditions to suspend his mandate as a MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Also, you have been presented with a report by the Administrative Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the examination of this notice, with a proposal that the National Assembly, on the basis of Article 102, paragraph 1. The law on the election of MPs finds the end of the mandate of MP Radomir Djurdjevic, on the date of exclusion and termination of membership in the Serbian Radical Party. Consistent with Article 102. Law on the election of MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Administrative Committee, finds that the mandate ended, before the time of his election, MP Radomir Djurdjevic, elected from the Serbian Radical Party's election list - Dr Vojislav Seselj in Election Unit 2 - Vozdovac, on the day of exclusion and termination of membership in the Serbian Radical Party. According to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, a vacancy in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be completed. We're moving on to the agenda. As you have been informed, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has submitted an emergency request to the National Assembly for the first session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, where a State Delegation's report on the talks in Rambuje and Paris will be discussed by an urgent procedure. The session, which was presented to you, contained a proposal for a single-point agenda, as suggested by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Before setting out the agenda for the session, according to the Rules of Procedure, we need to decide on an emergency procedure proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that an emergency procedure be considered by the State Delegation's report on talks in Rambuje and Paris. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to consider, by emergency procedure, the State Delegation's report on the talks in Rambuje and Paris. For 188, against no one, two MPs were abstentioned, and seven MPs voted not. A total of 197 MPs are present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. Since we have come to the conclusion of an emergency procedure proposal, I would ask the MPs to make a statement on the agenda in general. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their cards into the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting on a vote on a draft agenda in general. For 194, against one, with two abstentions, nine MPs did not vote. A total of 206 MPs are present in the hall. I find that the National Assembly has, by majority, established the agenda of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 1999 as a whole. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Report from the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Head of the Delegation of the Republic of Serbia to submit an introductory presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-03-23-0.u1630	Mr. President, Mr. President of the Republic, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as head of the state delegation appointed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia for talks in order to establish an agreement on essential self-government in Kosovo and Metohija, I am authorised to submit on behalf of the delegation a report on the work of the delegation and on the talks held at meetings in Rambuje and Paris. In addition to the text of the report, you have received the text of an agreement on self-government in Kosovo and Metohija, which was formed by a state delegation and signed by representatives of all national communities living in Cosmet, as well as a text signed by a separatist-terrorist delegation of the Kosovo Albanians. We believe that this will be the best way for the National Assembly to be informed objectively about the course of talks and without any suggestions or interpretations to be able to take views and make decisions of vital importance for the vital interest of the people and the state. As the Contact Group held its conclusions at a ministerial meeting in London on 29 January 1999, the Serbian government proposed to hold an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly with a single agenda -- current issues of resolving problems in Kosovo and Metohija and international community positions. After an exhaustive day-long debate involving 24 MPs, the National Assembly adopted conclusions on the proposal of the Serbian government that included -- that the National Assembly decided to accept the group's call for contact to discuss the core self-government in Kosovo and Metohija in France, because it is a firm commitment of the people and all political parties to fight for peace and because we should defend Kosovo and Metohija in every place where Cosmet is debated, anywhere in the world. The National Assembly in those conclusions empowers the government to appoint a delegation to participate in these talks. At a session of 5.2.1999, the Serbian government set up a delegation for talks at a meeting in Rambuje, consisting of the head of the delegation and 12 members, with 3/4 appointed from the national communities living in Kosovo and Metohija. On arrival in Paris, the delegation held a press conference, and the next day after many uncertainty from Paris was transferred to Rambouje. The meeting in Rambuje opened in 6.2.1999, with a welcome speech by French Republic President Jacques Shirak and the opening presentation of the Co-chairing Meetings of Foreign Ministers of Great Britain, Robin Cook and Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of France, Iber Vedrin. The day following the opening of the meeting, on 7.2.1999, the delegation was handed the text - Temporary Agreement for Peace and Self-Government in Cosmet, which covered the Framework Agreement and Annex 1.3 and 6. Annex 1 was entitled - The Constitution of Kosovo, Annex 3 elections, and the annex 6 ombudsman. On the same day, in the afternoon of a preliminary discussion on the part of the interim agreement, our delegation indicated that the starting principles established by the Contact Group were not either consistently implemented or were not implemented at all. Therefore, our delegation insisted that both delegations sign statements on the acceptance of the 10 starting principles set by the Contact Group. In addition, the negotiators are required to submit to the delegations the text of the interim agreement in general, not of an annex, because the objections to the text of the agreement can only be made after the fullness of the text has been obtained. The delegation considered this observation to be of particular importance, given the shortness of time the Contact Group had set for the talks. Namely, in the conclusions of the Contact Group of 20.1.1999, there is a -- that participants should advocate to conclude negotiations in seven days. So-called The troika, Ambassadors Hill, Petric and Majorski, will then report to the Contact Group ministers, who will assess whether the progress made justifies an extension of the period in less than a week, which would lead to a successful conclusion of the negotiations. As the seven-day deadline approached, and a delegation of the Cosmeth Albanians refused to sign the proposed statement on the acceptance of the 10 starting principles of the Contact Group, our delegation on the suggestion of the Rambuje co-chairing meetings on 9.2.1999 signed a declaration of acceptance of the principles set by the Contact Group as the basis for finding a political solution for self-government in Kosovo and Metohija. At the same time, a delegation confident that it will contribute to the success of the meeting calls on the Kosovo Albanian delegation to sign those elements as well. As a delegation of the Kosovo Albanians refused to do so once again, the troika introduced to the insistence of our delegation a new version of the text of the interim agreement in its preamble and in the preamble of the Constitution for Cosmet - a provision confirming the principles of the basic elements, which the Contact Group established at a ministerial meeting in London on 29.1.1999. On the date of the first deadline that the contact group set for the conclusion of the talks in 13.2.1999, Annex 4 of the interim agreement was delivered to our delegation, while Annex 4a was sent to the interim agreement in 15.2.1999, only after the meeting in Rambuje, by a decision of the Contact Group, taken at the ministerial meeting on 14.2.1999, was extended until 12 hours on Saturday 20.2.1999. At a meeting of our delegation with a troika, following a confirmed response to the specifically asked question of the head of the delegation - were all annexes adopted by the Contact Group, and in conclusion with the last Annex 4a 16.2.1999, the troika was handed over the unique text of the interim agreement with the embedded objections and views of our delegation. The accompanying letter, along with the text of the head of our delegation, reads -- "these remarks and views primarily come from the general elements and principles adopted by the Contact Group at a ministerial meeting in London on 29.1.1999, their importance and full value confirmed by the Contact Group at the last meeting in Paris, and in these frameworks the particular principle of respect for Serbia and Yugoslavia's sovereignty and territorial integrity. That, too, in a conversation with our 14th month delegation in Rambujee, was confirmed by US Secretary of State Mrs. Madlen Olbright. Our remarks and proposals primarily mean agreeing to the text of the agreement in general with that principle." Since 16.2.1999, experts from our delegation's experts have started meetings with the Contact Group experts, as experts from the Kosovo Albanian delegations have refused to meet with experts from our delegation. These talks were particularly intense before the second deadline. They started on February 19th, and ended on February 20th at five o'clock in the morning. In them, in the occasional presence, with three negotiators, all the time participated, the head of our delegation and Prof. Dr. Vladan Kutlesic of the members of our delegation. At a Contact Group ministerial meeting, held in Rambuje in 20.2.1999, the meeting was decided to extend until Tuesday 23.2.1999 to 15 hours. The Contact Group's conclusions, reached on that occasion, reads: "A fundamental progress has been made in achieving the framework and political chapters of the interim peace and self-government agreement on Cosmet. At the request of the party, we believe that this requires that a final effort be made to end the entire interim agreement and proposed amendments for the international, military and civilian presence in Cosmet, if the parties so agree, to implement and guarantee the interim agreement." Two days after this meeting of the Contact Group, on Monday 22 February 1999, at 7pm, at a meeting with Troika, our delegation was presented with annexes 2, 5 and 7 of the interim agreement. Annex 2 was entitled "Police and Civil Public Security", Annex 5 "Execution I", and Annex 7 "Implementing II". At that meeting, the negotiator, Ambassador Boris Majorski, informed our delegation that annexes 2 and 7 had not been considered, so they were neither adopted in the Contact Group, and that they were not the texts of the Contact Group, but of the individual members of the Contact Group, while Annex 5 was discussed, but its adoption at the Contact Group meeting was not decided. Since our delegation was explicitly responsible for the fact that all the annexes the agreement had to contain had been received and since the Ambassador Major's notice was received, our delegation refused to receive the offered annexes. The next day, on the date of the third deadline for the end of the meeting in Rambujeu, our delegation received the text of the interim agreement, which included, in addition to the framework, Chapter I, II, III, IV, IVa, V, VI, VII, VIII, following the adoption of the suggestion of our delegation, given in the first half of the Rambuje meeting, on the unique text of the agreement, divided into chapters, and not on the interim agreement, which would contain a framework agreement with annexes. Articles 3 and 4 of the original version of the Framework Agreement, of the interim agreement concerning the amendment and addition of the Agreement and of its comprehensive assessment, as well as the final provisions, have been transferred to a special new VIII chapter. In the accompanying letter, the negotiators said: "The final text of the interim agreement on peace and self-government in Cosmet, proposed in Rambuje, which the negotiators submit to delegations, on behalf of the Contact Group, is attached. This final proposal takes into account the views expressed at the Rambuje meeting. Russia is not joining Chapters II and VII. The co-chairs and negotiators are ready to receive your response today, not later than 13 o'clock." The letter was signed by three negotiators, with the signature of the Major's ambassador saying, "Besides Chapters II and VII". After the time specified by the Contact Group, a Contact Group ministerial meeting was held in Rambuje, with which the co-chairs issued a six-point statement. Among other things, they found the historical significance of the Rambuje meeting: "Who started a process based on principles and basic elements, adopted in London by the Contact Group, 29 January 1999, bringing together those who had long been divided by deep and sharp differences." Point 4 of this statement states: "There is now one political framework, which is specified in the Rambuje agreements and thus the basis for the finalisation of the implementation of the heads of this agreement, including the modality for the international, civil and military presence in Cosmet, for which you are scheduled to call. It is essential that the agreement on the interim agreement ends and that it be signed as a whole. In that spirit, the parties pledged to attend the conference, which will refer to implementation, in France on 15 March, after consultations with the parties and relevant international organisations. We are determined to monitor closely that the obligation is fully respected, in order to end the Rambuje process. "This confusing sentence suggested all confusion of the continuation of the meeting in Paris. What the negotiators qualified as a final proposal in Rambuje before noon in the accompanying letter, which takes into account the views expressed in Rambuje, the co-chairs co-chaired the same day as the completed Rambuje agreements. For their part, two delegations issued their statements after the deadline for the end of the meeting in Rambuje. In a statement by our delegation, it says, among other things: "The government delegation of Serbia points out that talks in Rambuje have made significant progress in defining a political solution regarding the broad autonomy of Kosovo and Metohija, respecting the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. We particularly point out, as the Contact Group says, that there is neither independence of Kosovo nor Metohija, nor a third republic. Therefore, all elements of autonomy must be known and clearly defined at the time of the establishment of the agreement. In further work, this should be adequately set up and settled consistently. In this regard, we are ready to participate in the next meeting on this issue. "The statement by a delegation of Kosovo Albanians, among other things, states: "The Kosovo delegation accepts by consensus to sign the agreement within two weeks after consulting the people of Kosovo, political and military institutions. The Kosovo delegation accepts, and this will be reaffirmed by the signature that at the end of the three-year transitional period, a referendum will be held in Kosovo, to determine the will of the people, as provided for in Article 1 of Chapter VIII, paragraph 1. In his statement, a delegation from the Kosovo Albanians further said the agreement in Rambujeu, presented at the February 23rd negotiations, "will only be subject to a technical review by experts". I particularly stress this part of the statement, as it will be used by the chairman of the meeting as an argument to reject our proposals for the addition of the political part of the agreement, in the follow-up to the Paris meeting. These statements ended the meeting in Rambuje in the afternoon of February 23rd 1999. After a press conference by the president of the Republic of Serbia, Milan Milutinovic and the head of our delegation in Paris, the delegation returned to the country after midnight. Upon returning to the country and reconstructing documentation from the Rambuje meeting, our delegation, with the participation of the president of the Republic of Serbia, Milan Milutinovic, held a meeting in Belgrade on 5 March 1999. The statement made by the delegation at that time reads, among other things: "The talks in Rambuje are temporarily interrupted and without concrete results, because there is much left to be done. It is well known that the political agreement has not been adopted and is far from being signed quickly. A series of key provisions have been unilaterally given and are in significant contrast to the 10 principles of the Contact Group, and therefore further hard work is ahead of the political agreement. And not only that, a transparent and inappropriate attempt was made to close the meeting for just a few hours before the deadline was set, documents were submitted that were not discussed at all by the Contact Group. That's what they're called. Annex 2 and 7, about the police and about the troops. All of this is known to foreign people, especially our public. Unfortunately, in the last few days, we have witnessed false acts done and achieved in Rambuje. The United States, but also some other members of the Contact Group, are making deliberate confusion, with claims that negotiations are at a stage, in which they are not, that the political agreement has been practically adopted and that March 15th only needs to be signed and talks on its application started. In doing so, the political agreement implies the whole text of the agreement, including the parts of the police and troops, that is, the very text that has not been discussed at all. In short, there's a huge hoax in the United States. An agreement is required to be signed, which in its largest part, over 56 pages, has never been discussed either within the Contact Group or in the talks. In addition, if cynicism and fraud are greater, the parties of Albania's separatist and triumphist movement are asked to sign an agreement, which they themselves have written, namely to agree that NATO is occupying Kosovo and Metohija, that the agreement be temporary, and that after 3 years there is a referendum, that there is no full equality and equality for other national communities except Albanians, to accept the quasi state in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Based on these views, Republika Srpska President Milan Milutinovic and the head of our delegation sent letters to foreign ministers of the countries, members of the Contact Group. The letters draw attention to manipulation and campaigns in the most serious way, aimed at allowing representatives of the Albanian separatist party to sign a non-existent agreement. It is a text, which has not been considered, or accepted in Rambuje, which has not been considered, or approved by the Contact Group and from which they have been fenced in writing, both our delegation and individual members of the Contact Group. The letters resolutely reject the attempts of the final act policy and require members of the Contact Group and the international community to prevent all manipulations and create normal conditions for continuing talks, without pressure, threats and blackmail. Such talks, on a well-known principled basis, the Republic of Serbia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia are ready to make their full constructive contribution. The delegation began its meeting in Paris on 14 March 1999. On her arrival in Paris, she held a press conference. At the first working meeting with negotiators, taught by the Rambuje experience, our delegation insisted that the rules of work be adopted, the Rules of Procedure of the meeting be adopted. During the meeting, he was not regulated by any rules, making it difficult for him to work. It is also pointed out that it is unimaginable that, even after our delegation's insistent demands in the troika, no direct meeting was held in Rambuje, nor in Paris, and that even a joint meeting of experts of two delegations was rejected. Our delegation is responsible that the course of the meeting is in the responsibilities of the co-chairs and our draft labour rules has been rejected. At an expert meeting with the Contact Group experts, on behalf of our delegation, the head of delegation, Prof. Vladan Kutlešić, member of the delegation and Prof. Dr. Rodoljub Etinski, expert of the delegation, sought to bring together the elements of essential autonomy and the whole text in line with the statement of our delegation, which was established by the Contact Group at the end of the meeting in Rambuje. The proposed agreement of 23 February 1999 left out all provisions, which were contrary to the declared principle of sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Republic of Serbia, all which were not subject to this agreement, but some other acts, newly-compromised verification mission, The Hague tribunal, independent media, international humanitarian aid and the like, all that is against the equality of national communities, all that is beyond and through international assistance in resolving the issue at Cosmet and which means seducing an international protectorate. At the same time, our delegations stressed that parts of the text of the agreement, which has not been adopted by the Contact Group, will not be discussed. As for the implementation of the agreement, the talks on the subject are only being taken into account when agreeing on political solutions contained in the agreement. On the same day, on March 15, 1999, our delegation sent text to the foreign ministers of the Contact Group and the three basic elements of the essential self-government in Kosovo and Metohija and the self-government agreement in Kosovo and Metohija, in which these elements were installed. Immediately the next day, our delegation asked the Co-chairs for their views on their remarks in writing. In response, the Contact Group concluded unanimously at a March 15th meeting that no fundamental changes to the political parts of the text of February 23rd were acceptable. Only technical adjustments shall be taken into account for the examination. After considering our proposals, the Contact Group concluded that they allegedly concern the essential elements and that they violate the key elements of the Rambuje agreement. At the same time, the Contact Group underlines that it is necessary to move immediately to the debate on the elements of the implementation of the agreement. The parties must adopt an agreement in general, including all means of its implementation. The re-insistence of our delegation to organise a direct meeting with a delegation of the Kosovo Albanians is responsible for a delegation of the cosmetic Albanians rejecting such a proposal. The fact has been commented in a statement by our delegation's chiefs in the following way: "This persistent refusal of the cosmetic Albanians to hold any joint meeting of experts, whether two delegations continue to hold an open fundamental issue throughout the meeting: who is agreeing with? Both the Rambuje meeting and this meeting in Paris are contrary to the normal method of having any kind of conversation and to the spirit of communication. Besides, for every agreement, it takes two signatories. This agreement is a three-way dictatorship. "Our delegation is suggested to move on to the debate of the 5th Agreement -- implementation 1. Since the proposal was contrary to the view that what is first to be determined and then how it will be implemented, our delegation rejected such a proposal. This was followed by the unilateral signing of a proposal for an agreement from Rambuje by a delegation of the cosmetic Albanians. On the last day of the Paris meeting on 18 March 1999, representatives of the national communities presented a meeting with a "three" of their visions of the interim agreement, signed by representatives of the Kosovo Albanians. In a letter to the co-chairs of the national communities, the members of our delegation point out: "The text offered leaves the Contact Group's principles since 29 January 1999 as the basis for a political solution. It annuls the equality of national communities and favours only one national community, Albanians, by establishing the majority principle of institution, body and decision-making. That is why the proposed agreement does not solve problems, but all of us, members of other national communities - Serbs, Montenegrins, Muslims, Turks, Roma, Gorance and Albanians, who are for living together, politically disprove and transform into second-class citizens, with some kind of cultural autonomy. More national communities live in Kosovo and Metohija. The essence of autonomy that we stand for is that all their rights are equal. Our main observation is that the proposed agreement gives political rights to only one national community, and all other national communities should defend their rights against this favoured national community. For us, autonomy is that we participate equally in decision-making, not that we have a declarative right to protect ourselves from decisions made by most. Historical experience in Kosovo and Metohija says the defence of endangered rights has always led to conflicts. Therefore, a solution without conflict is only possible if the rights of national communities are originally equal and guaranteed and are originally realised in the institutions of autonomy. Therefore, as responsible for the Contact Group, we strongly ask you once again to consider our proposals in good faith. Do not allow separatism, terrorism and ethnic cleansing to triumph in multi-cultural, multi-confessional and multi-ethnic Europe. Our proposals do not endanger any national community. They defend equality, common life in peace, multiethnic and multiconfessional Kosovo and Metohija. You too are committed to solutions that provide equality and equality for all citizens and national communities. Enable solutions that can organise life in peace and ensure the development of Kosovo and Metohija." As members of the Kosovo Albanian delegation's presidency signed a proposal for an agreement from Rambuje, the delegation made a statement, which, among other things, "confirms that after the three-year period of time, the people of Kosovo will express their will through the referendum, which will be implemented freely and fairly. The expressed will of the people will be met by an international conference, in order to establish a mechanism for a final solution to Kosovo's issues, in accordance with the interim agreement, in particular Article 1(3) thereof." This statement is the crown proof of the true intentions of the Rambuje interim agreement. Directly after the parties of the Albanian separatist movement signed an existing agreement, our delegation delivered to the co-chair of the meeting our text of the Agreement on Self-Government in Cosmet, which included elements of the core self-government, without heads on implementation. Following this, on the same day, on 19 March 1999, a statement by the co-chairs, which found that "the Kosovo delegation accepted agreements from Rambuje in general" and that "the Yugoslav delegation, not only did not do so, but tried to re-dispute the Rambuje agreements". It is therefore concluded that there is no point in extending the talks. They "will not continue unless the Serbs declare to accept the agreement". On the same day, following a press conference by Republika Srpska President Milan Milutinovic, a delegation returned from Paris to Belgrade. In a statement, issued by the President of the Republic, Milan Milutinovic on his return to Belgrade, in addition, said: "All who want to truly contribute to a political solution should stop threatening, counterfeiting and planting and continue to change the approach and clearly define the rules, provide direct talks. It's the only way to reach a political agreement." This chronological review of the beginning, the course and completion of the meeting in Rambuje and Paris is possible, as it is a eloquent statement of fact, to be summed up in the following way: Our delegation went to France with the aim of establishing essential autonomy and defending the multiethnic composition of the population in Cosmet, with the mandate given to it by the National Assembly with its conclusions. Its basic idea was the equality of national communities, which is the key and backbone to solve all cosmetic problems. The meeting in Rambujee was chaotic and took place with extreme volunteerism, more in the form of negotiations by our delegation with the US team, led by Ambassador Hill on the one hand and as an effort by the same team to find solutions that would be agreed by a separatist delegation of the cosmetic Albanians to sign the agreement on the other. Hence, the lack of any rules on working at meetings, hence the disabling of direct meetings of the two delegations. The whole purpose of the meeting was -- as the parties of the Separatist and terrorist movement of Albanians were forced to sign the agreement, so that they could then put pressure on Serbia, which is explicitly said by one of the co-chairs, French Minister Iber Vedrin, that "Serbs should now be pressed against the wall". In the follow-up to the Paris meeting, the proposal for an agreement was declared a final agreement. All essential issues have been declared closed and technical adjustments are only possible. Our fundamental objection that the agreement separates state sovereignty from Serbia-Yugoslav's territorial integrity, that the first part of this principle has been annulled, and the second only declared, was rejected by reason that such an attitude "infringes the key elements" of the non-existent Rambuje agreements. On our claim that the essential self-government of Cosmet is being realised in the interim agreement as a state for the Albanian majority and as a minority protection of other national communities, it is responsible that it is "the modern understanding of democracy and democratic order". Also, on our remark that the agreement contains more than half of the text that has not been established by the Contact Group, no response has been given. Therefore, our delegation, deriving from the elements of the core self-government, which it has established, has incorporated into the political part of the agreement, which was adopted in the Contact Group, signed the text as an Agreement on the Self-Government of Cosmet. The text is a significant step towards the Pristina Declaration, but the solutions it offers can be consistently incorporated into the country's constitutional and legal system. It represents our response, following the basic principles adopted by the Contact Group on 29 January 1999. Two different texts of the agreement were signed in Paris, one of which was partly adopted in the Contact Group, but not by the two delegations, while the other established our delegation on the basis of elements for the essential self-government of Cosmeta and 10 starting principles of the Contact Group. In doing so, the text signed by a delegation of the Albanian political parties is not an agreement, it is a falsification of the agreement. In essence, neither a delegation of cosmetian Albanians nor American negotiators wanted negotiations. The "Albanians" were only physically present in France, and in their name the Americans beat up, who saw the negotiations as their dictatorship. This went hand in hand and behavior of the Contact Group, which was cheerleading, biased and contradictory. Finally, the Contact Group came into an absurd situation to put pressure on our delegation for the adoption of the agreement, which it had not previously adopted. Instead of communication, threats and forces have become the main means of pushing the agreement. Our delegation had a constructive approach to meetings in France and was unique in events. She felt that it was necessary to first set the skeleton of essential autonomy in Cosmet, which is based on the Contact Group principles, and then legally build institutions of essential autonomy, which would be in line with these principles. She agreed to discuss an internal issue with the intervention of the troika, but could not give up the principle and practical achievement of the country's sovereignty and territorial integrity. Hence, it was against the view that essential autonomy in Cosmet exists if Serbia does not exist there, as it was against foreign troops, because it felt that what was agreed had no need to enforce by force, and if necessary, that such force should be available to the state rather than to some foreign troops. In particular, our delegation felt that it was not an agreement if the signatories do not agree directly and that the agreement must take place on civilised rules rather than on primitive hiducia. Meetings in France were a negation of the agreement and affirmation of a unilateral dictatorship. They were one manipulation of facts and deception of world public opinion. Despite such experiences, our delegation expressed our country's readiness to establish a political process of real communication and to find a political solution for Cosmet. Any political solution is better than a military solution. The war cannot lead to a real solution and therefore our delegation has expressed its readiness to find a solution exclusively by political means, in line with a clearly defined procedure for finding a solution based on the authentic elements of essential self-government. The delegation also identified such elements to the National Assembly, which entrusted her with the mandate, expressed its readiness to propose the operationalisation of the agreement she signed. In addition, the March 5th 1999 delegation explicitly stated: "We are ready to continue the talks in both Paris and Belgrade and Pristina, wherever a political solution can be found. This gives us absolute priority at every table and at every meeting we are for a peaceful solution, for broad autonomy within Serbia and Yugoslavia, for equality of all national communities, but also we are determined to say that there is no room, no talks where we can give Cosmet, allow secession or a third republic. If we had agreed to do so we would have given up ourselves, we would have betrayed our citizens of Serbs, Montenegrins, Albanians, Muslims, Turks, Roma, Goranes, Egyptians, all who live in Cosmet, who want to stay there to live in peace and equality." Dear MPs, from everything I have told you about the course of negotiations in Rambuje and Paris, we have come to a clear conclusion that we are faced with a concrete requirement at all costs to accept the arrival of foreign troops on our territory, as a condition for the implementation of a political agreement that has not been reached or otherwise we will be bombed. This is a fundamental issue where the overall political process on resolving the problems of Kosovo and Metohija and the state delegation sees the National Assembly as saying this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-03-23-0.u1631	Thank you. We heard the presentation submitted by Professor Ratko Markovic, Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia and the head of the delegation of the Republic of Serbia. During the session, you were presented with a State Delegation Report on the talks in Rambuje and Paris, and before the beginning of the session of the Kosovo Self-Government Agreement, signed by members of the government delegation of the Republic of Serbia and the text delivered on 23 February 1999, which was signed by the so-called A delegation from Kosovo, composed of a party of the Albanian separatist movement. Before the session, I agreed with the representatives of the parliamentary clubs to form a five-member committee to draw up a proposal for conclusions on today's debate. The commission would include Dragan Tomic, commission president Zoran Nikolic of the Socialist Party of Serbia, Dragoljub Stamenkovic of the Serbian Radical Party, Spasoje Krunic of the Serbian Renewal Movement and Vladimir Stambuk of the Yugoslav Left. The Commission will monitor the course of the debate and propose the text of conclusions to the National Assembly. I ask the MPs to place their cards in the MPs' units to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I'm putting on a motion to form a commission. For 205, against one, with three abstentions, did not vote 10, a total of 219 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. Since you received the material during the session, I'm giving you a 15-minute break to look at the materials before the debate opens. [[After break - 11.50 h]] Please take your seats so we can continue our work. I'm opening a search. Gorica Gajevic, head of the SPS parliamentary club, answered, and prepare Steve Dragisic, head of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary club.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-03-23-0.u1633	President-in-Office of the Republic, President of the National Assembly, honourable MPs, peace, equality, sovereignty and territorial integrity are the values and objectives that we have confirmed in the conclusions of this assembly as vital, national and state-owned interests and have obliged the state delegation to consistently affirm and defend them in the talks in France. The state delegation fully respected the talks in Rambuje and the talks in Paris. For a consistent affirmation of our political problem-solving position in Kosovo and Metohija, in the context of broad autonomy, for dignified and patriotic stance, the SPS parliamentary group gives them full recognition and accepts the report submitted by the delegation's president. The mandate entrusted to her by the state delegation justified. She consistently represented what the citizens of Serbia were looking for, and we as the people's representatives formulated in the conclusions. Kosovo and Metohija are an integral part of Serbia, will enjoy broad autonomy with equality of all national communities, without majorisation and discrimination on any basis. That we are for peace and political solution, we have confirmed by the decision to go to the talks in France, to talk with the presence of the international community and outside our country. For the peace and preservation of Kosovo and Metohija, on a political platform formulated by this assembly, it has been confirmed that we can freely stop and talk to everyone anywhere. However, what proved to be true in the talks in France? Part of the international community was not sincere in its efforts to hold talks. The Contact Group, rather the U.S., turned their role as mediators into adversaries, mentors and sponsors of separatists and terrorists. They invited us to talk, expecting us not to come to those conversations. They've brought together representatives of separatists and terrorists. They all did not want the talks to happen, that we reject the talks and blame Serbia for breaking the political process, as well as for failing to reach a political agreement. Our delegation has always been dignified, principled, persistent, patient and with great flexibility, developing as much autonomy as possible, to the very limit of national and state interests, sovereignty and territorial integrity, point by point, side by side, building a political agreement. Our delegation's document provides multiethnic, multi-confessional and multi-cultural Kosovo and Metohija. It guarantees equality to all citizens and national communities. This is best witnessed by representatives of all who make up Cosmet - Serbs and Montenegrins, Muslims, Turks, Roma, Gorans, Egyptians and Albanian parties who are for the common life and autonomy of Kosovo and Metohija. The agreement on self-government in Cosmet was based on ten Contact Group principles and building institutions and bodies, which have broad and autonomous decision-making rights, without the possibility of majorisation. In addition, the agreement provides for additional rights to national communities, broad powers of local self-government, regulations with legal power, ministerial council, three types of courts, local police, secured representation in the National and Federal Assembly, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, the Supreme and Federal Court. It is autonomy that, by the scope of rights, guarantees and equality, there is not a single country in the world. Politically-legal, all over it is state, not autonomy. We can see from the delegation's report that there was no conversation in France, neither in Rambuje, nor in Paris. The Separatist - a terrorist delegation published its agreement before talks in the Koha Ditore newspaper, and so on. The negotiating troika falsified it in a calling agreement offered by the Contact Group. Methods that are neither political, nor diplomatic, but naked fraud, have been forged and demanded by separatists, with the help of American experts and their satellites, received a form of paper called an agreement, which has not been discussed, nor adopted by even the Contact Group, the official organiser of these talks. The patient and constructive work of the state delegation is systematically devalued. Our suggestions are hidden and pushed under the carpet. The basic rule of procedure was that the procedure was gone, everything was allowed to achieve their goals. The talks that were not there were imitated, and the paper was presented as an agreement that does not exist. By contrast, we have formulated a political agreement, national equality, common life, democratic institutions, peace and development. They imposed only one -- NATO troops and NATO troops. It's the only essential and real contribution to their engagement. After all, it is clear to each well-intentioned that those in Rambuje and Paris did not want to reach a political solution, but rather a new polygon and a job for NATO troops. Representatives of different groups of Albanian separatists and terrorists, an ethnically pure group in Paris signed its request for secession, ethnically clean Kosovo and an invitation to Serbia's occupation. It's no deal. What did they actually sign? They signed autonomy by name, and the state by essence. Declarative equality, and indeed favouring Albania's national minority and discrimination against everyone else. What they signed would lead to eviction, a new wave of Albanianisation, and the result would be ethnically clean Kosovo and Metohija. It is an agreement between Albanian separatists and terrorists and the US administration to hire NATO troops to help and speed up achieving separatist goals. This was signed by Ambassadors Hill and Petrich. They have verified the lease of NATO troops to protect terrorists, not a political agreement that would bring to Cosmet peace and equality of all citizens and national communities. That contract wouldn't have been complete if it didn't have an explanation. It was written by the same hand that wrote the call - an agreement and signed by a criminal and terrorist, Hashim Thaci, and clearly explained that they signed independence, and called on NATO to commit aggression on the sovereign country and to keep territory for them for the next three years until they expressed their will through the referendum and made a final decision on the final secession. However, it was little for separatists and their mentors. They are looking for a new Albanian state under the international protectorate. Because we don't accept it, because we are determined to deal with terrorism with aggression. The conduct of the work of the international community, better say the US administration and its NATO allies, as well as those waiting in line to become so, introduces unprecedented practice in international relations. The principle of equality between people and states is replaced by force and ultimatums. The agreement as an expression and agreement of two or more parties shall be converted into counterfeiting and planting. Free-loving nations and democratic states, their governments, parliaments must know that by defending Cosmeta, Serbia and Yugoslavia, the defences and fundamental principles of international organisations and international relations. As Rambui and Paris took place, Serbia and Yugoslavia and our people in the diaspora made it clear once more that we would not give Kosovo and Metohija or any part of our territory. In defense of our territorial integrity and sovereignty, we have chosen peaceful, political means. If we are forced by war, we will defend against the aggressors in every way and by all means. It is a clear message from the citizens of Serbia and Yugoslavia. All those who want to replace politics with war, talk about bombings, they have to count on it. The space for political agreement is still wider and much better than the space for conflict. There's no reason for French, English, German and who knows whose young men are killed for terrorist purposes to sell the American media as news. We remain firmly defined that through peaceful means, through political means, through the continuation of the political process, we would achieve broad autonomy for Kosovo and Methia, which would once again point out to ensure the equality of all national communities, full respect for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Serbia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. The proposal for an agreement of the State delegation fulfils these conditions. In order to speed up the political process, it should immediately begin its operationalisation, i.e. the adoption of appropriate documents, statutes and other accompanying acts, preparations for the organisation of the census, all that would lead to life. Our delegation's proposal is realistic and most importantly enforceable. These are not mere technical formulations, but an essential solution to the interests and needs of those who live in Kosovo and Metohija and the possibility to continue to develop and live in peace in this southern province to protect their national specialities. We call on the parliaments of all democratic and free-loving peoples and states to focus their governments on the path of political resolution, to stop war preparations by ratting out weapons around our borders, discourage extremists, stop support for terrorists, and truly give peace a chance. In order to preserve the fundamental principles of international relations and rights, a more humane and fairer future, one who has no authentic culture, tradition, history, and tries to bring them down by destroying others, who build their own freedom on other people's freedom, their right to take away their rights to others, the one who gains wealth by taking away from others, who, by destroying civilization values, wants to become the ruler of the whole world, must be made clear that he has peoples and states that have his own history, freedom, independence and dignity do not sell or surrender. Serbia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, without ever reaching for someone else's, for who knows which time in their history they are firmly ordering -- for peace, equality and co-operation we are, but for sale and surrender we are not. That's why foreign military troops, under any excuse, at no cost, or at the cost of bombing, are not accepted on our territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-03-23-0.u1634	There is a word from MP Stevo Dragisic, head of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary club.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-03-23-0.u1635	Ladies and gentlemen, the interstate relations in the world today depend on respecting the state sovereignty and territorial integrity of the states. As a result, several principles have been established, primarily the invariability of state borders, non-mixing in the internal affairs of sovereign states, non-recognition of secession and in relation to it, are always condemned by separatist and terrorist movements and organisations, which are, as a rule, manifestations of secessionist aspirations. As far as secession is concerned, it is always caused by organisations that are trying to gain the legitimacy of representatives of the ethnic community, who want to secede from the state in which they live, and the methods of these organisations, the methods of fighting are always terrorist. The problem of secession and terrorism is, in its nature and nature, always the internal problem of the state. As a result, they are the only ones who solve these problems as they know and know it, and any interference on the part is considered to be interference in the internal affairs of the sovereign state. However, developments in Kosovo and Metohija and the relationship of major forces towards them have shown that these principles apply only to some of these Western forces -- Great Britain, France, Spain, in the case of Northern Ireland, Corsica, Basescu, but that these same principles do not apply to Serbia when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija. Secessionist aspirations in the part of Albania's national minority exist for a long time. The result of these aspirations is the creation of an organization whose goal is separatism, and the method of combating terrorism, etc. Okay. The Kosovo Liberation Army and its organisation and the method it wants to achieve its goals is undoubtedly a terrorist organisation. It's obviously clear to everyone. It is clear to those who are fighting terrorism in the world, the United States, but they do not want to admit it, because the struggle of the KLA terrorist organisation helps the United States achieve their goals in this area, as they call it - the achievement and preservation of their national interests. As a result, there has been a violation of the principle of non-interference in the internal affairs of sovereign states. Since terrorists have declared fighters to achieve and protect the ethnic rights of Albanians, they have given themselves the right to directly engage in solving the problems Serbia has with terrorists, but on the side of terrorists. And all that they've taken over the past few months has shown, above all, to us, and to those who have objectively seen, that Western forces led by the United States are open on the side of the terrorist movement in Kosovo and Metohija. The Republic of Serbia is ready to accept any suggestion, any proposal that can lead to a solution. We are always ready to negotiate directly and talk to representatives of the Albanian national minority. But the Republic of Serbia will never accept solutions that are being imposed on it ultimatically, especially those which involve the separation of Kosovo and Metohija from the legal system of the Republic of Serbia and the long-term possibility of its total secession from the Republic of Serbia, as this is, above all, disrupting the principle of the invariable state borders, and also destroying the Republic of Serbia as an independent state. This firm, unequivocal attitude of the Republic of Serbia, which was expressed before our state delegation's departure to the Rambuje negotiations, is just coming from the generally accepted principles I was just talking about. Our insistence on respecting the principles is a major obstacle to achieving the only goal of the United States, which is the deployment of their, or NATO troops on the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. To avoid violating these principles, the United States is trying to extort our consent to their deployment on our territory. In that case, everything would be in accordance with international law, so they organised negotiations in France, first in Rambuje, then in Paris, and so on. The negotiations turned into a farce. They established - The Contact Group established - 10 principles and said that these principles are something that must be accepted by both the state delegation and the representatives of Albanians, who went to negotiations, and when our delegation insisted that these principles be signed by the Albanian delegation, then these principles ceased to apply, and that was the first indication that these negotiations actually made no sense, even if not the sense they should have declared. Later moves, drawn by the United States in these negotiations, have shown that the negotiations were in fact just an instrument for political pressure on the Republic of Serbia. In parallel with these political pressures, the United States, through its instrument, the NATO Pact, has been making direct military threats to the Republic of Serbia. These military threats these days have also experienced their culmination. Their message is very clear, they say - if you do not willingly agree to our ground troops move across the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, we will bomb you. However, we have long given our answer to all these threats. And I repeat again, we are ready to give Kosovo Albanians the widest autonomy, the autonomy that neither those living in Northern Ireland nor in Corsica, and in Baska, but we are not ready to give the Albanian state on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, we are not ready for you to guard that state and for three years, Kosovo and Metohija to become finally an independent state, which is the goal of the terrorist movement in Kosovo and Metohija. If you still want your ground troops to be on Kosovo and Metohija territory, you'll have to make an effort to get there. You'll never have our consent to that. They can bomb us and cause us really big material losses, challenge us and civilian casualties, but the question is, do we have exits? Do they leave us with any alternative, can we decide on any other solution besides defending our own country? If we now allow NATO troops to come to the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, the question arises -- how will we defend the Raška area, how will we defend their demands to come to the territory of Vojvodina, how will we defend ourselves against any other similar demands, which would we have, when they achieve their current goal? If we remain firm, if we show that we are not ready to surrender our territory, we can expect and hope to preserve the Republic of Serbia, as it is today. If we give in to Kosovo and Metohija today, we must have lost our country. So we don't have a choice. The keys to peace and war today are in the hands of the United States. If they decide to attack the Republic of Serbia, they have opened the door to war, they have forced us to defend ourselves and they have dragged the Republic of Serbia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia into war against the NATO Pact. But that's not our choice, that's what we have to accept. The Republic of Serbia must defend itself. It is a clear attitude and these congregations, and the executive authorities in Serbia, and I hope that those who decide whether there will be war, or there will be peace, they know it well, and that they will also make their future moves accordingly.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-03-23-0.u1636	Thank you. There is a word from MP Milan Rodic, head of the Yugoslav left's parliamentary club. Word came from Zarko Jokanovic, head of the New Democracy Parliament Club.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-03-23-0.u1637	The President-in-Office, the President-in-Office of the Republic of Serbia, Prime Minister, members of the government, members of our delegation in France, honourable MPs, the JUL parliamentary group fully supports the performance and functioning of the state delegation in talks on resolving the cosmetic problem. In these talks, our delegation gave priority to a peaceful political solution, for which JUL has always advocated. At the previous session, the assembly unequivocally expressed views on the way and conditions of holding talks, on the peaceful resolution of the cosmetic crisis based on constitutional solutions and the highest world standards. This time clearly established frameworks for the functioning of the state delegation, aimed at finding the most favourable solutions, which would satisfy the interests of all the national communities living in our southern province. That definition is also witnessed by the multinational composition of our delegation. The existing constitutional solutions, the world's highest standards on the autonomous position and rights of national minorities, seemed the limit, beyond which talks in France could not or could not be crossed. Despite all the pressures, the plantings, the irregularly aggressive and inappropriate performances of the representatives of the international community, our delegation and president of Serbia have succeeded in fully respecting the mandate and trust that this assembly has given them. With its unique, determined and responsible performance, our delegation assured the domestic and international public of the full consistency and regularity of Serbia-Yugoslavia's policy, aimed exclusively at peaceful overcoming the crisis in Kosovo and Metohija. The fact that citizens of our country are daily expressing support for such definitions, with full readiness to defend our country, clearly indicates that the only peaceful solution to the cosmetical crisis, with the preservation of the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Serbia and Yugoslavia, is leading to the overall progress and preservation of national dignity. Aware of the facts of the multinational character of Serbia and Yugoslavia, the Yugoslav Left has always advocated the full equality of all people, no matter what nation and religion they belonged to. Multi-national charm, particularly represented in Kosovo and Metohija, requires the obligation to provide equal living conditions for all communities, not only Albanian. Hence, JUL completely rejects all blackmail, dictatorships and threats to aggression, aimed at violently imposing a solution, which would be in the interest of Albanian separatists. NATO's unsustainable view is that in order to achieve the superbly modern principles of the new world order, another state should be given to Albanians, but in Serbian territory. Such a naharadic state formation existed in the space of Cosmeta during the fascist occupation. This kind of cynicism, spiced with language of blackmail, threats and force, is never seen in world history. As well as the strategies of the fascist new order in the eve of World War II, the powerful NATO machinery seeks to re-humanize one will, the will of power, the universal economic, cultural and spiritual discipline, according to their notion of good. Unfortunately, at the end of this century, no way of organized and comprehensive opposition to these dark intentions has yet been built. Do they consider it so-called. "the hawks" from Washington and Brussels that the citizens of this country have no dignity, power and will to defend themselves and their country against terrorism and aggression? This assembly is too responsible to give rise to solidarity with the capitulant stance in front of the carriers of separatist and terrorist crimes, which essentially lead to the establishment of NATO's aggressive and barbaric aspirations. Do separatists and terrorists understand that NATO is ready to fight to the last Albanian and Serb, using planes and missiles, sowing death and destruction from the air, which will ensure the spread of the borders of influence and additional profits to their military industry? Do the Separatist chiefs think that NATO missiles will only hit Serbian targets, and that the houses and properties of Albanians will remain intact? Dear fellow MPs, all the time since the outbreak of the Kosovo crisis, the state leadership of Yugoslavia and Serbia has offered negotiations, which have led to a peaceful resolution of the crisis, expressing the views of the vast majority of citizens and the advanced work of the international community. History suggests that the Serbian people and the Serbian state were never supporters of winning and violently resolving issues. They were never conquerive, they were just defensive wars. And now we think that all difficulties can be overcome in a peaceful and civilized way. But our country and its citizens cannot accept the humiliations, blackmails and threats of force, depicted in the final line by the arrival of NATO troops in Kosovo and Metohija for the purpose of God's protection of peace, which have put themselves at risk, sustaining and supporting terrorism. The people's unity, the accorded consent of all relevant parliamentary parties, and above all the progeny and firm attitude of the vast majority of citizens speaks enough of the determination to defend the country against terrorism, from the aggressors. Serbia and Yugoslavia will oppose any aggression, defending freedom and their citizens, territory and dignity. Though indignant, the Serbian people have enough experience and brains to avoid the risk of destruction and fall into a state of subjugation and universal hopelessness. The correctness and consistency of state policy with regard to the resolution of the cosmetic crisis gives us the right to seek and propose the most favourable ways of its peaceful overcoming. The Yugoslav Left believes that in these difficult and fatal moments for our country, all the institutions of the system and all the citizens must act responsibly and securely. Everyone is obliged to do their job in the best possible way, as the team contributes to the country's stability and readiness to defend itself to the greatest extent possible. This is exactly the kind of treatment that represents the highest act of patriotism and loyalty to the country and the people. Dear People's MPs, the Yugoslav Left estimates that despite threats, kidnappings and murders, the vast majority of the cosmetic Albanians have a sense of loyalty and belonging to Serbia and Yugoslavia. We believe that people as a whole can never be the enemy. There are only freaks, who, by their actions and crimes against others, are putting an end to their countrymen. In this way, they want to create a picture in public of God’s threat and hatred of the people, to whom they unfortunately belong. There are countless examples that just loyal Albanians have resisted terrorists and separatists. It may not be known enough that the brave Shumar Ramadan Balaj and his sons, despite severe wounding, managed to liquidate two terrorists, and the rest captured and handed over to the authorities. These and similar examples create the commitment of their more comprehensive and frequent emphasis, which can contribute to strengthening the mutual trust and awareness of the Albanians themselves about all the benefits and necessity of life in Serbia. The irrefutable fact is that no safe and responsible Serb and Albanian is in favour of war, because war and aggression are the ideal of irresponsible and depraved people, cadres to harm and harm others. Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, activity and clear commitment to the leadership of the SR Yugoslavia and Serbia, the Government of National Unity and the state delegation enjoy the full support of the vast majority of citizens and this assembly, instilling confidence in the peaceful resolution of the cosmetic crisis and also our full readiness to defend the country's sovereignty and territorial integrity. This support also speaks of the legitimate aspirations of our citizens, aimed at overall economic recovery, in order to create conditions for economic development and improvement of living conditions. Countless times, Serbia and Yugoslavia have assured the world of its ability to offer numerous and high-quality economic, professional, scientific and humanistic values and knowledge. Hence, JUL believes that the overall positive, responsible and above all patriotic functioning of our delegation and the Government of National Unity requires full mobilization of all the economic development forces of the country in general. The people of our country, above all, appreciate their freedom, dignity, and will not allow anyone to harm them. Convinced that the shared opinion of the vast majority of citizens, the Yugoslav Left remains firm in determining that the cosmetic crisis can be resolved in a peaceful civilized manner, dialogue and political means. But in the event of aggression, there is no dilemma for the Yugoslav Left. Serbia is one. He must defend himself, defend himself, and economically strengthen himself. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_1999-03-23-0.u1638	Thank you. There is a word from MP Zarko Jokanovic, head of the New Democracy Parliament Club, and prepare Milan Mikovic, head of the SPO parliamentary club.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-03-23-0.u1639	Mr. President-in-Office of the Republic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, on behalf of the New Democracy MPs, I express my sincerest condolences to the families of all the dead soldiers, police officers and innocent civilians who were killed by the Cypriot terrorists in Kosovo and Metohija. The new democracy is resolutely resisting the pressures and military threats of our country, as the only good solution is the solution that is reached by a peaceful path, a political compromise, with full co-operation with the international community. We strongly condemn the threats by bombing our country and stress that not only is it legitimate, but also the logical right to defend in the event of aggression, and in this sense the new Democrats will honorably and responsibly fulfil their patriotic obligation. History teaches us that at this difficult historic moment for our people and the state, the question is not whether we will keep Kosovo and Metohija, in this we are all unique. The real question is how to do it successfully in the best possible way. We must be wise to protect our national and national interests and to protect the lives of all our citizens. Our definition is clear: broad autonomy, with full protection of the territorial integrity and sovereignty of Serbia and Yugoslavia. We therefore propose not to allow the implementation of the initial scenario of Serbia and the Serb people's punishment by NATO forces on the basis of a false humanitarian disaster, directed by Albanian secessionists with their mentors, after providing them with a strategic advantage in the international community, by signing with Ambassadors Hill and Petrich and accepting the performance by other members of the Contact Group. The new democracy believes that the defence of states and peoples is the greatest patriotism. That is why we propose that the National Assembly mandates the state delegation to send immediately to the Contact Group, the OSCE and the UN Security Council a letter of intent, which will explicitly confirm Serbia's will to reach a political agreement, with a clarification of several important issues and a proposal to reach an agreement with the UN Security Council on the implementation of the agreement. Given the composition of permanent members of the Security Council, where Russia and China, who have the right to veto, the time constraint of its decisions, have no real danger of jeopardising our country's independence and sovereignty, so before and for such decisions, the agreement of our country is necessary. We believe that this approach would significantly improve the negotiating positions of Serbia and Yugoslavia and would be accepted by the greatest part of the international community, which, of course, is clear that Serbia wants peace, a peaceful and political solution. If these proposals were to be realised, there would be no threat to the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Serbia and Yugoslavia, so there would be no interference with signing a political agreement, which would finally agree with the Contact Group, of course in no way harm to Serbian national and state interests. That would give everyone three years of precious peace, beyond what is necessary to find a final solution. There is no good solution and cannot be without peace, recovery, restoration and return to the international community, which must be organised to support the preparation of our country and all Balkan countries for European integration and which must know very clearly that there is no preventing false humanitarian disasters from threats, bombs and aggression on a sovereign country. The new democracy draws attention to the fact that it is not the time for the exorcism of justice with world powers and that the rejection of the Serbian side is exactly what the secessionist policies of Albanians and their influential advisers have taught them to put all responsibility for the failures of the negotiations on the Serbian side. That is why we must outsmart them, because this is why Albanian secessionists become partners with major forces, to the detriment of Serbia. We remind ourselves that this has already been seen many times over the past nine years in these areas, and therefore we must not make such a historic mistake that through the beginning of the scenario of continued violence and organised false humanitarian disaster, we must not face the most developed countries of the world, including all the allies in the fight for national and state independence and freedom of the Serbian people. When it comes to a report on the work of a state delegation, which together with the president of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Milutinovic represented the Republic of Serbia in recent talks in Rambuje and Paris and the proposal for an agreement, which our state delegation gave, New Democracy has no objections. A new democracy regrets that our proposal for an agreement has not been accepted by the Contact Group. That is why we have returned to the very beginning, and therefore we reiterate the fact that compromise and agreement with the international community are necessary. A new democracy expects the desired compromise, painful for all participants, but better than the war, to be found in talks that are currently under way between US President, Ambassador Richard Holbrooke and the president of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, Mr Slobodan Milosevic. We support this agreement, and in that case our initiative is realised by it. The message of New Democracy is clear - Kosovo and Metohija must not only defend, but indeed defend. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-03-23-0.u1640	Thank you. The word has been issued by MP Milan Mikovic of the Serbian Movement of Reconstruction Parliament, and will be prepared by MP Kasa Jozef, head of the parliamentary club of the Alliance of Vojvodjan Hungarians.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-03-23-0.u1641	Mr. President, I'd like you to allow me to take this serious matter seriously.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-03-23-0.u1642	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-03-23-0.u1643	Mr. President of the National Assembly, Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. Prime Minister, the People's MPs, today we are facing a plea, as extremely responsible people, as people who have been trusted to express in the name of citizens everything they feel and think and even express differences if there are and on what issues there are. The National Assembly, by the letter of our Constitution, would not be competent to declare these matters, although in Article 73. The constitution says it decides on war and peace, but we have the Constitution of Yugoslavia, which was later adopted, where it was transferred to the jurisdiction of the federal state and it is obvious that this provision in the Constitution of Serbia will not exist when we change the constitution. There is another provision that may speak of the jurisdiction of the National Assembly to make this statement, which is the provision of Article 73, which states that the National Assembly is to exercise control over the work of the Government and other bodies and officials, and thus, as it is a reportable body formed by the Government, it is obvious that there can also be jurisdiction over such a statement. But there's one far more important thing. No matter what the Constitution or jurisdiction says, it is certain that in some way we must discuss all these issues, which are raised and spoken of, that we speak responsibly, and that we really point out all the things that can be the result of decisions that will be taken by the government in this country and that in this respect we try to contribute to making such solutions or to implement such efforts, which will help both the state and the people in the best possible way, or, to the greatest extent possible, reduce possible damages. We need to be convincing today, and we and everyone who speaks on behalf of this country, not to agree to certain changes in Kosovo, but to want them to be implemented, because we believe that something like that comes from the provisions of our Constitution, where we have foreseen a territorial organisation, the existence of autonomous provinces and their rights. So the question arises whether at the moment when we were faced with the fact that the work in France was being obstructed, could we, by referring to the provisions of our Constitution, begin to take measures ourselves to create both the essence and the soul of this autonomy on the territory of Kosovo and Metohija and Vojvodina in a certain way and all that should represent autonomy and no more than autonomy. We've had opportunities, we have opportunities today and tomorrow and every day. Therefore, it is not a small matter that is mentioned, not just once today and is not mentioned only once in the last days -- we have to hurry, as far as possible, to all those who think otherwise or by other means to seek a solution to this issue that is related to Kosovo. You delivered these materials to us an hour ago. There's over 100 pages. Some of these materials have been available before. Too bad you didn't deliver earlier. Too bad we weren't in the middle of all that stuff. I believe that perhaps in a common way and in a mutual conversation, we could point out a lot of things. You see, one of the things that a colleague from New Democracy was talking about, it's three years old. He said we should get a three-year deadline and we'll sort it all out. I'm standing in the opposite position. This question must be settled now, not today, but these days - quickly, urgently. What does three years of waiting mean? It won't calm things down, the tension will last that long, and it's no small thing. You or some people think time is on our side. It's not on our side, it's not on the other side, it's not on anyone's side. It's time to settle this matter as soon as possible. We cannot tell people today in an indirect way, we cannot accept the world without saying, if you extend it to three years, will the Albanians know whether to invest and build houses in Kosovo or not, will it be Serbia or Albania? Will Serbs know whether to move or not? Will the terrible consequences of hanging in the air for all the people living in these areas? So we can explain it to the world. I want you to make your statement today. If you say today, we are counting on Kosovo, which will be something other than an autonomous unit, then today we will discuss this issue, not leave it open for three years. You see, I think we should point out one thing, and it is undeniable that there is no man in this country, a serious and responsible man who belongs to any nationality, who would accept that the country is bombed. Every bombing, any such action does not lead to the reduction of those disagreements between the people of one nation and the people of another nation. It only spoils relationships and not to a small extent, because if you're the one who bombed me, then I can't be in a better situation tomorrow, and if I were to organize life with you together, it would be disgusting if it weren't for all of it. Therefore, we need to make it clear to the world that one such act, regardless of what consequences it will leave on the other ground, but in the field of relations between people living in Kosovo today, can only be a negative fact and something that will make it difficult, not to facilitate the situation that exists there today. What have I said so far, and what is contrary to what is heard in this country by the negotiators, by the persons who went on our behalf, what did I say? I didn't say anything that's against it, and I don't see any reason why you think right now we should be having a conversation, the kind of talk that's being taken on the street by those random passersby who plead on their political views. Why in that way? We are serious and responsible, each of us needs to return to his environment and everyone will ask us what you were, what you stood for, what attitudes that can defend, what are attitudes that cannot defend? Right now, we need to distract ourselves, we're right before Easter. This city 55 years ago was faced with one military action and many victims in this city. In such a situation, we must not forget anything, we must be aware of all of it, and we can and should present it. Therefore, there are things like this and all of this should be considered, all of this should be pointed out, and all of this should be made known. There are things that the delegation's representative, at the same time the Deputy Prime Minister, has not given us all the answers, which would be important to us, to tell us something that absolutely interests us. What does the Government of National Unity and our delegation intend to do at the moment? What's he doing? How does he do that? Have we mobilized everyone in this country who represents this country? Did we mobilize them all? Have we mobilized all our ambassadors? Does our Ministry of Foreign Affairs take all measures? Is there, apart from what we see on television, absolute actions that lead in that direction that we can explain all of this, that we can point out and prevent all of the negative or most of the negative consequences that could come to us, that are threatening and hanging over our heads? It is clear that if we accept what the delegation has said in its report, what it has done and that we suspect that it is thinking in the same way and that it is looking for answers to those questions that have not been raised, then we really need to see that by line taking whatever measures we can get out of the situation we are in today. The government knows, the government is running politics. The constitution says that the government is running politics and, of course, the government is primarily responsible for implementing that policy. It is written in the Constitution, and it is clear that at this moment, when a delegation of the Republic government is in charge of negotiations on our behalf, it must be absolutely clear on what needs to be done. We can certainly do a lot, but we need to be explained in addition to that and how we're going to interpret Mr. Ivanov's statement, the behavior of a Russian representative in a group of three who brought their views. We need to know that. We were in deep confidence and the people were convinced that the attitudes that had been expressed or pictured at the time were the attitudes of Russia. I'm not quite sure that the last statements, the last data that came to us, are identical to those views that we've been presented with means of public information. So, whether the government has or has no plan of what they're going to do tomorrow, the next day, the next day, if it doesn't do anything, if it doesn't do anything, it's clear that it's only going to follow the consequences that are going to be negative for us. In such a situation, with full responsibility, we will listen to everyone who pleads here today, representatives of the government and the government in particular. On the basis of how things will be explained to us and to the people first, attitudes will be taken both in this congregation and in the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-03-23-0.u1644	There is a word from MP Kasa Joseph, head of the parliamentary club of the duchy Hungarians.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-03-23-0.u1645	Dear President, honourable Members of the People, our country is in an extremely difficult situation today. These days will be the final decision of war or peace. It takes an extremely great state wisdom to make the right decision that will determine our destiny for the next decade. The position of the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians has always been, and today it is clear, that Kosovo's problem must be resolved by a peaceful, long-term and timid dialogue of interested parties. Unfortunately, in the last 10 years, there has been no real desire and will to solve the accumulated problems. The Kosovo problem was not considered to exist at all, although it was obvious that the problem was getting deeper and deeper. Unfortunately, problems only began to resolve when armed conflicts were escalated and the situation could no longer be ignored. Unfortunately, the Kosovo problem today is much harder to solve, when it is internationalised and when the international community dictates such conditions that we can either accept or reject, but the final decision is no longer up to us. The Duke Hungarians don't want our country bombed, we've said it before, and I'll say it now. We don't want that to separate Kosovo either. We think Kosovo should remain a part of this country, and we also believe that the problems that have arisen today, including the threat of bombing, could have been avoided. We should do everything to avoid both war and secession of Kosovo. The war that threatens us will not bring permanent solutions, and the international community must know that as well. The war brings only new sacrifices with it, and our country has already suffered many casualties. If the Assembly is easy to define for war, all of us, all citizens of this country can easily become hostages and victims of that decision. We are convinced that the traitors of this country are not all those who call for reason and state wisdom. Patriotism in many nations is not measured by weapons and weapons alone. The Grand Duchy of Hungarians has always been against war. We don't want there to be any vain casualties amongst the citizens of this country, regardless of their nationality. War destruction, lost human lives, never and never brought lasting happiness to anyone, not to a winner, nor to a defeated one. We think the last moment has come when the war can still be avoided. That is why we demand that the warring parties stop the fire on the entire territory of Kosovo unconditionally and return to the negotiating table until they find a final solution. The future of all of us, the future of next generations, the future of Serbia and Yugoslavia, depends on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-03-23-0.u1646	Thank you. He has the word Gulbehar Shabovic, a member of the state delegation and member of the Interim Executive Council of Cosmeta.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-03-23-0.u1647	Dear President, MPs, it is now clear that the French talks on a peaceful solution to the cosmetical problems have actually been an attempt to put further pressure on our country under diplomatic efforts, which is a major obstacle to the hegemonic interests of Western powers on this part of the European continent. The organizers of this unprecedented political farce in Rambuje and Paris first offered delegations to the 10 Contact Group principles, based on which a political agreement should be further built. Unlike their creators, the state delegation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia has consistently followed them, making it clear that it is always ready to accept any solution that ensures the full equality of national communities living in Cosmet and which does not endanger the sovereignty, integrity and constitutional order of our country. The delegation of Albanian-Separatist and terrorist representatives, however, was not interested in solutions offering peace. They were only interested in those solutions that promote a unilateral intention, in fact their illusions of the secession of Cosmet from the Serbian queen. That is why they always, always mentioning autonomy, worked to form a state in the country, and speaking of human rights, thought of ethnically clean Kosovo. Such an attitude was apparently strongly supported by Western mentors, who were at the same time organizers and supervisors of this farce using all possible means: pranks, pressures and forgeries to make an excuse for military intervention towards "unoperative and disobedient Serbia". Undoing all the ethical and logical principles of the international community, those who refuse even to sit at the common table, who know only about the language of weapons, declare peacemakers, and those who defend their country's dignity as guilty. Since the very beginning of the talks, our delegation has sincerely advocated the true autonomy of Cosmeta, in which all national communities would enjoy the same rights, in which no one could be a citizen of the second order, where peace, mutual tolerance and respect for each other's differences of people living in Cosmeth should rule. The very composition of our delegation, in which the representatives of all the national communities in Cosmet are equally represented, is evidence of a sincere intention to have equal participation in the common life in Kosovo and Metohija, regardless of the religion, nation and culture they belong to. Unfortunately, the offered broad autonomy served Western powers only as a front. But as it always happens after all the bad shows, the masks are always going down. That is what happened to diplomat Wolfgang Petrich, who, when talking to us, was ripped from our mouths what we all know for a long time and we know well that Cosmet should have served as a model for artificially causing crises in other parts of Serbia and Yugoslavia. That is why our delegation has resolutely refused to sign the imposed agreement, which is not really an agreement, because the agreement requires both sides. She refused to sign what would be a condition for the secession of the cosmetian territory, which would represent the occupation of our sovereign territory and all that is opposed to our constitutional order. We were neither in Rambouje nor in Paris representing ourselves, but we were defending the people's will which is our greatest and only imperative, and this people's will was also an expression of our own personal will and patriotic feelings. That is why our delegation could not accept the parts of the agreement that threaten the most vital and national interests of our country, which would allow our sovereign country to be occupied by NATO forces and trampled on other people's boots through the most Serbian and Yugoslav sanctity. We're not and we'll never accept it. Our mission was to protect and defend the honor and dignity of the people of this troubled but free country that gave millions of victims for freedom and peace. It was our thought of a guide who encouraged us and put faith in our mission. As a member of the state delegation, I can say that we have fulfilled our patriotic task with honor and dignity, that we have failed nothing with the trust, hope and expectations of the people of this country and the patriotic political forces on its helm. Our message was therefore very clear in France: "Conversation yes, occupation no". [[Applause in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-RS_1999-03-23-0.u1648	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-03-23-0.u1649	And, Mr. Mikovic, let me just say that this is how the representatives of the Turkish national community speak. [[Applause in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-RS_1999-03-23-0.u1650	We'll continue the session at 2.30 p.m. [[After a break.]] Dear People's MPs, we continue our work. The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Veselinov.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-03-23-0.u1654	It's not a limited time of discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-03-23-0.u1655	Yeah, 10 minutes a rule of law.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-03-23-0.u1656	Well, have we prepared our population for a possible conflict - we haven't. Those who heroise that they are ready for war, and where, gentlemen of Ministers, are your sons in the front row, let them lead our army, and not let the people outside tremble, tremble, and the millions look at this assembly and wonder, will the people of Cosmet defend the regime or Serbia? Let those who are the greatest heroes, point out their children and let their children also participate in this conflict, if it is right for them to come.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-03-23-0.u1657	Please, time.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-03-23-0.u1658	Did you inform the people what was coming for him? Some call for war, some call for conflict, thinking that all reserves for peaceful talks are exhausted, and they are not. What if it hits Panchemian Petrochemy and Rafinery, do you know what kind of disaster causes a 50-ton tank of ammonia? It's over, Belgrade, Panchevo, Kovin, Obrenovac, Lazarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-03-23-0.u1659	Please, time's up.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-03-23-0.u1660	It's not my time, Mr. Tomic. My time is just coming up, and yours is running out. You have the right to speak for years, and I can't speak in peace for 10 minutes without interrupting those who interrupt me.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-03-23-0.u1661	Mr. Vesenov, you've already been talking for 12 minutes, and you're entitled to 10 according to your rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-03-23-0.u1662	So you know, but warn those who do not allow me to speak.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-03-23-0.u1663	I warned you, Mr. Veselinov.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-03-23-0.u1664	In the last session you turned these microphones on me, the people couldn't hear.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-03-23-0.u1665	I warned you, Mr. Veselinov.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-03-23-0.u1666	You didn't warn me. I'll finish now. You didn't offer the people civil protection, the people don't have masks, the people don't know where they're going to get blood transfusions, the people don't know where the food is, the people don't know how they're going to get water. It's what's necessary to do, if you choose to conflict. However, there is no doubt that the step can still be made, only with one policy Albanians lose, and that is a peaceful solution. The only thing they don't expect is that any agreement, held by Cosmet in Serbia, is signed by us. So they call upon the army for their ally, the world's army. What did they deserve? I don't know. They can't get it, and it's just up to us not to make it possible for them, and if you want to conflict, then let's make it clear to the people -- we're calling out an emergency, and this heroic government and this heroic assembly, we're all going to Cosmet, to share bread and lead with our people. It's a real congregation.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-03-23-0.u1667	There's a word from the People's Messenger, Coca Ljuan.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-03-23-0.u1668	Dear President, the Honorable President of the Republic of Serbia, the honourable MPs, the synopsis I have ahead of me, I will not read it, because it seems that there are still people on the public political scene of Serbia who do not understand something, some would still be philosophizing - what would happen, if there were, and in part, are we possibly guilty? From talks in Pristina to talks in Rambuje and Paris, one of the basic conditions of international intermediaries and Albanian political parties was that the talks were held outside the country and with intermediaries. We gave it to them to preserve peace and to bring a peaceful solution to the problem in Kosovo and Metohija. International negotiators have made one big circus and one heavy improvisation, in which they wanted to involve the state delegation and in the new international division of forces and world powers wanted to exploit the Albanians, to destroy the sovereignty and integrity of the Serbian state. It is very clear from the chronology submitted by the head of the state delegation, Ratko Markovic, and very clearly from what Madlen Olbright is, which is Cook or what Petrich told us in the conversation when they were torn out two sentences, that she said in style: if you don't sign this, it will go to independence. Or Cook: to sign an Albanian delegation to bomb. Or Petrich - that this agreement is ideal for Sandzak as well. It's clear what it is and there's no need to negotiate anymore. The Albanian political parties, separatist and terrorist parties have never had in their programmes and moves to include other national communities in Kosovo and Metohija. National communities in Kosovo and Metohija, under pressure from Albanian assimilation and what they did with all others, could not come to terms. Such an agreement and such an agreement would mean the liquidation of all other national communities in Kosovo and Metohija. If that's not clear, by this agreement that we've been offered, that's what you've seen. Negotiators publicly in Rambuye avoided any conversation with national communities, but could not use the 90-10 fact for Albanians, as they stood by people who represented other national ethnicities in Kosovo and Metohija. They agreed to talk when they pushed in a forged agreement, which couldn't change, and all they wanted to do was listen to us. Such conversations and such agreements do not lead to anything and we cannot sign such agreements. Roma, who are loyal citizens of the Republic of Serbia, believe that the common life and equality of all national communities is the only guarantee for life in Kosovo and Metohija. That's what I'm saying because that's where I live and there's no need to be a hero. What we did in Rambouille and Paris is not at all a question of heroism. It is a fair relationship with the state, it is a fair relationship with society and it is a loyal relationship between all citizens, all national communities to the state of Serbia. Normally we'll stay that way and we won't allow any calculations on that matter. If the bomb policy has already resolved the issue, we cannot avoid it and since we do not fit into the new international world order, we will also accept the challenge, but Kosovo's deviations outside Serbia, there is no way. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_1999-03-23-0.u1669	There's a word from MP Vojislav Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-03-23-0.u1670	Dear President, honourable members of the government, fellow MPs, supporting the report, which was submitted by Professor Markovic at today's session of the Serbian Parliament on behalf of the delegation of the government of the Republic of Serbia, which she spoke to in France, I just want to say a few findings. During talks in Rambuje and Paris, our delegation represented a firm stance, which guaranteed the preservation of Serbia's territorial integrity and sovereignty in Kosovo and Metohija. In these talks, we were determined to insist on protecting Serbia's interests in line with constitutional principles. One word, we stuck to the mandate this congregation gave us. During these talks, our delegation was headed by a firm commitment to establish peace in Kosovo and Metohija and create conditions for the normal life of all citizens. However, it can be said freely that this conference, according to the place of maintenance and foreign interference in our internal problems, was another attempt to blackmail Serbia and impose a solution to the problem in Kosovo and Metohija at the expense of our country's vital state and national interests. I must say that our delegation was also exposed in Rambuje and Paris with almost incredible pressures and blackmails, it was simply forced to sign a document, which was basically unprepared, tendingly made up and which openly went to the hands of Albanian separatists and terrorists. Our main interest is peace, but not peace at all, especially not at the cost of losing Kosovo and Metohija. Our generation must not allow any agreement to be signed that would distance Kosovo and Metohija from Serbia and Serbia from Kosovo and Metohija. We are probably in one of the most difficult and critical moments in the history of modern Serbia and responsibility for the consequences of our descendants obliges us to be complex, organized and wise in protecting Serbia and the Serb people in general. We are all witnessing that Albanian terrorists are trying to deceive the international community, and that is why they formally signed their paper, while in the field they are now intensively maintaining, mobilising and preparing for so-called. General war on Cosmet. In this, unfortunately, it is selflessly aided by official America and some other Western European countries. Serbia has been blackmailed by the international community and has been forced with such pressures to fight Albanian separatistism and terrorism almost tied hands. We don't need to give up our commitment. Our offer to Albanians for a living together should remain open. Our constitution guarantees all citizens of Kosovo and Metohija rights, regardless of religion and nation. Serbia's constitution envisions autonomy for Kosovo and Metohija, but autonomy within Serbia, whose bodies will function smoothly throughout both Serbia and Kosovo and Metohija. However, we must also be determined to the end, regardless of threats and blackmail, to deal with Albanian terrorists, who are heading towards a decisive fight against Serbia and Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. The international community, primarily the powerful America, tried to instrumentise talks in Rambuje and Paris and to legislate NATO troops' entry into Kosovo and Metohija by agreement. Our delegation did not accept it and the whole country is firmly defined that it cannot be accepted. We can't give in to blackmail, no matter where they come from. We are a small country, torn apart by the blackmail of the international community, exhausted by sanctions, isolation, but ready to solve our own problems, especially when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija, because it is not about human rights, but about trying secession. It is our duty to prevent it, regardless of blackmail and pressure. In public, various agreements and proposals have been circulated, allowing the international community and Western centres to destabilise the Serbian factor in general, especially the Serb factor in Cosmet. None of these papers have been signed by our delegation, nor will they ever sign. We need to explain to the international public, Albanians and ourselves what the transitional period, which the international community and the whole content of this paper, is, to answer questions about what the Albanian police will bring to Cosmet, what an independent Kosovo judiciary means for the Serb population, which means the president of Kosovo, administrative and legislative authorities. Will it be a new momentum for further and completely ethnic cleansing in Kosovo and Metohija? We cannot agree to such a thing, and we have clearly and loudly set a line below which we must not yield at any price. We must also express our firm unity and our position that we are ready to defend our country at all costs. Because if there was a dilemma in Paris about what the real goal of the United States was, after those talks, there was no longer a dilemma. Their only goal is to scare us with blackmail, pressures and military threats, and thus make us agree to the loss of a piece of Serbian territory and sovereignty in the area. Once again, it should be pointed out that at this truly fatal moment, Serbia's unity is most needed. We must not allow improvisation and unpreparedness, because it can cost both our country and our people in general, our country's interests. Our delegation, by its composition, was extremely heterogeneous, represented Kosovo and Metohija and the Republic of Serbia as a whole in a way that is respectful. I am taking the opportunity to thank the members of the national communities from Kosovo and Metohija, who courageously and resolutely represented their country's interests in the talks in Paris and Rambuje. I think they deserve the respect of both this people and this congregation and just today's debate shows that they're getting it. The mighty West has imposed terrible conditions on us. They can only be scarier if we give in. I am a Serb from Kosovo and Metohija, and I think I am a legitimate representative of the Serbian people from Kosovo and Metohija, only if Mr. Vesenov thinks I'm not really a Serb. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_1999-03-23-0.u1671	Thank you. The President of the Republic of Milan Milutinovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-03-23-0.u1672	Mr. President, honourable MPs, I have so far spoken a lot about this problem in various ways and on various occasions and, hopefully, I have said a lot. Of course, today is the first time I've talked to the Assembly about a problem that we have on the agenda, and I think we have more on the agenda than the delegation's report. I think the delegation, under the circumstances, did everything she could. I think the delegation and all of us need to be clear, because we have been exposed to unprecedented pressures and pressures that have been calculated to break everything we think and want both backwards and forward in the development of our society and people. The point was, after all. It wasn't an agreement at all, it was troops, troops, nothing but troops. We've received very tempting offers. If you accept troops, you'll get a good deal. Even now, when we signed this text of ours, which essentially came from the Contact Group text, but of course was cleared from everything that directly endangers the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Yugoslavia and Serbia, but above all sovereignty, they told us - your agreement is very good at essence, but accept the troops. Of course, if you carefully read chapters 2, 5 and 7, you'll see what those troops mean. This means that the Yugoslav armies and police in Kosovo do not exist. This means we will have an inoculated verification mission in Kosovo. Walker "little kid" against that new verification mission. We'd get a new tauliter to rule Kosovo. We'd get 28,000 armed soldiers -- then no matter what deal we sign. They would rule Kosovo and simply Serbia would not be in Kosovo. I think it should be clear to everyone in this congregation, because that's the essence of the whole story and nothing more out of it. Besides, Holburk came by today to tell us the same thing. His main mission is either troops or bombings. When a man asks him why bombings, there's no answer. He says we're not gonna bomb. We say, and we don't bomb. Then who will? The matter has led to absurdity, and this absurdity is being imposed on us, and it needs to be known to the entire public of this country that it is the essence - of troops or bombings and nothing else beyond that. Everything else was a parade and a farce. We've been watching that farce for months. We've done everything we can to remove this farce. Of course, that's why they took us to Rambouje to drown us, to drown us in the dark. However, we have achieved that the world's public is slowly beginning to realize that there are no 90% of Albanians and 10% of others in Kosovo, but that the national proportion is different, that there are national communities and others, that there are also Albanians, who are faithful and loyal to the state in which they live. They figured it out. I think most of the international community has figured it out. One part of them can't admit it yet, but they'll slowly admit it over time. I think our conscience is clear, that we did everything we could. Regardless of all the objections that can be made here and elsewhere, now and later and back, I still think we're the moral winners of this battle we've had so far. Of course, we pointed out and stayed in it, what the international community was constantly avoiding to do, because then the political agreement could be worth the attention on our part and be signed, but they didn't want it to be signed separately, but they were looking for a package that meant not to take it or leave it, but just take it, but take both the troops and the police and the protectorate. We couldn't accept that. We could never accept that because it would be a loss of Kosovo, and the loss of Kosovo is not only a loss of Kosovo as a Kosovo, it is a loss of Serbia's state, Serbian statehood and Serbian people as a whole. We need to figure out what that means. We can't have delusions and dilemmas about what's going on. It is not just Kosovo, it is a request for destruction, in one perfidious way, in three years, of the entire Serbian state. That's the essence of the whole story. We shouldn't be howling in all sorts of forms right now if it was something else, that was it. Of course, we have been in all these talks, and there have been dozens of talks with the foreign ministers of the Western countries, it has been pointed out. That's good, they heard us, they heard all our arguments. There's no argument that's been made here without them hearing it ten times. Of course, some have secretly admitted, some publicly, some have noded their heads, some have said, tell you because we can't. It is, unfortunately, a situation in the international community. That's why I say we're moral winners. So I think today the Assembly needs to be clear about what's going on. Today we decide whether we accept troops or not to accept troops, which is the essence, and everything else is telling you a story. I think it is in this congregation and in this people to achieve unity on this issue and on what we are talking about, because if this unity is not there, we can say goodbye to our future. It's simple, so I appeal to the Assembly not to make a discussion, to focus on the real question, and to try to give it our very clear and determined answer, which is -- there are no foreign troops, because they mean that and they say that in the documents, they drew it for us. We were drafted to bring down our army, or the Yugoslav Army, on Kosovo's territory to 1,500 people to guard the border. You know what that line means. Next, to bring the police down to 2,500 people and disappear after 120 days with the Army. Where is sovereignty? There's a lot of lawyers here. Sovereignty implies that on every inch of your territory you can achieve everything, legislative authority and everything else. They asked us for a constitution, they asked for laws, constitutional court, supreme court, so what else? Please, they asked for powers for the president of Kosovo who has neither the president of Serbia nor the president of Montenegro. Please, it couldn't be accepted because it's more than the third republic. Why they wanted it -- for a very simple reason, it was written to them by Albanian separatists, but they didn't beat us. He won one dictatorship of one part of the international community, and that's the problem. We face it, part of the international community, and even in that part of the international community there is a division. Not everyone in America thinks the same thing, as the representatives of individual administrations think. And there is awareness of whether or not it should be, whether or not it may be possible to attack a sovereign country that has not attacked anyone. Did we attack a neighboring country? Have we put NATO interests at risk? Did we do anything about it? We are only fighting for what is fighting, including America, we are fighting terrorism, and they have launched all initiatives against terrorism. They all had a meeting in Cairo two years ago. We're just looking for what everyone's allowed and nothing more than that. Of course we're about to give this whole autonomy we wrote. We're in the text that's been published, you've now got it, and it's published in "Politice", we wrote in that autonomy something more than a Pristina deal. We went to the edge of our constitution so that we could fit it, because we couldn't accept what it says in the document, which is that this agreement changes after the constitution of Serbia and Yugoslavia. I asked the French Foreign Minister - would you, if you were giving Corsica some autonomous rights to change the Constitution of France? Or Hook - would you change your laws because of an agreement on Northern Ireland? They don't have a constitution, so they're a little surprised, but the real problem is that the thing is very clear about what this is all about, and so I'd like to ask that we talk about this issue and that this commission is starting to work, that we have these conclusions, that we have certain decisions, because I think that what goes on next is still coming down to us. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_1999-03-23-0.u1673	There is a word from MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic, vice-president of the National Assembly, and let Leposava Milicevic, a National MP be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-03-23-0.u1674	Ladies and gentlemen, what has been wrong with the Serbian people, who has been so resented that they threaten and try to tear up the state? Maybe it's an American understanding of the justice of the prizes that in the great war we lost over 50% of the male population, which in the second war, warring on their side, and against fascism and Nazism, we experienced caves and sites throughout the former Yugoslavia, the deaths in Kragujevac, Kraljev, Nis, Belgrade and other cities. Perhaps the award for this and the abduction of Republika Srpska, the tearing of Republika Srpska, is an attempt to remove Cosmet from Serbia. Perhaps they believe that it is moral, normal and just to give the state to those who have never had it, to those who have fought against them, to Europe and democracy, or maybe they want to continue to start the business of starting with the bombing, the destruction of Nis, Leskovec, Belgrade and other Serbian cities in World War II, killing their war allies. What is the Government of National Unity, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, what did the Serbian people do to impose criminal sanctions on him, to be exposed to a pillar of shame, to be threatened by destruction or by what the Government of the Republic of Serbia did not do, and to what was it bound by international agreements and agreements and international law? Apparently, there has been a serious violation of human rights in Serbia, the use of excessive force, the cause of humanitarian disaster, the destruction of the peaceful and peaceful population of Cosmeta. Daily killings of police officers, soldiers, civilians are called incidents, and regular police actions to detect and arrest terrorists and villains, actions by the Yugoslav Army to prevent illegal border crossings and supply of terrorists with weapons, excessive use of force. Serbia's insistence that the problems in Cosmet be resolved by a peaceful path called the farce and the opposition of the so-called "Cosmet". to the international community, and to the terrorist actions of the Cypriot separatists by a liberating fight. At calls from the government of the Republic of Serbia for talks with representatives of the political parties of Albanians, the government of Serbia's delegation to Pristina responded by establishing a training camp for terrorists in Albania, bringing state-of-the-art weapons from the NATO Pact arsenal. In Serbia, many national minorities live. The party I belong to, the Serbian Radical Party, has always advocated a peaceful life, for respect relations between the Serb people and members of the national minorities living in Serbia. We believe that the Serb people cannot have more rights than any of the members of any national minority in Serbia, but that national minorities cannot have more rights than the Serb people in their country. We have always pointed out that members of national minorities, including the Cypriot national minorities, will be kept as little water on the palm of their hands, that we will enable them to exercise all rights, including political rights, that race, religion, gender, that nationality should not be an obstacle to someone having the right to work and normal existence. We only asked that everyone must respect the Constitution and the laws of the state in which they live, as must the majority of the Serb people. If Serbia has sinned in this, then it should indeed be punished. Negotiations in Rambuje and Paris have shown the whole world that Americans understand democracy. The right is only what they determine, the truth is only what they say. The world exists because of them, they are both judges and prosecutors and cops and jailers, and Europe is silent. Europe was silent when Nazism and fascism were born. Europe kept quiet when Hitler referred threats to the world. Fascism and Nazism threaten the world again. Once again, he tries to use force and bombs to discipline small free peoples. If you don't respond to those threats today, tomorrow will probably be too late. Joining the Government of National Unity, the Serbian Radical Party has clearly defined its reasons and its goal. Defence of Serbia's territorial integrity and sovereignty, preservation of Cosmet, Serbia's constitutional legal system. Serbian radicals are determined that Cosmet must be defended in such a way as to defend Shumadi, Raska or Serbian Vojvodina. The arrival of any military troops on the territory of Serbia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia would be an occupation for us, and the occupation would be opposed to any means available. As NATO Americans protect democracy, how they resolve disputes and protect human rights have shown countless times. How they do it in Republika Srpska and today we can see it. Changing a legally elected president is not only the replacement of Dr Nikola Pokresen, it is the replacement of the electoral will of citizens, the replacement of the entire Serbian people. The Serbian Radical Party remains determined that the only way to solve the problems in Cosmet is the way to negotiate. The peaceful solution to the problem in Cosmet is the desire of all the sprska Radicals and the entire Serbian people. The forms of autonomy can only be negotiated with representatives of the political parties of the Cypriot national minority. There must be no deal with terrorists. You can't let terrorists down. We call on the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia to stop and destroy terrorism, to allow all citizens of Serbia to freedom of movement on Serbia's entire territory, to protect property and the lives of citizens. We demand effective action and destruction of terrorists as soon as possible. We demand that security return to our homes, that schools work normally, that all criminals be properly punished, that we turn to work and solve our economic problems. The Serbian Radical Party calls on the Serbian people to preserve the national unity achieved, to defend the country and defend itself. We Serbs don't have spare homelands. We want to live in Serbia. To whom it is in Serbia, its doors are wide open, and it can always leave. If some in the world are sorry for terrorists, let them receive them into their own country, and let them kill their officers, soldiers and citizens there, and teach them democracy. We won't let that happen. We can't accept so-called. an agreement signed by the Cypriot terrorists and separatists themselves. NATO troops would not bring peace and stability. NATO troops would become the armed force of the Cypriot separatists. There would be no room for Serbs in such Cosmet, but neither for the Gorans, Muslims, Roma, Turks, Albanians of the loyal state they live in. The way to solve the problem offered by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, based on the views and conclusions of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, would ensure peace and stability in Cosmet, equality of all national communities and implementation of broad autonomy, which would not harm the state and national interests of Serbia and the Serbian people. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_1999-03-23-0.u1675	There is the word of the Messenger of the people, Leposava Milicevic; and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Radovan Pankov.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-03-23-0.u1676	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, to be Minister of Health ever and anywhere is an honor and pleasure for every doctor. Being Minister of Health in this time, in this country, is a great honor, but unfortunately not a pleasure. No doctor in his country can be satisfied with the expected length of life at the same level of 10 years, by maintaining a hygienic epidemiological situation without extreme phenomena, by maintaining control of vacillable diseases and so on, and if these facts our colleagues outside our country consider as unexpected good and as success, and probably because they have insight into everything that has taken place against our country and are taking on, so these indicators have their true value only when they look at it from that point of view. Gentlemen from the so-called civilized part of the world came up with a very serious strategy a few decades ago, how to deal with ideas deeply rooted in the areas where we live, ideas of equality, equality, social and any other justice. The surrogates for these concepts are so-called human rights, and their absence or presence in a country or region is dosed and evaluated by the strongest. It is one of the media's most fearsome weapons of the new world order in an effort to make all the fluids of human civilization's development more powerful and weaker. That under the protection of human rights, every place, every place, every place, every place, every place, every place, every place, every place, every place, every place, every place, every place, every place, every place, every place, every place, every place, every place, every place, every place, every place, every place, every place, every place, every place, every place, every place, That by systematically creating conditions for the creation of a humanitarian disaster in one country, the same country is accused of humanitarian disaster. By destroying the Socialist Federative Republic of Yugoslavia, which our people most opposed because it was most invested in, putting the strongest super force on the side of destruction, we got about 700 thousand refugees, and by introducing economic sanctions, they limited our opportunities to meet the elemental needs, not to mention any development. In doing so, the harshly suppressing human rights of all citizens of this country accuses the government of violating or not having human rights and causing humanitarian disaster. Declaring the victim as guilty by the arguments of force and power is an old recipe and already repeatedly applied in this space, and this time masked differently. Trapped in a desire for Europe and a world without borders, in which happy and defiled people will live, who will believe in a god who is a god, people without history, with a hard and uncertain everyday life, with a future where their children will be subjects to a force whose existence is their own purpose. In this country there are still people who have historical memories, whose present is difficult and uncertain because they are in the way of self-confirmation of the only world superpower, who share with everyone in need, greater than their own, everything they have and everything they don't unfortunately have. Those who do not believe in their blessed god, who do not believe that the future is worthy of their children and one inch of this land. In this country live people who know that they are stronger and that they can be kidnapped by force and that they can force us. There are people living in this country who know that the sun is the strongest in two afternoons, and they don't know that it's already falling. There are people living in this country who know they can do what they want, but they can't live as long as they want. In this country live people for whom freedom is more than life. In this country, there are people who may be forced to war for the third time in this century. We know they know how to get into this country, and I don't know if they'll know how to get out. Since we know how enemies come out of this country, because we don't want them to be our enemies, because there's not a single extra reason for that, and we offer them peace, conversation and political agreement. Better today and better tomorrow for everyone, it's not just the political platform of JUL, it's the definition of all the well-intentioned people in the whole world. Thank you. [[Applause in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-RS_1999-03-23-0.u1677	Thank you. There is the word of the Messenger of the people, Radovan Pankov; and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-03-23-0.u1678	Dear Presidents, distinguished colleagues, our country faces and resists the dangerous intentions of a great force, America, which would like our country to be the victim of the concept of its global domination. Serbia again faces the challenge of defending its territory, its sovereignty, its constitution and its people. Let us remember all the trials we have survived, all the troubles we have been put on, because we didn't want to forget who we are, what we are, and where we come from, and always with the goal of keeping and saving our country. It wasn't easy, but it was honorable. We've been brave, and we have to be brave today. We are a people whose past and present are determined by many great and brave men, fateful battles from which we have learned and learned and great victories from our honor, courage, determination and dignity. We are the sovereign land, and so we perform. We communicate and negotiate with other members of the international community. We know and respect international law, which is why we call terrorists a real name and treat them that way. We are a legally arranged country that has a constitution and laws that guarantee its state sovereignty. That is why we will not sign any agreement that puts our country's constitution out of force with its form and essence and abolishes its state sovereignty. That's why we're against NATO troops in our territory, because it practically means abolishing our sovereignty. We are a country rich in democratic traditions and quality democratic life today. Serbia is the home of many nationalities that enjoy all the rights that belong to them according to the highest international standards, which is guaranteed by the state. The best example for this is Vojvodina, where there are over 20 national communities, and they well know what it means to live in coherent international relations, in mutual respect, peace and tolerance. Learned and taught to build bridges of unity on the basis of equality, we know better than others that constitutional-law solutions to the rights of national minorities in Serbia are not the reason for the problem of Kosovo and Metohija, as the world's powers and Albanian separatists want to show it. The same rights are given to Albanians in Cosmet. Then what's the problem? The problem is that Albanian separatists and terrorists do not want to use their rights in Serbia's state with Serbs and other nationalities, but in an ethnically clean state. Citizens of Vojvodina, regardless of national and religious membership, these days at public performances, at myths, stands and gatherings of citizens throughout Vojvodina, are unique and determined that the problem of Kosovo and Metohija is not in civil and human rights, nor in the rights of national minorities. There is no such problem. It is a matter of separatism and terrorism, whose ultimate goal is the secession of Kosovo and Metohija from Serbia and the creation of an ethnically pure state, which is today an unfounded and non-civilising pursuit of the Cypriot separatists. The people of Vojvodina are unique in the definition of a peaceful political solution to the Kosovo and Metohija issues, for the equality of all citizens and national communities living there, for autonomy within Serbia, where there will be no majorisation. We are determined and unique in defending our national and national interests. Realising people's unity is the best guarantee that we will resist all threats, pressures and ultimatums directed to our country and that if it is attacked, we will defend our country by all means. The people of Vojvodina support our state leadership, support our state delegation, which based on the conclusions of this assembly in principle, consistently and honorably defended the interests of the state, the people, our sovereignty and integrity, and did not agree to blackmail, dictatorships and threats and resisting lies and counterfeits. No one can defeat a people who fight for their country and freedom, with truth, in a peaceful and dignified way. We have always advocated that the solution to the problem in Kosovo can only be achieved through dialogue, conversation, peaceful means and political means, because this only provides a fair and lasting solution to the problems for all citizens and national communities living in the area.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-03-23-0.u1679	Thank you. There's a word from MP Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-03-23-0.u1680	Ladies and gentlemen, Serbia and the Serbian people today face an ultimatum, blackmail and pressure, precisely from those who have been conditioning for many years, the Serbian people are pressing. They are the same ones, who in the name of democracy, in the name of peace, the Serb people expelled from the centuries-old Serb hearths from Republika Srpska, well, that wasn't enough for them, then set off to force the Serb people out of Republika Srpska. Well, when they saw that there was still one part of the territory, which controls the Serb people in Republika Srpska, then they began to place that famous democracy. And we're just witnessing what that democracy looks like to them. Their democracy began with bombers, tomahawks. When they saw that the Serb people in Republika Srpska would not give in, they prepared unwarranted methods. Conversely and contrary to the will of the Serb people, which was expressed in the previous elections, they replaced the legally and legitimately elected Serbian representatives of the Serb people in Republika Srpska. It wasn't enough for them either, but they figured out how to destroy the Serbian people even more, to get him to leave the centuries-old hearth as soon as possible, and they figured out and simply singled out Brcko, a city located in Republika Srpska, from the territorial integrity of Republika Srpska. They say -- it's a model already seen in South America, applied by Americans, and they think it's enough to satisfy and calm the Serbian people. They continued, but now they are putting pressure directly on Serbia. Their desire is and their ultimate goal is to disperse Serbia, to break up the Serbian people, to move us out of Serbia. How did they plan to do that in Serbia? They imagined it through Shiptra terrorists. They thought that terrorists, Cypriot separatists had so much real power, that they would be strong enough to oppose Serbia, that we in Serbia would give in to that force and simply accept the force that Kosovo and Metohija are declared to be a Cypriot state, that Kosovo and Metohija are no longer part of Serbia. When they saw that in Serbia there was unity, that Serbia had power, that Serbia had power, more quickly the Americans came to their aid, better, Clinton sent his personal envoy -- what kind of contract and agreement to sign, just to save that handful, a handful left by the Cypriot terrorists after the state of Serbia's operation. When they saw, after all, that agreement is going to harm US interests in Kosovo and Metohija, because one of the main points in the agreement is the census, Americans via their satellites better- organise some new meetings, meetings in Rambuje, in castles, or meetings in Paris. It doesn't matter where they are held, it's the same goal of these meetings -- to put pressure, to force them, to bring representatives of Serbia, members of the delegation to sign an agreement, such as the Americans' offers, as they came up with in their laboratories. It is clear that the members of the delegation had to endure these pressures, because this assembly gave them full support, and we Serbian radicals said - must not give up under any pressure, no matter which party the members of the delegation belong to, as politically defined, to which people or national minorities belong, have to endure all the pressures, there is no discount. That confused the Americans, because they had a plan afterwards, when they walked in Kosovo and Metohija with their army, the Raska area comes in turn. They've already got their satellites ready there. These are those who belong to the separatist parties, and they called themselves Bosniaks. Not in Bosnia born, not in Bosnia, but in the name of Bosniaks. At the same time, or later, the Americans prepared to challenge incidents, conflicts, prepare the ground in Vojvodina through their listeners. Who are their listeners there, their satellites. That's what the people in Vojvodina call suitcases or lately, how popular they are, so the people loved them, so the people called them subjugates. It's just enough room for all the members to stand up to them. I guess that's how the people give nicknames. They ran all over Vojvodina, just like you and such individuals, their political parties, which are minor and small, ran around Vojvodina, looking for possible hotspots, to inform the international community that international relations are not good in Vojvodina, so that the international community intervenes in the same way or similar way as it is now intervening in Kosovo and Metohija. However, they have no success. They don't get it. They don't get it. They have no success for many reasons. One of the basic and main reasons is that in Vojvodina, the majority Serb people live with the people of many national minorities and that no case of international conflict has been recorded in Vojvodina, no record, no matter what war took place around Vojvodina. It is the tolerance of the Serbian people towards their fellow citizens, towards those with whom they live together. There are individuals, though, who belong to national minorities in Vojvodina who are headed by some parties, who are supposed to represent the interests of the national minority, but those individuals who are the leaders of such parties, they do so out of personal interest, for personal benefit, them and their loved ones in the family. They've long been seen by their countrymen. They're no longer trusted by their countrymen. No one in Serbia's Vojvodina trusts them, and their attempt is in vain. We Serbian radicals have always spoken, always warned of the intentions, of the consequences arising from how the international community wants to impose certain solutions on us. We've always said that one of the solutions is to be harmony, unity. Now, at this point, the politically relevant parties in Serbia have clearly shown that political unity exists. The people have long been unique, especially when it comes to Serbia's defence. Because we were just beginning to heal the wounds left over from the Republika Srpska and Republika Srpska, here, Americans are opening us new wounds, the greatest wound to the Serbian people, which is Kosovo and Metohija. No normal man thinks of turning himself in, leaving Kosovo and Metohija or the Shiptar Separatists, especially to the Americans. We know that America with its allies is a great, huge and powerful military force, as far as we can resist that force, no one knows in advance, but we know that there is no citizen of Serbia, no Serb who will not fight American soldiers, no matter how much they think they enter with their coke and chocolate, as they did in Republika Srpska. May the coke and their chocolate be eaten and drank in America, and let them leave us in Serbia alone, otherwise, will not easily enter both Kosovo and Metohija, nor the Shumadi, nor Serbia's Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-03-23-0.u1681	There's a word from MP Ivan Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-03-23-0.u1682	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, from what today will decide and conclude the Serbian Parliament, depends on much what will happen in the coming days and what will be the fate of peace, war and everything else. The SPO reiterates that Serbia and the Serb people without Kosovo would be like a headless organism, as a river without a source, as a house without foundation. Kosovo and Metohija must not be lost at any cost, Kosovo must defend itself and defend itself, which means defending only in such a way as to be defended. There is no reason to defend Kosovo and the Metohija in a war conflict with the NATO Pact and in conditions of economic, political and military isolation of our country from around the world. We believe that they are neither a national, or a patriotic, or a heroic all the brains that say that Kosovo and Metohija can be lost in conflict with the NATO Pact and then burdened with oaths and vows of yet-born Serb generations and Serbian children, that in some distant future, when they are born, they have the most pressing task of liberating Kosovo and Metohija. I believe, and this is the position of the SPO, that all the lights in a rather dark tunnel are not yet extinguished and that there is room for reason and responsibility on the part of the international community, and on the side of those who decide on the fate of Serbia and the Serbian people. The final text of the Rambuje political agreement is not good. In this text at the level of principles, everything is fine, at the level of basic notes and introductory principles, too. There are, however, provisions, which also throw the Contact Group principles, which give Kosovo and Metohija powers belonging to the third republic, and in some places even powers are given to an independent state. He must step bravely and resolutely towards compromise. I believe that, and that is the view of the SPO, that today the Serbian Parliament must adopt conclusions, which would be short and clear and which would primarily be intended, not to the local public, because the domestic public is not jeopardising Kosovo and Metohija, but the great and powerful world, which is preparing for crime and aggression on our country. What would consist of this courageous step towards a compromise -- firstly, to express our determination and willingness to sign the final document from Rambuje immediately, provided it is thrown out of it by provisions giving Kosovo the status of a third republic or an independent state. We would like that to happen today, tomorrow, we want to meet again here, in Paris, or anywhere, with a delegation of the Albanian separatist movement. We'd still like to look face to face with some text in front of us, in front of us, which we should sign. However, unless the representatives of the separatist Albanian movement, as they will not, and as they did not want in Rambuje, or Paris, to sit across from our state delegation, we must not be their hostages, and that reaching a political agreement is conditioned by their willingness to sit across from us. No, we won't allow that luxury, and because of their evil will, which they won't sit across from us, we push our country under international aggression. Since all talks with the delegation have been conducted by the international community so far, then we must send a message to the international community to find ways to remove from the text of the political agreement all provisions giving Kosovo the status of a third republic or an independent state, which can be done very quickly and easily and to do what is their job, to convince Albanians to accept it. At the same time, we should say today, our country will be ready for an agreement to apply such an agreement, with the mandate given to the entire text of this application agreement by the United Nations Security Council, and with respect to our state sovereignty, not by any military, regional organisation, not by the NATO Pact. If, in this sense, the Serbian Parliament came forward today, courageously and resolutely, with certain conclusions, I believe that light would turn on in the tunnel and that a step of goodwill on our part would be done and that it would be answered with good faith both by the Contact Group and the Americas. Does this mean someone's retreating or some concessions? I don't think it means, I don't think it means anything that threatens our territorial sovereignty and territorial integrity, nor integrity, nor national pride, nor the security of the Serb people in Kosovo and Metohija. Since the beginning of the SPO, it points out that both sovereignty and pride, and security, and the integrity of the country in the text of the political agreement. It does not take much effort, with little goodwill, on both sides, and our and international communities, to come to the text of such a political agreement. Finally, let me say something about those who think that this attitude would crush or break some oaths from some gatherings, in order to soften the words of some leaders -- perhaps, but on behalf of the SPS, I say: each individual who is today running the party, government, state, this Serbian, the only one we have, must bow his head to the ultimate goal of defending the state, to defend Kosovo and Metohija. Everything can be defiled, anything can be questioned, and the pride of each individual, individually, from those who are in charge, but one must not be questioned, which is the defence of Kosovo and Metohija. It is simply something that must not be lost, so any concession, however painful, is offered to the victim of Kosovo's defence and Metohija, in a way that neither wars nor accidents, but that there may be sanctions, that there may be a rapid recovery of our country, which would also further strengthen us during the transitional period, although nothing can change after the transitional period, it cannot change that Kosovo is in Serbia. Any such concession would have to be accepted. Much less pain than the greatest pain that this people would experience, to lose Kosovo and Metohija. The SPO has no parliamentary majority. The conclusions will be as wanted by coalition partners who have the majority. If the conclusions of the Serbian Parliament today are such that after them the doors to these compromises we insist on, if the country is attacked, the whole SPO will defend the country. We will kill by rejecting the aggressor, fighting against him and fighting for Kosovo. But when it all goes away, there will be an account for those who choose between the two sides for the worse one. No one will have the right to say it was a prouder trip. Over the lost Kosovo, no one will have the right to mention words of pride or pride. These are words that stand out today only above the project that means defence of Kosovo and Metohija, which means disarming and disbanding the terrorist and separatist paramilitary group of the Albanian separatist group in Kosovo. I repeat and stress, no matter what happens, the SPO will defend its country from aggression and we will die for Kosovo. Men have the right to take oaths to women, but oaths made to Serbia, in case Serbia is attacked, must not be broken. There's no second thoughts. The SPO, however, proposes defence of Kosovo both without war and without death. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-03-23-0.u1683	There's a word from the MP, Dr. Zivorad Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-03-23-0.u1684	Dear President, honourable MPs, I must say, first of all, that some speakers today did not understand enough, that some of the appeals, which they referred to, which I agree with, were referred to so-called. to the international community, then okay, I agree. But if they sent them to someone else, maybe this assembly, this government, then I think they made a mistake. I mean, since the talks, France has shown that America and the West don't care about peace in the Balkans or Albanians. They are committed to Yugoslavia and will, with the help of Albanian terrorists and NATO troops, tear it apart and make it easier to conquer it. So we only have one choice, only one choice -- to defend independence and freedom. Therefore, every normal citizen and patriot knows that NATO must not allow occupiers to march freely into this country. That's what it's all about. NATO troops' entry would be the end of the freedom of the country, people and each individual, the beginning of the end of Serbia, Cosmeta and Yugoslavia. If we let them walk in, we risk economic exploitation, spiritual humiliation, rape, and the survival of the country and the people. We're not masochists or dumb, dumb gamblers so we don't fear rockets and bombs. But today in this country, few think about the consequences of a possible military attack, for this nation has been exposed for years to economic, mental and spiritual torture. For years, we've been destroyed by the bloated ones by life and hope. For years, we've been exhausted, threatened and blackmailed, for years. Their psychological tortures, their efforts to humiliate and drain us economically, these horrifying years of excruciating and silent killing have done more harm to this people than any bombs they might have dropped. Throwing bombs won't reach the peak of the evil ink. The peak of evil has already been achieved by torture and silent killings so far. The evils committed exceed all the cruelty of fascists, all the genocide that history has recorded, the atrocities they committed towards the Serbian people at the very end of the 20th century by cruelty cannot be measured either by inquisition or by anything in history. That's why we're more determined and bolder than ever, more than anyone. They can't scare us with anything else. We can't expect any good from them. The evil done has already convinced us that in defense of freedom, sovereignty and dignity there is no standing. Negotiations in France have shown that we do not have civilised, politically wise and reasonable conversators in front of us, but a group of ossions, scarred and intolerant forces, who do not know either the language of fact or reason or humanity. We had a group of world officials in front of us, who openly formed on the public political scene the most shameful and humane most devastating alliance with today's most vicious terrorists in the world. No civilized country in the world has openly formed alliances with terrorists, as Mrs. Albright does today with Thaci's terrorists, thinking that our blood will bring shame to the White House chief. Mrs. Albright has recalculated, thinking that with the help of the Cosmetic Bandits she can get her hands on Cosmeta. Perhaps it's too much to say that Mrs. Albright thinks and accounts. She's mostly falling, harassing and destroying today. Its contribution to mass and diverse destruction of humans around the planet is indisputable. I guess somebody's gonna come up with some new fairer international court for this kind of vandal. Today, Western officials have branded our fight against terrorism as the greatest sin possible, preventing terrorists from killing us trying to punish us with bombs. What doesn't kill terrorists will kill NATO soldiers. The terrorists are for the Americans and the West today the greatest good. They nurse them and watch out, send them special jets for a comfortable ride, and send bombers to sow death. They receive them at the highest level, they celebrate them as heroes. The more innocent people they kill, the bigger heroes they are. It's today the international community, the so-called so-called international community. A new world order. It is those who, with the help of terrorism and beasts, spread their democracy and seduce their human rights around the world. If you don't want to be free of their version, if you don't want to enjoy human rights, you'll have Thaci, who, with the help of bombs, will kill you a little today, so you'll be better off tomorrow. So, the West wants today, with the help of terrorists, to tear Yugoslavia apart, to throw us on our knees and into casamats, to rob us and humiliate us. That's why there's no dialogue, there's no deal on their part, there's only an imposed dictatorship. Today, unfortunately, no one can even pardon them, direct them to reason and political solutions. Therefore, our determination and courage in the defense of the country is not a threat, but a desire of this people not to let them continue to step on us and bring us to the brink of physical and spiritual survival. We want to make it clear to them that Cosmet, Serbia and Yugoslavia are much more dangerous for all uninvited, armed foreign soldiers than Vietnamese fungi, than Somali arrows, more unpleasant than mosquitoes in Granada, Panama, Hawaii's surfaces, than the vassal welcome, which are traditionally and enthusiastically arranged by some of our neighbours, because the walk of the occupiers makes them happier. So let them send their troops to Ireland, to Corsica, let Mr. Solana lead his warriors to Baskey, let the warring Mrs. Albright lead NATO peacemakers to Texas, we'll give her both Thaci and Dematici, to help her calm down her blacks and whites, Indians and Portuguese. Dear People's MPs, I want to say in the end that we will defend ourselves and defend ourselves. In all this, the gentlemen of the West are political, and in every other respect, it will not be easy or pleasant. At the same time, however, I would like to say that the biggest loser in that variant will be an Albanian animal in Cosmet, unless he realizes in time that in all these "games" of the West there was only one ordinary guinea pig. America destroyed Albania. The Americans made a noticeable and immeasurable contribution to Albania being the first country in Europe, which has become a country of crime, destruction, misery and horror, to remain only a disgraced name from this country. That's what they want to do with the cosmetian Albanians. That's why Albanians in Cosmet must spot this trap in time and defend themselves against their own terrorists, from Mrs. Albright, Hook, Solana and other adventurers.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-03-23-0.u1685	He has the word Sokol Qusa, representative of the Democratic Reform Party of Albanians.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-03-23-0.u1686	Dear President, the Honorable President of the Republic of Serbia, honourable MPs, I am the president of the Democratic Reform Party of Albanians and a member of the state delegation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia for talks in France. The Democratic Reform Party of Albanians, which was formed last year, is in fact a response to all other Albanian parties whose goal is to separatism, terrorism and split one sovereign state. Our party believes that the only perspective of our people to live in Serbia, to live in Kosovo and Metohija, along with all national communities. It is widely known that my people have achieved their spiritual, cultural and economic development most in Serbia and therefore it is necessary to know how to repay this country in the right way. Although the Republic of Serbia has accepted all the conditions to start peace talks, it was essentially a major fraud of a certain part of the international community. Certain international mercenaries and leaders of some separatist and terrorist parties, who provided their families, hold their people hostage to a crazy policy. Today, in Kosovo and Metohija, the majority of Albanians die administratively. Gin people who do not wish to submit to the terror of these separatist parties are killed by people who have been seduced and under pressure are involved in gangs that are being activated by order from the power center outside our country. My party and members of the party it has increasingly want to fight for Kosovo and Metohija's unity. They want to save their people, they want to tell all their citizens that Kosovo and Metohija will never be outside Serbia. Such a claim is historic. Such a claim is the meaning of the existence of a state. In Rambuje and Paris, the separatist parties were represented as some kind of people of Kosovo. The middlemen tried not to hear the voice of our parties. They do not want to hear a different approach to the problem, that there are many Albanians who want to live in Kosovo and Metohija, that there are many Albanians who live in fear and are concerned about their families, who have been led to a begging stick just listening to the Separatist forces directives. Our party wants to end such losses by the Albanian people. Kosovo and Metohija will remain in Serbia. In Kosovo and Metohija, a common life is possible with the equality of all national communities. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_1999-03-23-0.u1687	Thank you. There is a word from MP Karol Kasas, and let Vojislav Seselj, Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia prepare himself.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-03-23-0.u1688	Dear Mr. President, Mr. President-in-Office of the Republic, ladies and gentlemen, the citizens of Serbia need peace to provide us with a peaceful life. The citizens are deeply aware that war casualties are affecting everyone, that they are not excluding anyone from an accident and an accident. That is why all citizens of Serbia, other than terrorists and their mentors, today as never defined for peace, support an agreement signed by our delegation in Rambuje. The political agreement, signed by our state delegation, confirms that we are for the peaceful and peaceful life of all Kosovo and Metohija citizens. The agreement offers broad autonomy in Kosovo and Metohija under the ten principles of the Contact Group. It provides equality for all citizens and national communities in Kosovo and Metohija and is in line with the Serbian Constitution. The agreement was signed by a state delegation of Serbia, which represented all citizens and national communities living in Kosovo and Metohija. Unlike a signed agreement, Kosovo separatists signed their secession document and the arrival of foreign troops in Kosovo in Paris. They forgot about the basic principle that there was no agreement without the signature of both sides. This unilateral agreement is secession and entry into the sovereignty of our country and attempt to create chaos, and it is also a forger. Citizens of the multinational Vojvodina, which is multiethnic and multinational, are unique in the definition that they will not give a single piece of their country to Serbia, nor will they accept the occupation of foreign troops and strongly condemn NATO's threats. The citizens of Kanjiza, the Northobanat County and Vojvodina, where I live, are used to living in peace and tolerance with members of other peoples and national communities. They want, as they have so far, to process their rich field, to work in their factory, to build schools, roads, kindergartens, hospitals, churches, new telecommunications networks, to want to connect with the world, to seek freedom, independence and peace. At the same time, members of national communities, with full right, may say, Hungary, Romania, Slovakia, Russia and others are educated and informed in their own language, using their native language at work, in communication with state authorities, fostering their tradition and culture, the committees and MPs in local self-government parliaments, the Republic of Serbia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. They don't feel like second-class citizens, they feel like the citizens of Serbia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, which they are. The principle of national equality is the basic principle of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. This principle was experienced in the premises of the Autonomous province of Vojvodina full of affirmation. Starting with the constitution of the established competences of the Autonomous province of Vojvodina, with respect to the fact that Vojvodina is the national most heterogeneous area of the Republic of Serbia, the Statute of the province found that in fulfilling its responsibilities, the provinces are old and on the development of their national, cultural and other properties. The province's statute found that in the work of the province's authorities, besides the Serbian language and Cyrillic letters, the official use of Hungarian, Slovak, Romanian and Russian languages and letters, as well as the languages and letters of other national communities. Depending on the national composition of the population, the statutes of each municipality in Vojvodina contain similar provisions and are in practice fully applied. Educational work, ranging from preschool institutions to secondary, higher and higher schools, is achieved in Serbian language and letter and languages of national communities. In order to achieve the right to education and culture and traditions, many institutions of education and culture of national communities speak, and informing a number of information sheets and RTS programmes that are also broadcast in the languages of national minorities. In the Vojvodina area, queens, communities, alliances and societies of members of the national communities work and act together with the relevant authorities and organisations of the country of origin. In addition to co-operation by queens and alliances, numerous cultural and artistic societies of members of national communities living in Vojvodina are co-operating with neighbouring countries and participating in cultural and artistic and other manifestations of other countries. This data suggests that in the Autonomous province of Vojvodina, national equality policy, guaranteed by the Constitution of Serbia, has experienced full affirmation, that living together is truly possible and that all citizens are equal. We welcome the proposal for an agreement signed by our state delegation, because it guarantees broad autonomy for Kosovo and Metohija, which is legally and essentially possible and which is in line with the Constitution of Serbia. The agreement guarantees broad autonomy and equality, but also inviolability of Serbia's borders. I come from that part of our country, the multinational Vojvodina, the Northobnat County, the Kanjiz municipality, where they have lived for decades in peace and relations with the tolerance of Serbs, Hungarians and other national communities. Everyone cares about peace the most. We see Serbia and Yugoslavia as our only country, because we don't have another country. In each other, we know, we'd be strangers. Peace has always defended itself with only peace, tolerance and respect for the borders of neighbours and other states. The end of state borders has never been a peaceful path in history, but only by war and suffering. We need no foreign military force but the political will to reach an agreement, and it will best be carried out by those concerned. We believe that our state leadership, led by President Slobodan Milosevic and Milan Milutinovic, will succeed in a peaceful resolution of the whole situation, because they have the unreserved support of our Serbian citizens. All of us, citizens of our Serbia and Yugoslavia, enjoy the blessing of our country, where every honest citizen can live freely and evenly, with the highest guarantees of the Constitution to work, learn, progress, regardless of nationality and religion. That's why every citizen of our country has an honorable duty and an obligation to defend and defend our country, if necessary. It's our debt to history, our obligation to the present and to the generations to come. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of telling everyone from this place, especially those who threaten us -- the unbeatable state whose citizens fight for justice and the truth, and Serbia is. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_1999-03-23-0.u1689	He has the word Vojislav Seselj, vice-president of the Republic Government, and let Milena Andric, a National MP, be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-03-23-0.u1690	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, what is happening in Kosovo and Metohija in the world political scene simply did not remember the history of world diplomacy, that the great powers insist that representatives of one legal and legitimate government of the sovereign state conduct dialogue with the representatives of separatist political parties and terrorist organisations from part of their territory in the territory of a foreign country, so that when they gather together, there will be no dialogue at all, that there will not even be an official meeting where several conventional sentences between the members of the delegation would be exchanged, and that these same great powers offer ready paper and say - sign or we will bomb. This happened to Serbia, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Serbian people. What does this document contain that requires us to sign? It contains the consent to separate Kosovo and Metohija from Serbia, from Serbia's constitutional and legal system. If we sign it, it'll be for good. The goal is to destroy the Serbian people. The Americans pointed to the case of the Serbian Krajina and the case of Republika Srpska, as shown in the case of Kosovo and Metohija, and already last night Holbrook announces the same procedure, he said, for Sandzak, or for the Raska region, and that international hohstappler Dinstber with the same task was recently in the Vojvodina area, there he met with Canka and other cancolitics. That is the essence of American politics in the Balkans. The goal is to destroy Serbia and the Serb people. Now the question is how to destroy Serbia. They have two options. To destroy Serbia and the Serbian people by helping them accept their demands and by signing or by trying to defeat us on the battlefield. If we accept the ultimatum and sign what they're asking us to do, we're gone. If they attack us on the battlefield, we have a chance. Like what? The big ones. A huge force would strike us, there was no doubt, the great sacrifices would fall, we would suffer significant destruction, but we defend our country, and therefore we were in advantage and we would defend our country. Some who have little understanding in politics for days, for months they've been telling us stories about how they should be nice to these from the West, how they should be accepted, how they should be agreed, how they wish us well but not understanding what's going on here. A little while ago, we heard the inauguration that we accept what the Americans are offering us, but only to throw out the parts that deny our state sovereignty in Kosovo and Metohija. That's exactly what our delegation did in Paris. It's this paper, the paper that was made of American paper, with all the elements that deny our state sovereignty. There is no delegation allowed to break the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, nor should this National Assembly violate the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. There's only one method of changing the Constitution. That method that was prescribed in the Constitution itself. There's no other way. Any other delegation to determine must stick to the constitution of its state, the state that entrusted her with the mandate to represent her in any dialogue, in any negotiations. That's the essence of what's happening to us. Some unserious politicians say we must not chest against the whole world, so they are calling on Knyaz Milos who allegedly loved slippers to the Turkish Sultan, so now we too need Clinton to kiss slippers. I warn them the times have passed, the customs have changed, now Clinton doesn't kiss slippers, now something else is kissing there. Well, that's not enough when you kiss there's no political concessions. You can get about 700 to 800,000 dollars if the press gets a hold of Clinton, if the courts keep him busy. It's not worth it. If we Serbs turn into stone, it's not worth it. They decided to destroy our country and they're doing everything in their power to achieve that goal. How can we defend our country? Only by unity, by strength, by style, by determination to defend it with all means. There's no other way. If we are complex, unique, determined, we will succeed. In the last 50 years, Serbia has never asked for a higher degree of harmony and unity, and we can also create this style and unity to defend our country. We don't want war, and we keep saying we don't want war, but if they attack us, there's no one else. We must take the war and fight it, fight it, fight it with all our strength and save our country. The one who says in advance that we can't defend our country, what does he actually do? He's spreading defetism, trying to kill the morale of our soldiers. Imagine what would have happened in 1914 if someone in the Serbian National Assembly had come out for a pay phone and said, "We can't win that war." He'd be shot. In one day, Duke Misic shot 100 deserters when he consolidated the front at the Colubara. Gentlemen, if we are attacked and declared a state of war, then there is no mercy for deserters, there is no mercy for those who meet panic, disorientation, who spread false news, rumors, which in any way reduce the defence powers of the country and should make it clear to everyone. There's no seduction. If someone thinks they're philosophizing, after the first bombs fall, whether to defend themselves, how to defend themselves, then they're badly mistaken, and being a top-notch politician, any ordinary citizen. In this war, if imposed upon us, everyone must make a great contribution. Everyone has to respond to the call for mobilization. It probably won't be a general mobilization, it won't be necessary, but they'll be mobilized and certain specialities will be mobilised. There can't be desertion. Yesterday, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy Zoran Subotic was mobilised. He responded immediately and went to his place. That's his specialty, his missile units, and he's gone. On Saturday, he went to serve his military term as Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Nikolic's son. A student of the economy and he could still delay serving his military term, he wouldn't, this isn't the time to postpone and he went to serve. That's how everyone else has to behave both politicians and all the other citizens. Where problems arise, our country must solve them in the same way as any other civilised state would. No one has any intention, if we are attacked by a NATO pact, of handing over part of the territory or of handing over Kosovo and Metohija beyond occupation, as some have imputed us. It's been said from an official place, if they accidentally take a piece of our territory, that doesn't mean we lost our territory, we'll recover it when, provided we don't sign the surrender. Not to give up the whole territory, to make a new Kosovo vow. It's the same prank we've been deliberately launched through certain media. No one will hand over a single piece of territory, and without the heavy fighting and the bloody victims, no pedal can take over temporarily, temporarily occupying. The Americans don't care about Albanians, they don't care. Albanians are a means of subscribing. We have warned multiple times, the Americans are ready to wage war against the Serbs to the last Albanian. What are they doing now? They threatened to bomb, and Albanians rose to refugee columns. Now ask those Albanians, who are headed for General Jankovic, why they left. Did some journalists meet them and ask? Fear of bombing, they have reached General Jankovic, and the NATO pact does not give in Macedonia. If they care about Albanians, at least let them pass the bombing temporarily. No, they aim to create the most difficult situation, to make as many Albanians disappear, so that it is a cause for an additional blow to Serbia and for us Serbs to be charged with this death. These methods are used by Americans. Besides, that's what they've been doing all over the world. Belgrade has not yet forgotten US bombs at Easter at the end of World War II, which were for no military reason thrown at our capital in the same way Hitler did. Today there is no difference between NATO's pact policy and Hitler's policy. There's no principle of difference. The difference is just quantitative nature, in the number of victims so far, and how many victims will only be if the NATO Pact continues this policy, we will see that. And what other European and non-European nations will come under his attack if they do not get in the way in time. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not under any doubt today. It's been a long time since the situation has been so clear, crystal clear and clean, that there really is no dilemma. In this paper, on which Americans insist, they say they don't touch our territorial integrity. How? Which on some world maps and this part of Serbia's territory they would like to occupy will continue to be treated as an integral part of Serbia. It's territorial integrity for them, but they're destroying our state sovereignty on that part of the territory. No territorial integrity without state sovereignty. That's ridiculous. An integral part of a single state is only the part where the state government is sovereign. The fact that the state government is sovereign means that there are no other major and more authorities above it. Here they would like to establish a higher power than the government of Serbia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. We can never accept that. They even say in this paper that we should adapt our current constitutions and laws to the letter of the agreement, the Republic Constitution of Serbia and the Federal Constitution of Yugoslavia, which means that this agreement they offer and which they insist on being above the current constitutional system. There's no way you can accept that. In no way can foreign troops be accepted, and whatever they call them. They can't NATO pact troops, they can't United Nations troops, they can't OSCE troops, they can't troops, they can't Costa Rica, they can't Nicaragua. No troops, no states from this white world on our territory can come. No armed soldier and no state institution would accept that. I think that's what our current conclusions will contain. We still need to advocate dialogue, not target war, bloodshed, but we want a legal order that is unique in every part of our territory, with respect for all the civil rights of national minorities. What our delegation has offered and signed in Paris is the maximum that has been achieved anywhere in the world on the protection of national minorities. Why don't the French offer something like this to the Corinthians, let's see it. Here is Romania, whose government is eager to help the NATO Pact aggression against our country, to offer this to the Hungarians in Transylvania, Erdell, as it is already called. Why not bid? Why don't Americans offer this to their minorities, Mexicans in Texas, California, New Mexico? Why didn't they offer this to the Indians? They don't even think about it. They artificially create quasi-legal norms that represent a terrible precedent in international public law. If something like this were to be accepted, then in international public law, everything would literally be allowed. Even under Hitler, things like this haven't been done. And Hitler was trying to provide some legal form with his acts, and he didn't want a direct collision with the Poles, but he dragged his soldiers into Poland, so he staged an attack on German caraules. There's no need for Americans to hide something like that, no morals in Americans, no morals, no morals, no justice, no justice, no need for any legal norm to be respected, no need to respect principles. The principles are trampled mercilessly. With Americans and when you sign something, it's only true as long as it's useful for them, and as soon as it's not useful for them to step on it, and God forbid you step on it when it doesn't look useful to you for signing it. That hohstappler Panic stole the whole Galenika didn't pay the money he bought Galenika, and now he's moaning and hiring the US government to intervene to return Galenika. It's like going to the market, buying a horse, but don't pay for it. You say I'll pay then and then, and the owner waits and waits, and you never pay. The owner comes back for the horse, takes him away, and you complain about how he took your horse. It's American justice and justice. We Serbs have felt it on our shoulders so many times so far, we have gained some historical experience and thanks to this experience, I am convinced, we will never allow us to be deceived again. Thank you. [[Applause in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-RS_1999-03-23-0.u1691	Thank you. There is a word from MP Milena Andric, and let MP Dragan Todorovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-03-23-0.u1692	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, again someone has thought to seek in the National Assembly not to answer the question of how to preserve Cosmet, but an excuse to lose Kosovo. (It is heard that Vojislav Seselj was thrown out of place: from which party are you from? Mr. Seselj, I have an obligation to introduce myself. I am Dr Milena Andric in front of the coalition of the Democratic Alternative, the Peasant Party and the United Pension Party. And Mr. Seselj is my brother-in-law, because I've been a Sarajevo sister-in-law for 26 years. From word to word, I would believe Mr. Seselj, from word to word, only if he had defended his hometown, and we would have managed here somehow. But, I say, the Serb can't see it from nowhere. Sarajevo, he can't even see his eyes. Unfortunately. We can talk about this later.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-03-23-0.u1693	Please allow the MP to speak.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-03-23-0.u1694	If someone calculates that the military loss of Cosmet would save his face, honor, and power before any child is sent to a pointless war against the whole world, I remind you that before history and the people, it is hard to hide or transfer it to someone else, especially to the whole people. The people preserved the knowledge and memory that for ten years there is a requirement for the Serbian Parliament to discuss Cosmet and seek a timely solution for which everyone knows, only the authorities deny. Why? On whose orders? For years, the Serbian Orthodox Church has demanded that nationalised properties be returned to Cosmet, assuring that this is also one of the ways to preserve Cosmet. Whoever could have done it wouldn't have. Why? From year to year, there is an increasing and louder claim that human, national and civil rights are being violated at Cosmet. Why did one who had to take this claim seriously and see what rights it was and how they were broken, not do so? Why didn't he let the world testify that those rights were not violated? Why, when the problem of Cosmeta came to light after years of closing its eyes, the problem still broke out on the international political scene. Someone keeps denying the world seeing something that we're hiding. Who called the referendum to prevent Gonzales from showing us what human rights are at risk and how they protect themselves in other places in the world. They forbade Gonzales, who is true, unbiasedly counted votes to let Walker count more Albanian than Serb victims. Who refused to negotiate, claiming that there was no negotiations with terrorists, and then showed a comical willingness to make out with them.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-03-23-0.u1695	Nebojsa Covic.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-03-23-0.u1696	Who is and why has made it impossible for Serbs with the Cosmeta and the Serbian Orthodox Church to participate in the negotiations, especially when they claimed they would negotiate best because they knew each other.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-03-23-0.u1697	Nebojsa Covic.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-03-23-0.u1698	Probably. The answers to all and many other questions, which lead us to this point without exit, have the same name and last name, which today requires the National Assembly to take responsibility, that the whole people do so, to save him from responsibility for everything he's done these ten years and not dared to do, and what he didn't want to do, and he had to. Today we were planted with a coward's egg, to direct a war cry and other people's children to die in a pre-lost war. The war, the sole goal of which is to preserve power for those whose responsibility will neither be hidden by ruins, bombs, or victims. As a doctor, I fight for every single life, estimating its preciousness. Just because of the value of individual human life, I demand that a war option be avoided against the whole world, that a peaceful solution be sought to ensure the survival of Cosmet in Serbia-Yugoslavia and after a transitional period. To guarantee Serbs and Montenegrins stay in Kosovo. What we didn't hear here and we would have to, these are the answers to the following questions -- what after the bombing, are we going to and how then to save Cosmet and Serbia? What is now being done to show willingness to resolve the crisis in Cosmet still peacefully? What are the possible spaces to avoid bombings and war with the whole world and Cosmet keeps in Serbia and Yugoslavia, now and after a transitional period, except for a promise that, if necessary, we will all die. What are we going to accomplish with this death for these and future generations? Thank you very much. Five Andric is defending Sarajevo under black ground, Mr. Seselj, and you are in Belgrade.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-03-23-0.u1699	There is a word from the MP, Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-03-23-0.u1700	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is time to draw the line and make a balance of all our mistakes and delusions, so that we can learn from it, what we should do at this point. To free ourselves from error and error, so that they will not repeat them again. Our biggest mistake was creating Yugoslavia, believing and believing that the new state would all accept as its own and that our proposed forgiveness for the crimes that have just been committed towards Serbia and the Serbian people would be seen as an invitation to create a common state in which all will have the same conditions to achieve their own personal and collective happiness and affirmation on all plans. They took a life together with us for one single reason, to take advantage of the first moment to stab us in the back and to create their own country on our eternal territories. All of our delusions of the world's rule of law and rules of conduct are convulsing over our heads and just the ones who are the loudest and most called for international law and human rights in the worst way are breaking both. The only right they know and confess is a soldier's boot. Where did our friends and allies from the two wars come from? Did they so easily and quickly accept our common enemies as friends, and declare us enemies? Another delusion we'll pay for. And we had the opportunity to meet our enemies today, and as friends, it almost made no difference. We should not have forgotten in 1915 and refused the English Allied Navy to accept the Serb army after the Albanian golgogue and to refuse to help without mercy, but to extend the suffering to the Serbian army and force them to a new march of death. Shouldn't we have kept quiet and abandoned Easter 1944, the American and English bombing of Serbian cities? What Hitler did not destroy in four years, came to finish our Dick Allies, bombing Belgrade, Podgorica, Smederevo, Nis, Leskovac, on the day that Serbs celebrate the resurrection of Jesus Christ. Wasn't that enough for us to experience others of those same, to learn the brains and figure out who we were dealing with? Is there anyone who will forget, while human civilizations continue, that the Americans have dropped atomic bombs on Hiroshima and Nagasaki, and in fact the only reason for that act is to try new weapons and the cost of extending the war. Have few crimes been committed throughout the globe since the end of World War II? How many states have destroyed and killed the civilian population in Korea, Laos, Cambodia, Vietnam, Iraq? For decades Latin America has been held in a deadly embrace, producing a crisis, overturning democratically elected regimes, bringing dictators to power, sending instructors, specialists for forming a death squad, whose balance of victims has passed several hundred thousand to date. It wasn't enough for us to realize that there were no talks and negotiations with them. All they mean by that is ultimatum and blackmail - take or follow punishment. All their diplomacy is based on the officers, who carry the prepared documents, who have to sign, and the strongest right and argument are their "pershing" and "tahavk" rockets. The only principle they accept comes down to demand - do as we command. We knew that they would not only be satisfied with the fall of the old Yugoslavia, but that their ultimate goal was to split Serbia and destroy the Serbian people. In the case of the disintegration of the old Yugoslavia, those who wanted to, they were able to make sure that a crime against a sovereign country was committed, without the choice of means and means -- how it would be done. The world is engulfed with false and mounted news, preparing and committing crimes, whose head is the CIA's organizer, so that these same crimes will serve as charges against Serbs. True reports on the crimes for the United Nations stop and submit their fakes, so that, based on them, the Security Council votes the resolution on seduction of sanctions and gives permission to bomb the Serb people and that almost the only goals are schools, hospitals and business facilities. And that was little to them, but they used bombs filled with poor uranium, whose radiation takes its toll today. And that wasn't enough for them either, it didn't satisfy their appetites, and the world didn't sober up either. Now they have launched their strength and machinery to definitely dismember Serbia, and from Serbs they have made Hazara scattered around the white world, and that is where they make sure that we do not gather in dangerous numbers, but for each continent and country they have determined the quota -- as many of us as they can be in each place. Until now, it's almost been a children's game compared to what they're doing in Kosovo and Metohija. First, they trained, armed, and organized Shipatarian terrorists, giving them daily logistics support. US intelligence is the main organisers of terrorism in Kosovo and Metohija. They tried to create part of the territory they would keep under their control, to represent the conflict between police and terrorists as a conflict between two military forces and to establish a line of demarcation. When our police cleaned up and cleaned up that bazaar in a couple of actions, they were hoping for shit, they started stuffing the world with lies about the so-called so-called lie. Human disaster and threats to bomb Serbia, with a requirement to withdraw police and military from Kosovo and Metohija from Kosovo, and to station NATO in Kosovo and Metohija, which is their ultimate goal. They asked us to allow observers, international witnesses, to report on who is causing conflicts in Kosovo and Metohija. When we approved them, they assigned William Walker as the head of this mission, they assigned a man to whom Bin Laden and the other world terrorists are just ordinary innocent children, and what this man is capable of doing, the best witness to his misdemeanor in South America. And if there is ever a real international court of crimes against humanity, William Walker will surely be among the first 10 criminals for crimes to be put on his back. As they failed, and they realized that from the Cypriot terrorists, there is nothing from various missions, and as they are in a hurry to finish with us, they are asking us to voluntarily agree to give up Kosovo and the Metohija and allow us to station NATO troops. They ask us as a people to agree to be a national minority in our own country and give us the rights that belong to national minorities, and do not agree to give those rights to the Shiptars as a national minority. And all this crime is happening in front of the international public, who is silent and does not raise the voice of the protest, but it will not stop only in Serbia, I fear that the consequences of the world may be worse than those of World War II. Let the world worry, see what we need to do, see if there's any way out of this situation and what to do to save the country? We know who our enemy is, how many they are, and what they're like -- the answer's about simple, it's been given many generations before us, and that's why we're here today. The answer must be the same, for generations after us. God, it's gonna be hard if they go, but it's not gonna be easy for NATO either, and those who took up arms, God help them. And not to forget, said William Walker, leaving Serbia, that NATO will not need visas when it comes. However, let him draw attention to his soldiers, since they have no visas, we will send confirmations through the pipe, whoever receives it, will be life-long. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-03-23-0.u1701	Since we are at the end of time, regularly by the Rules of Procedure, I would ask that we agree on a follow-up. I suggest we keep working, taking a break in 15 minutes, which we would use to draw conclusions from the Commission, and then at 18 hours, we continue to discuss and discuss the draft conclusions. If you're okay with that, we don't vote? Do you agree? - Agree. ) There is a word from Parliament MP Zoran Angelkovic, and let the People's MP Vladimir Stambuk be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-03-23-0.u1702	Dear President, honourable MPs, while our state delegation in Paris and Rambujeu consistently defended the country's interests in principle and honorably, all moral and high ethical values were spoken from the people's souls. Truth, courage, justice, dignity, patriotism, love, and honor have become the most important. That's why our delegation's views were, in fact, the attitudes of our people. The policy of threats and blackmail, before which Serbia should give up acts of its territory, has only strengthened the belief in the people that there is no need to fear, that a man's life should live, that terror should not be suffered under the auspices of foreign mentors. It is our vital interest to keep Kosovo calm through negotiations. The occupier in these areas was never at the will of the people, and if there is aggression, we will respond adequately, because there is no other choice. The Serbian people had a difficult national history. Through it he built himself a proper morale. It contains universal values. It is, in fact, the definition of all citizens, who, at a difficult time, see their future in peace, work, equality in Kosovo and Metohija and all those who live, not in the domination of one national community over another. Our state delegation stuck to these moral values of the people and remained above all threats and pressures, pranks and attempts to impose solutions that threaten the country's national and state interests. She rejected any possibility of detaching part of Serbia-Yugoslav territory. Albanian separatist gangs and NATO mentors should know that Serbian citizens will not give in to the armed force that threatens them. NATO is not welcome in our country. We will preserve our country, our honor, preserve our country's honor, preserve the honor not only of Serbs and Montenegrins but also of all citizens whose Serbia is the only country and who want to live a peaceful life of their families and their neighbours. It is clear that peace and political solution to the Kosovo problem were not even the goal of the organiser of the meeting in France. Part of the international community participates in a perfided game of signing the representatives of separatist-terrorism organisations on a document that has no legal fact whatsoever. Our intentions were sincere, and they did not want any common agreement and dialogue, in fact they received support for terrorist activities, with which they continued. The interim intention was not to reach an agreement, but to support terrorists and bandits, murderers, whose only goal was to secede Kosovo and Metohija from the Republic of Serbia. Respecting the will of the people, the leadership of Serbia and Yugoslavia will not allow occupation or secession, but will continue to solve problems in Kosovo and Metohija peacefully, by political means, by dialogue, by guaranteeing equality to all national communities within the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the state. Albanian terrorist gang mentors should know that Serbia will not give in to the threat of the greatest armed force. After all, who here could accept the occupation of his country? If it wasn't for dirty propaganda and political tricks of the international community's work, Albanian terrorists couldn't even continue attacks on the innocent population of all nationalities, they couldn't risk our territorial integrity. Terrorism in no country is the basis for political expression, so why would it be in both Kosovo and Metohija? Double standards, when it comes to terrorism, so on the crimes of Albanian separatist gangs, encourage their violence. Threats of bombing and pressure on Serbia-Yugoslavia also encourage Albanian terrorists to new terror over the Serb people and their goal is no political solution, but an attempt to end borders according to a Nazi recipe. It is unacceptable to tolerate uncivilised and criminal acts and to step on generally accepted norms in the modern world, above all international norms. Do they know in a powerful world that Serbia is in Europe with one of the first economic laws, Dusanov and that the duties of this emperor are in Kosovo and Metohija? Only one who has been in the Pecko Patriarchy these days could see the nuns with dignity carrying all the weight of time and terror, how firm their ethical attitudes and beliefs are, how consistent their human view of life and people is, no matter what faith they are. Is there anyone who doesn't know that the centre of the problem in Cosmet is also the center of Serbian sanctity? We believe that Cosmet will be defeated by truth and justice, regardless of the idea of separatism being a powerful force. The interim execution of Cosmeta focused overall activity and engagement on such a solution to the problem, which leads to a common life and peaceful life in this part of the Republic of Serbia. We are for a fair political agreement, which guarantees the rights and freedoms of all citizens, regardless of religion and nation, and we have proposed this agreement on the self-government of Cosmet. We're for autonomy, not secession. The cosmetic issue is so fateful that everyone living in Kosovo must be asked about it. No one can be brought before the final act, especially not Serbia and the Serb people, who still show exchange for living together with all those living in these areas. Every citizen of our country, whether a Serb or an Albanian, a Turk or an Egyptian, Muslim, Roma, Hungarian, Russian, if it is for peace and equality, is for Serbia and Yugoslavia and he will remain on guard in defending the truth, in defending his country if it is attacked. The period behind us will be recorded as the most embarrassing period in Albanian journalism. Under the auspices of the press in Cosmet, a fascist plan for the extermination of Serbs is being implemented in this province and an attempt to bring down Yugoslav state territorial integrity, with the help of foreign patrons. Despite the great difficulties we face daily, we need to point out here that by forming a temporary executive council, a series of activities have been launched, which have marked an important step for citizens, which is actually not suitable for Albanian separatists. For example, the implementation of an education agreement shows a willingness to address specific life issues. It is of particular importance to strengthen all national communities and to form local security, which is organised in 130 Albanian villages and confirms the definition of living together. In this difficult time, three Albanian political parties have been formed, which advocate a common life and a solution to the problem in peace -- the Kosovo Democratic Initiative, the People's Party of Albanians, the Democratic Reform Party of Albanians. It is the best confirmation that part of the Albanian national minority in Cosmet wants to be politically engaged in the interests of all citizens and does not support enemy activity. The illustration of this is that in more than 1,100 villages of 1,417, as far as Kosovo exists, there were no terrorist attacks, provocations, kidnappings, murders, but people lived and cared for their families, worked in the interest of peace and common life in these areas. Many members of the Albanian national community, fearing the repression of Albanian separatists and terrorists, must not publicly express their disagreement with political separatist and terrorist leaders. As Albanian separatists and terrorists view them, it can be concluded from data that more than half of the victims of Albanian terrorists in Cosmet are members of the Albanian national minority, whose only sin is their correct relationship with the Republic of Serbia and their public or silent support for the peaceful common life and the work of all citizens in the province, regardless of their national, political or any other belonging. We are ready to continue our talks on the principle of seeking a fair solution for all who live in Kosovo and Metohija. We will give our hand to those who realize that we must live as humans, honestly consent to another for the greater good. With those who gather on the motives of hate, destruction, destruction and violence, we won't be able to. We will not be able to do with that part of the Albanian national minority, which is engaged in a separatist, terrorist movement aimed at creating ethnically clean Kosovo and Metohija, its separation from the Republic of Serbia. So no one should be surprised that the whole of Serbia is on its feet. We will defend Serbia with all means. Our greatest weapon is the unity of the people, the love of our country, Serbia and Yugoslavia and the truth. For those love, it's worth fighting for, and we'll fight for it.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-03-23-0.u1703	Thank you. There's a word Dr. Vladimir Stambuk.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-03-23-0.u1704	The Honorable President of the Assembly, the Honorable President of the Republic, dear colleagues, is getting the impression from some discussions, and before the world of international propaganda, that something Yugoslavia will not, that Serbia will not accept something and just because it does not accept it, that it is guilty. The situation is completely reversed, and we need to make that clear once and for all to be clear. It's not that we don't want peace, it's not that we don't want negotiations, it's not that we want war, it's that the international community, primarily the United States, wants to impose its dictatorship at all costs. It has been in the history of the last 300 years of very different negotiations, negotiations between the two sides, negotiations between the parties that had mediators. There was even one case when one great force in Asia imposed its agreement and made the other party sign it. But never in history until now, as far as I know, it wasn't for the mediators to sign a contract with one side. Mediators signed a contract with the Albanian side, namely with representatives of Albanian political separatist parties in Paris. Not that this contract is worth nothing, but it is beyond all normal, logical norms, it simply represents something that probably students in future will study as absurd or as something that really never made any sense, not from a legal or diplomatic point of view. Not only did they sign such a contract, but now, on the basis of the contract, conclusions are being drawn about what Yugoslavia needs to do, what Serbia should do. Under the contract, Serbia is threatened to sign it, and under the contract, it is threatened to be bombed. Of course, no one wants to be bombed, no one wants to war, no one wants to die. But let's see what alternative is given if it's signed. If it is not signed, we will be bombed, but if it is signed, that in this famous document, which has not otherwise been accepted by the Contact Group in general, on our side 47th, it is said directly - after the signing of the contract, the parties agree that NATO will establish and deploy forces (hereinafter the SFOR text), which can consist of land, air and maritime units from NATO countries, which will act under NATO leadership and be subject to the management and political control of the North Atlantic alliance through the NATO chain of command. So, when Serbia signs the contract, it signs that 28,000 NATO troops are coming into the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, and perhaps beyond, which will be under the military and political control of the North Atlantic Alliance and under NATO's command. Not only that, but point c) says foreign signatories should provide free use of facilities and services necessary for the deployment, operation and needs of SFOR. Not only will he come here, but we still have to provide them with free use of barracks and all other facilities. The contract further states that if these forces are deemed necessary, they will tear down bridges, make roads and everything else, so that one day, eventually, when they withdraw, the state may seek compensation for their correction, etc. So, what's the alternative? Where are the options? The possibility is very simple -- or we will sign and receive 28,000 NATO troops on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, which we will have to endure or be bombed. Where's the logic, where's the choice, where's the possibility? They're gone. Please, this delegation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia could not sign, could not accept, and I believe that it could not accept any normal man in this country, because there is no alternative, there is no choice, there is only one solution, to have the army come in one way or another, either by signing or forcing on the territory of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, i.e. in the territory of Serbia and Kosovo and Metohija. It's not just that a huge effort has been made to reason and to realize that negotiations like this can't exist. My colleagues have advocated that a maximum effort be made to correct a political text that is not right. I have to say that for five days the only thing we did was ask to change the text. We did so in Rambuje, but in Paris for five days Professors Ratko Markovic and Vladan Kutlešić were doing and giving texts and were constantly returned to us that this is unacceptable and that only technical changes can be accepted. The technical changes Ambassador Hill has very precisely determined which are commas, dots, commas, regular numbers, paragraphs etc. It's just that what they dictated has to be signed. Of course it's no deal, it's no negotiation, it's just a dictatorship. Please, any one of you who can accept that dictatorship can accept it, I couldn't accept it. We are for peace, but peace assumes that the two sides sit down and agree. There was no such deal. When the Yugoslav state decided to negotiate in Rambuje, the main reason was to ensure direct contact between the government delegation of the Republic of Serbia and the Albanian political parties. That's what they promised us, that's why we went to Paris, that's what didn't happen. We had no political contact, neither our experts nor us, except that we met occasionally in the park or in that dining room. There was no deal. Five official letters were sent, ten times we asked orally, and every time we got a response from the mediator that they couldn't provide it. Then what were they supposed to provide? What was their job? Their job was not to make documents, their job was to provide contacts between the government of Serbia delegation and a delegation of Albanian parties. They didn't do it because it didn't benefit them and it wasn't in the sphere of their interests and needs. Secondly, to show the extent to which the manipulation is being made, I would like to remind you that the document, which was made not only before 5, was not only given to us but was tried and smuggled to us. The last few days in Rambuje, high diplomats came to our room, put paper on the table, when we singled out the only chapters we accepted, they left the other papers on the table, so we had to invite them back to take those other documents with them, so they didn't turn out to be the ones who handed them over to us and that based on that, they were making combinations. That's very important, because in Paris they invented that a document was adopted in Rambuye and they said the document was adopted and there was no discussion about it anymore, sign it, and if you don't want to sign it, we'll bomb you. Therefore, as I said at the beginning, it is not about Serbia, that Yugoslavia, that citizens and the country's leadership will not co-operate. Conversely, we want to cooperate, but such conditions are being created, such a restriction that co-operation is impossible. That's why I think the only rule of political commitment is what we've been talking about here, which is that, based on our policy so far, our current definitions represent equality, equality, freedom and humanity on our territory, that we fight for it, so if we have to fight for it, and in a way that will be unpleasant, which may be somewhat tragic, but which I believe, in the long run, bring this country a great reputation and great prosperity. In the end, let me talk a little bit about patriotism and personal courage. The delegation, which was in Rambuje, 80% of the delegation had never dealt with diplomacy, 80% of the delegation had never had the opportunity to meet with the largest diplomats and foreign ministers of Europe and America, some of them had never even been to Paris before, and there were those who were never abroad. These people, who were never in any castle, knew how to set themselves up, knew how to build a mutual friendship and unity in our performances. Never in a single motion, not in a single word, have they shamed this country or this people or their national communities that they represent. They were able to behave and talk to foreign ministers, and they were able to respond to those who were constantly attacking them, and they could act unsurprisingly when they ran into Deanie or some other foreign minister. Maybe it wasn't great heroism, it was much more like being a hero when it had to go to war, but it was a huge dose of patriotism, confidence and certainty that what they were doing was a big deal and that coming from some small village straight to Rambouje doesn't give them the right to act like peasants, but to act like people of the world's spirit, of world knowledge. They were supported by their patriotism and faith that they were working under the direction of this assembly, for the needs of their citizens, for the purposes of their national communities. It was an honor to be with them. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_1999-03-23-0.u1705	Thank you. I ask the members of the Commission to come to the hall on the first floor. The break's up to 1800 hours. We've got 10 more registered debaters. [[After a break.]] Dear People's MPs, I suggest we continue our work. The Commission has completed its conclusions and I will then make a proposal, however, we have more debated debaters. He has the word National MP Marijan Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-03-23-0.u1707	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have listened to you very carefully, so please listen to me. Listening to some of our representatives in the state delegation, who participated in the talks in Rambuje and Paris, I think we went exactly as our delegation did. By listening to the gentleman of war rhetoric, I can say that I agree with him that the Americans and the English are evil and they really bombed us, but I don't know, sir, how you could offer these evil and vicious Americans your time in 1991 in the American-Iraq war in the Gulf. Today, for the second time in an emergency procedure, we are discussing the Kosovo knot. Dress or cut, NATO pact or war. The answers to these questions were already known, and someone decided to share responsibility in the congregation for their already made decisions. We heard the state delegation's report, we saw the documents, we didn't have time to read them, but between these last two sessions, MPs were able to inform themselves that the RTS had been able to hear about a great success in Rambuje, who is now suddenly gone and to look at the myths of flag support, banners and a lot of pictures of the water character. The Vojvodina coalition fully supports Serbia's territorial integrity and the invariability of its borders, and no one cuts us, we ask less than the Egyptians. Sometimes we have the right to say if we don't turn off the sound, which was the case at the last session and what was the case as President of the "Vojvodina" Coalition Dragan Vesenov spoke today. So we enjoy all the rights that can come to our senses that we have the right to plow, sow, sow, dig, reap, and keep quiet. How much of our food did you take to the rebel Albanians as humanitarian aid? The Dukes are sitting, Rugova and Thaci are laughing. Viewed generally, the citizens of Vojvodina and Serbian citizens enjoy only martyr rights in a country where everything goes back, other than thieving, speculation and machination of all species, which thrive and thrive. Kosovo's problem is that this country's regime has inherited. Why do you keep threatening to kill me? What's that for? Mr. Minister of Holes, if you want to see anything really funny, I'll get you a mirror. [[Laughter in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-RS_1999-03-23-0.u1708	Please allow the MP to speak.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-03-23-0.u1709	Kosovo's problem is that this country's regime has inherited and has recently abandoned it and missed the opportunity to at least mitigate Kosovo's problem under more favourable geopolitical circumstances. Not that the problem wasn't solved, but they nursed it and used it for the purpose of defending the government, and for God's sakes and treats. TV Serbia only gives word to those who allegedly will defend and defend Kosovo. I agree that we are all defending Kosovo, but the problem is in the next -- no one will go and live in Kosovo. As I understand it, the position of our leadership is that regardless of possible NATO military actions, we defend Kosovo and do not accept documents signed by the rebel Albanians in Paris. What happens in case we don't defend Kosovo? Why can't we be told the chances of winning a war and better solutions? The answer is almost nothing. The newer history tells us that after the rejection of the bad solutions we received and accepted even worse, which were later presented as a great victory for our policy. Why don't you tell the Serbian citizens the rejected Hague document for us Serbs was a hundred times better solution than the later-signed Dayton Agreement, which was celebrated as a major victory until Brcko. From all over the world, we find injustice. We don't have allies. The Russians are such allies that it seems to me that for one good loan, they would bomb us themselves. We want to correct the wrongs again. As long as we Serbs correct all world injustices. Let's look back and see that, correcting the world's injustices, we decimated the nation and brought it to the threshold of biological survival. The general invites young men to take 1,300 corporals. Why didn't he tell them how many of them he survived? The words of Emperor Lazarus are quoted - not according to the force that is before us, but to the sanctuary that we defend. St. 1389 wasn't defended, Lazarus lost his head. Today, Emperor Lazar will not go to Kosovo, and Marco will surely be late. We of the Vojvodina Coalition didn't expect our delegation to sign anything because we know who in this country is signing false agreements. The Egyptian doesn't sign it anyway. For the sake of power and privilege, the regime has already led the country to economic, military, scientific and technological collapse. Now they will call upon the citizens, the poor, the paradise of a new death to defend the territory. I'm afraid that's our experience, that by defending the existing order, we'll lose both people and territory. I'd like to be told, before the rest of the world goes after the rest of one people, who's going to answer in case of failure? Will one of the men in charge resign? If God doesn't come to military intervention and we lose our military power and military efficacy, the rest of Tito's time, I must warn you that I can revive the old territorial aspirations of our neighbor, and what will we defend? As far as Americans and Englishmen are concerned, they are truly guilty because, in the 40 years of the bombing in Yugoslavia, they have enthroned one of the authorities that came out of today. That's why we at the Vojvodina Coalition are calling on the authorities, the one who can put on his signature, that unless he wants this to be a story with a sad ending, he's trying to make the document better and such an improved document signed. The workers need to be returned to the factories, they need a job, the peasants need to be returned to the fields, the elevators instead of the tanks are poured into the tractors, we save the people. If we do not do everything to prevent military intervention, if it goes into isolation for the government, in conflict with the amnesty of responsibility, if we go to instead of signing the force to permanently lose Kosovo, then we have the bravest power in the world. Not because he's not afraid of anything, but because he's not ashamed of anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-03-23-0.u1710	Thank you. We still have the last reported debater, it's Dr. Milovan Bojic.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-03-23-0.u1711	Dear Mr. President of the Republic, honourable Members of the People, I think that today's session of the National Assembly, and especially its conclusions, must not leave a single dilemma. This is no ordinary session, no play of hide-and-seek, no parliamentary party, no MPs in them. There's got to be a conscious game to be caught in, because there's nothing to hide behind. The real question is here: occupation yes or no? It's absurd to think that there are us here who love bombs or that we're about to suspend any further negotiations. The key question is whether we are in this hall to accept the proposed text of the agreement with Kosovo as a state in the country and whether we are in this hall to give up our country's defence? The creators, inspirers and organizers of "Bleska" and "Storms", accomplices of ethnic cleansing of Serbs from Croatia, the Serb bombers in Bosnia, want to be as peace contractors in Dayton, or Bosnia, and in fact their destroyers, the takeover of Serbia's Kosovo and Metohija. They do so in the ambience when the United Nations and its Security Council brought down to the level of the local community and the silent chroniclers of their war acts. Self-ranking world directors are ordering us these days, and that Mr. Holbrooke last night and publicly confirms that we have not understood the essence of NATO's mission or that it has been distortedly transferred to a part of the country's public information funds. NATO forces are through it and them integration, not occupation, a guarantee of peace and security for Serbs, for Albanians and for all who live in Kosovo. Well, they don't think we have chronic brain inflammation and short-term episodes of memory. They don't think we're that blind and unlimitedly stupid, so we don't see what these peace forces are doing in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And instead of guarding and aphirming the Dayton Peace Accords, they suspend it. Instead of respecting the electoral will of the citizens whom they have strictly controlled, I remind you, the sacks of ballots were carried abroad and counted separately, and now publicly trample on that election will. The authentic representatives of the people do not accept and recognise only Serbian deputies and traitors. Instead of protecting all three entities and two republics, one has already been torn apart. We, members of the Serbian government delegation recently in Banja Luka, as well as in many places across Republika Srpska, have seen what peace is like and what a degree of democracy is. And that's why we don't need any new Westendorp, and that's why we don't want that new Westendorp to be on what we're going to call ourselves, how much we're going to be, how we're going to work together, what our coat of arms, flag, coin, license plate, who they're going to send to The Hague, who they're going to carry out themselves. In particular, we will not allow this new Wendorp to determine which political parties will be able to participate in the elections at all, and we can already assume who their favorites are and what the constitution of the future puppet government would be. Our defenses are natural because we're under attack. Only what's natural has the power to last a long time. Agresors are bad people everywhere. They have unlimited power over the whole world. Every government corrupts, but unlimited power corrupts unlimitedly. But even the worst people have value. They look like scary examples. Still, we're not afraid, they want it because they know that fear is half beat. We also see that people are without morals, but people without morals have their own value. The possibilities of their application are unlimited. In order to recognize someone else's value, you need to have your own. Our greatest value is unity, truth and justice. Before the unity of the people, even a destructive war technique has no full effect. The Americans are great in war technology, in the study of the universe, but they have shown by our relationship to us that they are still in the stone age. They've entered the womb of Europe. There's a lot of chatter on her. It is sad if this Europe is not aware of it, and it is precisely because of our unity that we are constantly looking for cracks. You see several vans of the deputy parties that these days, in crucial moments of defense of our national identity, demand a shift of power. They're future deputies and puppets. They don't get ready to defend themselves, because how can someone go to the front without being allowed to go to the election? The most tragic are the metamorphosed tadpoles who declare yesterday that they will remain with their people and youth, and until yesterday, the same people blame and say that bombing is necessary to bring him to his senses, because he chose such a power. A signed agreement between Albanians and Americans could bear the title "We Love each other". Love is beautiful, love is blind, interesting or honest. Love by force is rape. Their love is interesting. And ours to the earth and to all those who live in it are sincere. Since we have shown that we can live with others, we should be punished for not living at all. Our only life by them is love and co-operation with terrorists for three years, and then acceptance of self-indulgence. They're still wondering if we'll defend ourselves at all. Maybe they think that we'll wait for their rockets like we used to do batons, and the earth doesn't bow down to anyone, honor is to defend it, and shame is to give it up. Each was born to live for once, and honor and shame live forever. I don't see any reason why this congregation isn't saying today -- imposed sanctions and unprecedented restrictions, unrecorded in the history of human society and culture, you've forbidden us to live happier and better, but that's why you can never forbid us to defend ourselves and defend ourselves. And so, to clarify to Mr Holbrooke, the text offered with Kosovo as a state in the state and NATO force for its application is not wrongly interpreted and we MPs understand and say "No, Neet, Nou, Nin". Thank you. [[Applause in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-RS_1999-03-23-0.u1712	Since there are no more reports of debates, I'm closing the debate. Having obtained the conditions, I propose that we establish the mandate of the People's MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to a vacant parliamentary seat belonging to the Serbian Radical Party's electoral list -- Dr Vojislav Seselj. You have been presented with a report by the Republic Election Commission on the selection of a MP in Election Unit 2 - Voždovac, to complete the vacant parliamentary seat in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the report of the Administrative Committee, which has established that conditions have been met to confirm the mandate of the People's Parliament, with the proposal that the National Assembly recognises the mandate of MP Zoran Ognjanovic, elected from the electoral list of the Serbian Radical Party - Dr Vojislav Seselj in Election Unit 2 - Voždovac. On the basis of the report of the Republic Election Commission and the report and the proposal of the Administrative Committee, as referred to in Article 30(5). The law on the election of MPs, I find confirmation of the mandate of MP Zoran Ognjanovic. Congratulations to MP Zoran Ognjanovic on the election. In the morning part of the session, we heard the opening presentation submitted by Prof. Dr. Ratko Markovic, Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia and the head of the delegation of the Republic of Serbia. Also in the morning part of the session, the National Assembly educated the five-member Commission for the Monitoring of the Streams of the Conclusions, composed of Dragan Tomic, President of the Commission, Zoran Nikolic of the Socialist Party of Serbia, Dragoljub Stamenkovic of the Serbian Radical Party, Spasoje Krunic of the Serbian Renewal Movement and Professor Vladimir Stambuk of the Yugoslav Left, members of the Commission. 25 MPs participated in the debate on the state delegation's report on talks in Rambuje and Paris, which followed. I would like to inform the National Assembly that in the course of the session, the Commission for the Monitoring of the course of the debate and the proposal for the text of the conclusions has discussed the opinions and views given in the debate on the State delegation's report on the talks in Rambuje and Paris and, on the basis of these opinions and views, has drawn up the text of the motion for a decision and conclusions given to you during the session. They'll be served if they're not. Allow me to introduce you, as President of the Commission, to the text of the draft decision and conclusion. First, I'm going to go to the motion for a decision. The occasion requires that NATO troops be deployed to implement a political agreement on self-government in Kosovo and Metohija, which has not yet been reached, agreed and agreed with all national communities living in Cosmet and threatening the bombing of our country and people if rejected, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia at its session held on 23 March 1999 decided: 1. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia does not accept the presence of foreign military troops in Kosovo and Metohija. 2. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is ready to immediately consider, following the signing of a political agreement on self-government agreed and accepted by representatives of all national communities living in Kosovo and Metohija, the scope and character of the international presence in Cosmet to implement the agreement reached. I suggest that we make a decision first, or we decide on decisions, and then I will read the text of the conclusions and the conclusions. Do you agree? Yeah. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I put the decision to vote: 1. That the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia does not accept the presence of foreign military troops in Kosovo and Metohija. The proposal was voted by 191 people's MP, no one against, no one abstention, and eight MPs did not vote. A total of 199 MPs are present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the first decision by majority. Secondly, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is ready to consider, immediately after signing a political agreement on self-government agreed and accepted by representatives of all national communities living in Kosovo and Metohija, the scope and character of the international presence in Cosmet to implement the agreement reached. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I put the second decision to the vote - the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is ready to immediately, following the signing of a political agreement on self-government agreed and accepted by representatives of all national communities living in Kosovo and Metohija, consider the scope and character of the international presence in Cosmet for the implementation of the agreement reached. The decision was voted by 204 MPs, against no one, no one abstentioned, one MP did not vote. I can see that almost unanimously the Serbian Parliament has made a second decision. I'm moving on to reading the conclusion. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, held on 23 March 1999, discussed the state delegation's report on talks in Rambuje and Paris and adopted the following conclusions: I 1. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia strongly condemns threats to the aggression of our country and the people and the accumulation of NATO pact troops at our borders. War preparations and threats of aggression against our country are destroying the political process to solve problems in Kosovo and Metohija, preventing political agreement and direct support and assistance to separatists and terrorists. 2. NATO's pact threats are a direct violation of the UN Charter and a threat to the sovereignty and territorial integrity of our country. NATO has trampled on the basic principles of international relations, the very basis of international order and poses a threat to international peace and security. We therefore demand that the Security Council prevent the violation of the Charter of the United Nations, put immediately on the agenda of the Government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and condemn the proceedings of the NATO Pact. We ask the Organization for European Security and Co-operation and the United Nations not to close their eyes to the threat of aggression and to hide their silence, as they will thus be accomplices to the destruction of accepted principles in international relations and attacks on a sovereign country, the founder of the United Nations. Also, we condemn the departure of the Kosovo Verification Commission of the OSCE. There is no reason to do so but to put the demonstration of departure into function of blackmail and pressure on our country. 3. We warn the NATO Pact and all the countries from whose territory the aggression against our country is attempted that we will defend our territory, our people and our freedom by all means. 4. We ask that parliaments and governments of all states - members of the United Nations, the OSCE, the Contact Group countries - support the continuation of the political process, the condemnation of the threat of force and the advocate of aggression on our country. II 1. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia accepts a report by the government of Serbia delegation on talks in Rambuje and Paris and estimates that the delegation has done its utmost to achieve a political agreement on a peaceful solution to the problem in Kosovo and Metohija. 2. The state delegation acted in line with the platform formulated by the National Assembly in its conclusions of 402/1999 on reaching a political agreement on the broad autonomy of Kosovo and Metohija, while ensuring full equality between all citizens and national communities and respect for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. III 1. We accepted the talks in France, starting with the firm commitment of the people and all political actors in the country to do everything and contribute to resolving problems in Kosovo and Metohija in a peaceful manner and in political means in good faith that the same is the case for the international community and the Contact Group that was the organiser of the talks. 2. In France instead of direct talks and genuine efforts to reach a political agreement on essential broad autonomy, instead of peace and political solution, a dictatorship, counterfeits, threats, blackmail and NATO troops were offered. 3. The National Assembly regrets that international mediators, as well as the presidents of the Rambuje and Paris talks, have found no way to convince a delegation of the separatist movement to sit at the same table with the state delegation of Serbia, and the two delegations have never been there. IV 1. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia notes that two delegations have not been reached in talks in Rambuje or Paris. 2. The fault for the failure of talks in Rambuje and Paris cannot be attributed to the state delegation of Serbia, who has repeatedly insisted on a direct conversation and agreement, but the fault is exclusively on the foreign delegations of the separatist and terrorist movement and on the side of all those who have allowed them to have such behaviour and their signature under the text they did not want to discuss with the state delegation of Serbia for a minute and yet declared it a comprehensive agreement. 3. The agreement was not reached because the separatist-terrorist delegation of Albanians avoided direct talks because it does not give up on separatist goals; it aims to achieve "state in the country" through autonomy; in the form of implementation of the political agreement, it ensures Serbia's occupation; in the form of human rights and democracy it creates ethnically clean Kosovo and Metohija; and with the help of its mentors through the international protectorate and referenda, Kosovo and Metohija are secededed from Serbia. 4. The agreement was not reached and because the Contact Group insisted on proposals that annul the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia and the SR of Yugoslavia and thus deviated from its fundamental principles set out on 29 January 1999; an undefined procedure of work and decision-making during the talks introduced confusion and created a basis for planting and forgeries of documents that were never considered or adopted by the Contact Group in general; the resulting pressure and threat of aggression on our country encouraged separatists and terrorists, thus contributing to the creation of a negative atmosphere to fostering a political agreement on the peaceful solution of problems in Kosovo and Metohija. 5. The paper signed by the Albanian separatist-terrorist delegation is not an "agreement" but rather their request for "Kosovo's Republic" with the sponsor's parafis that support them in it. The fake that has been presented as "the agreement" is not a Contact Group document - it has also been fenced by individual members of the Contact Group. It's an unprecedented criminal act in international legal relations and the creation of alibis for new threats and pressures on our country, forced in Paris by the American regime. The United States has thus openly placed itself on one side -- diplomatic, political and military -- by putting NATO's pact into an alliance with separatists and terrorists. In Article 1(1), point (b) is replaced by the following: The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia estimates that the agreement proposed and signed by our State Delegation is a key contribution to the political process of resolving problems in Kosovo and Metohija by peaceful means. The signatures of members of our delegation, representatives of all national communities living in Kosovo and Metohija - Serbs, Montenegrins, Muslims, Turks, Roma, Gorans, Egyptians and representatives of Albanian parties who are in common living in equality - confirm the essential value and importance of this document. 2. This agreement is fully on the Contact Group's line of principles, providing full autonomy for Kosovo and Metohija within Serbia and the SR Yugoslavia, guaranteeing the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia and the SR Yugoslavia, full equality of citizens and all national communities, the establishment of democratic institutions that can be immediately realised and a decision-making body without majorisation; ensuring that there is no independence of Kosovo and Metohija or the third republic. The agreement affirms a commitment to a peaceful common life and a secure future for all -- multiethnic and multiconfessional Kosovo and Metohija. 3. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia guarantees to the parliaments of all UN member states the Agreement on Self-Government in Kosovo and Metohija to assess what and how broad autonomy the Republic of Serbia guarantees Albanians, Serbs, Montenegrins, Muslims, Roma, Turks, Gorans and Egyptians living in Kosovo and Metohija, and invites them to present their opinions on democratic solutions guaranteeing the equality of national communities in this province. 4. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has again made it clear that the Republic of Serbia and the SR Yugoslavia are still committed today to a peaceful political solution to the problem in Kosovo and Metohija. We reiterate the readiness for the State Delegation to immediately resume talks directly with representatives of Albanian political parties and all other national communities. Serbia is open to a viable political agreement. 5. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia authorises the State Delegation to sign a political agreement on self-government in Kosovo and Metohija agreed on and signed by representatives of all national communities living in Kosovo and Metohija. Six. The National Assembly obliges the Government of the Republic of Serbia to immediately approach the operationalisation of this agreement and to propose normative solutions in order to move forward as soon as possible, as a guarantee of strengthening the new structures of the authorities in Kosovo and Metohija, establishing international trust, preparing for the census, providing conditions for direct, general and secret elections for the authorities and the overall normalisation of the situation in our province. VI 1. We thank parliaments, governments, numerous political parties, scientific, cultural, educational organisations and institutions, numerous prominent intellectuals, scientific, cultural and public workers and individuals around the world who, at this historic crucial moment in defense of freedom, independence and dignity, have given their support and raise their voice in defending the principles of equality of people and states in international relations, condemned the threat of aggression to the sovereign country. All of this has contributed to the truth about the real causes of the problems in Kosovo and Metohija entering the world. 2. Serbia is unique, determined and unwavering in defending its freedom, independence and territory. The plebiscitarian definition of our citizens, expressed at numerous gatherings and events, both in the country and in the diaspora, confirmed this. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia recognises the unity of the people as supporting the state authorities to endure such a policy and as a decisive task of the people to defend the freedom, independence, honor and dignity of our state and the obligation to, accordingly, take all necessary measures and activities. 3. The National Assembly expresses Serbia's determination to come to a quick, peaceful and fair agreement, to silence the force of law and justice with force and injustice. At the same time, the National Assembly expresses unanimity in its readiness to defend Serbia and the SR Yugoslavia from every aggressor, no matter what his name is and whatever his crime motivates. This is a proposal for conclusions adopted unanimously by the Commission, with consultations with the heads of Parliament clubs, so I suggest we move on to adoption. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units (we have the quorum). I'm putting the draft conclusions to the vote. For 203 MPs, three against, no one abstained, three, a total of 209 MPs were voted. I find the National Assembly with a large majority of votes adopted a proposal for conclusions. Let me finally say one more thing. Dear People's MPs, I have to say what the essence of the whole thing is - all of us are fascinated by the size and real importance of Kosovo and Metohija, so in that darkness, we don't see that this is the whole country. Cosmet is just a door, through which NATO and the United States are trying to get into our country more easily and to occupy it, to break and establish a regime of capitulation, in which our entire country, all of our citizens, would be managed by someone else's hand and other people's interest. Citizens of our country, defending Kosovo and Metohija, are essentially defending their home threshold and their family, regardless of what part of Yugoslavia they live in. I am convinced that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has made decisions in accordance with the responsibilities it has had before the people. This is where our session is over. [[Applause]]
