ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-11-0.u1856	Mr. President, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the law on local self-government is one of the most important system laws in all systems. It is perfectly normal for the law, as an extension of constitutional regulation, to pay exceptional attention to all constitutional and political systems. That's what we did this time, probably the law on local self-government, the law that has since the introduction of a multi-party system and the inauguration of the constitutional system on the new foundations of 1990, has the richest prehistory. He has yet to have history when he becomes the law. The law has been being prepared for five years. No law has been prepared systematically and with such respect and other opinions, opposition opinions, as well as the opinions of the profession, as well as the law on local self-government. During all stages of lawmaking, representatives of parliamentary parties, i.e. parliamentary clubs, parliamentary groups, were invited to the National Assembly for talks. These talks were usually not results, because they always consisted of flat-rate and global criticism, institutions that do not regulate this law at all. And, which is the central theme of the law, reduced to what is not the law, which is the election for local representative bodies. In many countries, this is not regulated by the law on local self-government, but by the electoral law, with elections for the state parliament and local parliaments uniformly regulated, local representative bodies. When it comes to this law, this bill, we could see it in the informal part of political life and in this formal, institutionalised, in parliament, and in the end from these motives have come amendments. The vast majority of amendments and the far-reaching majority of the dispute in this law are driven by the government's successor, which this time includes a coalition that covers. So, it's a clean disqualification, it doesn't go into the law at all, nor does one global criticism of the law being given, just because the law comes from the one it comes from, it's no good. We have already had the opportunity to hear such criticisms at this session, as we had the opportunity to hear them during the reconstruction of the government. The opposition is wrong just as the position would be wrong, the ruling party is wrong, when in this other political side, in that other political front, it sees everything black. So is the law on local self-government. Yesterday we attended the full disqualifications of this law, challenging everything in that law, even what the subject and the title of the law were. Local self-government is claimed not to be in the law, but a centralist arrangement is being conducted. I would first, since this is how I identified the origin of such motives, to say that these criticisms hide within themselves a deep misunderstanding of the concept of local self-government. Local self-government is nothing more than local self-government or the self-government of locals around local businesses. Local business isn't state business. The local self-government unit is not a state, it does not carry out the dimensions of local authorities, but, in principle, self-government manages issues of local importance. So local self-government is the self-government of the local population. It is not autonomy from the state, as it is imagined, it must not be confronted by the state, it is not an autarchical territory compared to the state, it must contribute to a more quality cohesion of the state, unity of the state. By allowing the country to integrate on democratic grounds. And if that's how local self-government is understood, then in this law and how there are local self-governments. Who's unhappy with this law? Unsatisfactory is the one who wanted to reorganise the country's territorial organisation with this law, to introduce some new units of Serbia's territorial organisation, to institute some new basis for self-government, which is not within the constitution. In other words, to carry out an informal, anti-constitutional review of the Constitution. We had proposals for the whole text of the law, so the fully regulated text of this law on local self-government, but they come from entirely other constitutional premises. They'd like to carry out a territorial reorganisation of the country. To divide the country into units that the Constitution does not know, even to execute, and under the form of decentralisation, the federalisation of Serbia inside. Of course, whoever wanted it will not be satisfied with this law, because this law remains within the scope of the pretentions of its title. It's a law on local self-government. And that local self-government has, and that Mr. Ispanovic is wrong when he claims it is not, when he says that the work of local self-government is being constrained, he says that he is extremely branched, and moreover, the affairs of local self-government are grouped into 13 special thematic continents, in 13 special points. Well, if it wasn't some material wealth of these jobs, it's enough that such a number of these topics, these jobs, where the local population on the principle of self-government, so self-government, is doing these jobs independently of the state. This law will be independent of that, and it may not be modest to say this, given that the Government is its promoter, and that I am a member of the Government, will also enter the sphere of legal creation as an undertaking, because indeed, here for years it has been done, it has sought to withdraw a demarcation line between local businesses and state affairs. It's very hard to do, and that's the kind of attempt that's been made here. We believe that a successful distinction has been carried out, where, of course, we believe that it is not perfect, and that by applying local self-government, it will be upgraded with life. But it cannot be disputed that, within those global competences of local self-government and a member of the 130th Constitution, an attempt has been made here to make the municipality specific, as a basic carrying unit of local self-government, much more than it has been given to the current Law and Constitution. It's just a politically blind man, and then he shouldn't be political if he is, he won't see. That's why the law is criticised. Of course, the law did not have absolute freedom in determining the local landscape. He was tied to an 113th member, who globally gives the sphere of local self-government and secretes it from the sphere of state affairs. The law further criticises what is said to be the establishment of a tutel, the custody of the state over local self-government. There's no truth in that either. In fact, local self-government can't function as some kind of auto-archical sphere of social affairs. The state is guaranteed local self-government. Local self-government is one privilege, one privilege and the territory of an individual, and as human freedoms and rights, the state also protects the right to local self-government. If local self-government pulls into particularism and localism, then it works on the whole and in the interest of the legality of the state must intervene. So this is the first basis and the natural basis for intervention of the state in performing the affairs of local self-government. Local self-government must not be dragged into particularism. Then she goes against the state, she's confrontations with the state and the base of intervention, the first basis of intervention is that. The second basis of intervention is that the state is guaranteed by local self-government. If local self-government is misused, then the state is entitled to intervene because both territory and residents are deprived of one constitutional privilege and local self-government is established. So these are two grounds for State intervention in local self-government. They do not mean custody or tutelage of local self-government, as it was presented to this speaker yesterday. In both cases, the state intervenes. Which organ will they intervene through? Well, most naturally, the local self-government minister also gave a very adequate explanation yesterday, that it is best to intervene with the government. The Assembly, as a representative body, cannot establish a local self-government when it is not there. This is what the government does, since local self-government is implementing constitutional and legal norms, and for the global enforcement policy is in charge, according to the Constitution, of the Government. Therefore, it is not about any forced administration, nor does our law know the term of forced administration. When local self-government drags into particularism or it is expelled from the local community, then the state intervenes by establishing a municipal council, which is nothing more than a temporary substitute for local self-government and no forced administration in the local self-government unit. So whenever the state intervention is predicted through the Government, or the RES, it is not to establish the custody of the state over local self-government, it is not a persecution, it is not an exile of local self-government from the local community, but it is to establish the domination of general interest over the particular, individual interest and to establish the domination of the law on illegality. Thirdly, yesterday, it was said that local self-government was almost defiled, the argument was drawn because the symbols, street names, squares, city districts, settlements, other parts of the inhabited area on the territory of local self-government, etc. The subordinated, therefore, what should be considered by one who criticises this, to be in the absolute jurisdiction of the local self-government unit, is subject to state control. Right now, let me say that's not true. For the symbols of local self-government, local communities, or municipalities, there is a clear indication in Article 173(1) that the symbols of the local self-government unit can only express its historical, cultural, economic and geographical specificities. Within that space, local self-government is self-government, but, of course, it can't be used beyond this and exactly the local self-government ministry's jurisdiction is not to get out of these legal limits, as we've had the opportunity to give away all the radical symbols and names. Again, when it comes to titles, Article 174, paragraph 3, stands, and it is the only intervention in the otherwise free space of local self-government in this area, that they cannot bear the names or names of persons who are offended by the morals of citizens, patriotism and the freedom traditions of the people and the state, because this is a reasonable restriction, this is, first of all, no restriction, this mind imposes, not the need to choke local self-government by State intervention. I don't want to talk about the criticisms given to the amendments, especially about the electoral system, because I don't consider it an essential component of local self-government, but it's also said here, from this pay phone, that local self-government is entitled, given that it deals with local issues, issues from the local detour, that local people who have grown up with the local community are the bearers of local affairs in the representative body of the local community. This means choosing a man, not a party, as the primary institution and entity in the election process. This allows the electoral system, with a man, as it is in party democracies, proposing any political party, any group of citizens. Gentlemen, it remains to be summed up that the government refuses to give rise to the flat-rate criticism of this law, aware of their motives. Their motives are not contained in this law. Their motives are other natures and you saw yesterday, it is said - this law will fall, but the Law on Education and the Information Act will fall, and you, who are its promoters, will fall. So, these are motives, to get as black as possible by law enforcement. The matter of local self-government is just a reason to do it. It is not given, as it would say, the fundamental criticism of the law is not given in terms of what is between the cover of the bill, but seen much wider. At the same time, the government is aware that the current bill means improving local self-government, of course, within the limits of the constitutional concept of the self-government. This government is also aware of the lack of our local self-government, purely theoretically. These shortcomings are that local self-government is one-stage, not multi-stage, which is monotypic, which is uniform, there is no difference between the municipality and the municipality, there is no global division of municipalities into urban and rural areas, then, its third lack, which is territorially pre-greeded, pre-named territorially as a unit of local self-government, but we are also aware of these abstract, theoretical criticisms of the local self-government model. This society is so far covered by such local self-government. It is not ideal, but for this moment, this is the law, if we adopt it, which will undisputedly improve local self-government and that will undisputedly dedicate the entire constitutional and legal system. I invite you to vote for this law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-11-0.u1857	Thank you. I hereby conclude the search of the draft law in particular and ask the MPs to, in order to establish the quorum, insert their cards into the MPs. We have a quorum. I put the draft law on local self-government in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I'll return the vote, I apologize, I didn't hear you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-11-0.u1858	Respecting everything the Deputy Prime Minister said, I would allow myself to give a few more references to the debate that took place in the Assembly in these two days on the issue of the government's proposal for a law on local self-government. The honourable MPs, after the debate at the Government's Proposal for a Law on Local Self-Government, should say that the MPs sent a total of 215 amendments to the National Assembly. Of the majority of the amendments, the proposings gave up during the debate so that MPs declared only 39 amendments. The fact itself suggests that the government's proposal for a law on local self-government could not have been significantly resented. Of course, the amendment's promoters had their views on a possible electoral system, proposing a proportionate system of committees in local self-government units. But most MPs supported the government's definition of a single-circular majority system in their presentations. There were also opinions that the Government's proposal for a law on local self-government is unacceptable because it is based on the centralist principles of local self-government that the bill gives too much authority to the competent ministries and the government itself through the envisaged self-government control mechanisms. Therefore, I would like to point out once again that as long as the authorities of the local self-government units act in accordance with the law, no one can take away their right to do their jobs, nor can it change or affect the decisions they make. In that, after all, it looks at the independence of local self-government. However, when this is not the case, there is no longer a question of independence, but of the legality of enforcement in any particular case. In such cases, the competent authorities shall not only have the right, but also the obligation to take the prescribed measures. It is the government that has, in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, a general responsibility for the execution of Isaacon. I think, however, it is not too much of a short comparison on this matter with other European countries. In the European systems of local self-government, for example in Switzerland, control of cantonal authorities over local authorities is very sharp and diverse. This surveillance system covers a spectrum of different forms and measures, from the presence of representatives of the cantonal government to meetings of local self-government authorities, through the obligation to submit reports to the reporting authorities, all additional inspections by local authorities, the obligation to confirm municipal regulations and regulations in certain cantons, and in almost all certificates of approval of municipal taxes, budgets and final accounts. These financial acts can be confirmed, modified or abolished by supervisory authorities. Specific forms of surveillance are viewed in the right of the cantonal authorities to punish municipal officials under certain conditions and even to fire them. The supervisory authorities shall have the right to issue mandatory tasks to local authorities to carry out certain tasks, to adopt, amend and abolish certain acts, as well as to undertake the execution of operations from the work of local authorities, but on the burden of the municipality's resources. However, the most drastic control measure is the right to restrict and suspend local authorities. This is Switzerland, the surrounding one is said to be the most democratic. In France, decisions by local authorities shall take effect 15 days after the publication or delivery of the Prefect. The Prefect can abolish them, the administrative court also in the established legal procedure. Decisions relating to the budget and financing are subject to a special control of the regional authority. There is also a obligation for local authorities to make decisions bigger for administrative acts to deliver the Prefect before their application. If it considers such decisions illegal, the Prefect, in accordance with the instructions of the Minister of the Interior, may require the authority which has made such a decision to withdraw or amend it. In the event of rejection, the Prefect may bring legal proceedings before the administrative court. The government in France has been given the right under certain conditions to disband the alliance and suspend the mayor, or the president for a certain period of time. In Italy, local authorities are under strict supervision of central and regional authorities. Control of the legality of acts, including statutes, is carried out by a regional control committee. The previous control of legality by this committee shall be subject to any decision taken by the municipal and provincial councils. The Regional Committee of Control has been authorised to repeal illegal and non-statual acts of local authorities within 20 days. It is certainly the most drastic measure of disbanding or suspending the municipal or provincial council, which is within the jurisdiction of the President of the Republic. In the event of the disbanding of the council, the Commissioner shall be appointed and the tasks of this authority shall be carried out. Some of the participants in the debate, arguing for decentralisation, have leveled this notion with the notion of local self-government, which is, of course, wrong, because decentralisation is administrative and self-government is political. To understand the concept of decentralisation it is important to bear in mind that it is state functions, which essentially and formally conditions and relations between central and local authorities. In other words, by definition, certain functions and jobs originally belong to state authorities, but they are passed on through law to local authorities in the light of the frameworks provided for by the Constitution as the highest law of a single country. In the absence of arguments against the Government's Bill on Local Self-Government, we have also ruled a series of lies at the expense of the Government of People's Unity, and at the expense of the enemies of our country, which is the potential for the alleged forced eviction of Shipar from the municipalities of Medvedja, Bujanovac and Presevo. Because of the public who is following the work of this congregation, I can't help but say that there really is such an eviction, but it's a question of why and for what purpose. Because Albanian national minority followers were ordered by Cypriot terrorists from Kosovo and Metohija to take possession of the properties and houses of Serbs, who were forced to leave their centuries-old hearths in front of the terror of Shipara and their helpers and mentors in the image of the NATO Pact. The conclusion is that after such a comparison, you will agree that the measures proposed by the Law on Local Self-Government provide for a violation of the legality in the constitution are far less favourable than those laid down, but that those in all these countries that we say have developed local self-government exist, which is normal, because it is public affairs whose conduct is governed by specific legal rules. Dear People's MPs, the government of Serbia is even more confident after that debate on the Bill on Local Self-Government, but has offered a law whose principles will significantly contribute to the improvement of the system of local self-government, and that there are normative assumptions that every citizen in the municipality or city in which he lives and works, effectively and legally achieves and meets his basic interests and needs, and therefore, of course, I call on you to plead with the Government's proposal for a law on local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-11-0.u1859	Thank you. I hereby conclude the search of the draft law in particular and ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We've got quorum. ) I put to the vote the draft law on local self-government in general. For 167, no one was against, abstentioned one, all MPs voted, 168 MPs present in the hall. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on local self-government. We move to the 12th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Special Rights and Obligations of the President of the Republic You have adopted the bill, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted by MP Bojana Ristic to the bill of law. You've received the Government's opinion on the amendments. You have received reports from the Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee, which have adopted the draft law in principle and in particular. I'm opening a principled search. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? He doesn't want to. Do any of the MPs want a word? He doesn't want to. ( ) Since none of the MPs answer for a word, I conclude the search in principle. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We've got quorum. ) I put to the vote the draft law on the special rights and duties of the President of the Republic in principle. For 162 against no one, abstentioned no one, one voted, a total of 163 present in the hall. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill in principle. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Bojana Ristic. Having adopted this amendment by the Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration, and the Legislative Committee considers that the solution contained in this amendment is legally possible, this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The amendment was submitted to Article 10(2) by MP Bojana Ristic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the solution contained in this amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We've got quorum. I put the amendments to the vote. No one voted for, 160 against, no one abstention, four did not vote, 164 MPs present in the O.R. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 12, paragraph 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojana Ristic. Having adopted this amendment by the Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration, and the Legislative Committee considers that the solution contained in this amendment is legally possible, this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. On Article 12, paragraph 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojana Ristic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the solution contained in this amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We've got quorum. I put the amendments to the vote. No one voted for, 152 against, no one abstention, seven did not vote, 159 MPs present in the hall. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 15, paragraph 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojana Ristic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the solution contained in this amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We've got quorum. I put the amendments to the vote. No one voted in favour, 158 against, no one abstentioned, four did not vote, 162 MPs present in the hall. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Bojana Ristic submitted to the 16th amendment. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the solution contained in this amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We've got quorum. I put the amendments to the vote. No one voted for, 160 against, no one abstention, three did not vote, 163 MPs present in the O.R. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Anyone else want to talk about the bill in particular? He doesn't want to. ( ) Since no one is answering for a word, I conclude a search of the bill in particular. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We've got quorum. I put to the vote the draft law on special rights and duties of the President of the Republic as a whole. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. End of vote. ) For 154, against one, no one with abstention voted seven, 162 MPs present in the O.R. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on the special rights and duties of the President of the Republic by a large majority of votes. We move to the 13th item of the agenda: - THE SUMMARY OF THE DECISION ON THE AMENDMENT OF THE DECISION OF THE MEETING OF THE MEMBER STATE OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA Within this item of the agenda, you have received proposals from the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary groups, the Serbian Radical Party and the Yugoslav Left. I'm opening a unique search of these proposals. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? No, they don't. Do any of the MPs want a word? He doesn't want to. ( ) Since no one is answering for a word, I conclude a unique search. Do you agree that, at the same time, all the motions of the MPs for amendments to the Decisions on the selection of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia should be expressed at the same time in a single vote, and that the proposals adopted in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" as a legally-technically united act - a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, place their cards in MPs' units. We've got quorum. I put this proposal to the vote. For 159, no one, abstentioned, four voted, a total of 163 MPs present in the hall. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. Since the National Assembly has accepted this proposal, I ask the MPs to put their cards into the MPs' units to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I am putting to the vote the proposals of the Socialist Party of Serbia, the Serbian Radical Party and the Yugoslav Left for amendments to the Decision on the election of members of the National Assembly Committee of the Republic of Serbia. For 165, no one, abstentioned anyone, voted 165 MPs. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted these proposals. We move to the 14th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a DECISION ON THE MEDICAL PROTECTION OF ANIMALS IN THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA FOR 1999, 2000. And 2001. YOU have received a proposal for a decision, which was made by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received reports from the Committee on Agriculture and the Legislative Committee, which have adopted the proposal for a decision. The Committee on Agriculture has proposed to implement a legal - technical editorial of the text of the Programme of Measures, which is an integral part of the proposal for a decision, agreed by the proposing representative. I'm opening a single search on the motion for a decision. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? No, I don't. Do any of the MPs want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since no one is answering for a word, I conclude a unique search. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their cards into the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I put to the vote the Proposal for a Decision on Animal Health Measures in the Republic of Serbia for 1999, 2000 and 2001, with a legal - technical editorial which is contained in the report of the Committee on Agriculture, agreed by the proposing representative. For 163, no one, abstentioned, three voted, a total of 166 MPs voted. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the motion for a decision. We move to the 15th item of the agenda: - REQUIREMENT OF THE SERBIAN RESISTANCE GROUP IN CONNECTION WITH THE Elections The National Assembly has accepted the proposal of the Serbian Movement Group to include the request of the Serbian Parliament's Group on Elections in the agenda of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. As all acts adopted by the National Assembly must, pursuant to Article 156 paragraph 3 and in relation to Article 135 paragraph 1. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, before considering in the National Assembly, shall be considered by the competent committee and the Government unless it has been a proposing, this and this proposal should be addressed to the committee responsible for consideration. And in this case it is, according to Article 53. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Board of Justice and Administration. Does Mr. Mikovic want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-11-0.u1860	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, you have seen in the text that has been delivered to you that our parliamentary group has proposed that an appropriate decision be made on the urgent launch of dialogues and arrangements between representatives of the ruling parties with representatives of parliamentary parties on election conditions etc. So, what are you looking for? To achieve unity in the search for electoral systems that ensure maximum access to the will of the people of all their representatives. This is extremely important for all of us. It is important because we are all responsible together and each of us individually and in front of the future of this country, this country, this or these people, which is a condition to create a country that will be able to protect the animal in Kosovo, and from Kosovo that is in exile, and all citizens of Serbia and Yugoslavia right now. Therefore, if we really want to help all of us in the situation we are in, it is clear that we need to discuss some things. Why did we mention election and election conditions? Please, have the provisions on local self-government elections changed? They did. Have we been informed a few days ago that the Law on selecting MPs in the Greater Republic has been unconstitutional for years and needs to be changed? Was there any need for the situation in the election of the President of the Republic to intervene in some way to bring a Lex specialis? Did Mr. Markovic Tomislav, an MP of this assembly, say that there is something to change in the electoral system? So it's obvious that it's not a topic beyond all themes. That's the topic in the first place. Nothing else is asked but let's start talking about it, talk about it, talk about it all, and especially talk about things that we don't agree on. Without that, we're not getting out of this situation. You can think that this is important and it doesn't matter, but in addition to the material you are given, you can see if we can talk about a proportional system or a majority system, if we can talk about this number of electoral units or some number of electoral units, whether we can talk about whether only valid votes will define the number of ambassadors or something else. Therefore, these are all specific issues that have been addressed in every country and in every way. Why not open such a dialogue? Why should there be no words and no opposing attitudes? Why should we feel that this country should be divided, that it should remain divided and that we do not even come to the point of discussing these issues in the right way? Why don't we do it in the institutions of the system? Why do you have to talk about it on the street, in some media, in one place or another? So this isn't talking from another pay phone. This is the address from the first pay phone in this republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-11-0.u1861	Thank you. Please don't open the debate. I allowed Mr. Mikovic to explain, because the proposal by the parliamentary group contains no act but merely a desire to open a dialogue with this. By putting on the agenda, we are meeting this desire and the request of the Serbian Parliament's Renewal Movement, because we believe that the National Assembly is the best place to discuss this issue and all the important institutional solutions that regulate this matter. Our Committee is the working body of the Assembly, whose jurisdiction this matter is, which is subject to this requirement. Given that it has representatives, or MPs of almost all parliamentary parties, the Committee can take a comprehensive look at all opinions and ideas on the proposal of the Serbian Renewal Movement Parliament Club. However, I remind you, according to our Rules of Procedure, that all the MPs of the parliamentary parties represented in this Parliament can participate in the work of the Committee, so that in considering this matter, in the right way, everyone can express their position, all the national representatives, even those parliamentary groups that do not have their own members on the Committee. Given that this proposal has not been submitted in the form of an act decided by the Assembly, I expect the Committee to consider this request and refer its position to the Assembly in the form of a document to be declared by the Assembly. Accordingly, I propose that the National Assembly decide that the request of the Serbian Parliament's Renewal Movement Group regarding the elections should be forwarded to the Committee for Justice and Administration. When the Committee on Justice and Administration, in accordance with its competences, completes its work, will propose to the National Assembly an appropriate document on which the Assembly, after the debate, will be made known. Do you agree with this proposal? Approval in the O.R. ) I ask the MPs to insert their cards into the MPs' units to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I'm putting this motion to the vote.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-11-0.u1862	Can I have my word after this vote?
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-11-0.u1863	We'll have parliamentary questions.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-11-0.u1864	I'm not an MP, so I can't ask any MP questions.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-11-0.u1865	All right, let's just adopt this conclusion. End of vote. The proposal was voted by 163 MPs, against no one, abstentioned none, four MPs, a total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. Before moving to the last item of the agenda, Mr Vojislav Seselj has the word Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-11-0.u1866	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what I'm about to say now concerns more parliamentary procedures and the work of parliamentary groups than it is to enter into the metricity of the issue on the proposal of the Serbian Renewal Movement parliamentary group. It was expected that if the Serbian Renewal Movement parliamentary group submits an initiative, if the initiative is accepted in the National Assembly and included in the agenda, then the sittings are attending and taking part in the debate. We have accepted their initiative, the initiative is on the agenda, and they are gone. If they do not come to the meeting of the relevant assembly committee tomorrow, how should dialogue be conducted between the ruling and the opposition parties? Will we be texting and speaking in the language of the ultimatum, as assumed by this text of theirs delivered as material to the MPs? What kind of dialogue is that? Should the congregation minority dictate the terms of the congregation’s majority? In what parliamentary system is there in the world? Does anyone need to tell us, "You either take it or leave it?" These are our terms, if you accept them, accept them, if you don't accept them, there's no talking. Who's the one who can dictate the terms? What kind of arguments does he have? These are all questions that, in fact, there is no answer because of this unserious behavior. We had a good will, we wanted to talk about everything, and there's no talking, because whoever was looking for a conversation got scared, apparently, of that conversation and ran away. [[Applause in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-11-0.u1867	There is a word from the head of the Socialist Party's parliamentary group, Gorica Gajevic, also past the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-11-0.u1868	Dear MPs, since 1990, we have had an accelerated and dynamic development of parliamentaryism. In these nine years, we've had four elections for the Republic Assembly, three times for the Federal Parliament, three times for local parliaments and three times elections for the President of the Republic. This clearly shows that we have also shown our willingness to constantly improve questions in this area. We accepted the Serbian Renewal Movement, or parliamentary group, to discuss all issues of the election, because it is in the interest of the development of parliamentaryism and, as Mr Mikovic said, to face attitudes. Today, however, there are no proposals. Who are we going to deal with? We've shown good faith, we're still ready to talk. I hope that soon this Parliament, based on discussions on committees, will have the opportunity to discuss and make appropriate decisions. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-11-0.u1869	Thank you. We are moving to the 16th point of the agenda: – SALANIAN QUESTION We have one question asked by MP Antal Biachi. There's a word from MP Antal Biachi.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-11-0.u1870	Dear President, honourable MPs, respected ministers, at the session of the Committee on Culture and Information since 24 August 1998, I have raised a question of church parent books which, after the end of World War II, have been borrowed, taken away, adopted by the then national state authorities from the parish offices, and have not returned to this day. The Committee unanimously concluded that it would propose to the Ministry of Culture to launch, within its jurisdiction, an initiative to return these church books to the owners, or parish offices of the church communities, so I would ask Mr. Minister of Culture Zeljko Simic: Is something and what has been done on this matter?
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-11-0.u1871	The question has been asked. A representative of the Government will respond within the appropriate time limit, according to the Rules of Procedure. Any more questions? No, there isn't. () Since there are no more questions, I thank you for your cooperation. I'll see you at the next session. I'm closing the session.
