ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-10-0.u1810	Dear President, honourable MPs and members of the Government of the National Unity of Serbia, the main reason for my announcement is to brief you on the reasons and objectives of the adoption of amendments and additions to the Law on Tourism, as well as on how to reach this integrated text. With the amendments and additions of the Tourism Act, we wanted to harmonize the normative regulation of the tourism and catering industry with existing practices, as well as with the achievements of the world's most developed tourist countries. In this sense, the sources of use for the adoption of this law are existing practices and laws of the world's most developed tourist countries. A large number of participants in Serbia's tourist offer took part in the passing of this law, and from the prominent experts of Serbia's catering and tourism industry to scientific institutions, as well as individual members of the government of national unity. I must say, in the process of amending and supplementing the law, maltena general salgasity has been achieved for the need to enforce such a new law. The objectives of this law are, above all, to establish developmental, preventive or control functions in the tourism and catering sectors, development functions by enabling an increase in the competitive capacity of Serbia's tourism economy on the domestic and foreign markets, a preventive function towards increasing the quality of tourism services and control-preventing in terms of sanctioning negative phenomena, which have so far been seen in Serbia's overall tourism offer. First of all, the introduction of certain newspapers will increase the quality of services. I'd just as soon apostrophe that newspaper. The paper concerns the licensing of travel agencies, the introduction of a mandatory anti-indicating foreign deposit value, which will be used to compensate disgruntled tourists of consumers and the introduction of a tourist inspection, which will have a preventive control function. These would be the shortest basic changes in the Tourism Act. On this occasion, I would also like to thank all those who participated, and believe me that it was a very broad circle of people, in the adoption of amendments and additions to the Law, as well as to thank my colleagues from the Government of People's Unity and their associates, who have also contributed to the publication of such an integral text today in front of the National Assembly and to thank all those who have contributed to their amendments to the Bill's amendment and supplementation for its further improvement. I just want to point out that a number of amendments were not adopted, not because they were not needed for their adoption, but because they were primarily contained in the existing Tourism Act, so there was no need to change the amendments and amendments to the Law. So the pure form works, not the essence. One number of amendments has not been adopted due to the inability of economic justification for the implementation of such amendments in practice. Finally, I am sure that by adopting today, at a session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, it will allow for Serbia's tourism and tourist offer in the coming period, as the government of the National Unity of the Republic of Serbia has declared, to be one of the basic drivers and basic carriers of Serbia's economic development. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-10-0.u1811	Thank you. Do any of the MPs want a word? There's a word from MP Milutin Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-10-0.u1812	Dear Mr. President, honourable MPs, in the current application of the Tourism Act, it has been shown that individual solutions should have been more fully regulated in order to further improve the development of tourism. First of all, I mean the quality of services, but also the fulfilment of obligations to users of services. Also, the current solutions, which regulate this activity, are incompatible with the regulatoryly developed countries of the tourism economy, where very strict conditions are sought, both in terms of staff and financial guarantees. The Committee on Trade and Tourism discussed the Bill on Changes and Supplements of the Tourism Act and considered that the offered solutions lead to - firstly, improving the development of tourism, secondly, strengthening the quality of services, thirdly, providing adequate protection to users of services. The Committee's assessment is that the Ministry of Tourism has made every effort to offer the best solutions and therefore we believe that the law should be absolutely accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-10-0.u1813	Thank you. Anyone else want to talk? He doesn't want to. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We've got quorum. I put the bill to the vote in principle. For 155, one against, abstentioned no one, 6 voted, a total of 162 present MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. The Legislative Committee submitted to Article 5 of the amendment. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee have not accepted this amendment. (Lowers from the O.R.: we withdraw the amendment. I thank you. The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Selic. The government and the Committee on Trade and Tourism have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the solution to be legally possible. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We've got quorum. I put the amendments to the vote. No one voted in favour of, 156 against, supported by no one, four voted, a total of 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Joseph Kass. The government, the Trade and Tourism Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We've got quorum. I put the amendments to the vote. For six, 160 against, held by no one, two voted, a total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee submitted to Article 20 of the amendment. Since the amendments to the Legislative Committee have been adopted by the Government and the Committee on Trade and Tourism, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The Legislative Committee submitted to Article 22 of the amendment. Since the amendments to the Legislative Committee have been adopted by the Government and the Committee on Trade and Tourism, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The Legislative Committee submitted to Article 25 of the amendment. Since the amendments to the Legislative Committee have been adopted by the Government and the Committee on Trade and Tourism, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 27th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Joseph Kass. The government and the Committee on Trade and Tourism have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the solution to be legally possible. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We've got quorum. I put the amendments to the vote. For six, 156 against, abstaining no one, six voted, a total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Joseph Kass, submitted to the 35th Amendment. The government and the Committee on Trade and Tourism have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the solution to be legally possible. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We've got quorum. I put the amendments to the vote. For six, 159 against, supported by no one, four voted, a total of 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Ljubisa Selic submitted to the 39th amendment. The government and the Committee on Trade and Tourism have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the solution to be legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For six, against 160, no one was abstentioned, three, a total of 169 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee submitted to Article 44 of the amendment. Since the amendments to the Legislative Committee have been adopted by the Government and the Committee on Trade and Tourism, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia has tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 44a be added after article 44a. Since the amendment of the Government has been adopted by the Committee on Trade and Tourism and the Legislative Committee, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The Legislative Committee submitted to Article 45 of the amendment. Since the amendments to the Legislative Committee have been adopted by the Government and the Committee on Trade and Tourism, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Anyone else want to talk about the bill in particular? No, I don't. ( ) Since no one is answering for a word, I conclude a search of the bill in particular. I ask the MPs to set up a quorum to place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I put the draft law amending and supplementing the Tourism Act in general. For 161, against five, no one was abstentioned, three, a total of 169 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Tourism Act. We move to the 11th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Local Self-Government You have received a bill from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments, submitted by MPs Marijan Risticevic, Dragan B. Nikolic, Marijan Risticevic and Prof. Dr. Dragan Veseninov, Dušica Karabenč, Bojana Ristić, Mr. Ibro White, Tihomir Marjanović, Marijan Risticevic and Dušica Karabenč, Ratomir Munitlak, Jožef Kasa and Istvan Ispanovic, Životković, Dragomir Radovanović, Ramadan Ameti, Zoran Nikolic, Istvan Išpanovic and Tomislav Markovic, as well as amendments to the Legislative Committee and the Government's opinion on the amendments to the table. National MPs Tomislav Markovic, Bojana Ristic and Tihomir Marjanovic, Zoran Nikolic, Ratomir Munitlak and Dragomir Radovanovic withdrew in writing through the amendment, which they submitted to the bill. You have received reports from the Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee, which have adopted the draft law in principle and in particular. At the meeting of the Committee on Justice and Administration, Parliamentarian Milan Mikovic was singled out, and the opinion was given by MPs Milan Mikovic, Zoran Jovanovic and Istvan Ispanovic at the session of the Legislative Committee. I'm opening a principled search. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? He wants to. ) There is a word from Minister for Local Self-Government Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-10-0.u1814	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the government of the Republic of Serbia has sent you to discuss the proposal for a law on local self-government. The constitutional basis for the adoption of this law is contained in Article 72(1) point 12. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which provides, among other things, for the Republic of Serbia to provide other relations of interest for the Republic of Serbia, in accordance with the Constitution, as well as for Article 113, paragraph 2. The constitution, which provides for the system of local self-government to be governed by law. In addition, the position of municipalities, the city of Belgrade as a unit of local self-government was governed by the provisions of Articles 113 to 118. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The local self-government system has so far not been governed by a special law, but rather by the Law on the Territorial Organisation of the Republic of Serbia and the Local Self-Government. Given the importance, content and scope of matter, the local self-government system certainly deserves special codification and therefore the Serbian government proposes a special law on local self-government. In the application of the applicable law, basic institutional assumptions have been created for the functioning of local self-government. However, the practice has also shown more weaknesses in the existing law, which make it difficult for local self-government to function in the Republic and slow down its work. The principles contained in this bill make a significant contribution to the improvement of the local self-government system and are in line with the principles of the existing constitutional system. The aim of the adoption of this law is to create, on the basis of their own experiences and experiences of countries with a developed tradition of self-government, normative assumptions that every citizen in the municipality or city, in which he lives and works, is effectively and legally fulfilling his basic interests and needs. The concept of the bill is such that the whole matter is systemized into nine heads. The first chapter contains basic provisions, which define the concept of local self-government, the constitutional right of citizens to decide on the affairs of local self-government, stresses its independence in the performance of these tasks, the possibility of entrusting its business to other entities and the possibility of entrusting the local self-government unit to matters within the framework of the rights and duties of the Republic. The principles of interrelationship between state authorities and units of local self-government are also laid down, and other fundamental issues are regulated in order to achieve the constitutional position and function of local self-government. The second head, which bears the name "The Municipality", through six sections, addresses all issues relating to the work and functioning of the municipality. In the first two sections, the original affairs of the municipality are determined and the concept of trusted transactions, for which funding is determined in the Republic's budget. In the third section, a system of financing and sources of income was developed by listing the public revenues in general or part of the municipality, in particular the local public revenues belonging to the municipality. A significant source of local public revenue is local municipal fees, which can be introduced for the use of rights, objects and services, and the Law accurately lists what rights, objects and services are. The local self-government is independent in deciding whether these fees will be introduced at all and if it is decided for them, to determine the height, ease, deadlines and method of payment. The bill further defines what is to be considered a communal good of general interest and what makes it the basis for determining the compensation for their use, and that it is paid at a rate which cannot be greater than 1% and that it can only be increased at the previous consent of the Government up to 5%. As a special form of municipal financing, self-delivery is fully governed by this bill, so that the need for a special law ceases, as did the need for a special law on municipal taxes and fees. Dear People's MPs, the legislator particularly wants to draw attention to the fact that no existing source of income has been taken away from the municipality, but the whole area, which is governed by a number of different regulations, has been systematised in one place, with clear distinctions in the sources of income, which finance the operation of its original operations from the funds provided by the state to carry out entrusted transactions. The relevant provisions found that cities and the city of Belgrade, as the capital, account for 10% and 15% of turnover tax revenues, respectively, in the territory of the Republic of Belgrade, for the financing of their expenditures. A special section discusses the responsibilities of the municipality, the executive board and the municipal administration. The law regulates the frameworks for the number of committees in local self-government units, as well as that the assembly is a representative body of citizens, made up of committees elected in the direct elections by secret vote. The paper suggested a solution that the SO session could call, if the president did not, one-third of the committee or executive board. Detailed issues related to the position of the municipal secretary, by binding the duration of his term of office, as is natural, for the parliament's own mandate. As regards the position of the president of the SO, existing solutions stemming from the overall concept of the organisation of local authorities, as set out in Article 116, have been retained. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which established the assembly system of authorities at local level, is therefore only the first amongst the equal, without an independent part of the government and therefore, the bill speaks of the president of the SO, not the president of the municipality or the mayor. The provisions on the Executive Board have also been supplemented, by providing for a procedure for proposing candidates for the president and members of the Executive Board, as well as for the Executive Board, which has been authorised or suspended by the mandate due to the disbanding of the SO as a result of the early elections, to remain in office until the election of the new Executive Board. As far as the municipal administration's work is concerned, it is a newspaper that in municipalities with a large number of inhabitants, several authorities of the administration can be educated and the powers of the administration are specified in the exercise of administrative supervision. In addition to the issues of the general organisation and the work of local authorities, the time and opportunity in which the Law was prepared, which is May of last year, imposed the need to come up with special attention to the solutions that will enable every citizen of the Republic of Serbia, regardless of the environment in which he lives and works and regardless of which national group he belongs, to exercise his constitutional right to local self-government equally with others. Hence, the proposed solutions under Section 4 contain specific provisions on the composition, organisation and operation of bodies in certain municipalities with a mixed national composition of the Kosovo and Metohija population. Otherwise, no matter how many of these solutions are newspapers in our legal system, it should be noted that even in parallel law, there are known examples that, with the full protection of individual rights, there are different modalities aimed at recognising so-called. a group of political subjectivity in the environments in which minority and majority members of the so-called "majority" are mixed. the minority veto, the introduction of the principle of consensus in decision-making, the parity system of executive bodies etc., but only where there has been a disturbance of these relations. The essence of the overall proposed concept consists of the intention of creating conditions for citizens, without fear of any potential mutual threat, common, parliamentary and necessary mutual tolerance, to decide on issues of fundamental interest for their daily lives and work. Hence, such asymmetric solutions for local authorities only in certain municipalities in Kosovo and Metohija. The fifth section of the bill regulates the selection of SO committees, and the proposal is defined for the introduction of a majority system with one round of votes, in order to make the electoral process more efficient and rational. The general view is that the majority electoral system is more appropriate to the elections for local self-government authorities. The application of the majority electoral system allows citizens to directly select the committees, which will represent them in the bodies of units of local self-government, not only taking into account their party membership, but also of this, but also of the individual qualities of the candidate himself. Otherwise, the committees are elected on the basis of a proposal from candidates, submitted by political parties, other political organisations and groups of citizens, who are supported by at least 30 voters in the constituency, and a candidate who received the largest number of votes has been elected for the committee, with the voter's will adequately expressed. In order to prevent possible obstruction of the constitution of the SO, it is envisaged that if the municipal electoral commission does not give assurance to the committees that they have been elected committees within the legal time limit, this will be done by the Republic Election Commission. Specific provisions regulate cases where re-election and the way they are conducted are discussed. When it comes to the protection of electoral rights, it should be pointed out that, although it is a procedure that is most similar to the administrative procedure, it is not about this or any other general procedure, but rather about a special sui generis procedure, which is generally prescribed by this law, which is applied in respect of procedural actions, and, accordingly, the regulations governing the procedure in the administrative dispute. For these reasons, a solution has been proposed which unambiguously determines that the procedure for the protection of the electoral right is a special type of procedure. The constitutional right to two-stage is respected by the appearance of a municipal electoral commission as a first-degree body, and as second-degree court, in a decision to appeal the municipal electoral commission's decision. Otherwise, by not entering a broader theoretical constitutional and legal justification for the authority of the Republic to regulate this procedure by its law, it should only be noted that the jurisdiction of the federal state to regulate proceedings before courts and other state bodies, Article 77(1). The SRJ Constitution, in no case can extend and transfer to this area. If such an interpretation is accepted, it would mean that the Republic cannot have the authority to regulate the electoral procedure itself for its organs. Since, in a procedural sense, the whole electoral procedure is nothing more than a set of procedural norms, and certainly, to regulate the procedure before the state authority. And as far as we know, so far no one in the legal theory or practice has disputed this authority to the Republic. In that sense, and the protection of the electoral right is only part of the single continent marked as an electoral process, as only by its end, the overall election process ends. In other words, the only possible interpretation of constitutional norms can be one where the Republic cannot dispute the right to regulate material legal relations, offices and procedures for their implementation, or implementation in areas in which it is self-organised. The provisions of Article 158 set out the deadline for the establishment of the Assembly of the Municipality, and in order to remove possible concerns, the moment from when the mandate of the elected committees begins to run. And this is the day of confirmation of their term of office, which is based on assurances of the election of committees and the election commission's report on the elections. In a situation where no elections are held in the municipality or within 60 days of the election its bodies are not being established, it is proposed that in this case the Government educates the municipal council, which performs the tasks of the municipality and the executive goods. And that the President of the National Assembly is calling for new elections for the council committees of the municipality, within a year from the date on which elections were to be held, that is, from the day on which previous elections were held. The specific composition and organisation of the municipal assembly in certain municipalities in Kosovo and Metohija must also be reflected in the selection of council members of the municipality, in which larger national communities are educated. These particularities concern the composition of municipal electoral committees, a special list of candidates for the larger ones for which the election takes place, as well as the personality looks and marks on the ballot itself depending on who the majority is working for. Section 6, which bears the name of symbols, holidays, street names and squares of units of local self-government, has established the right of municipalities and other forms of units of local self-government, to have their symbols and their holiday, as well as to establish the names of parts of the settlements, by setting up criteria and procedures for their establishment. The symbols can only express historical, cultural, economic and geographical specificities of local self-government units. They can only be used with state symbols. To prevent possible abuses of this right, consent to the content and appearance of the symbol is foreseen by the ministry responsible for the affairs of local self-government. As for the rights of units of local self-government to establish the name of streets, squares and urban districts and other parts of inhabited areas, it is clear that these names cannot offend the morals of citizens, patriotism and freedom traditions of the people and the state. Otherwise, the Ministry of Local Self-Government would be empowered to remove the designated names. In view of the fact that such cases were in practice and there was no mechanism to remove citizens from such abuses of protection, it proposed a very effective way, i.e. the responsibility of the Ministry of Local Self-Government to remove such names. Chapter 3 contains provisions governing in principle the position of cities, jobs, the way of financing and the organisation of city authorities. The city is defined as a territorial unit of local self-government, established by law, on whose territory two or more municipalities are educated. Starting with the fact that city organisations are more complex because of the existence of city municipalities, because of the economic, social development of cities, compared to municipalities, they can also be entrusted with other public administrations, which otherwise cannot be trusted with municipalities. The existence of city halls will allow for more efficient and rational performance of the city's original affairs, and the town's statutes determine which jobs the city performs and which urban municipalities. The position of Belgrade City, as the capital of SRJ and the Republic of Serbia, is dedicated to a special chapter in the bill, as a special territorial unit, starting with its role, economic, social, spatial and cultural characteristics and characteristics. This practically means that the city of Belgrade can be entrusted with a wider circle of state administration affairs than with municipalities and other cities. Dear Members of the People, having regard to Article 116. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which regulates the forms of direct participation of citizens in the decision on units of local self-government, unlike indirect participation, through elected representatives in the municipality's assembly, the proposer dedicated the special section to the referendum and the people's initiative. As a special law has been passed, which regulates this matter, the proposed solutions contain only basic principles. The bill allows the local self-government unit to establish, by its statute, other forms of direct participation of citizens in the decision-making of matters in its work and broad freedom in what issues citizens decide by a referendum. On the other hand, citizens who have the right to vote and reside in the territory of local self-government have the right to propose through their national initiatives to the assembly of the municipality of the adoption of acts, which will settle a particular issue from its work, such as the change of statutes, the calling of referendums and other issues in accordance with the law and the statutes. If the Assembly of the Local Self-Government Unit does not accept the proposal contained in the People's Initiative, it shall issue a referendum within 90 days of the date of the decision not to adopt. The proposed solution also regulates the local community, as a form of interested organisation of citizens in a particular area, if the local self-government unit decides to decide at all to form a local community, which is not its obligation, because it can and does not have to decide. It is proposed that education or removal of the local community precedes obtaining citizens' opinions from the area, as well as that citizens themselves choose members of the council of the local community, in the elections announced by the president of the municipality. What is precisely regulated by this draft law, and what has not been regulated by the current Law on the Territorial Organisation of the Republic of Serbia and the Local Self-Government, are the relations between the Republic authorities and the bodies of the local self-government units, which ask the competent republican authorities for opinions on the application of the law, give initiatives and proposals on regulating issues and taking measures of importance for their development, and inform each other of the measures and activities they take to enforce the law and other regulations are of direct interest to the local self-government unit. However, given that the independence of local self-government in no way can mean that it is exempt from respect for constitutionality and legality, they have special importance in the provisions on the supervision of the legality of their general acts and their compliance with the Statute itself. As a result, it is proposed that the powers of the state authorities to achieve, in a consistent and efficient manner, the legality of the work of the local self-government authorities. If the general acts of those bodies do not comply with the law or other Republic regulations, the Ministry of Local Self-Government shall initiate a procedure for the assessment of constitutionality and legality before the Constitutional Court, and may propose to the Government until a decision of the Constitutional Court to suspend the enforcement of such a regulation, statute or other general act. If the local self-government unit assembly adopts a general act that does not comply with its statute and despite warnings from the competent ministry, it will initiate proceedings before the Supreme Court of Serbia and at the same time ask the Serbian government to suspend such an act from execution to the Supreme Court's decision. Mechanisms shall also be provided for to ensure compliance of individual acts of the units of local self-government with the law or other regulation, in cases where their protection in the administrative dispute is not provided. In such cases, if the local self-government unit assembly, on the basis of a proposal from the Ministry of Local Self-Government, does not cancel such an act within a month, the Ministry of Local Self-Government will do so. When it comes to achieving constitutional freedoms, human and citizen rights and responsibilities, a mechanism is envisaged to ensure the enforcement of decisions or other acts of units of local self-government, in the event that the competent authority of the local self-government unit does not do so. In that case, the competent ministry may take the decision, i.e. the second general act, and for a maximum period of one year, with the opening of the procedure for determining the responsibilities of the officials operating those bodies. The proposed provisions shall in particular regulate the situation where a unit body of local self-government does not adopt an act, i.e. it does not regulate or provide conditions for regulating issues relating to the performance of its electoral tasks. Since this is one of the cases most drastically jeopardising and directly restricting the exercise of constitutional rights of citizens to local self-government, in that unit of local self-government and the measures that can be taken are the most rigorous. Otherwise, precisely for reasons to ensure the conditions for all citizens to exercise their right to local self-government in the same way, through their committees representing them in the municipal assembly, and on their behalf to carry out the affairs of local self-government, the proposed legal provisions retain the authority of the Government to intervene in certain cases. Namely, as a body that conducts policy and enforces laws in accordance with its constitutional position, the government can take measures towards the local self-government unit assembly when it does not perform its tasks for a certain time or performs them against the constitution and the law. In contrast to the present, the proposed solution is precise, not only in terms of the measures taken, but also in terms of the possibilities of their duration and the way of final resolution of the situation. Given that those solutions are for the first time more precisely regulated by the supervision of the lawfulness of the work of the unit bodies of local self-government, it is not unusual that the proposed provisions in the previous debate caused no small controversy and different interpretations, above all, regarding the reasons for their introduction. In order to remove any possible and unfounded doubt, it should be said that the reasons for proposing such solutions are solely necessary to ensure, in the interests of citizens, the legal mechanism of all units of local self-government. In accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the government has a general responsibility for law enforcement, and any decision, regulation or act of the unit's body of local self-practice directly or indirectly constitutes the enforcement of a law. Therefore, as it is said, local self-government is independent in performing its tasks, but if these transactions are carried out in accordance and based on a positive regulation, there is no obligation to carry out them legally. If legalism is not respected in a particular case, there must be a mechanism to react. So as long as the authorities of the local self-government unit act in accordance with the law, no one can take away their right to do their jobs, nor can it change or affect the decisions they make. This looks at the independence of local self-government. However, where that is not the case, the issue of independence is no longer raised, but the legality and enforcement of the rules in each specific case, which gives the basis for the first but also the obligation of the competent national authority to take the prescribed measures. Chapter 7 of the Law proposal is dedicated to protecting the rights of local self-government, whose provisions provide local self-government authorities with the right to apply to the Supreme Court of Serbia for the protection of unit rights of local self-government. In the event that certain acts of the state authority injure those rights and are considered to be a violation of the right of the unit of local self-government, the local self-government established by the Constitution and the law. Chapter 8 contains criminal provisions providing for a fine for a legal and responsible person in a legal person, in the event of non-execution of this law of prescribed obligation, accounting and payment of compensation for the use of municipal goods of general interest. This is because this is the income of the local self-government unit for which so far practice has shown that local self-government units have often lost it. The transitional and final provisions shall contain provisions on the termination of validity in the whole or in part of the provisions of the law, on the deadline for the alignment of statutes and other general acts of local self-government, with the provisions of this law on the deadline for the education of urban municipalities in cities: Kragujevac, Nis, Novi Sad and Pristina and the consequences of non-compliance within that period, as well as its entry into force. In doing so, the promoter sought to predict deadlines that would be sufficient, but also effective. Given that the territory of the Autonomous province of Kosovo and Metohija is currently under occupation, the United Nations mission, confident that the current situation, unfavourable by the state of Serbia and the Serb people, is time-limited, is foreseen for the election and education of units of local self-government, as well as for the alignment of the Statute with the provisions of this law, to be implemented within a certain period of time from the end of the United Nations temporary administration mission. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, because of those who tend to see everything coming from Europe as better, will refer briefly to the European Charter of Local Self-Government and the other principles contained in it. One of these principles is that the system of local self-government is determined by the legislation of the signatories country and where possible by the constitution. According to this Charter, local self-government implies the rights and competences of local authorities to regulate and manage certain parts of public affairs within the limits of the law, based on their own responsibility and in the interests of the local population, and through the assembly, composed of members elected in free elections, secret voting, on the basis of direct, general and equal voting rights for all. This right will in no case derogate the forms of direct participation of citizens in the decision-making process. As for the work of the law and the responsibilities of local authorities, it is determined by the statute, within the limits of the law, which does not mean that it cannot be transferred the rights and responsibilities of specific tasks, in accordance with the law. The European Charter also knows the administrative supervision of the work of local authorities, which is of course carried out in the cases and procedure provided for by the constitution and law. What both in theory and in practice has a lot of disagreements is the issue of funding local authorities. In this place, it must be stressed that local self-government, and according to the European Charter, has the right, in accordance with the country's economic policy, to have adequate own sources of funding available freely under its powers. The sources of funding will be appropriate to their duties, and at least one part of the funding will come from local taxis and fees for which local authorities, to the extent established by the statute, have the right to determine their rates. The need to protect financially weaker local authorities requires the establishment of appropriate measures of financial unbundling with the aim of correcting the result of an unequal financial burden on local authorities and, as far as possible, the funds transferred to local authorities will not have the character of the funds. Another principle of the charter is the right of local authorities to join each other, and when it comes to co-operation with local authorities of other countries, under conditions that can be prescribed by law. Local authorities have the right to protect local self-government by making legal means available to them in order to ensure the free exercise of their duties and respect for the principle of local self-government, established by the constitution or law. As can be concluded, there is no principle provided for in the European Charter of Local Self-Government without being accepted and implemented in the Government's Bill of Law. Convinced that this bill significantly contributes to the improvement of the local self-government system, of course within the framework of the Constitution, the Serbian Government, the honourable MPs, proposes to adopt it, noting that its implementation does not require special financial resources in the Republic's budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-10-0.u1815	Do the MPs who gave their opinion want a word? The People's Messenger Istvan Ispanovich has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-10-0.u1816	Dear Presidency, honourable Members of Parliament, the proposal for a Law on Local Self-Government is unacceptable for MPs of the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians for several reasons. The proposal is unacceptable because it is based on the centralist principles of local self-government, while we advocate a decentralised model, which would be based on the principles of the European Charter of Local Self-Government, as well as on the positive experiences of other European countries. The proposed bill is also unacceptable because the law could sooner be called a law on restricting the right of local self-government or if you want a law on the custody of local self-government, rather than a law on local self-government. When we advocate a decentralised model of local self-government, there are objections that such a model cannot be established in Serbia without the previous amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, as the Constitution limits the transfer of certain rights and competences from central authorities to local self-government. Such a thesis cannot be accepted for many reasons. I'll try to prove it. If constitutional provisions governing the rights of the Republic come from Article 72 paragraph 9) of the Constitution, it does not result in the Republic retaining all rights, such as education, health, culture and more of those activities, but is only said that the system in those areas is governed by the Republic, which is perfectly natural, because these areas have to be regulated by law. At the same time, however, this does not mean that all decisions must be made by the authorities at the level of the Republic, such as the establishment, management, financing of those organisations and in all these areas. In the provisions of the Constitution which regulate the rights and competences of the Republic Government, we cannot find anywhere the government's authority to have the exclusive right to set up organisations in these areas, that it will have the right to have boards, directors, that it will directly finance these organisations from the Republic budget, etc. The health, education, culture, social protection and similar areas in many European countries traditionally belong to local self-government, at least part of these areas. Therefore, these powers could be passed by law to local self-government in a decentralised model of local self-government that we advocate. So there is no constitutional obstacle to expanding the rights of local self-government if there is a political will for such a decision. In our view, it is necessary to change current practice by extending the rights of local self-government in view of one of the fundamental principles of the rule of law - that everything the law does not prohibit is allowed. It is clear that in the case of a new decentralised concept of local self-government, a large number of laws should be changed in various areas, but that certainly cannot be an obstacle. For such a solution there are no obstacles to the provisions of the Constitution, which regulate the work of the municipality, since Article 113 paragraph 1 point 5 regulates the municipality to address certain needs of citizens in the fields of culture, education, health, social protection, etc. The lack of political will thus cannot be justified by constitutional restrictions. For our understanding of the independence of local self-reliance is particularly unacceptable by the Ministry of Local Self-Government in the work of local self-government, as provided for in Article. 173 and 174. Proposal. As if the authorities of the local self-government units were not up for decision-making on symbols, on the day of local self-government, on the street name and so on, so they must seek the ministry's consent. If there must already be some kind of control over the lawfulness of the work of the local self-government authority, then judicial control should be provided for in the application of the provisions of the law and not the custody of the ministry. So it turns out that some ministry officer can rather assess whether the local self-government unit has chosen its symbol well than the committees in that local self-government. In particular, the provisions on the introduction of the so-called so-called so-called "the Special Chapter" make up the provisions. "emergency administrations" of Article 213. It's a bill of law. This formulation of that member enables the arbitration of the government and the replacement of legally elected local self-government bodies by principle - cadiya and sues you, cadiya judges you. In practice so far, and it does not need to be proved in particular, there has been abuse of this authority, so this provision of the law is totally unacceptable. According to the bill, forced administration would last a year, and we know that such a measure sometimes lasted much longer, even four years, just so you know. There's no provision now that would regulate the case - what if the elections don't come up after a year anyway? We suggest a completely different solution. We believe that after the disbandment of the congregation there is no need to introduce the so - called so - called so - called congregation. Forced management, rather than call elections for council members of the municipality. In that case, they would not be able to punish insubordination municipalities, and citizens would still have the constitutional right to choose a new assembly unless the chosen one works in accordance with the Constitution and the law. In particular, it is a questionable formulation in the draft law on conditions for disbanding the local self-government unit assembly. The proposal reads (quote): "When local self-government does its job in a way that threatens constitutional and legal rights of citizens, that is, the social interests are more difficult... "When it is added that these circumstances are assessed by the same body that also disbands the local self-government assembly, then it is clear that there are conditions for arbitrary arbitration of the government. Based on the above, we cannot accept the proposed bill, since we advocate a completely different concept of the law. We have no illusions that our remarks will be accepted, that the proposed text of the law will be improved in this way or that a new concept for the creation of local self-government laws will be adopted. However, we are also convinced that this law will not be a long century, and will soon be abolished, along with already famous university laws and public information. At the same time, I would inform the Assembly that we are withdrawing all submitted amendments (over 60). Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-10-0.u1817	Thank you. Is there any other MPs who have singled out an opinion present and asking for a word? No, I don't. ) He has the word Goran Percevic, deputy head of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-10-0.u1818	Dear President, honourable fellow MPs, respected members of the government, the first phase of reconstruction, which primarily refers to infrastructure, the electricity system, the rebuilding of hospitals and apartments and the resuscitation of production, was successfully completed. Reconstruction and development create conditions for the continuation of reform. Reforms also have a specific dimension, which refers to the area of the state organisation and the political system. The law that we are adopting today is one of the reform moves of this kind and refers to the area of public affairs at the local level. In the construction of every legal system, codification means one more legally perfect form of legislation. Therefore, by adopting the proposed law on local self-government, a law that in one place and fully regulates local self-government, we are taking a significant step in the development of our legal system. The area of local self-government is one of the essential areas for the true development of democracy. In the modern constitutional and political theory in the world, local self-government is estimated to be in crisis and suppressed by central authorities, particularly executions. There is no doubt that the adoption of this law will remain as a testimony to our joint effort to, and in the time immediately after the aggression, when the pressures on our country do not stop, we are taking care of the consolidation and development of the democratic character of our society. Because the proposed law does not only represent the simple systematicisation of provisions on local self-government, but also offers significant democratic newspapers. For the first time, three institutions of direct participation of citizens in performing local affairs were fully elaborated, the referendum was prescribed by the statute, and for it were very strong guarantees, then a national initiative, which, if not accepted, necessarily produced by the referendum, and finally by the local community. So one of the most significant democratic newspapers is the introduction of a national initiative institute. In contrast to all the rules so far, Article 195 also established the obligation of the Assembly of Local Self-Government to, unless it accepts the proposal contained in the People's Initiative, hold a referendum within 90 days. The meat community has been preserved as a form of direct democracy, although the term draws a negative otter in that sense that the entire institute is thought to be tied to Cardell, which is not otherwise true. The local community is essentially an institute that has been embezzled in the essence of local self-government and must survive. It is out of dispute, especially because our municipalities are relatively large and they would swallow many settlements, especially the type of village, which have their individuality and subjectivity, their history. Unlike the current rules on local self-government, the law regulates, as a very important newspaper, and judicial protection of the rights of local self-government units, depending on the case, either before the Constitutional, or before the Supreme Court. We can freely say that from the moment this law is passed, constitutional guarantees guaranteeing citizens the right to local self-government are gaining full meaning. I would especially like to stress that the development of local self-government is one of the main points of the Socialist Party's programme. In addition, it is also natural for the Socialist Party of Serbia, as ruling in the largest number of local self-government units, to be particularly interested and politically committed to voters to ensure better and more efficient functioning of the proposed law. The effort that the law has made to effectively and clearly separate state jurisdiction from local jurisdiction is commendable and represents something that is necessary for the successful functioning of both states and local self-government. There should be relations between the state and local self-government. On the subject of state relations and local self-government, in our public debate was productively concluded in the 19th century, it was attended by many, from Svetozar Markovic to Slobodan Jovanovic, and regardless of all differences, the conclusion is common - local self-government cannot be a state in the country. This conclusion can neither be taken away today nor added. Some political parties have been trying to create a final otium in our public for a long time to determine or regulate any state jurisdiction, as if it were not their country and as if the state itself were a negative and non-democratic phenomenon. The relationship to its own state and its legitimate authorities is one of the basic criteria of patriotism. The proposed law has all the features of the laws of this species in countries with developed local self-government and democratic tradition. It is not only in line with the European Charter of Local Self-Government, but predicts much greater rights and guarantees of local self-government, but rather in many other European Union countries. Take, for example, the supervision of central authorities compared to local authorities in France, Italy, Greece, where there is far more strict supervision of central and regional authorities over local self-government than is the case with the solutions proposed in this law. The importance of local self-government is enormous in the tradition and consciousness of our people. The tradition of the people's self-government in us played a huge role in the preservation of national beings and traditional forms of democracy. Let's just take, for example. The village and princely self-government during the five-year Turkish occupation. It is likely that, basically, the unprincipled and flat-rate disputes of this law are worried about a solution concerning the choice of representative bodies of local self-government units. Because, in order to fully regulate the area of local self-government, the law logically regulates the choice of local self-government authorities and introduces the oldest and simplest way of choosing, a single-circular majority system. Personally, it is not difficult for me to explain the advantages of the majority electoral system, because I have been favouring it since the time a multi-party system was introduced in Serbia, as much as in the Socialist Party of Serbia programme, it is explicitly said that the Socialists favour the majority electoral system, because it is more democratic. The majority electoral system is the most appropriate, which suggests his own name, to whoever gets most of the votes in the election. That's why it's tragic for those who speak most of the regime's unnatural character to fear as the devil from the cross of the majority electoral system. After all, if they've already taken $11.8 million, which is witnessed by Madeleine Albright, and if they're able to justify even those 22,000 tons of bombs they've dropped on our heads, why don't they accept the model of the electoral system that's been created and that's largely applied in England and the United States, as well as in other Anglo-Saxon countries. A request for a more efficient electoral system, which was particularly expressed in the famous Gonzales report, has experienced its satisfaction by introducing the majority electoral system, as the single electoral system is the simplest and most efficient, since the entire election process ends in one round. There's no electoral system that can make a big game out of a kid. No election system can help non-citizen parties. The application for a proportionate system is also legitimate, as well as for the majority, but the fact that at the federal and republican level we have accepted a proportionate system, is not an argument for the rejection of the majority at local level, because regardless of all the positive and negative sides of the majority or proportional system at national level, it is obvious that the majority system is more appropriate to local elections, above all because voters know each other well at the local level and because they want to vote for the candidate according to his personal qualities, rather than the party colors. Therefore, parties, which have good, respectable and quality candidates at local level, should not be afraid of this system. I would like to stress that the commitment of our parliamentary group to such an electoral system is not based on current political calculations, but on the principled reasons, which are in our party's programme and which are not only about giving priority to the majority electoral system, but also about the affirmation of the possibility of emphasising independent candidates, which are proposed by groups of citizens. Since only one-fifth of the electoral body has been organised in the existing parties, the important condition of democracy is that a group of citizens can also propose to the board of any individual as an independent candidate. The proportional system, regardless of formal possibilities, essentially devalues this possibility. The quality of this law is that it accurately determines the content of the original affairs of local self-government, the sources of financing of these businesses, the way the bodies and units of local self-government work, the way the council members of the municipality are elected. The proposed law, within the framework of the Constitution, also respects the specificities and differences of certain local environments, gives the opportunity to express them, without prejudice to the equality of citizens, the quality of their lives and the functioning of local self-government. The independence of local self-government is undeniable. The law provides for the functioning of the state only in cases where there is a need to correct illegalities in the functioning of local self-government, but at the same time it accurately determines cases and mechanisms, which oblige the state to establish impaired legality. This law is a very studioy way of preparing. The first version was made in 1994. The debate was held in all cabinets, and talks were held with parliamentary party leaders until this latest version. In 1997, the National Assembly even adopted the law in principle, and unfortunately the political obstruction, which culminated in 1997, as well as the continuing challenge of this law, which was motivated by narrow-minded interests, related to election mathematics, prevented some political parties from making a fundamental and creative contribution to this truly complete and quality debate. The adoption of the law marks the affirmation by the Constitution of established right to local self-government, as well as the overcoming of certain weaknesses and the indeterminateness of previous solutions. It is very important to stress that the bill retains all already established powers of local self-government units, and therefore all unprincipled criticisms on this subject must be rejected, as these rights of the local self-government units are not only narrowed down to the level reached so far, but rather further elaborated and expanded. When it comes to the specificities of local self-government in Cosmet, the solutions, which provides for the law represent some kind of lex specialis compared to other provisions of the law. These provisions come from a multiethnic structure, make it impossible to majorise and at the moment, when there is a terrible abuse of the United Nations, under whose flag ethnic cleansing of Serbs and non-Albanian living in Cosmet is being carried out, once again confirms the civilization's definition, which we have advocated since the beginning -- the equality of all citizens and national communities and the defence of the integrity and independence of our country. Honorable MPs, an old and famous political theorist of Montescia, said political laws establish a political system, but that citizens maintain it. That is why I hope that by passing the law on local self-government we will not only take a significant step on the legislative plan, but also by our practical action we will continue to bring about local self-government, starting with strong traditions of the people's self-government in our people, but also the need for a more comprehensive development of democracy on the threshold of the new century.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-10-0.u1819	Thank you. He has the word Stevo Dragisic, head of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary club.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-10-0.u1820	Ladies and gentlemen, local self-government in Serbia has deep roots. Practically since the completion of the process of organising the state authorities of the Serbian state last century, the issue has been raised by local self-government, i.e. increasing the degree of independence of local self-government in Serbia. We can freely say that this law is the matter of local self-government, its jurisdiction, the degree of independence, the way of funding and many other issues, which are related to issues of local self-government, summed up in one place, very precise, very clear, so that the first time since this issue of local self-government has been discussed with us, and especially in the last few years, since the issue of local self-government has become very current with us, in a unique way. Very precise, efficient and very good, in accordance with all the democratic principles of the organisation of local self-government. Earlier experience in proposing a law on local self-government, the last proposal, which was before this assembly and was withdrawn from the procedure, was practically only used to gain experience on how the principles of local self-government should be regulated and summed up into a single legislative project. These experiences, which we also have in the functioning of local self-government since 1992, have so far been called together by the assembly of municipalities under the new system of local self-government, to date, have served us to have a good law today, which will uniquely regulate the whole matter. The degree of independence of local self-government could always indicate the degree of democracy in one country. Since the issue of local self-government is regulated on the most modern principles of local self-government independence in the field of its work and in its funding, spending of funds, protecting the rights of local self-government, we can freely say that today, when it comes to local self-government, the degree of democracy in Serbia is at the highest level. This law has several parts, which practically make the backbone of this law. It can be said that the second chapter of the local law is practically the backbone. The second chapter discusses the affairs of municipalities, the financing of local self-government, the financing of municipalities' affairs, the organisation and work of municipal authorities, the selection of committees, symbols, holidays, the name of streets and squares of local self-government units, etc. This whole matter is very precisely regulated. When it comes to the municipality's affairs, it is said that 13 precisely listed jobs, which are given to municipalities in jurisdiction, are as well as their performance. All the tasks, the precise conditions of doing this job, and the framework of the operation of the units of local self-government in the business, which is entrusted to them, are guaranteed, most importantly, the independence of municipalities in the conduct of the tasks entrusted to them by the law. Funding the affairs of local self-government is something that has not been regulated so far in the way it is now done. It is determined that municipalities have income, primarily from taxes, taxis, fees and other public revenues. Then, from local public revenues, which should specifically mention local municipal taxes, which are the sources of local self-government units, which belong to them in general and can be spent according to the programme or budget they adopt themselves. It's very precise what a municipal tax and how can be introduced. Self-sufficient has also been regulated for the first time by this kind of law. Now you know exactly who makes the decision on self-dependence and what procedure. The availability and use of income is a section guaranteeing independence at the disposal of the municipality, which is also one of the high principles of democracy in the area of local self-government. For the first time, the organisation and work of municipal authorities has been very precisely formulated which are the responsibilities of the municipality, even the obligation and competence of the SO have been extended compared to earlier norms. It is said of the secretary, vice-presidents, executive board, municipal administration, organisation and mode of work in municipalities in Kosovo and Metohija. This law also confirms the government of the Republic of Serbia and the National Assembly that Kosovo and Metohija are an inseparable part of the Republic of Serbia. In the simplest way, everyone is unequivocally aware that the situation that is now in Kosovo and Metohija is temporary, that we expect that the law on local self-government will be applied in both Kosovo and Metohija when the situation that is now ends, when the occupation that de facto ceases, and the provisions of this law speak of Serbia not giving up Kosovo and Metohija. There have been various objections to the law on local self-government. The objections go in two basic directions: one direction refers to what I was now talking about, to the competences of local self-government and to the financing of local self-government, and the other direction refers to the selection of committees. If you look at who the critics of that kind are, you can also see from what kind of initiatives. A group of opposition political parties disputed the law only because of the electoral system. The electoral system provided for by this law is majority and single-circular. So, it's formed in one election unit of the candidate list. The candidate who gets the most votes, he's elected councilman. The Serbian Radical Party believes, unlike the previous speaker, that the proportional electoral system is more democratic. However, when it comes to the SO elections, we think it is much better for a candidate for a councilman to be someone who lives in the constituency, who the citizens know, who they already know is able to perform the duties of the committee or not, who will be able to contribute to the development of the municipality in the electoral unit where he is, who can simply be a good representative of his constituents. We believe that this direct contact of candidates with voters is much better at local level, but certainly the proportional electoral system at the republican level, at the federal level, so at higher levels of the elections is much more democratic. The question arises why do these political parties have a problem with this law? They do not, however, declare themselves so openly that they are against the law only because of the electoral system. They challenge the law in general. But the bottom line is this. None of them made any fundamental remarks about the law, in the area of the municipality's affairs, in the area of financing the municipality's jurisdiction, anything else that could constitute a fundamental grudge. They just say the law sucks. They don't care because, according to the electoral system, they expect not to have power in those municipalities where they won it in the last elections. Here's how it happened. In the last elections, opposition parties won power in several municipalities in Serbia. The electoral system was majority, double circled. In the first election round, when the votes of all their candidates were collected, they had far less votes than some other political parties had. But because of the second election round, their candidates passed, because they teamed up with some other parties or because voters simply didn't go to the polls. In addition to having twice as many votes, they won power in municipalities. This certainly cannot be considered an expression of the voter's will, as the voter's will is expressed in the first election round. In the first election round, it can be very precise to determine what the voter will have been. In the second election round, various factors affect the final outcome of the election. I already mentioned: voters' lack of information about the second election round at all, the lack of interest in re-election and subsequent association before the second electoral round of individual political escorts. So the majority electoral system, which is more appropriate at the local level, much better reflects the voter's will if it is single-circuited. That is why the Serbian Radical Party for the majority single-circular electoral system is at the local level. There is a second part of the party, another block of parties that dispute this law, but most of the single electoral system suits them. That's why they don't touch the election system. It suits them because they are mostly parties representing national minorities. Parties representing national minorities have a grouping of voters in the municipalities they live in. The majority single-circular electoral system favors them. They are sure they will win power in the next election, precisely because it is a majority single-circular electoral system. But they want to extend their jurisdiction. They're contesting the law from the aspect of jurisdiction. When it comes to the jurisdiction of the law, what they're looking for, it's already taking the form of statehood. They need to raise the level of local self-government to a higher level, which would be very similar to the level and responsibilities of the Republic Government in areas that are exclusively within the competences of state authorities, not bodies in local self-government units. Only in this way can the criticisms addressed to this law be observed. When you look at the motives of each other, you will see that these motives are solely in the direction of achieving their personal interests, not because the law really lacks something. This is the first time local self-government has been regulated in one place, that local self-government today has a broad degree of independence. As they mentioned the European Charter of Local Self-Government, which was adopted in 1985, I will mention nine principles that the Charter declares.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-10-0.u1821	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-10-0.u1822	I end very quickly. On that basis, you will assess whether this law is contrary to that charter. The establishment of the principle of local self-government is carried out by law, possibly by constitution, and by the basic rights and duties of local authorities by constitutional or statute. The basic content of the function and competence of local self-government is a matter of working independence, within the framework of the law. It excludes the possibility of denying the fullness of the right, which is particularly stressed by this law to guarantee the independence of the work. Changes in borders, i.e. local self-government units, can only be carried out with the consent of local self-government units. This is regulated by the Law on Territorial Organisation of Local Self-Government. The organisation of the authorities - no choirs and referendums are derivated where they are scheduled. Here the referendums and the people's initiatives are specifically mentioned and regulated. The independence of the administration's education and resources -- also this law guarantees independence in the area. Administrative oversight can be carried out by central authorities, but only in the area of legality of decisions taken by units of local self-government, which is also regulated in the area of relations between ministries and local self-government units. Legality can be controlled, but not celery. You don't talk about celery here. So, the European Charter of Local Self-Government is just declaring the principle of control of the legality of the work of local self-government. Transferred assets, which are transferred by the central government to local self-government, do not have a purposeful character. And they don't have a purposeful character. The budget determines how these funds will be spent. The co-operation of local self-government units, hence local self-government units within the state, and in accordance with the law and international co-operation. This international co-operation is not prohibited. Local self-government units have the right to legal means to ensure the free exercise of their duties and respect for the principle of local self-government, which is also particularly guaranteed by this law. The Serbian Radical Party will vote in favour of the law because it is the best law ever before the local self-government assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-10-0.u1823	Thank you. I'm taking a break by 2:30. [[Applause]] [[Resumption after break]] He has the word of Dr. Zivorad Djordjevic, deputy head of the Yugoslav Left Parliament Club.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-10-0.u1825	Dear People's MPs, JUL has repeatedly pointed out the need for changes in the social system to be supported by appropriate changes in the domains of legislation. One of these good solutions is the law on local self-government, proposed by the government of the Republic of Serbia. We highly appreciate the government's efforts to offer as a proposing a comprehensive, unique system of arrangements for this extremely important area for the functioning of the social and political system. We deeply believe that the greatest value proposed by law creates legal conditions to express citizens' will in the most direct way. Creating an opportunity to express the will of citizens is a measure of the value of every law, including this, of the democracy of every society. This sacred rule of democracy, which is the basis of every modern and civilized society, should also be reminded when adopting this law, because I think the original idea of democracy as expressions of the will of the people today is fiercely embarrassed. Today, there are strange visions of democracy, imposed by some new firefighters, the so-called new world order, some new friend Koba, in the Western version. These new winds call democracies without the will of citizens, new totalitarianism is directed against man's freedom and dignity. You, therefore, the winds are blowing here. The torture of minorities, the torture of street noise is imposed instead of the will and interest of the citizens. That's why I think many political misunderstandings, conflict and division, and even this proposal of the law, are made up of the totalitarian attempt of the new masters of the world and their vassals to undermine the rights of man and citizen to poison his every opportunity to be free, to have his own opinion and will. And today, under the cloak of democracy and the alleged struggle for human rights, bombs seek to drive democracy, bombs are denied the basic human right, the right to life. Today's the time to impose a force, today we're going to kill you a little bit so we can live a little better. The Yugoslav Left, starting from the original meaning of democracy, whose expression of will, need, citizens' interest, is deeply believed that this proposed law is in the interest of the people, because it enables them to express their interests directly, and therefore enables these people's national interests and interests to be above the interests of the so-called new world order. In addition, JUL's support for new solutions in this law is based on the following reasons, I will list them: The new bill systematises the entire area in the functioning of local self-government in a unique way. The solutions of particular importance for the life and work of citizens at local level are significantly improved. Certain solutions are being drawn up in line with the real needs of citizens and constitutional solutions. It simplifies and makes the entire system effective for local self-government elections. Experiences, traditions and the best solutions in the area of local self-government are united. The very precise concept of local self-government, units, bodies, businesses, as well as issues related to the property and resources of local self-government, local communities and other issues relevant to the functioning of this area. Part of the law refers to solutions relating to municipalities with a national mixed population, whose essence is the view of creating conditions for the equal participation of all citizens in deciding on issues of importance for their common life. For a long time, there have been discussions in our public about the need for a new way of resolving the issue of local self-government. In all these discussions, JUL pointed out that the comprehensive and consistent arrangement of these issues, according to the letter of the Constitution, falls into the order of priority tasks of this assembly. The current situation in Kosovo and Metohija, created by the UN's non-principled behaviour, specifically points to the need to adopt proposed legal solutions. The obligation of this assembly is to provide legal conditions for the protection of the rights of all citizens and national communities, everywhere and in Cosmet. The JUL, it is known, considers that citizens are equal to their fundamental definition and, in that sense, opposes any form of breach of that principle. Current developments, and particularly difficult positions, persecution and numerous forms of discrimination against Serbs, Montenegrins, Muslims, Roma and other non-Albanian lives, make it mandatory for us to contribute to the creation of conditions for improving the position of all citizens and national communities through the arrangement of local self-government. The JUL particularly supports the education of greater nationality of all national communities, as well as the larger national undefined citizens. In the past, the Serbian government has drawn up several draft laws on local self-government, expressing its readiness to co-operate fully with parliamentary groups in finding the most appropriate solutions in the legal organisation of the area. In contrast with some other parliamentary groups, JUL responded to every call for co-operation, not only with the government, but also with all parliamentary groups in defining local self-government. But not even at the last meeting, held in the government on 14 October this year, there was a gathering of representatives from all parliamentary groups. This kind of behavior shows the complete unpreparedness of individual parliamentary groups, that they are discussing this important issue and contributing to the final establishment of the bill. Comments and disagreements with the proposed solutions, which are imposed on the public, are neither concrete nor correct. It is a matter of priority discrimination of every idea and opportunity to discuss the proposal of this law. And then, there's no debate, because there's no facing ideas and solutions. We, or if you want me, don't know what the gallant opponents of this proposal want. We just know they don't want anything, at least not in the institutions of this system. The parliamentary struggle is one of the highest principles of democratic and civilised society. My predecessor in this debate tried to get into the motives, the reasons why opponents of this proposal oppose this law. I have no intention of entering those motives, nor is that possible. I don't think they understand why they're against this law. I believe in explaining why they are against this law can't be helped either by parapsychology or by Madlenka when he comes in. Therefore, in front of the JUL parliamentary group, I call on you to support the proposed law on local self-government, and to adopt after the debate as is appropriate for a democratic and civilized society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-10-0.u1826	Thank you. There's a word from MP Ramadan Ameti.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-10-0.u1827	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, this version of the Law on Local Self-Government, except for the more comprehensively in one document the solutions made so far in the area of local self-government do not extend the competences of local self-government. On the other hand, it strengthens the supervision and tutelage of state authorities over local self-government, beyond the wide possibility of destroying municipal acts, as well as introducing temporary measures. As for the introduction of provisional measures, we Albanians in the South of the Republic of Serbia have experience. We know that the party in power usually uses this means when its domination is threatened at the municipal level and, as a rule, these measures are interpreted by disrespect of legality and constitutionality. In the previous meeting in the Municipality of Medvedja for more than two years, temporary measures were carried out, through which the SPS provided for the domination and at the last meeting of the Assembly of the Municipality, and where the level of law is now being exercised in the municipality of Medvedja according to the ethnic cleansings carried out in this municipality. (Tomislav Nikolic: It was an ethnic bath. ) Perhaps even an ethnic bath by you, sir. From there, the vast majority of Albanians were forced to leave the centuries-old hearth. This is an initiative towards an anti-civilisation phenomenon, which also takes place in Presevo and Bujanovac. I signalled in due time and asked for the eviction of Albanians from southern Serbia to be considered through the polling committee. The National Assembly, however, has, unfortunately, refused for formal reasons. And in which the government and the Ministry follow the legality of the local self-government system, it is fairly well seen from the case of Presevo municipality. Namely, the government's decision appointed Assistant Chief of the Pcinj County only for the municipality of Presevo, and of course, this government official who has been appointed only in this municipality in which the parliamentary majority has a Party for Democratic Action, which brings Albanians together in Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedji, very diligently and pedanically manages to impose legality (by the party's model in power). In this way, instead of a drastic form of introducing unpopular temporary measures, a milder form of blocking the organs of local self-government was invented. Of course, all with the goal of pointing out the inability of opposition parties to lead even local self-government authorities. The retaining of the majority, instead of a proportional system, which was confirmed by the previous version of the bill's proposal, also has political motives, as it contributes to the coalition of parties in power. In fact, the practice has shown that the solutions of the majority party system in power, which are dominated by state authorities, are easy to crack down on the initiative and undermine opposition committee groups that provide the majority in the local self-government assembly based on election results. The introduction of a proportional system would also contribute to the elimination of current manipulation for election units, which were present in the Medvedje municipality, especially in Bujanovac and Presevo. In Bujanovac, based on official data from the Statistics Institute, the Albanian population accounts for about 62% of the total population in the Medvedje municipality. However, the manipulations made by municipal authorities in the adoption of election units in 1992 can theoretically elect up to 12 of its representatives, out of 41 council members, as many as the Bujanovac Municipality has. This drastic violation of one of the basic human rights, equal voting rights, was done by making villages with the Albanian population, even 700-800 voters, not having their own electoral unit, and villages with Serb population only have an election unit with 100 or 150 voters. I therefore propose to introduce a proportional system instead of a majority, in which the territory of the municipality would be one electoral unit. However, even in the event of going with the majority system, it is necessary to establish the size of the electoral unit in the municipality by detailing the frameworks in which the number of voters from one constituency can be moved, not to leave it to a free assessment, because, as I said, there are rough manipulations, which contribute to losing the sense and concept of the election. That is why the Party for Democratic Action, which has 10 - 12 committees held by Albanians in the Bujanovac Assembly, decided to withdraw its committees and will not participate in the next elections under existing discriminatory conditions, because, gentlemen, in the one-party system, the Albanian population was better represented, both in the structure of the then larger assembly and in the structure of employees in municipal bodies. Since the pluralist system, according to the SPS model, has started to be implemented in authorities in Bujanovac, Albanians have been eliminated, both from the structures of state bodies and from the structures of authorities and institutions of local self-government. I think it's worth pointing out the problem of the official use of language and letters of national minorities. Although the Constitution and the law guarantee it, in practice it is not implemented, either in the state or in the authorities of local self-government, with the exception of schools still operating in Albanian, but they are a restrictive trend, because this school year due to the emigration of the Albanian population, the primary school "Skender Beg" in the village of Zarbinca, which had 340 pupils in the coming school year, and the same fate awaits the primary school of Medvedja municipality and Presevo Karadak. I consider it necessary to better specify the implementation of a constitutional provision guaranteeing nationalities and national minorities the official use of their language and letters, in order to finally, after a decade of adoption of the Constitution, start implementing this important provision in practice and also restore the rights that Albanians in Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedji have in the course of a single-party system, which has been unconstitutionally taken away from them in this last decade by the great-serb Democrats and the SPS. The European Charter of Local Self-Government says that public affairs will, above all, be carried out by those authorities closest to the citizens. In this direction, we expected that at least in the field of education the necessary impact of local self-government, local communities and citizens on school work would be restored. These solutions and the draft of this law remain in force for existing unacceptable solutions that school committees and directors are changing from a republican level, without the obligation to at least consult local self-government representatives in whose midst a particular school is working. Such strict centralised affects national minorities, not only in the area of appointment of directors and school boards, but also in the fields of teaching programmes and textbooks. At the time of the most modern teaching, Albanian children in Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja worked without textbooks for more than 10 years, and now that primary school is provided, they are only very bad translations of textbooks from Serbian teaching, with very rough material errors, which make these textbooks unusable and thus inevitably paves the way for the assimilation of the Albanian population in this area. If these legal solutions, which have in practice proved to be unsuccessful and often harmful, and if our intention is to approach the general values of the modern world at least at the level of legislation, I consider it necessary to withdraw this bill and prepare a new version that would seriously develop the area of local self-government, based on the principles of the European Charter of Local Self-Government. We withdraw our amendments because we know they've been denied, and thank you for your behavior.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-10-0.u1828	Please be quiet, there's a word from MP Dražimir Marusic.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-10-0.u1829	Dear President, distinguished colleagues, we have before us a bill that in any case raises great public attention, because by its character and importance it needs to regulate one of the most important issues of each state's political order, the state's central government's attitude towards local authorities of territorial units. In any case, it is a major political issue, which confirms its importance by defining and establishing international legal frameworks within the international community, through several conventions on local self-government, which are based on the majority of democratic countries within which they regulate the issue. In addition to the constitutional and democratic principles, we have one particularly expressed property built into the national being of our people for centuries, the historical dimension of local self-government. In fact, centuries of slavery under the Turkish Empire has forced the Serbian people to self-organize a kind of local government, or self-government, and it has become so deeply rooted in the consciousness of our people. It's a direct selection of your own elder, a decision on all life's issues of their own survival, because they didn't have their own state. Our ancestors, by creating a modern Serbia in the 19th century, were this issue and how they edited it. We only remember congregation and political debates when the Law on Municipalities was passed from the end of the last century, when this issue was first regulated by law in Serbia, i.e. the relationship between the central government and local self-government. The further trail of events, especially after the 1974 Constitution, goes all the way in the other direction. At that time local self-government takes over the state's authority and on such a scale that the maltenes each municipality was a small state. We all remember this period well, and that at the beginning of this decade we resolved this issue by adopting a new constitution, uniting state functions and separating them from local self-government, it seems to me perhaps at the last minute, saving Serbia from planned solutions from the outside. In the context of this concept established by the Constitution of the authors of this project and the Government of National Unity, they came before us with this proposal, which is a pretty good project, whose basic values are the following: - the proposal adheres to the basic principles of essence and content of local self-government established by the European Conventions on Local Self-Government. The competencies of local self-government and its organisation move within the current constitution and do not come out of these frameworks. The basic concept that local self-government chooses, organises and builds to address the basic life issues of citizens where they live, in areas of common interest, in the first part of municipal and social activities, in the broadest sense, these meanings are absolutely retained. The obligation to adopt plans for the development of territorial units under its own jurisdiction is a great quality of this law. This is also the meaning of local authorities, not the conduct of foreign policy or the handling of the authorities of coercion and other classical state functions. Trusting certain jobs by the state to local self-government is also a good institute that will allow certain state functions to be approached through local self-government by citizens, which, according to the government's assessment and the assembly, will seem special laws. The separation of the Law on Territorial Organization from local self-government, as well as codification of a series of laws in this law, is undoubtedly a quality. The definition and definition of the source of funding of local self-government is a significant step towards a permanent solution to this problem. I am deeply convinced that when our country comes out of these difficulties, especially created by NATO villains, earthquakes and floods, that a special law will allow greater income from local authorities for its own development. I guess we're all now aware of the fact that the principle of solidarity is now needed in this country, that it must be helped by those who have suffered the most. The electoral system, majority and one-circular, is, in my deep conviction, a truly true democratic principle of the choice of local authorities. It absolutely enables citizens to choose people, their fellow citizens, whose basic motive will be - work on improving the quality of life in a literal sense, in their settlement, in the village, in the street, school, infirmary, kindergarten, country road, cemetery, playground, telephony and not to list anymore. In doing so, political parties, coalitions, lists, and other political institutions burdening the parliamentary system at the level of the state community will be greatly spared. This principle enables everyone to exercise his passive electoral right, if he has a desire and a need for it, to create better living conditions for his constituents and his family with his work and influence. That's why I'm a big supporter of this system, noting that the statutes of local units should predict that every village, a populated village, has its own councilor. Finally, the concept of this law is certainly made within the framework of the constitution, but with its content, solutions and reach, it will certainly be one of the laws that, with the others proposed by the Government of People's Unity, leads to the democratic reforms of our country. Dear colleagues, at the very end, allow me to, as president of SO Gornji Milanovac, with experience of about six years, as vice-president of the Balkan Association of Municipalities and Cities, a participant and acquaintance of this problem both in the European Union countries and in the Balkan countries, as well as in the countries of transition, say that the quality of local self-government established by this law does not lag behind their laws. Only malicious people, whose desire to create an American protectorate from this country, can give negative estimates of it in the way they do, and it is seen in whose interest. The authors of this project and the Government truly commended the work, effort and quality of work. That is why I propose that we adopt this law, and its application in practical life will certainly show its quality, but also the need for this concept to be upgraded in the interest of a better life for our citizens in some future time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-10-0.u1830	Thank you. There's a word from MP Zivko Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-10-0.u1831	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, I would ask Mr. President to allow me a minute or two to give me a personal map of myself and my coalition, i.e. Whom I present to make our proposals briefly.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-10-0.u1832	Of course, we will allow our MP Zivko Selakovic, because he is the new MP, whom we have chosen today, i.e. Confirmed term of office.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-10-0.u1833	Thank you. I am an MP, representing the coalition Democratic Alternative, the Peasant Party of Serbia and the Pension Party of Serbia. I say - with the Democratic Alternative, because we have entered and voted in such a coalition, and now it is only the coalition of the Peasant Party of Serbia and the United Pension Party. Because by leaving the Democratic Alternative, on its own free will, without the consent of other members of the coalition, provided for by our agreements, the role of a coalition member of the Democratic Alternative has thus ceased. You all know that Mr. Covic was the first Coordinator of the Alliance for Change, who later tried to deny it, and that is only for him. So I will represent the coalition of the Peasant Party of Serbia and the United Pension Party. Anything I say here, believe me, we'll do it in agreement with our two parties and what I bring here, consider it to be the opinion of two large populations, peasants and pensioners. I didn't get the material, as usual, so I might as well get ready. Never have I, nor have other members of the coalition, or the Council of Coalition, seen this material, because probably my former predecessor, in agreement with the commander, Mr. Covic, probably carried this material there in the Far West, that they analyzed it, so that they would come out with proposals, and that we, peasants and pensioners, could never be presented, or that you could listen here in the Assembly of the real proposals of peasants and pensioners. You could never hear that, because Mrs. Andric, but a former Member, simply came with the written text, where Mr. Covic taught it. As I've already said, that I haven't looked at the material entirely, here from the presentation of the heads of Parliament clubs I've heard, but in phone conversations I've been interested in this part of the bill, which regulates local self-government, about how the council and this single-circular majority system are elected. Now, I can say that I have great experience here, because I have often been a board member of the City Assembly and municipalities of Chukarica, and I can say that, and I am now saying that on behalf of our two coalitions, the Peasant Party of Serbia and the Pension Party, that I have conducted consultations, and this is how it is -- we think that it is enough when 51% of citizens come out, so citizens should go to that percentage, so the elections get legitimacy. We're very glad that we're still proposing a majority electoral system, it's like this, as we peasants like to translate, select a councilman by name and last name, where he lives, where everyone knows him, so if he doesn't have authority, sees, etc., there in the constituency, and they're not big at the municipal council level, where he's got 300 votes to get into the Assembly, so what if he asks with maybe 15 votes, to get into the second round, so there's a group there, on the "o hand," as we say, he gets. Most importantly, here's the thing I'm going to say right now, as far as pensioners and peasants are concerned, you know that these are people with very small incomes, and now, the main reason we welcome this single-circuit system, are the costs, the second round of choices, you know how much it costs, and everybody now, not to say who everybody is, they're worried about the lives and conditions of peasants and pensioners, and they make him have 25, if possible, circles, as long as anyone gets, who they think he should get. You see these expenditures, and on the other hand, God, they're all worried about pensioners and peasants. So that's one reason, and as an experience, I'm telling you, right now, maybe I'm going to take one of the predecessors again, I didn't take his words, because I know that too -- as a rule, in the first round, the percentage won, means a little bigger, always singles out the highest-quality people, and now with 48% he didn't get for a councilman, and someone followed him there with 12% to 15%, and then again, on the "on hand" he gets, who, God forbid, no one wants. As I particularly underline here -- a higher concentration would be in the bill of this law. So less time would be wasted to do those jobs where citizens are daily related to local self-government for their municipalities and local communities. The problem so far was, I'm speaking again from experience, calling the congregation. The president of the assembly won't call the assembly, let's say, specifically, on my Chukarica, about entering the farm, the broken-down fence, the house, but that, let's say, the municipal government doesn't respond and doesn't schedule a session for three or four months, and by then the building was built, the land was taken, and then the session of the assembly is scheduled -- what do we do now? So, by this bill, as I understand it, that right could not usurp the president of the municipality, it will not fail, it is known, in the proposal that two-thirds of the council can schedule. So that would be brief. I'd have a lot of objections, but we didn't get the material, so I wouldn't want to speak on my own. These are briefly the real facts and reasons why the coalition of the Peasant Party of Serbia and the United Pension Party, and I, as their representative in the National Assembly, will vote on the bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-10-0.u1834	Thank you. There's a word from MP Joca Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-10-0.u1835	Dear President, dear colleagues, much has been said about this law, so that there is room and room for something new to be said, which has not already been said. However, I will try to be practical in that part, as my predecessor Dražimir Marusic said, and that is that what we have felt as presidents in the past, in practice, in the application of the previous law, to make a small difference between the previous and this law and to try to prove that this law has many advantages in relation to the laws that followed this matter, because they were contained in several legal projects. Now we have one codified legal project, which includes all these laws regarding the matter of local self-government. The fact is that local self-government has received both new powers and greater rights than it had in the previous law, and I think that's one of the most important reasons why this law should be passed today. What's said here as controversy -- whether a majority, or a proportional system, I think to this people, and also to the practice that lives, more corresponds to the majority system, a one-round majority system, and from the cost aspect, and from the aspect of efficiency, and the visibility of whoever is elected, that is to say, in the image of the committee, which is directly elected by the voters, and the law stipulates that election units are approximately equal and that they are brought into the statute of the municipalities, so that total democracy is realized in the elections. Furthermore, what is very important, this is a way of funding local self-government, I think that Article 51 of this law better regulates the financing of local self-government, so that, in addition to the original revenues of the municipality, the original incomes, which are beyond the limits, can be collected as much as prescribed by the decisions, i.e. certain solutions of the municipalities' congregations. I mean local utility fees, such as company fees and other fees, that it's the freedom of municipalities and that these revenues shouldn't be limited by the Budget Law, and that the other restrictions apply to all these other sources of income, primarily to sales tax. Secondly, I think it's a good idea to finally arrange solutions for the organization of cities, because so far, we've had in practice that we have cities that match the territory of the municipality, which is not exactly appropriate to the practice of obtaining authority and that they can use the benefits of this law, and that they are after simple municipalities. We've had such examples so far based on a solution to the previous law. I think there's one important thing to point out here with transitional and final provisions. Article 222 of this Act provides that the statutes are to comply with the Law on Local Self-Government until 31 December 2016. 12 this year. I don't think it's possible to comply with the statutes in such a short time, because they too have a certain procedure of making changes and additions, at least when it comes to the statutes of the municipality from which I come, where it's regulated that the assembly chooses the commission, which proposes solutions and amends the statutes. The procedure lasts for a month in a public debate and returns to the congregation with remarks, which determines the consolidated text and goes to a decision-making session in the municipality. This takes longer than provided for in Article 222. of the transitional provisions of this law. So I ask for one understanding, either to tolerate the period of harmonisation of the statutes or to extend this period by two months and to be by the end of February 2000. From all that my predecessors have made, especially from the speech of the deputy president of the SPS parliamentary group, I think the conditions have been made for this law to be adopted today, that it is more quality, better than so far solutions in existing laws. I propose that we adopt this law, as given with the amendments, which were accepted by the Government and the committees responsible.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-10-0.u1836	Thank you. There is a word from MP Goran Jokic.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-10-0.u1837	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, besides the fact that this bill separates the area of territorial organisation from local self-government, for the first time, all issues of local self-government are regulated in one place. So a number of regulations and laws, which regulate this area, were found in one place. The big problem, which arises in practice, is the question of disseminating the original affairs of local self-government from entrusted state administration affairs. We have a common case in practice that local self-government officials do those jobs, which are not authorized and which do not fall into the original affairs of local self-government. For example, the reception of ambassadors from foreign countries or other things that are not at all in the jurisdiction of local self-government. For failing to do jobs, which fall within the original affairs of local self-government, they are defended by saying they do not have the authority to do so. This bill also regulates the area. This does not mean that units of local self-government have been added new jobs or taken away by some powers so far, but only that area is more specifically regulated. The absolute independence of the municipality in carrying out those tasks for which it has special powers under the law has been preserved. The section, relating to the financing of municipal affairs, also addresses the issue of self-debt, as a special form of financing of the municipality, thus ending the need for a special law in this area. So far, it has been repeatedly extended to the towns of Nis, Kragujevac, Novi Sad, Pristina to educate city municipalities with the statutes. This proposal sets out the time limit for the operation to take place within one year of the date of entry into force of this law. For the city of Pristina, the period of one year has run since the end of the United Nations mission for a forced administration, or one year since the withdrawal of forces itself, which occupied the sacred Serbian country. So it is an incorrect claim by representatives of the failed coalition "Together" that the bill deprives the status of the city of Nis, Kragujevac, Novi Sad and Pristina. Finally, as far as the election procedure for selecting council members in the municipality is concerned, the head of the SRS parliamentary group, Mr Stevo Dragisic, has said more, I will just look back briefly. This law provides for a single-circular majority system and thereby significantly shortens the election process. In this way, large savings are being made and all participants in the election match have the same conditions for proposing candidates, as well as for the representation of their representatives in election committees and the election commission of the constituency. This is the biggest problem for many small, or van parties, whose members can fit in one van or bus. These parties do not have a sufficient number of members to run for local committees without talking about the required number of candidates for election committees. For example, 37 council members are elected in Doljevac municipality, so it takes twice as many members to fill all polling stations. It's about 120 members, and in our municipality of this small, marginal party, they can't even collect so many members. In Nis, 400 members and alternate members of the election committees, to be proposed by the applicant of the electoral list, are required. So many members do not have many parties throughout Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-10-0.u1838	Thank you. He has the word Marijan Risticevic (not in the O.R.). I'm asking Zeljko Simic to take the floor.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-10-0.u1839	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, I would like to discuss the proposed proposal that I speak of from two aspects. I think it's simply impossible not to consider the context, in which this proposal for a law on local self-government is passed, and on the other hand, to say a metric word about the content of the law itself. It is more than obvious that the situation in which Serbia is concerned is clear, I mean the political situation, because on the one hand we have the ones that are the forces of reconstruction, the forces of unity and the forces that were organised on the patriotic bloc of rebuilding the ruined country and creating all assumptions for reforms at all levels. In this regard, I consider this law to be one of those necessary, necessary to create democratic assumptions for the even faster progress of our country and to create normative assumptions to speed up our country's democratic development. I'm saying this so much before there are those who have lauded to criticise this law beyond any reasonable framework. It is more than obvious that the bill does not correspond to some, but that it is a law that accurately codifies one substance, which has been scattered in a series of laws, and on the other hand establishes those principles, which puts a citizen himself at the heart of all kinds of political and social life, which, for those who are allegedly advocates of democratic processes, would have to be something that is non-plus the ultra of our entire parliamentary, political and social life. It is about the law, there is no longer any dilemma, which is beyond the need, and on the other hand, which enables and institutionalises the initiative of all citizens and which puts those who have been on the sidelines at the very heart of social and political life. For these reasons, the remarks put forward show that they are forced, that they have no political foothold and that they are only calculated on the anti-cipulation of political events in this country. It is more than obvious that citizens had to put their inner voice on the side of those who, immediately after the aggression and after the victory we had won, decided to build up the country, rebuild all infrastructure facilities, enable citizens to live a normal life and strengthen the awareness that Serbia will always be in the spirit of justice and freedom, justice as the basic principle and greatest passion of human mind and freedom, on the other hand, which is a fundamental element of Serbia's character being. Therefore, there is no dilemma that this law is only one in a series that strengthens the ethos of democracy in these areas, and those who are heartily fighting it, say that they are only on paper and only verbally, only demagogue and verbally for democratic changes, and when submitted by the highest body, by the Government of the People's Unity before the highest body, they reject it for reasons which are questionable from all possible points of view. Some colleagues here have questioned some of these points. I would just say that those institutes that represent the most standards of European democracy and, on the other hand, are the basis for our faster inclusion in the world, mostly because this proposal of the law on local self-government is based on the Charter of Local Self-Government, and I think that this law, there are measure lawyers who can correct me, only in Switzerland exists in one codified way. What is important here to resolve is the fact that an economic principle is being introduced, when it comes to governance, because the codified provisions of a very important segment of social life, which has been scattered into several laws and which is being introduced by new institutes, which will only enrich the democratic principles on which this country rests. The government of the People's Unity rightly bears that name, because in the past six months, perhaps the most difficult months in which the Serb people were found, was by his side, and he returned it by building the country and restoring all the facilities, that he understood the message of the government of the people's unity that is not walking, unlike various alliances for the destruction of this country. I am more than convinced that it is important in this place to say that we are open to every dialogue, to every argument, but we are closed to any kind of ultimatum and closed to any attempt to make this people subject to the dictatorship of a foreign element. So I'm saying this quite openly because they're no longer hiding, no longer dealing with any microcry, that they're in the service of foreign interests and that they're trying to win power in every way possible. Any attempt to democratisation life in Serbia, to make that so-called. We draw closer to the Western world by those oscillations they have long since resigned from, showing that the Government of People's Unity offers this act a democratic, first-class democratic act, which the Assembly should adopt. What I want to mention once again is the fact that somewhere in the whites of the ranks I felt in some critics that there is a government of the people's unity, so when it comes to the bill, there is a lack of pragmatism or political realism. If political realism had been offered to us, we would have long been a subjugated country without any sovereignty and no way to preserve our tradition, which I consider to be a preservation of lasting, not past values. Therefore, the Government of National Unity is in cahoots with this tradition, not too much of that tradition, but more of a vision of the future, because the surrounding countries are showing us what it means to comply with a foreign dictatorship. In one place, a great German philosopher said, who was otherwise an evolutionist, that each more developed country of the West would show less developed its own destiny. All the surrounding countries that have kneeled before the pressure of the NATO Pact and the Western countries can show us our own future. We are such a future without sovereignty, without a free relationship to our character, according to our national being, we cannot afford at any cost. We have shown at this point that we have sobered the entire spiritual space both in Europe and in the world, that we have resurrected the habitat of an intellectual, because there is a paradoxical situation. American intellectuals, perceiving the wrongs they commit when it comes to America, give open support to our countries, unlike those who represent a meaningless minority and who are in the open service of those who would like to conquer this country, to enslave this people, who, by their own essence, can never be enslaved. So, I didn't do any depression, but the measure of this law, which I think will make a major shift towards, above all, citizens' initiatives. I'm not saying that they haven't had it by now, but now they have it as a special institute. It is not about any attempt to centralise the government, but about the fact that a citizen in this country enjoys all possible rights, regardless of his national background, on religion and that this law gives him an even greater incentive to engage in this country's political and social life. Thank you again and I apologize for being longer.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-10-0.u1840	Thank you. He has the word National MP Marijan Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-10-0.u1841	Just to remind Mr. Deputy Prime Minister that the size of a party is not measured solely by the number of members who follow the party, but by the seriousness of the ideas and programs of the party. Let me remind you that Adolf Hitler's party was very numerous, and as it was, we know it well. This is where I heard about democracy. Who's talking about what, the grandmother of the wrinkles? So is the government of the People's Unity on Democracy, and what democracy it is we saw yesterday. Mr. Seselj can confirm that. Out of eight exits, which were achieved by representatives of the Vojvodina Coalition, Serbia's Television covered all eight. I thought that Mr. Seselj, as a great Democrats and vice-president of the government, would advocate our right to deliver an opinion, although he disagrees with that opinion, as we do not agree with some of his views. The debate on the law on local self-government reminds us of the saying "The house burns and the grandmother combs". There's been a lot of dust about this proposal. Only the bill seemed like revenge against the opposition, which stopped listening. So far, most of Serbia's leading opposition parties have gone with power as two dobos. Behind the scenes, they settled and speculated with the ruling parties, and whoever's with the devil's gourds is now banging on his head. With this proposal on local self-government, another part of the government is lost in favour of the central government, and is rightly raised up against such a proposal. We in Vojvodina well know what it looks like to lose jurisdiction in favour of the central government. We duchess well know that in all variations we are too loud and as far as the legislative authorities are concerned, we know long ago, we feel and we suffer for the simple reason that the pen for writing all the laws is with you, and your pen counts in your favor and has no soul for us duchess. This government thinks, and the proposal for a law on local self-government proves that a government that is not absolute and is not some authority. Every government corrupts, and absolute corrupts absolutely. The government has so centralized the state, and this proposal further strengthens it, that it thinks it's the country itself, and that the country's territory is their property and their front that they have as they wish. Where is the interest of citizens and peoples? What people, what do you need people for? You are a class to yourself, you will create your own people, a better people. In this country, hunger is no longer being striked, because hunger is a universal phenomenon with us. Lead us through wars, misery, poverty, hunger, sickness and death, to your victories and restoration. Now, with this proposal for a law on local self-government, you are about to redistribute the government to your advantage, to pick up those crumbs by local self-government, which you will leave behind only a broom and shovel. You should have realized a long time ago that the firm decentralisation of power in favour of one man, that one would have power over all, that such a device would break the state, the SFRY burst, the SRJ shot Serbia, and you didn't come to your senses. An increased centripetal force is being broken down, as well as an increased centrifugal force. These forces need to be equated, and that is why I want to tell you, that you need to redistribute the government between republics, autonomous provinces, cities, municipalities and local communities to balance the state in order to preserve it. You're doing the opposite of this law, like you want the devil to take us all away. I almost believe the story that this power is ours on the outside, and that somewhere it's made a deal with our blackest enemies and opponents, that it's working in favor of our damage. There are such indications, and the results are in favour. Once local self-governments were elected by police chiefs, principals of primary and secondary schools, medical staff, judiciary, collecting, available for the purpose. And it all worked better because the people elected in those communities had a responsibility to those who chose them. These responsibilities are not available today, almost all of them are being set up and named by the ruling parties through the ministries. Soon, you will also be placing porters in congregations in Vojvodina, directly from Belgrade. And this proposal goes that way. The constitution should be an obstacle to the government, to stopping the authorities, to the limits that the government can go to, and to you and to this bill, it's anti-constitutional. By introducing two - house congregations only in some municipalities, you violate citizens' equality. That explains my claim. If you want to, then bring in the larger autonomous provinces here, that without the council's consent, there is no adoption of these acts. That's what we, from the Vojvodina Coalition, will welcome as a good act, not a constitutional act. This is where the election was talked about. Which elections are more democratic, do they according to the proportional system, do they by majority? For me and the Vojvodina Coalition, every election is equal, everyone is right, and all elections are right except for those you organize. I don't think the election you're going to hold is going to be held by anyone else. Mr. President, you said at the beginning of the session that we asked for leave and that you approved it. Neither I nor any of the MPs of the Vojvodina Coalition asked for leave from the session. We have already asked you to allow the presentation of the MPs of the "Vojvodina" coalition to be heard, seen and to ensure the equality of all MPs and to protect us from being cast, in which they call us traitors, thieves, and sometimes even threaten us with death. To be able to participate in the work of the National Assembly, you must provide conditions. You obviously don't want to. We have conditioned participation in equality, and you offer instead of equality and provide us with leave. If I were in the army, I'd say hello. This way someone gets hit by sanctions, some earthquake, some wars, some elemental accident, and whoever gets hit by this kind of power, there's no saving him. Whoever knew the government won't fall to hell either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-10-0.u1842	He has the word of Deputy Prime Minister Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-10-0.u1843	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must admit that I have been moved to the tears by the presentation of Marijan Ristic, and I truly feel sorry for his fate, with his position and, I must tell you, that the main culprit for his condition is Milovan Bojic, vice president of the Serbian government. Milovan Bojic is the resolute vice president for the health authority. And here we have one copy of the man who hasn't received adequate medical services. The dentists put two bigger teeth in him and he doesn't know what he's saying here. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian government has worked on this law for a long time. [[Laughter]] In May of last year, we already had a finished project, so we did it, we rolled every provision, every norm, and today we went to the National Assembly in a situation where no one serious in this country, whoever tried, could even burn this law. This law is logically designed to the end. This law is suitable for basic principles, which are governed by the civilised world in the process of regulating the rights of local self-government. You also heard today from the head of the SRS parliamentary group that there is no derogation from this law from any provision of the famous European Charter. What's he saying? This suggests that those who wrote the European Charter had in mind some far worse conditions for the functioning of local self-government, so what they said in the text of the Charter consider some European, civilization standard or ideal to be achieved and required of all those who follow the European Charter. As far as our local government is concerned, we have long gone beyond the basic principles of the European Charter. The local self-government is surrounded by this law as a complete concept and this law enables it to function almost impeccably, as far as possible, to make something truly impeccable in democratic political life. What is the problem with those who criticise the legal project? We haven't narrowed down any local self-government rights. The rights are guaranteed, the rights remain the same. In all the areas they've existed so far. We are only increasing the degree of control, sharpening the responsibility of function holders in the local self-government system, because we have very poor experience with the functioning of local authorities, where some opposition parties have taken over, above all the coalition "Together", but also SVM and others. Where the SVM rules, maybe the problems aren't that bad. The problem is, for example, when the president of the municipality is setting up in Subotica to give his daughter a favourable, cheap purchase of the municipal land, to pile up the land, the pile, and that of the best, most valuable, the highest quality and so on. This is the order of those smallest abuses, because when we compare what's going on at Casa in Subotica, with what's going on in Belgrade, then Kasa is a small child. Then let's give him credit for not exaggerating in those abuses. I praise you, Mr. Kasa. So this law creates conditions for a little more transparency of local self-government. We create conditions that republican inspections can also penetrate a little deeper into the essence of the functioning of organic self-government, question its operation. Since this government is a people's unity, we've only seduced a forced administration in the Title, where crime has taken hold, where there's been total lawlessness, the mafia. Prior to that, the government in the previous composition, and in this mandate of the local government alone, in Novi Pazar alone, seduced a forced administration, where local authorities tried to create a state in the country. And nowhere else. In four cases in Kosovo, it was not possible to function or establish a local self-government, as there was a very high percentage of people of the Cypriot nationality and Serbs were negligible numbers, there were no elections either. That's all. Then why be afraid of these coercional measures? They're only extremely applied. So remarkable that their number in practice is negligible, I even think that this government of ours was too cautious about it, and it hesitated to apply forced management and where it had to be done long ago. What happens, for example, in Belgrade? In Belgrade, we have an incredible case, and I don't think anywhere in the world can happen to what's going on here, that the city is ruled by a mob in the right sense of the word. Here, let me give you an example of City Traffic Company. Remember how much we worked, like the former opposition party and other opposition parties, how much we criticized the previous government that went out on the streets one day 800 buses, not 1,200 or what's going on, what's going on. Now, from the old 800, he can't even get out 200. They announced the other day and 100. A completely ruined public utility company. At one time, these workers employed in Belgrade's City Traffic Company had the highest salaries in Belgrade, so they were dissatisfied, so little and spoiled, and went on strikes, so they were extorting bigger and bigger salaries, and now, what kind of wages, what is their social status, do they have anything to do? What happened? The local self-government established after the 1996 elections applied immediately at the beginning of the mafia method, under the cover of privatisation. What kind of privatisation is that when you don't know who drinks, who pays, or how this process takes place, under any conditions, etc. The city traffic company's trade started, so they sold the best lines. Here's another particular case -- the Sharac brothers, people known for their plight of criminal behavior and the mob method of business, got the best line in Belgrade, line 31, from Konjarnik to Student Square. For three years, their earnings, pure earnings, are assumed to be three million marks. How did the city government make amends? For the needs of the Serbian Renewal Movement, they build a motel on the Ravna Gora worth half a million marks. So, you give me this, I give you that. It was agreed to be this motel with an alphaliced access route, and then the SPO leadership changed their minds and said, "not asphalt," we want a marble. Belgrade City Assembly President Vojislav Mihajlovic has two firms. One is called "Europe", it works for urban traffic lines and who wants to introduce his private bus, he must first buy a project from Vojislav Mihajlovic, 1,500 marks is the lowest price of the project and everything is given in cash. How many lines are there, Steve?
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-10-0.u1844	650.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-10-0.u1845	There are sixty lines of the City Transport Company in Belgrade. That's how much it's sold, there's more. Sixty lines times 1,500 marks, that's more than a million marks. Another company has Vojislav Mihajlovic, called "Pinex". The company is getting spare parts for the City Transport Company. The City Transport Company used to buy directly from Tiger's factory, buy from the manufacturer, and I guess the price achieved by the manufacturer is the best, most appropriate, lowest, and now the intermediaries are being inserted. Sometimes the middleman takes 5%, sometimes 10%, etc. Jasmina Lazarevic and this Zivanovic are islanding and increasing percentages. Well, look at the way then, and we expect the investigative authorities to come out at last with all the data in the public, in which the posters were assigned, in which way the permits were granted for kiosks, especially kiosks in the city center. When are we gonna find out? Then when we show up with a bulldozer, we say, either we knock you down or you confess everything you did, to whom you had to give the money. We'll have to change both federal criminal law and the project predicts, in case of bribery and bribery, if this project is accepted, only one who receives bribes will be punished, not one who gives bribes, because we have to motivate one who may have been forced to give bribes, to tell the investigating authorities, to confess, to write a statement, so that whoever took the money will be punished. There's no other way to fight corruption. Let's look further at what is happening through Serbia, what has this local self-government coalition "Together" done for its cities, for its municipalities, did they build anything? You saw the other day at Studio B, they hit all the bells, put in traffic 300 meters of tape on Bezian's hair. I go two three days after that and I see that it's not in traffic and it can't be released, because it's a parallel tape, 300 meters doesn't mean anything, it's not worth it. To them it was important to take pictures for television, Studio B broadcasts, they play, and then there's nothing from that trip, they don't care. A whole series of jobs are done that way. Look at the example of nepotism. Do you have a chance to point out something that reminds you of that in any country in the world? There may be in Saudi Arabia, where this royal family is so divided, they have 300 princes, a few thousand royal relatives, and each must be some kind of official. Since rats usually bite down closets with green dollars, they don't have to worry about so many royal relatives. Look in Belgrade where the royal relatives are all set up. This is the most impressive example for all of Serbia. Under the pretext of fighting a political opponent, under the pretext of winning power and the desire to realize what -- such a political programme, is actually open space for the mafia to take over. The problem is that the mob is eventually beginning to endanger the man who's resorting to mob business. It is not by any chance that the very party, which rules Belgrade, the SPO, first publicly began to involve criminals in politics. Remember Gishka, White, Lalet, Robbie, etc. They were lucky, so those criminals killed each other, but the manners remained. These criminals, when they get involved in politics, take control of the political party as well. Do you think the Serbian Renewal Movement would now and if it wanted to be removed from these mobsters and criminals could do so? It's impossible. It's impossible where almost every official is involved in crime, if he pulls out and says, "Well, I've gone too far, I've stopped now, I've bought a house, I've got a good car, I've got enough money to spare, and now I've got to retire. There's no withdrawal from the mob. We have to stop these mob types of behavior. This law, which I suppose today will be passed by the National Assembly, allows for more adequate fighting against the mafia, against crime, against organised crime that is the most dangerous form of crime. As for the electoral principle, which contains this law, it is the simplest, simplest. It was in the option and we were thinking whether proportional, whether majority. The proportional corresponds at the level of the Republic or at the federal level, where the party is in the first plan, where it is voted for by the party, where an individual without a party can do nothing and where people personally do not know the candidate directly. At the local level, people know each other and want to meet the one they send to represent their interests in the municipal congregation. That's the basic motive. Why just one lap? So you can see who's really strong and respectable and who's not. Why would some calculations be allowed in the second round to overcome even one who may not deserve the trust of the citizens in the basics? I remember in 1996, in the second round of millions of fake flyers were divided through Serbia, which was printed by the Together Coalition, who lied to the people that we were supporting their candidates in the first round. We didn't want to do it under the threat of disfellowshipping from the party. It happened to us in Uzic, the chairman of the municipal board that he supported the Together Coalition in the second round and we shut him out of the party. He is also a respected doctor at Uzic, Miroslav Vukasinovic. He violated party discipline, and he was disfellowshipped. In this case, things are clean and clear to the end. Who's up to the coalition makes them right now. Anyone who won't go to the coalition goes to the polls alone. First one wins. The best in the village wins. The best on his street wins. Why be afraid of that? Who's afraid to make a coalition again? Why make coalitions of grandmothers and frogs only in the second round? Why, in the second round, make -- not a coalition for someone, but a coalition against someone? It opposes some basic democratic principles, a coalition against someone. Let's go coalition for someone. Such coalitions make sense. Such coalitions are understandable to citizens. We who make up the coalition government of the people's unity of Serbia have no intention of forming a coalition for local elections. Unless in one case -- if all the opposition team up, then we wouldn't be teaming up. So, if it's not on the opposite side of the merger, and we prefer to know who's more popular in the people, who can win more votes, etc. And there's a clean bill. Who in political life minds the logic of a clean bill? Only the hunters in the blurry. And our goal is to put a stop to hunters in a blur because of Serbia's well-being.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-10-0.u1846	Thank you. He has the word National MP Marjan Rističević, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-10-0.u1847	The political performances of Dr. Seselj always make me laugh. Since Mr. Seselj's small river submarines freed Slovenia, ever since he used the Glue to drive vampires through the Užiško street, when in the "Russian Emperor" the baseball bat determined the party's statutes, and since then, Mr. Seselj has been nice to me. I, however, do not take Mr. Seselj unseriously, unlike any other opposition. I claim, and quite responsibly, that he is the first next pretender to the throne if this one is empty. As for doctoral services, medical services to Mr. Seselj... Since he's recommending some medical services to me, then I'll recommend a plastic surgeon, who should reduce his stomach by five numbers, and then you could find a shirt for him from the collection he was talking about yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-10-0.u1848	He has the word of the People's Messenger Joseph Kasa, I understand the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-10-0.u1849	Mr. President, yes, it is a replica, because the most normal thing about us is that we should thank for the service, and this time Mr. Seselj began to praise me. Thank him very much. That's a sign for me to take care of. So, the message is clear. However, I should also say that the difference between my daughter and many radicals is that my daughter paid the land fairly. It's the prosecutor's office in Subotica, and the MUP of the Republic of Serbia, with our mutual friend Mr. Agosten Andras, and it seems to me that Seselj Agoston, a friend of mine, has been questioned a long time ago. And some radicals don't pay, they kidnap. That's a big difference, Mr. Seselj, and you'd better take care of it. Secondly, Mr. President, I would like to draw your attention that you are the president of this assembly and that you should protect the integrity of individual MPs. You haven't done that in a long time. In democracy, that would be the most normal thing to be ashamed of, and to resign for failing to perform your duties. However, you too, Mr. President, and Mr. Seselj and many of you... (Cheeselj, from the scene - don't just ask for my resignation).... No, no. If you weren't there, you should be made up. You should come to Saturday to learn democracy, because many inspections have controlled the work of the local administration and with the highest marks they've gone from our midst. So we're ready to teach you what local self-government is and what democracy is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-10-0.u1850	Thank you. He has the word Deputy Prime Minister Dr Vojislav Seselj, the reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-10-0.u1851	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Kasa here said his daughter paid the land fair and square. Yes, it is. I never said she stole the land. That she took it without money. But the problem is, and now you can think whether Agosten pointed out to me or not, that's what you discuss with him, it's my right to inform myself both through you and through Agosten, and from you I've been learning some things about Agosten when Agosten was active, don't come here... You're making a problem out of nothing. When the municipality sells the land, it must do so by law through public bidding, through public competition. There must be a chance and a chance for competition. Maybe someone else wanted to buy the same land. And, how -- on multiple occasions, your daughter's the only exclusive buyer? Is that illogical? Her father's the president of the municipality, a little bit of a municipality selling land, she's buying. There's no public bidding. There's no competition. Why is there no competition? Because that's how the land can be bought for a bagatella. If it were a public auction, someone would show up who would offer more money, your daughter would be out of land. It's a few acres, right? Here, 17 acres, I'm being helped by the minister of local self-government, 17 acres of the most valuable city building land. For 30,000 dinars, she bought everything. Is that all for 30,000 dinars? Now, at that time, the brand was 6,00 dinars, 30,000 dinars = 5,000 DEM. Let the mark be one dinar, so it's 30,000 DEM, 17 acres, and there were some objects on that land, Mr. Kasa. So she got more than free. For the state, it would be much better if she got free of charge. That's how the state gets in the way. How to buy something that's most valuable in one city. Now, that's the problem. And then you don't have a problem in Agosten or any other associate, an ex, who's telling you secrets. It's all leaked. The land of heaven swore that all secrets should be known. And it's not worth it. Next time in the election, when these hijacking radicals, as you say, come to power in Subotica, they'll comb all your files, they'll investigate everything there. Who knows what's gonna come up?
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-10-0.u1852	Thank you. There's a word from MP Lazar Marjanski.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-10-0.u1853	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, perhaps someone has not noticed one of the important things that this law adopts, which concerns villages and local communities in the village. I would like to give an example of article 71, which says: self-delivery can be expressed in money, goods and work, transport services for the needs and opportunities of citizens. It's an extremely good thing for people in the country, because people in the country can contribute to goods, labor and so forth. It is also a good Article 9, where it is said: "The position and the law of the authorities and the organisation of the unit of local self-government, as well as the local communities, as regards the availability of self-delivery in the state property". This Article 9 is extremely good for local communities. I would point to a member who, in my opinion, is crucial, where he says, "The beneficiaries of the municipality's budget are obliged to check the budget at least once a year at the request of the municipality." I think this member is extremely good to check the budget of the municipality, because even when it's brought and adopted, it's not being checked. I'd like to pay your attention to Article 212. "If units of local self-government in the event of emergency circumstances, natural disasters and others do not take timely measures to prevent the occurrence of damage to larger scales, the competent state authorities will take the measure." It has been happening in some of the Vojvodina sites, where there have been natural disasters, that part of the municipality did not want to react at all, that people from the local communities themselves reacted and sought help from the government of the Republic of Serbia. As for the electoral system, the single-circuit system, in the first round, is good, for one practical reason -- I haven't read anywhere, and probably not written, when one party of the majority system has five or six of its own committees, and what if that committee leaves the party, the party shuts it down, does his mandate stop, or doesn't stop? (louds from the O.R.: stops.) So it stops, and there's no such thing. (Dr Vojislav Seselj, from the post: Government adopted the amendment). I didn't hear, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1999-11-10-0.u1854	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? He's not answering. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We've got quorum. I put the bill to the vote in principle. For 153, three against, no one abstained, five MPs did not vote, a total of 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 4th amendment. (Glass from the O.R.: he pulled. He's not here, please don't make a mistake. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. (Dr. Vojislav Seselj, from the scene: he said in the discussion that everything was withdrawn. Did he say, I'm sorry, I didn't hear. I don't have time to examine the stenogram now, so, please, let's go through the regular procedure. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We've got quorum. I put the amendments to the vote. Two for, against 152, no one abstained, three, a total of 157 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 48th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan B. Nikolic. The emissary is giving up the amendment. I thank you. National MPs Marijan Risticevic and Prof. Dr. Dragan Vesenov submitted the amendment to Article 123. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We've got quorum. I put the amendments to the vote. One for, against 155, no one abstained, two, a total of 158 MPs were cast. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted to Article 124 by MP Dusica Karabench. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We've got quorum. I put the amendments to the vote. For one, against 155, no one abstained, three, a total of 159 MPs were voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Marjan Risticevic and Dusica Karabenč, and particularly by MP Marijan Risticevic. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We've got quorum. I put the amendments to the vote. One vote against 153, no one abstained, no eight, a total of 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 126 of the amendment. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We've got quorum. I put the amendments to the vote. For one, against 160, no one abstained, three, a total of 164 MPs voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 130th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusica Karabench. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) I ask the MPs to set up a quorum to place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. No one, against 158, was voted by three, a total of 161 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 130th amendment. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) I ask the Members of Parliament to set up a quorum to place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For no one, against 160, no one with abstention voted four, a total of 164 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 131, paragraph 1 of the third amendment was submitted by MP Dusica Karabenč. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) I ask the Members of Parliament to set up a quorum to place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For no one, against 161 abstention one, voted two, a total of 164 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 131, paragraph 1 and point 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) I ask the Members of Parliament to set up a quorum to place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For no one, against 159, no one abstained, voted three, a total of 162 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 132 of the amendment. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) I ask the Members of Parliament to set up a quorum to place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For no one, against 159, no one abstained, voted five, a total of 164 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted to Article 132 by MP Dusica Karabench. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) I ask the Members of Parliament to set up a quorum to place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For no one, against 156, no one with abstention voted four, a total of 160 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Risticevic to Article 134. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) I ask the Members of Parliament to set up a quorum to place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For no one, against 162, no one abstained, one voted, 163 MPs were present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted the amendment to Article 133. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) I ask the Members of Parliament to set up a quorum to place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For no one, against 157, no one with abstention voted four, a total of 161 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 136th amendment. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) I ask the Members of Parliament to set up a quorum to place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For no one, against 161, no one with abstention voted three, a total of 164 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted the amendment to Article 137. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) I ask the Members of Parliament to set up a quorum to place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For no one, against 161, no one with abstention voted five, a total of 166 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Marijan Rističević submitted to Article 138 of the amendment. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) I ask the Members of Parliament to set up a quorum to place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. One vote against 161, no one abstentioned, no five voted, a total of 167 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Risticevic to Article 139. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. No one voted for, against 160, no one abstained, no six voted, a total of 166 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted the amendment to Article 143. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. No one voted in favour against 162, no one was abstentioned, no one voted seven, a total of 169 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Marijan Rističevic submitted the amendment to Article 144. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. No one voted in favour against 158, no one was abstentioned, no one voted 11, a total of 169 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Risticevic to Article 145. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. No one voted in favour against 163, no one abstained, no one voted eight, a total of 171 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Marijan Rističević submitted to Article 146 of the amendment. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. No one voted in favour against 165, no one was abstentioned, no one voted four, a total of 169 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. This concludes today's session and continues tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Dear People's MPs, we continue the work of the First Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 1999. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 143 MPs attend today's session. To determine the quorum, please place your cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I am informing the National Assembly that I have approved the absence of the following MPs: Radu Svilar, Dragan P. Nikolic, Tomislav Markovic, Milan Rodic, Vladimir Štambuk, Miroslav Neskovic, Milos Jojic and Lifes - Jotti Jovanovic. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-President, Minister, Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. Dear People's MPs, I remind you that at yesterday's session we held a principle search on the 11th item of the agenda - a bill on local self-government, that the National Assembly had adopted the draft of this law in principle and that the draft law in particular had begun to be reviewed. We move to the 11th item of the agenda: - PROPOSAL OF THE LOCAL Self-GOVERNMENT (declaration in particular) The National MP Dušica Karabenč submitted to Article 146 of the amendment. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For no one, 152 are against, no one is abstention, two have not voted, and 154 MPs are present in the hall. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 147th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusica Karabench. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For no one, 152 are against, no one is abstentioned, three have not voted, and 155 MPs are present in the hall. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 147 of the amendment. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For no one, 151 against, no one abstained, two voted, and 153 MPs were present in the hall. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 148, point 2. The 10th and 11th amendments were submitted by MP Marijan Risticevic. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For no one, 151 against, no one abstained, two voted, and 153 MPs were present in the hall. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted the amendment to Article 149. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For no one, 148 against, no one abstained, four voted, and 152 MPs were present in the hall. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 149th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusica Karabench. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Nobody. ) I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For no one, against 153, no one abstained from voting, no one voted 8,169 MPs present in the hall. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 150th amendment. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Nobody. ) I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For no one, against 159, no one abstained from voting, three, 162 MPs were not present in the hall. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 151st Amendment was submitted by MP Dusica Karabench. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Nobody. ) I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. No one voted in favour against 159, no one abstained, no two, 161 MPs were present in the O.R. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee submitted to Article 151 of the amendment. Having adopted the amendment of the Legislative Committee by the Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration, this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On Article 152, the amendment was submitted by MP Dusica Karabench. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Nobody. ) I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. No one voted in favour against 157, no one abstained, no six, 163 MPs present in the hall. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 152, the amendments were submitted by the MPs Joseph Kasa and Istvan Ispanovic. The government has accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The Committee for Justice and Administration has adopted this amendment in the appropriate text. The proposed wording of the amendments was agreed by the applicant for the amendments MP Istvan Ispanovic and the representative of the promoters, and thus this amendment became an integral part of the draft law in the text as proposed by the Committee for Justice and Administration. The amendment could not be withdrawn by representatives of the duchy Hungarians, as it has already become an integral part of the bill, given that it was accepted by the government. On Article 152, the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. The government, the Justice and Administration Committee did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment possible. Does anyone want a word? Nobody. ) I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. No one, against 151, had abstained from voting, voted 9, 160 MPs present in the hall. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments, in the same text, were submitted to Article 158 of the amendment by Parliament of the People's Republic of Life, Cvetkovic and the Legislative Committee. Since the amendment of MP Lives Cvetkovic and the Legislative Committee has been accepted by the Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration, this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 159th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusica Karabench. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Nobody. ) I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. No one, against 158, had abstained from the vote, voted 6,164 MPs present in the hall. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee submitted to Article 205 of the amendment. Having adopted the amendment of the Legislative Committee by the Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration, this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Article 207 of the amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. Having adopted the amendment of the Legislative Committee by the Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration, this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted the amendment to Article 222. The Government, the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Nobody. ) I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For no one, against 150, no one abstained, no four, 154 MPs were present in the O.R. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Mr Ibro Vait submitted to Article 224 of the amendment. Since the Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have adopted this amendment to Mr Ibra Vaita, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. We've exhausted the amendments with this. Professor Markovic, please. You have a word.
