ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please register. There are 346 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. I declare the evening plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Honorary colleagues, pursuant to article 27, paragraph 15, of the Provisional Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, have requested a recess, and have already consulted, and have requested that a statement be made after the appropriate recess. Who will act? KPU and Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u2	Your Honor, the presiding, the honourable deputies, the honourable ones! I was moved to come down to this rostrum today by the uninterrupted squall of calls and petitions from residents of the city of Lozov and its surrounding areas, as well as by a call from all the region of Kharkiv. What has happened in this region cannot prevent all of us from worrying and we cannot stay away. I also went to Lozow, and I attended headquarters meetings in connection with this situation, both in the presence of the press and without it. After the meetings, I saw headquarters members and others attending the meetings split up and split up, and the residents were left alone with problems that had caused the disaster and with explosions that had not subsided since that day. The next session of the district council is held in Lozów tomorrow. The chairman and board of directors invite all concerned to a meeting in the region. Because this rather serious problem needs to be solved together and not just at the local level. First of all, it should be resolved by you in this room, because the disaster that may happen even in the event of an accident with what has been and is still being preserved in this region, as well as in the city of Balaclei, can only be compared to the Chernobyl tragedy. Please, all of you, do not be indifferent to this calamity. Please help all in attendance, everyone who hears me materially, to the inhabitants of this region. We always find funds, and it's time to attend celebrations and parades for which we spend a lot of money all the time. Therefore, our sure responsibility is to support people not only in joy but also in distress. In the meantime, I would like to emphasize again. The authorities of the local and district administration and the country’s superior authorities have enough time and money to meet guests from the Pacific States, and they have neither anything nor anything else for their country’s problems. At this moment, no money was received from them to eliminate the disaster under Lotus. The problem of unrecognizable toxic chemicals of 222 tons found in this area in a liquid and solid state in a deformed package is also silenced. The restrictions on their storage conditions have not been proven yet. People are now returning to their homes in vineyard areas and starting to repair and rebuild them. Do they feel at peace? Not at all. Help people who have suffered under Lozova, and the main thing is to prevent new ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u3	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u4	Preventing a new explosion in Lozov, Balaklei, as well as all of Ukraine's similar shelters and arsenals, eliminating the threat to the lives and safety of citizens, is today task number one. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the day-to-day issues. A 2138 - year project of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's 2008 Appointment Order is being announced for the most talented scientists. Vladimir Ivanovich Polohalo, please to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u6	Honourable National Deputies, Honourable Head of the Supreme Council, this draft decree that you are currently reading was adopted to implement the Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine “On the establishment of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's nominees for the most talented scientists”, which was adopted in March 2007 and received support in the fifth call of 241 votes. According to this decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, starting this year, 30 named scholarships of the Supreme Council of Ukraine are awarded: 10 scholarships of 2,000 dollars a month for young scientists, doctors of science; 20 scholarships of 1,000 dollars a month for young scientists, candidates for sciences that have prepared doctoral dissertations. I wanted to say that scholarships are assigned on competitive grounds at the expense of the country's government budget targets and are listed for young fellow scientists at their headquarters in addition to the salary. This year, the Supreme Council of Ukraine provides 360,000 dollars for these purposes. Young scientists under the age of 35 may be assigned to the scholarship, which conduct fundamental scientific research from the top of the spectrum of science and have enriched science with remarkable achievements. I want to say that the procedure itself, the competitive commission, the selection of candidates is taking place on the basis of modern principles, democratically, it's really better than the best in our country. And I'll add in this context that the Supreme Council committee didn't intervene in the process of putting these candidates out, just looking at the results of the competitive commission. In total, 20 candidates were identified by the competition commission for the award of scholarships to the Supreme Council of Ukraine in 2008. The decision of the competition committee was considered on our committee and was unanimously supported. On the basis of the committee’s decision, a corresponding decision of the Supreme Council has been prepared. I mean, there's 20 candidates for scholarships. You can see the last names. I'm only going to say very briefly that scholarships are distributed in ten directions of science: technical sciences -- six jobs, physics sciences -- three jobs, medical -- three, chemical -- one, biological -- one, psychological -- one, academic -- two, historical sciences -- one, pedagogical -- one, legal sciences -- one. In other words, 14 jobs are natural sciences and six are humanities. At the residence of Kiev, Kharkiv, Lviv, the largest of these are the 6 scholarships from Kiev, Sevastopol, Simferopol, Dnipropetrovsk, Uzhgrad, Lutsk, Vinnica, Cerkasa, Odessa. Practically, compared to women and men, but I add that scholarships should be paid already, honourable national deputies, I've been paying your attention since January 1st of this year. And it's September of this year. Costs are predicted. So I, given that the committee tried for six months at the Conciliation Council every time for the support of other committee heads to put this into the agenda, I am very grateful to those who have finally included this draft decision, which I propose to take as a basis. Young scientists, all Ukrainian science, are waiting for the Supreme Council's name scholarships. This raises the image of the Supreme Council, this is some kind of support for our science, which, unfortunately, is very weakly supported today by state institutions, as discussed at committee hearings yesterday, where there were about 300 representatives of our scientific creative elite. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u7	Please record the question-answer. Peter Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u8	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, by the way, I would like to say that we are perhaps, the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the state are somewhat late in adopting the Law on Scientific and Scientific Engineering, and perhaps we are a little late in the question of bonuses, scientific bonuses. But as I return to the decision, I would like to ask you a question. You said that the decision was balanced, the committee wasn't involved, there was a competition commission and so on, that represented all the regions, but yet I see not quite equally represented. I have no claim to any of the nominees, I don't question their merits, but when I see that, let's say, a quarter of these nominees are the Lviv region and there's absolutely no Donetska, Luhansk, I understand they're not doing science, I have questions. So I do have a wish for the committee, for the head of the committee, for the rapporteur, let's take this into account, including the regional specification.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u9	Thank you. There's a point to your question and it doesn't make sense because science doesn't have borders, it doesn't have nationality, and where it develops -- whether it's in Fastov or in Lviv or in Donetsk -- it doesn't matter at all. That's the first one. And second, that the nominations of applicants, according to the approved competitive commission, are carried out by scientists for the scientific institutions and organizations of ministries and departments, national, sectoral academics, that is, everyone who wanted from national societies could be promoted to national institutions. But really in Kiev there are six scholarships, Harkowe is two, Lviv is four. Maybe next time it'll be different, maybe it'll be one in Kiev, in Kharkiv, eight and so on. I mean, there was no claim to a committee, no competition committee. And with regard to the Law on Scientific and Scientific Engineering. According to our commission, according to our recommendation, the committee is now being prepared and discussed at the National Academy of Sciences, in the field academics of science, a new edition of the Law on Scientific and Scientific Engineering. Thank you very much for this question, and I would like to ask.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u10	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u11	Taking this opportunity, I am addressing the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the deputies, we have two new basic laws: higher education and science and technology. The entire university community is waiting for at least a first review. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u12	Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u13	Oleg Zarubinski. ‘Block of Lithuania’. Dear Volodymira Ivanovich, I have in my hands the March 2007 decree for which this project is being prepared. It says here that I have been quoting 30 named scholarships from the Supreme Council of Ukraine since 2008. The decision we're looking at right now is for 20 scholarships. Explain. And one more point, I've calculated, the 2007 decree provides for this allocation of 40,000 dollars, the decree you're proposing for us to vote on is 30,000 dollars. What happened? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u14	No, it's not 300, it's 360 grand. In the competition in general. Yes, there were 25 jobs in the competition. I mean, it's not the committee that takes away the scientific advice. And of these, 15 of them were in a scholarship contest with 2,000 dollars, 10 jobs with 1,000 dollars, and in this context, 25 were taken out by a competition commission for 2008. For the next year, I think this is going to be a full amount of competitive work. You know, if there were even 100 jobs, and the competition committee took seven jobs that cost us, we'd do seven jobs. So once again, I want to stress you, very careful about this approach, very thorough approach, and when we have some comments from the committee members, by the way, I want to thank the representatives of all the factions on the committee, there are 5 parties. Because everyone voted unanimously and the Conciliation Council advocated the inclusion of your leader, Vladimir Litwin, in the agenda. So I hope so.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u15	Let me finish. Valerius Kamchatny.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u16	Kamchatny, "The House of Yulia Timoshenko", Kharkiv district, the city of Kharkiv, as a scientific center. Well, partly Vladimir Ivanovich, you answered that question I wanted to ask. It sounded from a fellow cybenk, and so I'm going to use my time to ask questions just to save later on for the voter's sake, young scientist Kharkiv for the care that your committee is doing, especially for bringing two representatives from the city of Harkov to this list. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u17	Thank you. Please sit down, Vladimir Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u18	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u19	Dear colleagues, is there a desire for national deputies and factions? Please register with the National Deputies and the factions. It's a faction show. The factions begin with the Communist factions. Samolikka Katerina Seminovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u20	Dear colleagues, I am very pleased that the bill, and the decision of which I am the author, is being implemented in practice. This is the first time. And two. I am almost very ashamed of the fact that the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Committee on Education and Science has only considered one decision. You and I were looking at the fall of last year, and this is finally starting to look at the second decision. If we keep going this way, science, unfortunately, is going to be there, and education is going to be there, not moving forward. First. Once again, I would like to emphasize to everyone that, unfortunately, there is only one young scientist under the age of 25. This, if you'll excuse us, this is a verdict for all of us. This is a verdict for a state that doesn't care about the future of our science and education. And that is why we have introduced such a bill and a number of other bills for the material and moral support of our young scientists through scholarships as well as through the awards of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I would like to answer my colleague Zarubinski, who is very attentive to these questions. I mean, there were 32 candidates for 30 scholarships, but seven jobs, I took part myself, but I wasn't the main one there, and there were normally lights of Ukrainian science -- so I want to tell you that of these 32 jobs, 7 jobs were not rejected, like. Rejected as one who doesn't fit the position on the scholarships that you've accepted, your honorary colleagues, you're here in the session room of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And what I'm saying is, as long as we have scientists on board for now, I'm looking at our young ones. We have with you a prize for young people “For the development of parliamentaryism and local self-government”. So I want to tell you that our local self-government, our local councils, and the council's scientists, should be honest about this while they're still sleeping. I'm resting on the laurels, I've reached the laurels, and I've had enough of this. And the young one comes out, comes out -- it's going to be good, it's not going to be taken out -- well, life is like that. And that's why I think, and I'm asking you all, it's not true that much of Western Ukraine here is evenly represented by almost all areas. But we would like it not to be 32 contenders, but much more. But this is already a question for our higher education institutions, for scientific institutions, for the National Academy of Science, and for the Ministry of Education and Science. I'm asking you all to do this, this determination.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u21	Let me finish. Oleg Zarubinsky "Block of Lithuania"
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u22	Oleg Zarubinsky's Block of Lithuania. Dear Arseny Petrovich! Dear colleagues! I didn't do it in vain in March 2007, because I don't think it's entirely valid. Accordingly, what is now being proposed cannot be entirely valid. Although, of course, the Lithuanian Bloc will vote in favour of these scholarships. But I would like to make it clear that we have to vote to get the most talented scientists, and I'll tell you why. The 2007 regulation is called “To install the Supreme Council of Ukraine's name scholarships for the most talented young scientists, the most talented”, which is the highest degree of comparison from the point of view of philosophy. Why there is a graduation in this decree, where there are two thousand to set aside, and there are others to set aside a thousand, I don't understand. It says that two thousand are already doctors of science, and a thousand are those who have submitted documents to specialized councils to assign these degrees. Well, your honor, if it's written here, the most talented, then there's no degree in who and two thousand to whom a thousand, well, that's incorrect, unbecoming and wrong. In addition, a graduate student who has not yet had a degree can be much more talented, the most talented. So I'm proposing to make changes to this project, and because there was an economy, yes or no, and we didn't give 30 scholarships as it stood out, and 20 scholarships to everyone should be given two thousand dollars, and more than that, dear, you understand very well what was the purchasing power of two thousand dollars in March 2007 and what was the purchasing power of two thousand dollars for this scholarship that a talented person receives in a year and a half. It's a very big difference. So I'm proposing to everyone who's appointed by the committee, and I hope and I believe that's objective, because they're all the most talented, two thousand dollars worth of scholarships. I think it's based on the fact that, for example, in 2007, 300 million dollars were exported from Ukraine, and in the 7 months of 2008, as investments abroad, 6 billion 200 million dollars were exported, five billion 800 million dollars to Cyprus, that kind of investment, that just sounds funny. I ask you to vote in favour of this decision with a change, to all the most distinguished of our most talented people, to set two thousand dollars, and that's not enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u23	Thank you. Rudchenko, "Block of Lithuania", spoke to the National MPs. Will you be performing? You won't. Next Pisarenko, Timoshenko Street. Please come from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u24	Thank you. I want to say that we finally moved on to constructive work and started doing something good for people. The Supreme Council is finally gaining the status it had before that. And what we're going to do now is also show our respect for Ukraine's future. We see that today, supporting young people in this way at least, we hope that we will think about both more meaningful and more serious changes in this area. I understand that these scholarships, they won't save the future today, but this is the first step. Let us understand that we are expected to make such changes that the financing of science, education and medicine is now at its highest level. The day before, at the beginning of my school year, I went to the Nemixaivian agrotechnical college, which is now producing experts for our agrarian industry. And you know it. For agriculture. And you know, it's very hard to see how people today are actually saving both science and the development of some technology just on their own initiative. Because what conditions we are developing today and how we are developing in the West and in Europe today is a comparison of what our laboratories and our students today have to do in almost prehistoric conditions, almost in caves this development is happening. I am convinced that the Supreme Council today has been given the opportunity to vote 300 votes not to turn the country into a show again. And I want the MPs not to let anyone speculate on that. Because they're already talking about what list there is going to be a new Cabinet of Ministers, which is something else. The MPs have nothing to do with this. The MPs have something to do with the major reforms, so that we can think about the future today. And the future is not tomorrow, the future is years from now. I am convinced that today we will fully support these changes. I am convinced that the Supreme Council in the same way will work and will receive the respect of the people it deserves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u25	Dear colleagues, the performances are over. So here's the next offer. Accept as the basis of the bill. And to the second reading, put in 2000 bracelets for everyone. I just got off the phone with the machine. That's enough money. Is such a proposal supported? So that's when we left, colleagues. I'm betting on a vote based on Bill No. 2138 -- draft Ordinance on the appointment of nominee scholarships. Please vote. [[16:27:08]] For 364 Now, honourable colleagues, in paragraph one, second page, paragraph: “Ten scholarships of 1 thousand dollars per month”, amend to read: “Ten scholarships of 2 thousand dollars per month”. So we're all going to raise all the scholarships to two thousand dollars. Is it accepted? Roger that. Martinyuk's word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u26	Thank you, Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Arsenius Petrovich, there is no objection. It's not two, it's ten dates. But there is one norm. We cannot make such a decision by this decision. We need to change the statute of approval for nominee scholarships. So you have to change the position that the scholarship is this size, and here we are 2,000. So we have to go through this process. Make a change, and here, a point in the regulation.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u27	There's a problem. In a voice of change in position, it is a specific rule of law that is associated with breadmaking. That's why we have to wait. If we do it this way, colleagues? That's an offer. We'll put it in two thousand, and tomorrow we'll make a change in position. Is that gonna work? And we're writing in the adoption order, and I understand that there is, and then we're writing that the decision becomes effective from the moment the corresponding changes are made to the position. Is it accepted? Roger that. Then I say again how we format. Here, where 10 scholarships, as I have read, page two of your determination, read carefully: “10 scholarships of 1 thousand per month” to replace “10 scholarships of 2,000 dollars per month”, right? Now. Item 3. To establish that the decision takes effect from the time of the change to the order of the appointment of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's name scholarships. [[You have to call him everything.]] Is it accepted? Relevant changes, yes. Dear colleagues, we vote in general. Samolikka Katerina Seminovna. Stop, stop the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u28	I'm just surprised, Arsenija Petrovich. In this room, the constitutional majority accepted this position. I've been under a lot of pressure from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, who's been accusing me of putting up our own big scholarships for young scientists in the country. That there is no such degree, no presidential exchange, no Cabinet. That's the first one. But the other one. Excuse me, please. Well, the doctor's post-graduate and the so-called doctor, the future doctor of science has a little difference, doesn't it? Well, let's leave the grading. You can't do that. And me. Minister, why are you sitting in that pit? But sit down, please, and speak your mind. That's your problem, not my problem! I ask you to give an order to the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Science and Education. We'll study the question. Let's settle it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u29	Dear colleagues, may I offer? It's number one. The Cabinet of Ministers is an executive body. Let the Cabinet of Ministers handle their own scholarships. We don't make decisions about Cabin scholarships. Item two. We've got money. Paragraph three. Aspirant definitely needs more money than a doctor. Now, a hundred percent, he needs more money. And paragraph four. Well, there's a common decision. What's the discussion? There's money, I just got off the phone with the machine. What do we share? So I'm voting on my proposal. Please vote. [[16:31:14]] For -375 Taken as a basis, as a whole. [[B in m in s a l in]] To whom was it handed? Colleagues, there is a request to read the decree. Read? [[B in m in s a l in]] Huh?Oh, my God! The results of the vote, please show. For 375, the decision is made. Colleagues, let's move on, 3100 -- the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree to ensure the implementation of the State Program for Construction and Development of Metropolitens for 2006-2010 in the cities of Donetsk and Dnipropetrovsk. Reported by the head of the faction of the Janukovich Region Party, Viktor Fedorovich. For Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic, the reduced procedure is just two minutes. We will not insult the faction's head, Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u30	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, distinguished national MPs, honourable voters, the decision that has been prepared to ensure the implementation of the State Programme for the Construction and Development of Metropolitans in Donetsk and Dnipropetrovsk, today was considered by the Committee of the Supreme Council on Economic Policy, and an additional proposal has been made to include the city of Kharkiv in this regulation, a proposal that I agree with. Why? Because we can't discredit cities. Given that the subways are being built in the cities of Dnipropetrovsk, Donetsk, Kharkiv and Kiev, and if you look at the level of funding this year, it's pretty low. But the help I have is very vulnerable to show that we have a level of funding, the highest level of funding, 32 percent of all these cities, 20, 23, 35, 32. So the program is not running. I don't even need to tell you the importance of building metropolises in these cities. These three cities in general, if taken by Ukraine, give more than 50 percent of Ukraine’s domestic gross product. The most effective transport system in the world is recognized as a metropolist that solves social, economic, environmental problems in the complex. So as a country that claims to have a strong branched social infrastructure, you and I are responsible for this program. So I would ask Arsenius Petrovich, if I may, to give the city of Kharkiv and the amount of the government programme, I'll just add the figures for Kharkiv for this year plus 50 million. And for the next year, 131. All the other sums are given in this order. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u31	Thank you. Is there a question for Victor Fedorovich? There's a question. Come on in. Sergey Podgorny, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u32	I would like to give the floor to Deputy Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u33	Ivan Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u34	Dear colleagues, Your Honor Arsenius Petrovich! [[Kirilenko, Dnipropetrovska]] I want to support the reporter, Victor Fedorovich. Indeed, both Dnipropetrovsk and Donetsk will take a significant sporting and not only sporting event in a few years, for Ukraine it is not just sport, for Ukraine it is also a breakthrough – “Euro-2012”. Both cities are developing violently, and transportation problems in this regard are paramount. I would ask my colleagues not only for a reduced procedure, but for these two cities to vote and support as quickly as possible in solving the urgent problem, which will allow not only social problems to be solved, but also for building and expanding infrastructure in connection with Euro-2012. I'd like your colleagues to support everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u35	Samolikka Katerina Seminovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u36	Dear Victor Fedorovich, I think this program should actually have further development, because it's probably going to apply to all the cities of millions. This is really the way out for these cities. But please tell me why these two big cities are. I bow my head to the ground before Dnipropetrovsk and Donetsk, and I understand what it is, but we still have Harks. Well, in the end, despite the strange position of the Kyiv City State Administration, there's Kiev, where we need to continue this program. So please tell me, would it not be appropriate to join two large cities, two large capitals of our state, in order to partially resolve the transport issue in Kharkiv, including Kiev? But especially in Kharkiv, because in Kiev, I understand, wow.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u37	Thank you for your support. We have a common point of view with you, and I think the Supreme Council will support us. As far as the future is concerned, it is said to depend on Ukraine’s economy and state policy. Therefore, the responsibility and authority of the country's development must be the highest level of economics, and decisions must always be made taking into account the world experience, the one that exists and takes account of the situation in Ukraine. Therefore, you and I, fellow believers, can resolve this issue not only this year but I believe that if we become seriously united, we will have many years ahead of schedule. As is done in many countries of the world.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u38	Peter Hasuk, Timoshenko Street.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u39	Please pass the word to Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u40	Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u41	Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. First of all, it's nice to see that you, Victor Fedorovich, personally report such an important bill to the state, but we also support the proposals of colleagues to join this program, both Kiev and Kharkiv. But I think we could look at this more broadly. It seems to me that this state program for the construction and development of metropolises is already in need of expansion. We also have Odessa, who I think would be pleased to have a metropolis. We have Lugansk, we have other millionaire cities, I think we should work on bringing the whole country together as a metropolis, or at least as a millionaire city. How do you feel about that?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u42	Dear colleagues, as you know, I have worked for many years as a host in my life. And for the two jobs of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, I have studied very seriously the agricultural complex of Ukraine and, of course, of the regions, of the district centers in particular. And I want to say that we need to make a decision today, like building a bridge crossing in Zaporozhye. [[Applause]] That's the next offer we're going to have to make with you, let alone a few days from now. And if we look at every district center in a complex way, we'll listen to the local communities, and we'll meet here together in this room, and we'll take this program to build the big district centers.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u43	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u44	Local self-government will be involved in this program and will be able to solve some of the issues in this program and the state, and we'll take this decision together, and then we'll have an effect and we'll have effective control, and this program will work. This will be a very serious signal for all of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u45	Valery Kamchatny, Timoshenko Street.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u46	Kachnay, Yulia Timoshenko Block, Kharkiv Region. By the way, it's anchored in the 173rd constituency, in the area right now, and it's building another subway station in Kharkiv. I am grateful to the Supreme Council today that it seems to support the committee's proposal to supplement this decision with the city of Kharkiv. Although some regret is that a city such as Kharkiv, the first capital, appears in the draft decree only after a committee discussion. But you know that the subways don't have members of the Party of Regions or the Yulia Timoshenko Block, or more. There's different people, voters, different parties. And so today, on behalf of the 173 constituencies that live in Alexandria, I want to thank you for such initiatives, for today, I think there will be an agreed vote that I feel will take place. And more than that, we need to make joint decisions that unite us.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u47	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u48	Chaplain, Timoshenko Street. Colleagues, there's an offer to go to the vote. May I? There's still a dozen people written down here. May I proceed to the voting procedure? [[B in m in s a l in]] Thank you. Thank you, Victor Fedorovich, please sit down. Vladimir Vasilovich Rybak's report. Improper? You don't want to sign up for this? Thank God! Colleagues, we're voting on bill number 3100 to ensure the implementation of the 2006-2010 State Programme for the Construction and Development of Metropolis in Donetsk and Dnipropetrovsk. Vote. Well, I'll tell you what, comrades. We're voting on the ground. Well, what are you doing? [[16:43:35]] For 367 Copy that. Now, it was Victor Fedorovich's suggestion to include the Harks. The following is proposed: in the city of Donetsk, coma, Dnipropetrovsk and the city of Kharkiv”, in the name. Then they went to get the text. After the words “Dnipropetrovska” “City of Kharkiv” we add all over the text. About what? You didn't talk about Kiev, Victor Fedorovich. My colleagues, I know what I'm going through, we're going to include Kiev, Dnipropetrovsk, Donetsk and Kharkiv, the subway's not going anywhere.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u49	Dear colleagues, this is about the execution of the government program. It was approved by the Cabinet of Ministers in 2007, in March 2007. During these years, it has never been fully carried out. If we rule out this program, the city of Kiev is going to be, first of all, not stately, second of all, it's going to be unfair in terms of capital. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u50	Thank you. Colleagues, there's only one problem. Victor Fedorovich, you said it right, but there's another problem. The program itself is called the State Construction Program in the cities of Donetsk and Dnipropetrovsk. It was adopted in the sixth year. There was neither Kharkiv nor Kiev. That's why I'm offering it. My colleagues, I'm reading the material, look. Dear colleagues, pay attention! I read the material, don't wave your fingers. I'm reading the Supreme Council ruling. Raise, please open your eyes written: since March 7, 2006, number 257. Material needs to be read. Please give our colleague Volodymyr Vasilovich Rybak this subject well. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u51	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, decree of 7 March 2006 No. 257 on the approval of the State Programme for the Construction and Development of the 2006-1010 Metroline Network. It means all the subways.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u52	I see. Thank you. So I'm asking the machine to rewrite the explanatory note to the bill because two cities were wrongly recorded. And then we, Victor Fedorovich, have two suggestions. First, as you said, we can rename four cities. The second sentence is that we can take four cities, because these four cities are in the same decision. Let's do it this way. Then in paragraph 1, we write all four cities. Is it accepted? Roger that. Then, honourable colleagues, please accept in the second reading and in the whole of Bill No 3100 and in the full text where cities go, the words: “the city of Kiev, the city of Donetsk, the city of Dnipropetrovsk and the city of Kharkiv”. Understand? I see. We vote, colleagues, on the basis and in general. [[16:47:14]] For – 370 Decision taken. Thank you. [[Applause]] Colleagues, in accordance with this decree until 1 February 2009, the Supreme Council should inform the Government of the implementation of the regulation and of the actual financing of the bill and the allocation of funds in the 2009 and 2010 State Budgets, because the programme is until 2010. Therefore, I ask that parliamentary control be ensured over the implementation of this regulation. True, we don't know what kind of government is going to be in 2010. Dear colleagues, let's move on to second reading. We have a bill, we have a second reading, this is a bill on the implementation of housing rights for residents of hostels. You recall the last vote on this bill. We had two. Remember? We united them into one. So if there's no objection, now I'm actually speaking, you have a table on each of these two bills, and we're going to make a single bill on dormitories, and we're going to take it as a basis, sorry, on the second reading. Is this approach taken? Give Popov a word. It's comparable, it's given out, but it needs to be walked on.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u53	Arsenija Petrovich, we have considered this bill very carefully on the committee and we have a balanced view on all issues. Please give us a word, a simplified procedure, and we'll take it literally in a few minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u54	I'm in. Come on. There's no shorter procedure there -- that's the second reading, so we don't need a shorter procedure. You've, I know, actually shaped it into almost one. You go out to the rostrum, inform the national MPs, and then we'll run after the repairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u55	Dear Arsenia Petrovich, fellows of honor! I'll make it clear that at the beginning of our consideration of this issue, which today concerns some 1 million people. 300 grand. Inhabitants. We had four bills on this issue. And indeed, at the meeting of the Supreme Council, when it was considered in the first reading, two decrees and a commission were made to unite all these projects into a single bill. Such a bill is, indeed, presented to you today as the only whole of a committee to consider. I'd like to say that we've got a lot of suggestions from the people's deputies, especially a lot of them from the colleagues of Dry, Seminoga, Oily, and so far they're practically all accounted for. Well, it was 48, 45 we counted. Those moments that were not taken into account, we agreed with the MPs who made the proposals that the text that the committee left behind for the second reading had remained in our paper. So, in principle, I really don't see any reason today for not voting on this bill in the second reading, in general, yes. And considering that. Considering that many people are waiting for this law, I think it's a very important social law, really, it was appropriate to adopt it now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u56	Colleagues, then went to the repairs. First page, first amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u57	Arsenius Petrovich, I've already reported, sorry we counted all the amendments. And those who are unaccounted for are being shot by MPs. They agree with our text.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u58	Colleagues, I have a general question right away. In order for me not to go through the entire text of 47 pages, I ask every national MP to take the text and see if there are any amendments to the national MPs who are not considered by the committee and on which the Ukrainian national deputy insists on voting or counting. Please. Yes. Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u59	Arsenius Petrovich, thank you. I want to support Deputy Popov's proposal. All my corrections are taken into account, I think. Those who aren't included, I don't insist on them, and today we've had a meeting of those MPs who worked on this bill, and we're making other amendments. This bill. On behalf of adopting this bill, giving it to the President, then overcoming the veto, because this bill awaits millions of people in places today. This bill is extremely important in order to improve the living conditions of those living in the third generation in hostels. We agreed to all our amendments. And we're filming the rest.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u60	That's what's going on. Dear colleagues, there are two positions here. I have a question primarily with the committee, because the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration says that there's a mass of things there that need to be worked out in the third reading, that is, technical stuff. Two suggestions. First. In the second or second reading, and in general, because they say that some things need to be settled for the third reading. Here's my conclusion. What do you think? Fuck us. I'm sorry to bother you. Give the Serbian a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u61	Legal observations were taken into account. And we can accept it as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u62	They counted it! So we can bet in general. Dear colleagues, pay attention! The second-reading vote and, as a whole, Bill No. 2009 on ensuring the implementation of housing rights for residents of hostels. Please vote. [[16:53:29]] For 359 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u63	Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u64	A big deal was done - they cut the knot through the dormitories. So now we're in the order of day 3112. The committee has not been submitted. Next. 3113. Give it to the committee. I'm asking the first deputy committee if you were on the committee to sign the application because it's faxed to the committee. Everything was already in these walls, and the head of the committee had not faxed. There's a first deputy, he can sign the committee's decision quietly. They've lived long enough. We can go to the next one until I get my papers on 3113, then we'll go back. Let's say 3113 is a bill for the prosecution. Reports by Andrew Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u65	Dear Arseny Petrovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Your opinion is proposed by the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Procurator's Office. The Constitution of Ukraine establishes that the Attorney-General of Ukraine is to be appointed and dismissed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine as President of Ukraine. However, Ukraine's current Procuratorial Act, adopted before amendments to the Constitution of Ukraine, provides for a different order for the discharge of the Attorney General of Ukraine by the President of Ukraine. Such a dangerous contradiction creates preconditions for the unconstitutional, artificial dependence of the Attorney General of Ukraine on the President and his environment. We believe that the absence of such a law makes Ukraine’s Attorney General hostage to various assignments, instructions and outside of procedural advice. I would like to give you an example, we have recently witnessed a comic case where Deputy Attorney General Tetjan Korniakov of Ukraine informed the Supreme Council of Ukraine that she and the Attorney-General cannot investigate criminal cases against the President's Secretariat, so the President's Secretariat is an auxiliary body of the President, and the President of Ukraine is not touched, so the actual and untouchable are the employees of his secretariat, his secretariat. So this example, it's very cynical to show how the Attorney General of Ukraine today depends on the President's Secretariat. The purpose of this bill is to strengthen the independence of the Attorney General of Ukraine and to bring the Procuratorial Act into line with the Constitution of Ukraine. A special parliamentary committee on law enforcement reviewed the bill and recommended that it be supported at today’s meeting of the Supreme Council as a whole. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u66	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. Please sign up for a question to the reporter. Samolik's national MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u67	Thank you. Well, first of all, the wish that we're adopting very good laws, but to not, you know, it's not like we're going to be dealing with those who once came upon our loved one. It's different. The law is absolutely correct, because we know that all the previous presidents of Ukraine made proposals for the appointment of prosecutors, and when prosecutors became inconvenient to them, or simply took an objective position, they were simply thrown out and thrown out by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as it were. That is, it must be maintained. But please tell me, I'd like to ask you if you think it would be enough to make the changes to the Procurator's Act just that change to achieve objectivity and to achieve
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u68	To ensure that not only the Attorney General's Office and the Public Prosecutor's Office
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u69	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Catherine, for asking. I really agree with practically all of your talk. And at the same time, I don't think this step will be enough. Prosecutorial authorities should be in the area of systematic reform of the entire law enforcement system. So today, this is the first step that will make it more independent but not independent enough to effectively ensure legal protection in Ukraine. So I am absolutely sure that we must continue this reform together.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u71	National Deputy Ariev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u72	Mr. Andrew, and to date, the Attorney General's Office, as it is, is generally the very body of the prosecutor's office, but it is now effectively vested in royal powers. What do you think about really being a comprehensive review of the Public Prosecutor's Act, and making the Public Prosecutor's Office a body not a penal body, but a body of real law enforcement? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u73	Thank you. In support of your position, I would even suggest, perhaps in Parliament, that there are dozens of people here who, as well as former prosecutors and people who have spent their entire lives in law enforcement, might be able to form a temporary special commission just for one purpose -- to draft a new law on the prosecution that would ensure that the requirements you just said are met. I fully support that. Let us take the appropriate legislative initiative together.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u74	Zarubinsky National MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u75	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, I would like to immediately state on behalf of the Lithuanian Block faction that we have always stood up for the total depoliticization of all law enforcement agencies. So that neither the Public Prosecutor’s Office nor the Ministry of Internal Affairs nor other law enforcement services can act by fighting forces of a political or other kind, by the way, force. Unfortunately, today it is. And it's born of the quota principle of division even of law enforcement structures. And in this regard, I would like you to tell everyone clearly, as stated in the Constitution. If the Constitution states that both appointment and liberation, and indeed so, is done solely by the consent of the Supreme Council, then all discussions are inappropriate, because the Constitution is the Basic Law. Notice again who, let's say so. I didn't read it very carefully. The Lithuanian Block, if you make this clear, will surely vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u76	Mr. Oleg, I want to tell you that by the Law “On Prosecutor’s Office”, which we propose with Alexander Vladimirovich Lavrinović, as coauthor of the bill, we translate the word “constitutional norm” into the words of the following. The U.S. Attorney General is appointed to the post and is dismissed from office by the Supreme Council of Ukraine as President of Ukraine. This is the part where we bring the Procuratorial Act to the Constitution of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u77	National MP Bondarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u78	Vladimir Bondarenko “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Mr. Andrew, please tell me if we have all recently observed a strange phenomenon related to the term of office of prosecutors. They're allegedly guaranteed by law, they're supposed to be established, but according to their reasoning, the President of Ukraine is releasing those prosecutors who may not like or comply with his instructions, and these terms are never sustained by law. Would you not like to place some emphasis on this phenomenon in this or in another document and make it possible for the prosecutor to be independent even when he is in a position established by law if he certainly does not allow violations of the law that entail the suspension of that position? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u79	Thank you, Mr. Volodymyr, for asking. I'd like to remove two parts of it. First. On the one hand, you're right, that's the term of the prosecutor's office, that's independence. On the other hand, we have had enough examples in our country when, despite this, the prosecutors were released, not from those ghosts that are clearly defined in the law, but from others, including political and other ones, perhaps even illegal. At the same time, I would like to point out that in their statement, they said that the President was releasing prosecutors. Under the Procuratorship Act, only the Attorney General of Ukraine can release prosecutors. In this case, because of the dependence of the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the President and his secretariat, the Attorney-General of Ukraine can in fact give today illegal non-procedural instructions, appoint those or other prosecutors without his actual consent, with his hands, because if he does not do it first, second, third time, he will not be the Attorney-General of Ukraine. It is in order to overcome this situation and the trend that we have unfortunately proposed to bring to the Constitution the requirements of the Ukrainian Pro Prosecutor's Office Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u80	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. Please have a seat. I invite the co-rapporteur of Prokopchuk Yuri Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u81	Jury Prokopchuk, “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko”, head of the preliminary committee on legislative security in the formation of the prosecutor’s offices. Dear colleagues, your opinion is proposed by a bill that conforms to the Constitution of the Procurator's Act. Thus, as the law was adopted earlier before the amendments adopted to the Constitution were introduced by law in 2004. And accordingly we introduce this law, that is, there, if there is a comparative table, the first edition sounded like: “The Attorney General is appointed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and is dismissed from office as President of Ukraine”, and the same article 2 is proposed: “The Attorney General of Ukraine shall be appointed and relieved of office under the approval of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as President of Ukraine.” So there's actually no such thing as a battalion field. I want to prove to you that a new edition is actually being prepared by the committee, so far it's the draft of the Prosecutor's Act, where, of course, all the legal commissions, including the role and place of the prosecution, and the independence of prosecutors, and the depoliticization of prosecutors, will certainly be taken into account. [[Committee hearings held with the participation of all prosecutors]] So, I think by the new year, we have to accept this document, which will take out all the right-wing colleges. So there is a request for the bill to be accepted as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u82	Any questions for Yuri Volodymyrovich? Is it? Well, please, let's sign up.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u83	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u84	National Deputy Kamchatny, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u85	Kamchatny, “Blok Timoshenko”. Please pass the word to your colleague, Oliynik Svetoslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u86	Dear reporter, please tell me, in practice, that bill that we are now adopting, is there any chance that it will lead to the life of the Attorney-General or the Attorney-General's procurator's assistants being less likely to call on the Bank's individual officials in the Office of the President, less political or other personal tasks, and the Prosecutor will have more time to carry out his direct duties, that is, to carry out constitutional functions? What will that be like in life? Is there a chance or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u87	Such chances will arise only if we adopt a full law on the prosecution. This bill, I repeat, only conforms to article 122 of the Constitution of the Public Prosecutor's Act. All of it. We sincerely hope that similar cases, at least with the adoption of this amendment or this law, will not arise.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u88	National MP Pisarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u89	Thank you. That's my question. You know, here's a very good law, I wanted to thank the drafters, really, very good that at this very moment they introduced it, maybe we'll take off a little bit of addiction, but let's see that the Attorney General's Office, the Ukrainian Security Service, we've turned into some separate units of the President's Department. By the way, the Ukrainian Security Service has just divided the responsibility of accusing the Prime Minister of the political repressions that you know of are now going against the Prime Minister, and they are now working together to fabricate these matters. That's how you see in further reforming still law enforcement structures, so we don't have any more questions about who's being blamed, who's ordering, but we all know that the law is one for all. And when they go to the election with that password, and then when they're put in the chairs, they forget that the law is equal to one another, and for others it's equal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u90	First of all, we will not be able to fight these negative phenomena under the same Public Prosecutor’s Law. As long as we don't match the relationship between executive, legislative and judicial branches, and above all reforming local self-government bodies, so that there are no centres of influence. Only then can we achieve that no one outside will interfere with the work of law enforcement agencies. It's not a matter of the Public Prosecutor's Act, it's a question of our society, and I'm so hoping for further changes to the Constitution as we are.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u91	Zabuc Roman Omelanovic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u92	Regrettably, many complaints are now coming from citizens about the improper work of the prosecutor’s office. And we understand that today, more than ever, there is a need for careful attention from the Supreme Council to improve the work of prosecutors. And I think this bill is a fairly effective first step, so far it makes it impossible to create, you know, this kind of pressure from just one structure on the part of the governing bodies of the Attorney General's Office. And that's why it's certainly a wish, how much faster can we look at the bill on the Ukrainian prosecutor's office.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u93	Thank you. Of course, we're going to do that, and already our group, which is working on this law, I did, I want to thank everyone who's been involved. Because there have been many drafts, but in fact we have to produce one single document that would be acceptable to both our society and our citizens and the prosecutors. Because there are problems, including limiting activities and prosecutors in one field or another. Yes, of course. I want to say again that today's step is simply to bring to the Constitution the provisions of article 122 in accordance with the law on the prosecution, which was passed much earlier. That's it, but if you say your words. This does not allow a direct settlement from anyone without the decision and support of the Supreme Council. So the Supreme Council agrees to the appointment, the Supreme Council agrees to the release. So we set up both public and parliamentary, well, kind of civilian control. Therefore, there is a request to proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u94	Cibenko Peter Stepanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u95	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. I would like to thank once again the authors of the legislative initiative for this bill, because given the situation in Ukraine, I understand that the Supreme Council, and above all, our society before the very difficult events, and in this situation the stated rule of law will be extremely important. What's more, I'm going to tell you that when I look at the proposed rule of law that duplicates the Constitution, I'm already very sorry for the members of the President's Secretariat. What will they write on the veto, given that the Constitution is repeated here? Therefore, the faction of communists is clearly in favour of this bill, and will vote in favour of this amendment to the Procuratorial Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u96	Thank you. They'll be writing memoirs, I think.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u97	Thank you. Please have a seat.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u98	And I also want to take this opportunity to thank you, and we've done a very big job by allowing us to start choosing the heads of rural, rural and urban that we've been expecting for years. And above all, as they say, from the city of Equine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u99	Yuri Volodymyrovich, thank you, please sit down. Is there a need to discuss? Please sign up for the discussion. People's MP Verni Dubov, please. From the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u100	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Dear friends! The question is clear: It could not be discussed. I didn't want to say anything, but even as a former prosecutor, I wanted to say that for tens of years, the prosecutors of these ranks have dreamed of changes that are finalizing today. I think it's really going to have great significance for the independence of the prosecution. But for discharge, I'd like to mention how the prosecutors changed. In fact, the head of state, something was whispered to him in the evening, there was an edict somewhere in the morning, and the Attorney General didn't even know about it. It was recognized in advance by coworkers, some known on the radio, from the media. And I remember that. One of the attorney generals, very energetic, somewhere in the afternoon, was giving the stuff to his subordinates, demanding some kind of papers, signing them, perjuring them, and they all knew he was gone, that he was already off the job. And they were standing in his reception room and deciding who to go in and tell us that he was chasing us there, he's gone, he's already out of work. Someone bravest, someone comes in, starts something, he doesn't believe it. But I was with him yesterday, that's what, but here's what. So it's kind of like a joke, but it's really this kind of thing that happened. And not just about the Attorney General. Such events took place, and I remember seeing in Crimea, on radio and on television, that the head of Ukraine’s Department of Security had been removed from office and so on. So I welcome that and, of course, I understand that everyone is voting for it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u101	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Mishchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u102	Dear chairman, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! Indeed, there is a situation in the country that needs to be changed in order for law enforcement authorities to be instructed from anywhere -- from the Supreme Council, from the Cabinet of Ministers, from the Secretary of the President. I remember the calling of the past, and I passed a similar law. 300 deputies voted in the first reading, in general, but the President vetoed it. I can't get over this veto then, but I can tell you how my former prosecutor's office resents me every day when prosecutors call me and say that since Kuchma's time, there hasn't been such a lot of pressure on prosecutors, orders, niggers, to do anyone's job, to take away their business, to put pressure on their families, on their national deputies, and so forth. You know, I am grateful to the People's Deputies of Portnov and Lavrinovich, and I am grateful that they have united the High Council and have come to realize that in time this bill and we should help the Attorney-General's Office and the prosecution's staff in general, to reduce this pressure on these coworkers, because each of us, as a deputy or not tomorrow, can have such pressure on our families on our loved ones. Therefore, the opposition that now, after the adoption of this law, may be in the public prosecutor's offices that, without the consent of the Supreme Council, the President of Ukraine has no right to dismiss the Attorney-General, because we have facts when the Supreme Council appoints the Attorney-General, but the President, instead, is always looking at how he executes this Attorney-General's orders. He's not doing them, all right, he's getting out of office. He's doing it. He's sitting right there. So I'm sure that this very strong mechanism must be in order for the opposition to this order to exist in the country. So I'm just calling on the prosecutors to support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u103	Thank you. National MP Pisarenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u104	So clearly, I'm going to say this very briefly because I wanted to focus on one aspect. I think that the issue of the activities of the Attorney General's Office today is on time, and on everyone's hearing: both the National MP and every Ukrainian citizen. Let me give you an example, I think that every day you have dozens of people coming to you every day about how the prosecutor's office is helping them today. [[in quotes]] I'm not talking about the General, but I'm talking about the public prosecutor's system as a whole. Today we're going to take a little step in that direction. But let's move on to more fundamental changes in this structure. Today, virtually no one can help a person when faced with such problems in the law enforcement system. Let's face it, the D.A.'s office isn't working today. And when it works, it usually turns into a business or a protracted process. I want to give you just one example where today the state is losing hundreds of millions of people to social needs. The situation with the Lugansk pipeline, which we are talking about a long time ago, and the activities of the Head of the State Property Fund. All of my questions as deputy head of the Special Supervisory Commission on Privatization came up with one answer: the state has stolen this plant. And the state lost hundreds of millions of dollars. But the next letter immediately follows that no one is to blame for the theft, and hundreds of millions of dollars have closed their eyes. Please tell me, could it be in the state of law? And can the Supreme Council close its eyes on this without giving the highest marks to officials in this system? Today, it's not just the reform of the Attorney General's Office, it's the matter of the State Property Fund that we've forgotten about. Let us go back to these important questions. And this law that we're looking at right now, it's extremely important, let's adopt it. And I'm sure we'll get the President's veto, which we will then overcome. And my colleague, I see, Bondik, if you can finish yet there's time for him to finish. Thank you. Give him my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u105	Please, National Deputy Bondik out of the place.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u106	Dear colleagues, you know, it's a shame, but not for the self-piaroslav Mikhailovich Piscun was writing down, and somehow he didn't get the word. Please refer to such unique cases where, unfortunately, the guardian of the Constitution has made a clear unjust decision, i.e. the issuing of a decree on the release of the Attorney General, who, according to the Constitution, is appointed and should report to the Supreme Council once a year. All these direct rules of the Constitution have been violated in this decree, and I have been an accident witness of the fact that in the College of the Attorney-General something has entered -- well, our colleague is a national deputy, unfortunately he is not in the Hall -- along with the guard and read, before all the prosecutors, the district read the President's decree to release the Attorney-General without any motive, illegally. What does the head of state do next? The decision of this Attorney General, my faction colleague, did not take place for almost a year, almost a year. So, dear fellows, I am.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u107	Thank you. The discussion is over. Please report, Andrew Volodymyrovich, you have the need for a closing word. Correspondent Yuri Volodymyrovich Prokopchuk Is there a need for a closing word? None. So let's go to the vote. Bill No. 3113 amending the Ukrainian Procuratorial Act is put to the vote in the first reading and on the basis. Please vote. A committee of professionals has made a proposal to adopt this bill as a whole. Any objections to the national MPs? I don't think it can be, because it's the norm of Ukraine's basic law. So I'm putting to the vote the whole bill 3113 on amending the Ukraine Pro Prosecutor's Office Act. Please be supportive. [[17:23:37]] For 373 The law has been passed in general. Let's move on to the next question of the agenda. Bill number 3112. Draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the responsibilities of the heads of local public administrations]] Reporting by Ukrainian national deputy Portnov Andry Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u108	Honourable National Deputies of Ukraine, Honourable Alexander Volodymyrovich! The draft law is proposed to the Supreme Council to amend certain laws of Ukraine, which will regulate legal relations in the task of assigning the heads of local government. The Constitution of Ukraine defines the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine as a higher body in the system of executive authorities. Ukraine’s Cabinet of Ministers Act contains a number of regulations according to which the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is responsible for the functioning of a single system of executive authorities in the state, including local ones. In practice, however, there is a situation in which the Cabinet of Ministers, in effect, cannot carry out not only personnel policies but even invite the head of the Administration to a meeting with the government, for at this time the Head of the Administration, at another center of influence, takes an active part in vegetarians, dealing with some issues related to tropical culture, buying very important jars, or doing other things. The purpose of the bill is to improve the mechanism for the appointment of heads of local government. The project proposes to amend Ukraine’s Cabinet of Ministers laws, local government regulations, and local self - government in Ukraine. In particular, it is envisaged, first, to remove the position under which the President of Ukraine has the right to reject the nomination proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for the post of head of the local state administration. Remove the positions under which the heads of local government are appointed to the term of office of the President of Ukraine. It is proposed that the President of Ukraine decide on the appointment or dismissal of the head of the local state administration within 15 days of receiving the submission of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The main point in this bill is the suggestion that if the President of Ukraine rejects the submission of a candidate proposed by the government, the Ukrainian government appoints the acting head of the local government. In our view, the bill is aimed at strengthening the role of the government in shaping the leadership of local government administrations and raising the level of discipline and responsibility of local leaders. Today, a committee meeting on State - Building and Local Self - Government Affairs took place at which a number of comments were made before the bill. These observations are fully taken into account, agreed unanimously by the committee’s decision, on which the committee proposed that the bill should be voted on today’s plenary session of the Supreme Council. Thank you. There's an offer, Alexander Volodymyrovich, to consider maybe this bill, if procedurally it's now possible under a reduced procedure, so that we don't waste time and consider other bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u109	This can no longer be done, and this is an important bill, so it is being considered in full procedure. Please sign up for Andrew Volodymyrovich. National MP, Samolik Catherine Seminovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u110	Thank you. Dear colleague, first question. Please tell me if the bill provides for a term of this fulfilling duty, for we have already set an example with you when we may have a few years as head of the Security Service in Ukraine and so forth. And by the way, district government and district administrations, that was what I think it was. I think it would be worth it. Really, predicting the limits of that term. And in general, I think that this bill will serve because the Constitution of Ukraine in this regard was being implemented because we know that in a number of areas and districts, the district councils were mostly expressing a dissatisfied assessment and resignation of the heads of district administrations and district administrations, but for two and three years they continued to carry out their duties. I mean, in this order, we need to keep the Constitution. And yet, in my opinion, limit the term.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u111	Thank you. Mrs. Catherine, you know, you and I have one thought for two. By supporting you, you actually said the answer in your question, and I support you fully. In response, I will tell you that it is very bad when the task goes beyond the limits of any term. But, you know, the answer to that question is one, it's very simple. If our country had respect for the Constitution of the person who is its guarantor of enforcement, if the President of Ukraine had ensured compliance with the Constitution, as stipulated in the Basic Law, if the President of Ukraine had not ignored such standards, I think we would have no fulfilling duty in the country at all. We see hundreds of examples starting with even the heads of the judiciary, the Ukrainian Security Service, the local authorities, and so forth. That's why we think that if there's an implementation and compliance with the Constitution, I don't think today's head of state is going to be a threat if we have another worthy head of state, I don't think there's going to be any such issues. So we hope that we need to quietly gather things and approach the formation of a country of order, a single state policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u112	Please, Danilenko Vladimir Andriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u113	I would like to return to article 72, paragraph three, once again: “If the head of the district district administration is not trusted by at least 2/3 deputies from the council’s general composition, the President of Ukraine decides to resign the head of the state administration.” You've been analyzing these decisions in the areas of our state, probably not a single decision has been made by the district councils, right? And don't you think that, after all, we have to step up paragraph three in this article?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u114	You actually asked two questions. As for the second question. The period of validity may be extended. You know, we're now applying legislative work to the illegal actions of the President of Ukraine, his Secretariat. We shouldn't do that. In fact, if he were to carry out his constitutional mandate honestly, we wouldn't ask you that question, you wouldn't have to apply the billing work under him, they say, illegal acts. As for the first question. Indeed, the analysis shows that the President systematically fails to meet the requirements of the Constitution and does not absolve those who have two thirds of the decision to revoke. Therefore, we believe that this is a matter of responsibility, and it will certainly occur in our country. The political situation in the country is changing. I'm absolutely confident that these issues will be officially documented, and all the heads of the President's Secretariat who have seen the draft decisions will be given a proper criminal, legal assessment of their actions. So this is a question that needs to be addressed. I absolutely support the problem you've raised in your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u115	People's deputy of Kilinkarov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u116	Thank you. I think that today those changes that we have made to a number of laws are essential to us today. But it must be recognized that today the whole system of power requires some systemic and deeper changes. Of course, we will support this draft law, and I believe that, with the procedure for the appointment and dismissal of heads, including district administrations, which I must say for the most part, and for the Lugansk region, this also happened, especially after the 2004 election campaign, in 2006, when I was just ashamed to say that even members of former criminal groups were appointed heads of administration. I don't think it's supposed to be like that. That is why I think that we will support the draft law, with two powers on the ground, and with the executive management system. To date, some 20 per cent of the Cabinet's decrees have been implemented. This is largely related to the human resources policy that is being pursued in our country. If there is a responsibility of the Cabinet of Ministers in independence.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u117	There must be responsibility, I agree with you. And you know, this is not the only example where the criminal elements are headed by the district administrations assigned to the duties of today’s President and his Secretariat is lobbying the issue. We have other examples of a person walking with a scarecrow on his shoulder and being a photographer on the beach being the head of the district administration. So these experiences are not unique examples. You agree, you need to change the whole system of power that today has led the country to the chaos that we have today. From now on, you and I have started making arrangements in the country. What we are voting today at 300 votes is one thing that we will be able to carry out systemic reforms at the shortest possible time. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u118	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. Come on, please. I invite you to report to the First Deputy Head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, Olga Borisovna Bodnar.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u119	Thank you. The Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government reviewed the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the responsibilities of the heads of the local public administrations introduced by the People’s Deputies of Portnov and Lavrinović. The bill aimed at improving the mechanism for the appointment of heads of local government administrations, in particular, removes the position under which heads of local government administrations are appointed to the term of office of the President of Ukraine. It has been established that the President of Ukraine must decide on the appointment of heads. Heads for office or dismissal from the post of head of the local state administration in a 15-day term. If he rejects the nomination, the Cabinet of Ministers can. appoints the acting head of the local government administration, who acquires all the rights and duties provided for the head of state administration. If the acting head of the local public administration discredits himself in the eyes of the relevant local council, it is suggested that the latter be given the right to decide to refer to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine with the proposal to relieve the acting head of the relevant local government administration, and that this project may be the basis for the discharge of the executive responsibility of the head of the local public administration. In the course of the committee’s discussion, the author of the bill was heard, the position of the committee of executive authorities, the views of the national deputies, was identified. The committee is proposed – I speak for the transcript – by the committee in paragraph 3 of section 2 of section 1 of the new section 6 of article 8 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Government Administrations to delete the words: “with regard to the specifics established by this law”. It is also proposed in paragraph 2 of section 2 of the Bill concerning the new section 9 of article 34 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Government Administrations to exclude the first sentence. What are we talking about? Similarly, the authors agreed, and the committee agreed that the bill had previously failed to provide for two thirds of the Board members to express distrust of the duty. So this rule is reversed and the norm is going to be the same as for heads of government. Taking into account the above suggestions, the Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the responsibilities of the heads of local government. Submitted by the People’s Deputies: Portnov, Lavrinovich, number 3112, accept as a whole. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u120	Please, is there a question for Olga Borisovna? Please sign in. National Deputy School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u121	Thank you. Well, of course, the bill is important, I think the Supreme Council will support it, but in which I would like to remind myself, and from the Supreme Council's rostrum, there's an answer to an honourable report. Now it's assigned, I don't even know anymore. a huge number of heads of administrations who are temporarily performing duties or who are assigned to the government and, in principle, feel uncomfortable in their places. I can imagine how difficult it would be for them to carry out their service duties, considering that they would be very often forbidden to communicate with the Prime Minister of Ukraine. So, in principle, I would like to hear how, in a further way, to prevent this law from completely eliminating the possibility of unlawfully assigning the heads of district and state administrations. Is there any possibility left? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u122	Thank you for asking. I want to say that the bill deliberately does. makes it impossible for you to see the gap in the law that you're talking about. First, the bill foresees that it will not be possible to remove the head of the local public administration for years or years, there are such administrations that have not had their heads for about 2-3 years, and then all of a sudden they are assigned to perform their duties, and the performance of their duties is, respectively, “cashable”. That is, so that there will be no “cash people” in such high-level administrations, the mechanism is that if the President does not appoint a 15-day term, there will still be a head in the administration, because the State's higher executive body, as the Constitution provides, is the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u123	National Deputy Greenewsky Sergey Rafailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u124	Thank you. Dear Olga Borisovna, would you please tell me how you appreciate it and your committee appreciates the situation that is being assigned to the head of the local administration of the Cabinet of Ministers? I have a question, why are we introducing the first deputies? Moreover, the first deputy, such as the district administration, has a completely different rank as a civil servant than just a deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u125	Thank you for asking. But you know, if we're now going to do what we're going to do with the first bombings, I don't think this administration is going to win anything, because in order for the interests of the public administration and the community to be properly represented, we need that competence and authority and rights be fully represented. So in this bill, we have consciously marked and positively supported the moment that authorization is given to the fullest extent as the head of the administration.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u126	National MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u127	Please give the floor to the Honourable Deputy Kravchuk Vasil Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u128	National MP Kravchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u129	Olga Borisovno, very much. In many parts of Ukraine, the heads of the regime’s heads are appointed in spite of the failure of the Cabinet of Ministers to support these candidatures. As will be taken into account in the changes to the law, this question is settled with regard to the removal of those whom the Cabinet of Ministers at the time did not agree, because they really do not meet these positions, and they were appointed solely for some political purpose. That's the first question. And the second. Will performing duties have the right to make appointments?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u130	You know, I think in this case the Constitution for all of us should go back to fulfilling its standards. I think in this case, of course, you have to look carefully and do a test, a illustration of the disadvantages that exist in places. And I'm telling you, there's a lot of evidence on our committee, as you said, that there are no heads -- performing responsibilities, and there are administrations in general that have neither heads nor responsibilities. So I think that this issue should be made impossible in its proper order. And I want to tell you that this bill does not provide for a permanent office for the executive headship. Nevertheless, there must be a head in the administration. So I think in 15 days, the President should think about making a decision. He did not make the decision, then the acting head, but the acting head until the time when the head of the administration was elected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u131	The sand is Ivan Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u132	Thank you. Pedestrian, faction of the Party of the Regions. A prominent reporter in Ukraine, unfortunately, has this practice when there is a lack of compliance with the rules of law. Has your bill considered the consequences of ignoring requirements for the release of heads of administrations or executives when they have been mistrusted by appropriate councils? Because if we accept these standards, but there's going to be ignoring them and there's not going to be punishment for it, it's just fiction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u133	Thank you. You mean two-thirds of the vote, right? The point is that this mechanism exists today for the heads of administration, and it doesn't always work. Unfortunately, in this case, there is only the possibility of being tried and forced into court. We have punishment for this, we have both the Administrative Code and the Criminal Codes.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u134	Thank you, Olga Borisovna. Have a seat, please. There are those who want to sign up for the discussion. Let's sign up, please. The Zarubinsky People’s Deputy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u135	Oleg Zarubinsky, Block of Lithuania. Dear colleagues, very interesting today, there was this information about the fact that some heads of district administrations were assigned from a series of photographers, who with monkeys, not with parrots, and monkeys went to Kirilovka in the Zaporez region. But I would like to ask a rhetorical question, you know the answer to which year they started to be assigned, in 2005, and whose recommendation in Zaporozhye. If you had said that, it would have become clear that such a practice would certainly not be necessary, for the people in those positions should be professionals, not those who would be on the box at the right time and would be shouting out to someone else for glory or glory. That's the first position. As far as this bill is concerned, you know, the purpose is clear, the motives are clear, but the legal technique is very tricky. She's really squirming. Fellow Greenewecko asked the very right question – and what will be done in the case of non-work, not ensuring the activities of the head of the local district administration first deputy. The first deputy's crew exists. In all positions, the first deputy has more authority than any other deputy who smokes one direction or another. I think in this case, and I understand the argument, it comes across contradictions with real practice, including European practice. Where the first deputy or mayor, or someone else, performs those functions for a period of absence for certain reasons in the workplace of the mayor. One more moment. I'm critical enough of the observations, often-hustly, of our science-expert management, I have to be critical of it. But there are absolutely two in the conclusion just given, I think, correct and correct comments to this bill. First remark. [[I'm just gonna quote the hot paper.]] “The project allows for the uninterrupted loss of control by district and district councils over the relevant local government administrations, as part of the execution of the last delegated authority of local self-government.” This is a serious moment, it needs to be thought out, it can't be allowed, it's legislation, it's not just a solution to some urgent problem, even a political one. And second moment. It is rightly said that the novels proposed in the project do not fully comply with the Constitution of Ukraine. I think the author of the bill understands this, which does not provide for the possibility of assuming the responsibilities of the heads of the local public administrations who may be appointed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. It seems to me that legislation needs to be done more carefully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u136	Cibenko Peter Stepanovich, please. I'm sorry, Katerina Simeonovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u137	It's a right. Dear colleagues! Dearly beloved, our radio listeners! I want to say right now that the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine will support this bill. And in the development of what Zarubinsky's colleague said, I want to say that yesterday and the day before yesterday, and today we are adopting with you all the laws of Ukraine that are caused by systemic non-compliance or by actual legislation, or by the Constitution of Ukraine. And even what you, Mr. Olege, have told the last people that this is a violation of the Constitution, you will excuse me, please, for three years, the President of Ukraine has been assigning responsibilities. Let's put this in the legislative order with you and put it all in. I mean, once again, thanks to the failure of the President of Ukraine to implement the Basic Law of Ukraine, we are forced to patch these holes all these days. [[in quotes]] That's the first one. The other one. In my opinion, I'll probably agree with previous speakers that we're only single patches, honorary colleagues, the third round of the President's election was gone and there's no mention of it, if there was no compromise on constitutional reform and, in particular, on its second stage. So today, the President needs to be honest, we need to get to the second stage of political reform, we need to do everything we can to cancel the district, so that we don't have a two-man office, and that's how the people get to choose the council area, the district council, pick the heads of her, the deputies, express their trust, present claims, and all the money and everything else is in the body that's assigned to one person, you can't let that happen. If we're going, and we've said this, through democratization, we have to do everything we can to undo this unnecessary branch of power that only prevents us from working, and they're just grasping at it to use the administrative resources of the political parties themselves, who are unable to prove to people that their program and they have some future for the state. We will support, but, dear colleagues, let's move on to the second stage of political reform.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u138	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the evening plenary meeting will be held for 15 minutes. The next speaker, Yuri Volodymyrovich. People's deputy Lazko instead of the digger.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u139	The Yulia Timoshenko faction will support a bill amending certain laws regarding the performance of the heads of administration, as it will help reduce volunteerism in the activities of the President and his Secretariat. Because, indeed, who is not assigned to these positions. But there is a proposal for a change to article 8. Where the heads of the local administration are supposed to be appointed and released by the President of Ukraine for the submission of the Cabinet of Ministers, write, insert the word -- exclusively for submission. After all, there are many cases where the President takes and appoints without submission. The absence of the Cabinet of Ministers, which is mandatory, but it takes and appoints a person because that is how the draft decree was initiated. That's why I think that, of course, the word is only when the President doesn't comply with legislation, at least only if you don't write it, and if a man is used to breaking the laws, he's going to break them. Well, nevertheless, I think it would be appropriate to set this standard. In addition, I think it is necessary to review not only legislation on local administrations, but also article 118 of the Basic Law – the Constitution, which stipulates that the appointment and discharge of the heads of local administrations for the appointment of the Cabinet of Ministers is solely the mandate of the President of Ukraine. I think with the aim of avoiding the country's bi-government, dragging the canat, it's a right to hand over the Cabinet of Ministers and to deprive the President of Ukraine of that right. So I'm going to give a particular case in the Chernigiv region. The governor, as they say, is Vladimir Homenko the head of the administration there. You're not in the area at all. The only thing he knows is Baturin, where he and the President go every week and they rebuild something. Hundreds of millions are buried in that Baturin. There was nothing there, there was nothing there. The area is the first place in Ukraine after death, one of the first places of inflation, after the decline in industrial, agricultural production, social issues are not resolved. But the man in the President's favor is that he builds Baturin, whether he rebuilds or steals. What they're doing there, we don't know. And it's impossible to take a man like that off. The Cabinet of Ministers does not appear. He's not reporting. How many of these governors? So I think it's time to review the Constitution of Ukraine in this regard. And with a view to establishing a vertical authority, in order not to drag the rope, you have to hand over these powers to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Let the Cabinet of Ministers, as a senior authority in the executive system, appoint the heads of state administration. I hope that this proposal to Article 8 will be taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u140	Sulkovsky Pavel Gnatovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u141	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues. You know, today we're having a very serious discussion, where I was personally elected head of the Equality District Council in 1994, and when the Constitution was adopted two years later, the President of Ukraine, by his decree, divided into incests, practically made trouble for Ukraine, where two leaders in the region, two leaders in the area, were advised -- it's all the same, it's practical to put two school principals in school, there's a farm of two hosts and so on. And you'll never find the extreme. And so, for example, not for any praise there, I was called twice by Kuchma to accept the Constitution that I was the only one in Western Ukraine who did not comply with the distinction and did not allow myself to be the head of the Plain District Council, the second head of the administration. And in one person until 1998, before I was completely finished, when I was elected as head of the Ravensky District Council, I did these two positions in one person, and Kuchma convinced us that we were building a democratic state. There must be a leader chosen by the public and then a completely different responsibility. And I want to give you this example, really, for life. What, then, if you analyzed the best organization of work, it was named after this area that I led, and it was one example for all of Ukraine where there was one manager in the area. Therefore, sooner or later, we will be obliged to return. Because he must choose the nation, there must be one leader in the area, and he must take full responsibility for himself alone but not for two. Today, when people go to find the extreme, it is practically impossible to find it. So they go to the head of the district council, he says, "I'll think about it; they go to the administration, he says, "I'll think about it." And practically this person has been walking for years, and there is nowhere to get the truth. Because no matter what we do, so far we have to adopt this bill during a transitional period, and we don't have to invent anything. And yet I'm surprised, Alexander Volodymyrovich, at the conclusion of the Science and Experimental Authority. What do they write? Knowing that it is, in fact, absolutely practical to accept a general conclusion, they say: “In the first reading, the bill should be sent for further work.” We know very well that Arsenius Yatsenuk is the Head of the Supreme.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u142	Thank you, Paul Ivanovich. Ladies and gentlemen, all representatives of the factions who were recorded spoke. Is there still pressure on the people’s deputies? There's no insistence, no insistence? If there is no insistence, I now ask the drafters. Andrew Volodymyrovich, do you need a closing statement? Olga Borisovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u143	I want to say the next thing to my speech. Our committee, when we considered this bill, of course we referred and looked, first and foremost, at the Constitution, whether it violated any norms. So I was surprised to read the findings of the Scientific and Experimental Authority, and I can't agree with my colleague Zarubinski that it's worth paying attention to. Because, first of all, the argument that the Constitution does not provide for the appointment of the heads of the Cabinet of Ministers does not mean that they cannot be. We're not talking about criminal legislation. We're talking about the Constitution. The other one. Only the President appoints and releases heads. Ladies and gentlemen, yes, only the President appoints and releases, but only for the submission of the Cabinet of Ministers. The bill states that if the President has not appointed a head, then a new mechanism is launched, and then the Cabinet of Ministers is making it impossible for the President's, let's say, to ignore the desire of that state administration that remains headless. So I ask you to support the committee's decision and to vote in favour of this bill as a whole with the amendments that I spoke about under the transcript. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u144	Thank you, Olga Borisovna! The discussion is over. I'm voting for adoption in the first reading of draft Law 3112.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u145	It's a motive!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u146	Please vote. [[17:59:26]] For – 353 The first reading of the bill was adopted. The replica. Zarubinsky National MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u147	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Reverend Olga Borisovna! You know perfectly well that I have said everything correctly, and you know very well that there are some differences with the Constitution. It's just our position, the Lithuanian Block, to fight against violations of the Constitution by others, let's just say, violations of the Constitution shouldn't. And you know that very well. In this case, there is relevance, political relevance. It doesn't always match, it matches the law. So don't say I was wrong, you know I'm right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u148	Honorable National Deputies, the Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government, with the agreement of the authors, are proposing two amendments. In the third paragraph of the second section of the bill, delete the words “with regard to the particulars laid down by this law”. And in paragraph two of chapter two of the bill delete the first sentence. Do the Ukrainian national deputies have other proposals or objections to acceptance as a whole, as recommended by the profiling committee? No suggestions, no objections. So I'm voting on the second reading and the whole draft of Act No. 3112 amending some of the laws of Ukraine, taking into account the two rights listed in the decision of the profiling committee that I have just read. Please vote. [[18:01:32]] For 350. The law has been passed in general. Ladies and gentlemen, we have resumed our meetings for 15 minutes, so we will now consider the next issue of the agenda, which will be the last of today's plenary session. A draft Act amending the Act on the Higher Council of Justice is being announced for consideration. There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Who's to be considered for a reduced procedure, please vote. [[18:02:20]] For – 315 Decision taken. The bill, introduced by the President of Ukraine, has the power to represent the deputy head of the Ukraine’s Secretary-General, Igor Gelarovich Pukshin. Please, Igor Gelarovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u149	Dear Chairman! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Your opinion is proposed by the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Higher Council of Justice. I would like to remind you, honourable national deputies, that the Supreme Council of Justice is a constitutional body. According to the Constitution, knowledge includes, above all, the introduction of the appointment of judges and the release of them from office. In other words, the selection of personnel, or who may be recommended to serve as judges and who should be dismissed from office of judge, is referred to the High Council of Justice. I would also like to point out that the Higher Council of Justice consists of 20 members, three members are appointed: The President of Ukraine, the Supreme Council, a meeting of judges, a meeting of lawyers, a meeting of representatives of legal institutions, and two members of the All - Ukrainian Conference of Prosecutors. The High Council of Justice also serves as the head of the Supreme Court, the minister of justice of Ukraine, the Attorney General. The idea of the bill is that the constitutional body, which is the Supreme Council of Justice, should work on a permanent basis. That is, the High Council of Justice should be a standing body, and members of the High Council of Justice, other than those in office, should be civil servants. I hope you agree that the selection of personnel in the judicial branch of power cannot be amateur activity, the members of the High Council of Justice cannot work on public principles. In the case of the adoption of this bill, this will create conditions for the effective work of the High Council of Justice regarding the formation of a highly professional judiciary capable of carrying out justice on a professional basis, conscientiously and impartially. In addition, it will facilitate operationality and objectivity during the examination of the information provided by the Constitution on the grounds for the release of judges from office, on the disciplinary misconduct of judges of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, and on judges of higher specialized courts. It's a bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u150	Let me continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u151	will enable better reports of violations of the law by judges and reduce the processing of complaints. In short, I'll stop at the main positions. Once again, I would like to emphasize that it is proposed that members of the High Council of Justice work on a permanent basis and be civil servants. In addition, it is proposed to reduce the term of office of a member of the High Council of Justice to four years, and it is also proposed to increase requirements for members of the High Council of Justice. In particular, a member of the High Council of Justice may be a recommended citizen of Ukraine under 40, who has been living in Ukraine for at least 10 years, speaks a national language, has a higher legal education, and has not worked in the field of law for 15 years. The bill also provides for a reduction in the term of the head of the High Council of Justice to be reduced to two years, as well as the draft law being brought into line with the Act on the Sudokustide of Ukraine. The adoption of this law will be consistent with the constitutional principle of the rule of law, allowing for the elimination of problems in the activities of the High Council of Justice, will contribute to the proper formation of a highly professional judiciary and timely response to the violations of the oath by judges, and thus to ensuring fair justice, the protection of human rights and freedoms. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u152	Thank you, Igor Gelarovich, sit down, please. We have Vadim Vasilovich Kolesnichenko speaking from the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u153	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we consider the proposed amendments to the bill to be inappropriate, and I explain why. The appointment of all members of the High Council of Justice by this bill is proposed to refer to the positions of civil servants; the establishment for newly appointed members of the High Council of Justice is mandatory to take an oath before the President of Ukraine rather than at the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as it is now; the reduction of the term of head and deputy head of the High Council of Justice to two years, now three. And the final positions envision the termination of the full membership of the High Council of Justice from the date of the entry into force of the new law, that is, if we vote, we now have to change the Justice Council, which is working effectively today. The Higher Council of Justice becomes a fully controlled administrative body. Judges will not be able to participate in the work of this body as government officials, but they must be deprived of the status of judge. Part three of article 19 of the draft law does not provide for the need to be seconded to the High Council of Justice appointed to serve as members of the Council and to maintain benefits and positions. But the removal of these provisions creates a problem of labour rights and guarantees for members of the High Council of Justice after the end of the term of office of the High Council of Justice. The Committee on Justice's subcommittee and the position of the Supreme Court of Ukraine is to reject this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u154	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Please, two in favour, two in the opposite. National MP Tedeev.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u155	Dear colleagues, the very balanced position of head of the Koleschenka subcommittee.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u156	People's deputies, Bondik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u157	I'm sorry, I accidentally pressed the button. But if you don't mind, I can go on.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u158	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u159	Dear colleagues, there is the position of the committee, and there is a speech by the head of the committee. Indeed, the proposals for this law are not timely. Because the head of the subsidiary body, Igor Helarovich Pukshin, I apologize, the deputy head of the subsidiary body will tell us what contradicts the concept of the President of Ukraine himself. At this time, changing the pressure on the State Budget, making members of the High Council of Justice officials inappropriate. First, the Supreme Council, as established in the Constitution, has its quota, its representation in the High Council of Justice, loses this weight of influence. Why? Because, indeed, the national deputies are doing the people’s will. They're not officials, they're elected by the people. And because the representative authorities in general can and have the right to have representation in this body. But the concept proposed by the Secretary of the President, unfortunately, does not meet the requirements of the Constitution, and unfortunately, it does not meet the requirements of the Constitution. So I propose not to vote in favour of this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u160	National Deputy Vaszczuk Katerina Timofievna There is no Catherine Timothy. National MP Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u161	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Of course, such a bill cannot be supported for a number of reasons. First. The state budget is increasing considerably. Because how we started with the representative of the President's Secretariat, the members of the High Council of Justice, the status of civil servants, the additional apparatus, the machines, the cabinets, the permanent organ, and so on. Where are the accounts of the Ministry of Finance, why is there no government representative who would say how many additional tens of millions of dollars a year will have to be spent from the budget to meet the demands of an authority that wants to be turned into a manual secretariat of the President of Ukraine? What is more, we now know very well what the negative impact of the Street of Banking, the Secretariat has on judges, as judges are called, blackmailed, intimidated, threatened, forced to make decisions that are convenient. That's why I think we can't aggravate the state of justice in Ukraine, or even more spending, especially since the President's Secretariat doesn't offer to cover these expenses. I say we can support it if, for example, we cut expenses to the President's Secretariat and send them to finance the High Council of Justice in an additional way. Or, for example, for the construction of new courts in Ukraine that do not have the money to do so. This year, I think 125 million more if needed. So let's give better money if we're free, let's direct people to normal courts to come and not push in the corridors, and not stand in line, and so that the judges don't sit in each other's heads, and then we'll think about where to spend the money, when they're nowhere to go. Thank you. We're against this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u162	Please take the position of the Ministry of Justice. _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ The Ministry of Justice generally supported the bill. At the same time, if we consider the suggestions we have made. Yes, the position of article 1, paragraph 2, and article 3, paragraph 2, of the project regarding the granting of permanent legal status to the Supreme Council requires further work in view of this. I'm sorry, it's from an explanatory note. For the purpose of the project, the permanent form of activity of the High Council of Justice is to ensure the operational work of the body and objectivity in the examination of information about judges. According to part four of article 24 on the Higher Council of Justice, the decision is made by a majority of the Constitutional Composition of the High Council of Justice. In general, the adoption of decisions of the High Council of Justice that require an urgent solution must be ensured by the quorum of the participation of members that create the conditions for the continued work of the High Council of Justice. Therefore, the introduction to this work of all members of the Justice Council on a permanent basis, we think, makes no sense. In view of the bill’s position, details are needed on the part of the formation in most of the constitutional composition of the High Council of Justice to work on a permanent basis. As a result, only these members of the High Council of Justice need to be included, to distribute the status of civil servants. In addition, in order to ensure the unity of approaches to the formation of the bodies responsible for the formation of the judicial corps, the project should be complemented by appointments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-04-m1.u163	Thank you, for the point of view of the Ministry of Justice on this matter. The discussion is over. I am voting on the adoption of Bill 1320 on the basis of the first reading, amending the Law of Ukraine on the Higher Council of Justice. Please vote. [[18:14:49]] For-0 The bill was not adopted in the first reading. It is deflected and can be considered at the next session. Ladies and gentlemen, I declare this evening's plenary session closed. Tomorrow we'll start work at 10 a.m.
