ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please register. [[16:02:22]] It's registered at 430. I declare the evening session open. And I want to go to the faction leaders right now: if there's such a phenomenon of the Ukrainian people's deputies in the parliamentary room, there's going to be more people sitting in the lobby than there is in the hall. Dear colleagues, Bill No. 1399 has been announced, the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on the enforcement of decisions by arbitral tribunals]] He will report to the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, Mr. Lavrinovich Alexander Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m1.u2	Dear colleagues! Your view is now presented with a draft law, which has a small volume, pertains to six Ukrainian laws, but is of sufficient importance to Ukrainian citizens in the preservation of their property and their corporate rights. This is about the functioning of the system of arbitral tribunals in Ukraine and the use of these courts to take steps around Ukrainian legislation and the Ukrainian judicial system to resolve matters far beyond Ukrainian law. This bill is aimed at solving the problems that exist today and at failing to regulate the activities of the arbitral tribunals in part of their cases, at making decisions that need to be taken by the authorities. This is about orderly matters that need to be approved, and the enforcement of decisions that are approved by the arbitral tribunals. Today we have a situation where the Act on arbitral tribunals says that there may be any dispute before the arbitral court under the agreement of the parties arising from civil and economic relations, except in certain cases defined by law. It should be noted that the formation and activities of the arbitral tribunal are based on the principle of volunteering and trusting the parties to the body that decides the issue. A principle that has functioned for centuries in various forms, in different countries. I mean, there are courts everywhere. But if the two subjects do not want to go in full court and consider their dispute, they find the person or agency to which they both trust and agree: let us go to him, as he decides, and it will be the right thing to do, we commit ourselves to making that decision. It's a principle that works long enough in different societies and works very well. Such types of courts have worked in our country before and work today. Today, when we look at this situation, it is clear that when we resolve such a dispute, if it is approved, and someone is not satisfied with its decisions, it is clear that when we refer to the arbitral tribunal, they make a commitment to do what it decides. The use of coercion in the execution of this decision by reference to a competent court and receipt of an executive letter is such that the competent court, i.e. the general courts, does not have the right to examine essentially the case before the arbitral court, but only on the procedural points set out in the Law on the arbitral tribunal. If we look at how this is regulated there in 55 articles, if the execution of the arbitral court’s decision requires action by public authorities, local authorities, and their officials, the competent court is empowered to issue an implementing document for the execution of such a arbitral tribunal. The procedure for issuing this document has also been clearly regulated and has been defined for reasons under which the court may refuse to issue this letter. The list is exhaustive, and you cannot go beyond it. Regrettably, today it is recognized that in the activities of the arbitral tribunals, unfortunately, disputes have been dealt with with by abuses that are seriously detrimental to the rights and interests of many. I will describe only the individual positions that are being used today for such unrighteous acts. This analysis has been done over the years in the system of justice with the system of arbitral courts. In particular, the situation relates to the decision of the arbitral tribunals in matters relating to the recognition of contracts as valid or the recognition of ownership of immovable property. This trend shows that in considering these disputes, which are not really such disputes, because this is also the case for the establishment of a legal fact, this is a matter to be considered by the competent courts in accordance with the procedure defined in the Civil Procedure Code, in accordance with the individual conduct procedure. Substituting the competent courts by the arbitral tribunals here leads to the fact that we do not use the entire mechanism of national protection. In particular, there is no obligation in this case to apply to the system of prohibitions, whether it is property in a tax mortgage, whether it is mortgaged, or whether it is the obligation of people living together, let us say, marriage, children. This is not the subject of a study of the arbitral tribunal. In order not to do so and to avoid notarial treatment, therefore, the arbitral tribunal is asked to establish a legal fact and thus settle the property issue. Such facts in Ukraine have been documented in many ways. There are also facts where the judges themselves even applied to the Ministry of Justice to prove how the system of arbitral tribunals in Ukraine is being abused, how they referred to legalization and also to sales contracts, and in other cases, in particular, to so-called fictitious disputes, when state property can be transferred to another person or company, when, on the one hand, to the authority that decides this issue. A principle that has functioned for centuries in various forms, in different countries. I mean, there are courts everywhere. But if the two subjects do not want to go in full court and consider their dispute, they find the person or agency to which they both trust and agree: let us go to him, as he decides, and it will be the right thing to do, we commit ourselves to making that decision. It's a principle that works long enough in different societies and works very well. Such types of courts have worked in our country before and work today. Today, when we look at this situation, it is clear that when we resolve such a dispute, if it is approved, and someone is not satisfied with its decisions, it is clear that when we refer to the arbitral tribunal, they make a commitment to do what it decides. The use of coercion in the execution of this decision by reference to a competent court and receipt of an executive letter is such that the competent court, i.e. the general courts, does not have the right to examine essentially the case before the arbitral court, but only on the procedural points set out in the Law on the arbitral tribunal. If we look at how this is regulated there in 55 articles, if the execution of the arbitral court’s decision requires action by public authorities, local authorities, and their officials, the competent court is empowered to issue an implementing document for the execution of such a arbitral tribunal. The procedure for issuing this document has also been clearly regulated and has been defined for reasons under which the court may refuse to issue this letter. The list is exhaustive, and you cannot go beyond it. Regrettably, today it is recognized that in the activities of the arbitral tribunals, unfortunately, disputes have been dealt with with by abuses that are seriously detrimental to the rights and interests of many. I will describe only the individual positions that are being used today for such unrighteous acts. This analysis has been done over the years in the system of justice with the system of arbitral courts. In particular, the situation relates to the decision of the arbitral tribunals in matters relating to the recognition of contracts as valid or the recognition of ownership of immovable property. This trend shows that in considering these disputes, which are not really such disputes, because this is also the case for the establishment of a legal fact, this is a matter to be considered by the competent courts in accordance with the procedure defined in the Civil Procedure Code, in accordance with the individual conduct procedure. Substituting the competent courts by the arbitral tribunals here leads to the fact that we do not use the entire mechanism of national protection. In particular, there is no obligation in this case to apply to the system of prohibitions, whether it is property in a tax mortgage, whether it is mortgaged, or whether it is the obligation of people living together, let us say, marriage, children. This is not the subject of a study of the arbitral tribunal. In order not to do so and to avoid notarial treatment, therefore, the arbitral tribunal is asked to establish a legal fact and thus settle the property issue. Such facts in Ukraine have been documented in many ways. There are also facts where the judges themselves even applied to the Ministry of Justice to prove how the system of arbitral tribunals in Ukraine is being abused, how they referred to legalization and also to sales contracts, and in other cases, in particular, to so-called fictitious disputes, when the state property can be transferred to another person or company, when, on the one hand, there is a state management of a state or utility enterprise, on the other hand, another legal person, another form of property, which is sort of a dispute between them, and with the rest interests of both sides of the same. And so there is no way to defend the genuinely violated interest of the state or of the territorial community. This bill is designed to help us overcome the problems that exist today in the review of the decisions of the arbitral tribunals by the competent courts and the issuance of implementing documents and the enforcement of the decisions of the arbitral tribunals. In this regard, the draft proposal proposes to amend the Civil Procedure Code of Ukraine, the Laws of the United States of America on Remand, the State Enforcement Service, the enforcement of enforcement, the enforcement of creditors' requirements and the registration of burdens and the arbitral tribunals, the content of which is to deprive the arbitral tribunals of their powers to deal with cases, the enforcement of decisions requiring the execution of appropriate actions by the authorities, and the proposal to waive the provisions on the issue by the competent courts on the basis of the decisions of the arbitral tribunals of implementing documents and the abolition of the institution of enforcement of third-party decisions. I realize that there are references to the existence of arbitral tribunals in the world whose decisions are binding. We have separate categories, we also have a court in the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, which is governed by a separate law. This is a completely different category of disputes that arise exclusively between the owners of different countries, where it is clearly recorded in the conclusion of contracts governed by legislation and in which court will deal with the matter. Therefore, this bill is primarily directed at protecting the interests of the state, the territorial community and Ukrainian citizens in preserving their property. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m1.u3	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Colleagues, I'm asking you to sign up for a question-answer. Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m1.u4	Alexander Volodymyrovich, you know very well, and I think all colleagues know that today the arbitral courts are one of the key tools for legitimizing or simply organizing and implementing the raiding schemes -- taking possession. It's done by working schemes, it's done insolently enough, and it's not even hidden. Once again, with the help of the arbitral courts. You have such a complex bill, you make changes to six laws. Please tell me, where is the change you are proposing to prevent, apart from what you have said, when they have the right to exercise jurisdiction over certain or other things, or is it proposed to strengthen the system of control over these courts? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m1.u5	Thank you for asking. Of course, I know that, and that was finally the reason for this bill to appear, when I put a bunch of material that I saw with my own eyes, as shamelessly as it is, I would say even insolently resolve the question of how to take property. Of course, we have seen what we can do to prevent these actions. This project just offers, and it can't be solved by one norm. So there are six laws that need to be taken into account. This refers to a possible subject matter before a judge, i.e. the removal of the right to establish legal facts about contracts, which is the most used scheme in which ownership is transferred in a way that does not correspond in any way to Ukrainian law. Where people are robbed. The same is true of coercion. Even where there is one interest on both sides, after that decision, which is made, they do not do so on their own. Because, of course, the Criminal Code is still in existence. Therefore, a court’s appeal to a court is bound to issue an executive letter, and it is a national coercion.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m1.u6	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m1.u7	There is no punishment for what is being done today, because this is based on the current law on arbitral tribunals, on the enforcement of the implementation that is actually referred to today in this draft law. What needs to be corrected is that there is no legal right to unlawful action.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m1.u8	Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m1.u9	Thank you. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! We can see the work or examples of the work of the arbitral courts on television in the form of a television show on Ukrainian or Russian television channels, when, with the consent of both sides, they go to the arbitral judge, he solves something or decides, in a word, such a show. I have two questions. Please tell me how the prosecutor's supervision is present here, whether it is absent at all, or in the decision of the arbitral tribunal, for example, if the property interests of the territorial community, or the state institution, or even present, may still be noted in the Procurator's Act. And the second question. In the course of the question asked by Zarubinsky's colleague, it might be better to adopt a new version of the basic law on the arbitral tribunal, based on our bitterly accumulated experience of the practices of these judges and taking into account the facts that you yourself have reported today and that we know. And please tell the people where to complain if there is such an unexpected grief for him when he loses his property, who can accept the complaint.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m1.u10	As far as prosecutorial supervision is concerned, you realize that it does not exist under the judiciary at all, including the work of arbitral tribunals. Where to complain? That's the problem today, or the problem, I would even say, when there are rules of law that are used to make injustice legal. I have, well, a lot of examples, I've even looked at what was one of the last public references, when, let's say, in the Gitomire area, the leader. Sanitation contracts for property theft and the board of creditors expresses mistrust, and it forms everything and goes to the arbitral tribunal, and these contracts are certified as legal fact and still, and the payment of wages is no longer available, because there is no longer anything to settle with other debtors, because property is no longer available. It's all done by law.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m1.u11	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. The word is given to the co-reporter, the head of the Committee on Justice’s Subcommittee on Justice, Mr. Dmitry Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m1.u12	Dear colleagues, please note that the institution for the arbitral review of disputes in Ukraine does require special attention and reform. In view of the increased use of arbitral tribunals in raid schemes, when seized illegally by the use of arbitral tribunals as pocket vessels for the resolution of personal disputes, the decision of arbitral tribunals is not rarely directed and contrary to existing legislation obliges third parties, in particular the authorities, to carry out actions not only beyond the bounds of common sense but also violating the rights of others. [[Your property??]] The bill introduced aims at overcoming some of the problems of the arbitral tribunals to date with regard to their consideration of the dispute??????, review of the decisions of the arbitral tribunals on the issuance of executive documents and enforcement of decisions. I would like to reiterate that the bill is intended to amend the Ukrainian Civil and Procedural Code, the Laws on Bail, on State Executive Service, on Executive Production, on Creditors'Requirements and Registration of Obsolescences, and on Third Courts. The substance of the changes is to exclude from the jurisdiction of the arbitral tribunals certain categories of cases in which the authority or local government is a body, to increase the possibility of appeal and decision by those who have not taken part in the case if the court has decided on their rights and obligations, to abolish the extradition mechanism by the competent courts on the basis of the decisions of the arbitral tribunals of the executive documents and to abolish the enforcement institution. On second reading, the bill will be finalized taking into account all existing legislative initiatives on this issue in such a way as to address the priority problems of unlawful use of arbitral tribunals and to maximize the effectiveness of arbitral proceedings. In the light of all the above, the Committee decided to recommend a draft Ukrainian Act amending certain statutes of duty to enforce the decisions of the arbitral tribunals by the People's MP Lavrinović to be adopted on first reading as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m1.u13	Colleagues, questions-answers, please. Celebrity Olinik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m1.u14	Dear Dmitry Juryovich, you think, is essentially the very legal text and content of this bill, but there are still three questions that arise. Well, first of all, it's really appropriate and you can ask the question of how to impose punishment, including through changes to the Criminal Code, because there are obvious cases where the law is being broken and even at the level of common sense, it's very simple. The second question. Do you not think that this bill needs transitional provisions, because it has to be determined how to deal with the decisions that have been made during this period, when executing letters have been issued and there are actually legal relations, and how to resolve what will happen tomorrow, when there are no implementing letters? And actually, the third question. How can we not destroy the system of arbitral justice altogether, but leave it in those civilized forms, in fact, for which it was designed. This is a question like, for example, the competent European courts there at various associations.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m1.u15	I believe that there must be arbitral proceedings in Ukraine, this principle is established in all civilized countries, it will definitely exist, that our judicial system has not been fully prepared for what it is, we will now improve by means of your votes and, I think, through this system of arbitral proceedings will exist and will be located. With regard to criminal responsibility, I believe that criminal responsibility for illegal acts must naturally be imposed, but it must be introduced within the limits of the powers provided for by our law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m1.u16	Please sit down, there are no further questions. Colleagues, deputies and faction leaders, please sign up for the performance. But before speaking, before writing, before giving you the word, there is an offer to give a word to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine. Is there no objection? None. I'm asking you to turn on Mr. Oneschuk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m1.u17	Thank you. Dear Head, distinguished national deputies, respected citizens of Ukraine! The Ministry of Justice believes that the proposed project that we are currently discussing, in fact, if it is accepted in the paper, as outlined in the project, will actually destroy the agricultural system. Moreover, it is methodologically harmful. In order to explain what this is about, I mean that the means of coping with the problems that have arisen now in the arbitral judiciary, and they really are, and I'm confirming the facts that have happened, provide for the application of proportional ways of responding to the problem. And the obvious thing here is that we have to limit the jurisdiction of the arbitral courts, especially by limiting cases that they can deal with, in such cases, making decisions that should not entail the responsibility of institutions, authorities, or any other action. In particular, about registering property, right-wing, and so forth. Moreover, we have one major procedural problem. I don't know if you've noticed, but when he reported to the committee, he noted that there were two more bills in Parliament, number 1433 and 1433-1, the difference between the bills and that now Alexander Lavrinovich, who were also considered by the committee. For some reason, there is only one bill that we are considering today. They refer to one subject of legal regulation. And the question is, what exactly is the fate of those bills? And the last Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine noted that of the three bills that are being examined today, the advantage should be given to a government bill that does not contain provisions for removal from the Law on Third Courts, the law in force, which relates to the possibility of enforcement of decisions by arbitral tribunals. The country is moving towards the development of arbitral justice, mediation, and other ways of settling disputes in society that are not related to State instruments. And by making decisions today, we're going in the opposite direction. Once again, this is a problem of disproportionate responses to the problem that has arisen today. And, Mr. Head, I refer to this on behalf of the Government of Ukraine that the Government Bill 1433-1 cannot be essentially considered in Parliament, because the decision today, if it is adopted by a bill that we are listening to, makes it impossible, underlining, to adopt a government bill in the first reading, because it refers to the same subject. So our proposal is to stop the bill today. To continue its consideration of the participation of the government, the National MP Feldman, who has introduced precisely such a bill on this subject, and to complete it comprehensively through the consideration of all three bills relating to the same subject. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m1.u18	I ask you, colleagues, to repeat the record from the deputies and from the faction leaders. Two only those who wish to speak are Rev. Olielnik and John Kirilenko. Out of the way, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m1.u19	Dear colleagues, this is simply where the faction of the "Julia Tymoshenko Block" needs to support this bill. It is necessary, it stops the vacchanal that exists today with the decisions of the arbitral tribunals. There are purely theoretical questions that just need to be decided today whether to vote in the first reading and then to go out on a second reading procedure or to solve them, for example. I'm a proponent of still having to go to second reading because there are three questions. For example, I will repeat myself, there is a need to accept transitional positions. It is not clear how to deal with decisions that today are in the stages of either the accusation or the execution on the basis of implementing letters. The main thing is not, in principle, that the arbitral judiciary was considered to be a normal, civilized way of dealing with matters that did not necessarily overload the judicial system. Let me give you an example. For example, a person takes a TV loan at a supermarket. That's basically what happens in every supermarket. And there is a typical treaty that can be completely normal under the jurisdiction of the arbitral review. If you take only one bank, it's now 40,000 lawsuits in the courts of general jurisdiction. There's only one average bank that does consumer credit. Thirdly, it's the kind of mechanism that would be able to deal with this kind of indisputable issue in the right direction. But if we're completely taking away the execution and enforcement mechanism, then it's going to be zero, and again these tens of thousands of lawsuits will return to the courts of general jurisdiction. That's why I think it would be appropriate to do this particular limit on the second reading. There is certainly no dispute that the authorities of the local government and the authorities of the State cannot be the subjects of the arbitral tribunals. But those homogeneous relationships that come out of either the credit agreements or the subcontractor's contracts and the subcontractor's contracts, where there's a typical relationship, are tens of thousands of cases that are now in courts or general jurisdiction, or in households. And it turns out that in credit contracts, the district court makes contractual arrangements at the place where the bank or the supermarket is located. If anyone knows that the courts are simply overwhelmed by cases of 8, 50 government duties, which simply does not justify the work of this public car at all. I would honestly suggest that I accept it as a basis, and in the second reading, I would like to work on it so that this institution at all works for the benefit of the judiciary, rather than just being destroyed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m1.u20	Ivan Kirilenko. He's giving up the word. Dear colleagues, the process of discussion is over. Reporter and co-reporter. Please turn on Lavrinovich's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m1.u21	Dear colleagues, you have now heard the diametrically opposite points of view that have been expressed: on the one hand, what we need to do to stop the upheaval of abuses that are, on the other hand, a claim that we can destroy the system at all and that we must preserve the enforcement of the decisions of the arbitral tribunals. I realize that if we are to continue to maintain and strengthen business in a system of human property and on a human mountain, this must be left behind. If we don't want to do that, we need to take these steps in part, and what I agree with Svetslav Olijnik, we need to look at situations that arise in separate directions, including the transition period. Therefore, it is clear that the bill needs yet another view in preparing for the second reading so that it has the character most active in protecting the interests of Ukrainian citizens. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m1.u22	Thank you. The narrator doesn't want to? It doesn't. Dear colleagues, here's the next offer. Mikola Vasilovich, first of all, including you. Bills 1433 and 1433-1 are not likely to be scheduled for the Ukrainian Parliament. So it would probably be advisable to compromise: now to accept the bill as a basis, and when we work on and submit the bill to the second reading in the active position of the government and parliament to introduce a more or less compatible version and then, in fact, try to remove the disagreements, although I have the impression that disagreements are so profoundly different that I would ask you to comment on this. Turn on the Onichuku microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m1.u23	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, all three authors: National Deputy Feldman, Government and National MP Lavrinovich -- are the only ones that need to be taken action to really stop the negative phenomena in the development of arbitral justice. That's the first one. The other one. They are all alone in that it is necessary to restrict their jurisdiction, that is, to remove from the rights of the arbitral tribunals to deal with cases that involve the use by the authorities of the State of any decision to execute them. And this is the base on which we can agree. As far as one more step is concerned, this is to ban the decision-making of the courts by force of the State -- I repeat, it is harmful. Why, because the citizens, if they, Mr. Oilynik said right, they went to court, they got a decision. And if it's not coerced, where do they go, if... if you go back to the state court? This makes no sense to the arbitral judiciary. Therefore, the suggestion is that if the idea is supported that the arbitral tribunals should be deprived of the force of the arbitral force, it needs to be reworked, and it needs to be looked at again carefully on what categories of cases. Then we are ready to support this vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m1.u24	Dear colleagues, once again proposed. The bill is under consideration. It feels like, in principle, you're meeting conceptually at many points. As a colleague, Revoslav Olijnik expressed similar positions as expressed by the minister of justice. We can take this procedure to the classical standardization procedure of the second reading. And we have a transcript. Everything you specified will be taken into account by the Committee on second reading and consideration. In view of this, colleagues, I am voting on the adoption of Bill No. 1399: amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine [[on the enforcement of decisions by arbitral tribunals]] [[16:34:39]] For 345. Decision taken. Colleagues, we're sending this bill for second reading. Dear National MPs, the following bill 0883 is announced, this is the second reading, the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the promotion of construction. Yuri Sergiyovich Serbin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m1.u25	I'm short. Dear colleagues, finally this suffering law reached the session hall. We've got 192 proposals under this law, 145 of these proposals counted. I want to thank the Bevanko, Polachenko, Odarceno, Radovec and all others who have taken a serious part in the creation of this law. What is the purpose of this law? First and foremost, it aims to protect our investment in the country, especially in construction, especially in this crisis that is now in existence. That's the first question. The second issue, the first time in the decision of the Supreme Council on the fourth call, we made a decision, and there was a decision that the Public Discussion Act was needed so that, on the one hand, this law would not become a wage, as now, for some certain circles, and on the other hand, that we could legally defend the interests of our citizens, if their rights were violated, their living conditions were violated, there was also a public discussion. The third direction of this law is that we change the procedure for adopting objects into operation. You know, government commissions are called, it's up to 20 people, and there's more, and you have to work with everyone, and everyone's asking for something. The fireman, I have great respect for them, asks them to repair the fire part further and more. The driller asks for something else, and it's ultimately an extra cost, and it's taking up objects of exploitation. We're in this law and those who worked on it have come to the point where we have a state architectural and building inspection. Let her accept the subject, let her consult with the experts, but the person who signed the signature and issued the certificate of conformity answers. Moreover, this law, considering it to be very difficult, cannot be introduced immediately. So you know how money is exchanged. I'm sorry, I'm done. Money is exchanged. They go through old money and new money first. So in our final positions, we wrote that this law goes in the direction of the people who have already obtained permission or who have been granted design permission to work under the old laws. So this transition, it's in the spirit of, let's say, we're getting closer to European legislation. Of course, this law of compromise. I can't say he's absolutely successful, but we are who we are.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m1.u26	Let me finish. Please record the question-answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m1.u27	It's a second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m1.u28	But I know it's the second reading. Adam Ivanovich, don't yell, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m1.u29	I am grateful that, on the other hand, we approached the rostrum. I'm done with the opening part.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m1.u30	Colleagues, then.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m1.u31	We'll be working specifically on the amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m1.u32	Let's go through the amendments then. There's a lot of right over here that's taken into account, some of it's rejected. So, technically, I'd like to ask for the following. There's a bill of over 150 pages. Two options for events. Option one. We are going along the way that every Ukrainian national MP who is present and whose amendment is rejected insists on voting on it. Option two. I call all of them, more than one number, and so we're going to count whether or not we count the position of each national MP. What choice do you take - accelerated or classically regulated? Speeded up. Got it. So, I have a question: are there Ukrainian national MPs who insist on taking account of or rejecting, or partially counted, the rights that have been introduced to Bill No.0883? None. Great.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m1.u33	I've got it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m1.u34	Yuri Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m1.u35	I'm sorry. Dear colleagues, we have here, the committee, there was an amendment to the People's Deputy's Countdown, if you have a table, believe me, you don't have a table, it's already there. Is it? Then it's 75th. Please open up. Look. There was an amendment by the National Deputy of Szczerbany, where he suggested that we subtract from 20 percent to 10 percent and from 10 to five. At first, the committee rejected this amendment, but then by its decision, the decision here I have here, supported the amendment of the deputy Scherbian, although you have a table that says it's rejected. But there's another change that we need to consult you about right now. The Cabinet of Ministers, taking into account the downturn in the construction sector, and it's already large, has made a decision where he's reduced these allowances from 10 to five percent, and from five to two. Personally, I would support what I now accept as the Cabinet of Ministers, but under the Rules, I have to put the committee's proposal to the vote. So I have an offer. Dear Arsenija Petrovich, let us vote on both. What do we accept, or 10 and 5 percent, of the countdown?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m1.u36	Yuri Sergiyovich, this is about the 75th amendment that was rejected by the committee. Yeah?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m1.u37	And then it's accepted by protocol.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m1.u38	And then it was counted. Well, I wanted to talk to you about the committee's decision in the first place, because the decision that I have in the material clearly suggests that the bill should be sent back to read again. So I'm asking you, look what the committee's decision is and what we're going to take. Vladimir Avramovich Polachenko as the author of the amendment. And now.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m1.u39	I'm sorry. I'll explain by this order. I don't know who pulled that decision. This project has been submitted by Honourable MP Bevanko for a long time now, and he has no claims, and the committee's decision is unanimous that he supports this law. In front of us, Deputy Bevanko and I worked with him for a month and a half, and he's calling it off. Besides, it's not a committee decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m1.u40	Then I'd like to have the official decision of the committee to give the matter material. Now Volodymyr Avrumovich, from the place please as the author of the amendment. Turn on Vladimir Avrumovich's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m1.u41	Thank you. Dear colleagues! First of all, I want to thank the project's authors, first of all Yuri Sergiyovich Serba for the great endurance, because these two sessions were very carefully discussed. I want to say that it has been discussed in almost all the leading organizations of the building room, and the law is absolutely necessary. I still want to support this amendment that Yuri Sergiyovich has just mentioned. And I'd like another two amendments there is, Yuri Sergiyovich is going to talk about these amendments right now. I would ask a fellow MP, considering what I think my building experience gives me the right to ask for this law to be adopted on second reading and as a law as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m1.u42	Yuri Sergiyovich, and so you insist on voting 75 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m1.u43	I insist that I should follow up on the committee's decision. The committee proposes 10.5 percent of the decision I gave you. There is a decision by Kabmin that supports Vladimir Avumovich Polachenko, and I support that reduction to five percent and two percent. But I think we need to support, that's my personal opinion, the Cabinet of Ministers, 5.2 percent. The builders know that, the builders know that.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m1.u44	Dear Yuri Sergiyovich, distinguished colleagues! Now I'm moving to the technical plane.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m1.u45	I have a right to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m1.u46	First. Table entered, table has 75 amendments, 75 revisions of the People's Deputy. Legally speaking, it is necessary to turn on the microphone to the People’s Deputy of Szczerbán in order to review his amendment, which is rejected. Is there a national deputy? Yes. I'm asking you to turn on the microphone under the stenogram, turn on the People's Deputy Chestnut microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m1.u47	Thank you. I beg you, I insist that the amendment be voted on.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m1.u48	Great. I was just asking questions before, and everyone kept quiet. So I'm a firm opponent in letting us take something out of the voice right now. There is a table in the table: article 27-1 on planning and construction of areas: the market share of the builders in the creation of the engineering and transportation infrastructure of the populace is 20 per cent and 10 per cent to be replaced by 10 per cent and 5 per cent. In a simple language, I'm going to explain, when it comes to builders, how much percentage of the city council actually gets in the construction of an object. This is about a significant reduction from 20 to 10 and from 10 to 5. I put to the vote the amendment of the People's Deputy of Szczerbán on reducing the load on construction workers, which determines the reduction from 20 per cent to 10 per cent on the engineering and transport infrastructure from 10 to 5. Please vote for the amendment. [[16:46:21]] For-198 Colleagues, this amendment didn't find the right number of votes, which means that there's an old rule, namely, 20 percent and 10 percent. There's nothing anyone can say. There's a committee decision. Then show the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m1.u49	Arseny Petrovich! I'm sorry. But I'm not the first, you're a very experienced person, I'm not the first time in Parliament, I'm the third. And I think I'm going to be supported by Sergei Volodymyrovich Sas, who knows the Rules very well. On the second reading, a voice can be made. And we're making 5 and 2 percent. And I'm sure the hall will support it, it's necessary, the hall will support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m1.u50	Yuri Sergiyovich, if one Ukrainian national MP finds me not that article, but even if the second reading suggests that there may be something out of the voice, I will put it out of the voice. Well, colleagues! Well, we're already turning Parliament into a free club. I asked you to vote for the amendment, down from twenty percent to ten percent, from ten percent to five percent is the normal option. And now you want to say, "Push what you don't push." I propose to return to the consideration of the matter of taking into account the amendment of the People's Deputy of Szczerbany. Vote. [[16:47:56]] For-360 Colleagues! And you think about city councils and district councils, you think about them, we're going to leave them with 5.2 percent. They live there and so on, and now, after this vote, it's going to be a nightmare. Roman Zvarič for reasons of vote. Now we vote for the amendment, don't quarrel.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m1.u51	Dear Arsenia Petrovich, fellows of honor! I won’t talk for a hundred percent, because I don’t remember what’s in the Interim Rules anymore. But, as I recall, there was an opportunity in the Rules to amend the bill in the second reading. In fact, it was a proposal made by the rapporteur to amend the amendment by a voice, which did not receive 226 votes and this could be done in accordance with the procedure provided for in the Provisional Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m1.u52	It was, but ten years ago, Roman Mikhailovich, there is no such rule in the new Rules. Oleg Easy, colleagues, and we vote, we finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m1.u53	Arsenius Petrovich, let's not just think about the councils you're talking about, but also about those who buy this place. The bigger the counting, the more expensive the housing. So if we want this housing to be accessible to people, we need to support the proposal made by Mr. Serbin up to 5.2 percent. And so we're happy to help and, at the same time, we're wasting this housing, and otherwise, what's the point of building a garden here, so that again the price goes up in a cloudy way because of the disproportionate counting. Moreover, the Supreme Council is always right. You put it up when the hall supports it, that's what it's gonna be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m1.u54	Dear colleagues, once again I remind both the sheep and the wolves to be full. So this is what we're talking about. We're doubling, twice, I'm stressing the load on the builders. So we're also dealing with people's problems of reducing tension and for contractors. You can't go completely on the path you're suggesting, because I'll tell you what it's going to be like. We put 2.5 percent, everything else gets bribed. Everything else will be like this. So this social populism is not necessary. I'm voting on the amendment of People's Deputies No. 75. [[16:50:44]] For 375 Thank you, dear friends. For 375. Are there any other suggestions? Please, Yuri Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m1.u55	I admit my personal mistake, but I still ask to vote. We have, I'm sorry, page 50. Here, to match, to issue a certificate of conformity or to input an object into operation, just a fingerprint, believe me, I caught a hawawa. It reads: “For objects of experimental construction and third, fourth and fifth categories, a report on the scientific and technical co-operation of these objects is also added”. Why a Mistake? Because the third and fourth categories are required to pay scientific and technical support, and this is 400 to 500 thousand bracelets for objects that are higher, typical buildings, higher than nine floors, that's an extra price. I'm asking you, let's rule out this paragraph.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m1.u56	Yuri Sergiyovich, once again, page 50. I'll take a look. Yeah, I think it's very logical support. Is there no objection to such a proposal for exclusion? You don't? Because it will also reduce the amount of bribes they say. Dear colleagues, I am voting to support the amendment just made by Yuri Sergiyovich Serbin for removal. Yes, he just made a statement. Vote. [[16:52:29]] For 392 Yuri Sergiyovich, are there any other warnings about the bill, colleagues? You don't? Do you not deny that we are in the second reading and in general? Dear colleagues, I am voting on the adoption of Bill No. 0883 in the second reading and generally on the basis of both the inclusive and the disfellowshiped legislation just voted by Parliament. Please vote for the second reading as a whole. [[16:53:10]] For 402
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m1.u57	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m1.u58	My dear builders, you are guilty to Parliament as a land of worship. Dear colleagues, the decision is taken, for 402, the bill is sent to the President of Ukraine for signature. In fact, this will have a positive impact on today’s real estate market, which is not catastrophic, but extremely complex. Colleagues, now we have two ratifications. I'm putting to the vote the issue of the issue of the short-circuit ratification, no objection? 0043, 0044, please vote in favour. [[16:54:06]] For 379 Please 0043, Savenko Leonid Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m1.u59	Ladies and gentlemen, this is a draft Ukrainian law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Federal Council of the Swiss Confederation on Exchange of Internships. This legal act has been designed to carry out the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine since 30.01.2004. The bodies of implementation of the agreement are the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine, the Federal Council of the Swiss Confederation, the Federal Department of Justice and the Swiss Confederation Police. The agreement clearly defines the category of persons who fall under the definition of interns. The number of interns that can be accepted by each state for a calendar year is set. A mechanism is in place to obtain a work permit. The effectiveness of this agreement will contribute to the legal employment and social protection of Ukrainian citizens who will work in the Swiss Confederation’s territory in order to improve professional and language skills and to increase cooperation between the competent authorities of Ukraine and the Swiss Confederation in the field of labour migration. Ukraine's draft law was agreed with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, the Ministry of Economy of Ukraine and the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, and the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine without notice. The Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers decided to ratify the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers and the Federal Council of the Swiss Confederation on Exchange of Interchanges on 9 April 2008. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m1.u60	Thank you, please sit down. Taras Vejacheslavovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m1.u61	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Foreign Affairs at its meeting and reviewed the draft ratification, the law on ratification, was fully unanimously supported. The same decisions will be taken by the Committees of the Supreme Council on Social Policy and Labour and on European Integration. The bill is generally useful. Of course, he will not make a special breakthrough. This is about a very limited number. 50 people a year, with a possible 12-month internship, with an extension of up to 18 months. It's not a breakthrough, it's not much. But any good move, any good work is useful, and that's what we have to do. I'm not going to renegotiate the bill, I'm just going to give you a little warning. The deputy minister said that a clear category was defined. Well, the categories aren't really defined. This is a question on which categories of working citizens can actually find places to train because they are themselves, or governments of two countries or corresponding government structures can help free of charge advisory services to find a suitable place of work, but this is not such a major mistake because, once again, there is no agreement on that in itself. There are no negative points in the treaty that might have warnings, particularly about the possibility of what we will be forced to do, let's say, intern in any sector that is regulated by a private nature. This moment is written. There is a warning. At such times, decisions are made by completely different mechanisms. Requesting our committee to support the ratification law, to approve and open up the possibility of legal work for 12 or 18 months of our specialists. It's not about managers, it's about specialists, including those who can and can have and professionally, high-school education in the Swiss Confederation where they can complement their knowledge to legalize this short period and come back here with language skills and with real new employment skills. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m1.u62	Two for two against. Andrew Parubius.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m1.u63	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill was discussed at the Committee on Foreign Affairs. He was discussed in detail by deputies from different factions, and although we realize that the number of persons involved in the bill is small. At the same time, it points to a positive trend between Ukraine and European civilised states regarding exchange of interns. So after a detailed discussion we offered the Ministry of Foreign Affairs similar agreements to prepare with other states, but we are actually proposing to support this agreement. And that question was by consensus supported by all members of our committee, regardless of which faction they belong to. So I urge you to support this ratification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m1.u64	Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m1.u65	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this bill was discussed by the Committee on Social Policy and Labour. He had no warning, but as Taras Viacheslavovich Crnowil rightly said, this may not be a breakthrough in Europe, it may not be a breakthrough in the Euro integration processes, but at the same time we should not forget about the millions of our illegal citizens working illegally abroad. So the possibility of legalizing at least a small number of our people who will be able to work and learn abroad certainly makes this bill extremely important and extremely relevant. The Committee on Social Policy and Labour has taken into account the important role of this bill as an opportunity to learn the best practices of work, how to learn the best experience of the European country of social protection, especially the social orientations to which we are trying to reach over time. Therefore, the Committee on Social Policy and Labour asks for support for the bill. I am convinced that the Party of the Regions, the faction of the Party of the Regions in the session room, will support this bill unanimously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m1.u66	Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m1.u67	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Unfortunately, I don't have the form of questions and answers, but I do, because I actually read the text of this agreement, and I have the question. First. I'd like to ask, but we have 50 people who would like to study in Switzerland, I understand. And do you have any applications for the number of Swiss who want to stay with us? Because internship is a study of experience, it's teaching. I would like to find out what they want to learn and why they want to learn from us. This is the first position. And the second. Here the text of the agreement reads: “Allowments shall be issued to interns within the quota without taking into account the situation in the labour market of the receiving State”. I just don't understand what you mean. So if there's 70 vacancies, we can't do more than 50, right? Or if there are 30 vacancies, they're also taking an extra 20 people, even though there's no vacancies. Either it's unclear or it's unclear. And maybe I'd like to ask the honourable reporter to explain the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m1.u68	I ask very briefly. Turn on the speaker microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m1.u69	On the first question. The Swiss Confederation has agreed, which means we assume that they will want us to have it, since they have entered it. Number: not more than 50. Not more than 50 on all terms.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m1.u70	Got it. Colleagues, then, are the next offer. The discussion was concluded. I put to the vote the question of whether an international treaty should be accepted as a basis and as a whole the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Federal Council of the Swiss Confederation on Exchange of Interchanges. Vote. Colleagues, we vote. [[17:03:29]] For 385 Decision taken. 0044: Draft Law on the Ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding on the Coordinated Development of the Black Sea District Highway. Vadim Mikolaiovich Gurgos, head of the State Road Service. Please, Vadim Mikolaiovich. It's also a short-term procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m1.u71	Honourable National Deputies, the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Memorandum of Understanding on the Coordinated Development of the Black Sea District Motorway, has been developed to carry out the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers of 28 April 2007 to implement the relevant internal state procedure necessary for the effectiveness of the memorandum. The memorandum was signed during a meeting of the Council of Foreign Ministers, members of the Black Sea Economic Cooperation Organization in Istanbul on April 19, 2007. According to the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts and according to the conclusions of the Ministry of Justice, the specified memorandum is subject to ratification in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The draft act was designed to provide internal State procedure. The project confirms Ukraine’s acceptance of the obligation to implement the terms of the signed memorandum agreed by all interested central executive authorities. The decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the submission for the ratification of the memorandum was adopted on 9 April 2008. The description of this road, which is planned to be constructed and according to which coordination, some 7,000 miles [7,000 km] in length, will take place in 12 countries. Considering that the implementation of the memorandum will strengthen cooperation between the member countries of the Black Sea Economic Cooperation, please support the bill and vote in favour of its ratification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m1.u72	Please sit down. Taras Vjačeslavovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m1.u73	Dear colleagues, our committee discussed this draft Law on Ratification at the meeting. Similarly, the draft law of the Committee on Transport and Communications and the Committee on Budgetary Questions was considered. All the committees gave positive conclusions and support. The project is a framework. The project forms the basic principles upon which the work is to begin. Hence, it does not include moments that may affect the income or expenditure of the budget. Even the points about the functioning of the structure that has to be created and then coordinated all the project works, etc., will be taken into account by a separate, otherwise fully specified agreement. So by adopting this framework law, we are actually deciding that we are involved in a very powerful, very important project that is completely in place, on the one hand, of our position as Ukraine, the transit state, on the other hand, it can also do the same to upgrade our infrastructure, because the road that goes from Taganrog through our territory to Chisinau through Odessa, through Mikolai, through Herson, everyone knows how far it is overloaded. And this is actually about the maximum reconstruction of this road. And to create this powerful structure, which is based on Black Sea economic cooperation. The Parliamentary Assembly of Black Sea Economic Cooperation will function, allow us to engage in new technologies and investment resources to build this road if we do not have enough of our own state budget. In my opinion and in the opinion of our committee, we need to accept this agreement, get involved in the work. All the rules of the agreement and international practices for the adoption of international agreements have been fully properly spelled out and the provisions and rights of the parties therein. It's a queue, it's a constant annual rotation of the steering force, and so on. The committee has no warnings, please support and vote in favour. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m1.u74	Thank you. Two "for", two "against". Sulkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m1.u75	Thank you. I don't think there's any reason why we should talk about voting. I call for a vote in favour of this issue, it's only for the benefit of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m1.u76	Andrew Parubius.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m1.u77	Young Andrew, "Our Ukraine." "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" supports this bill. And I would like to point out that about two months ago, the Foreign Affairs Committee held a joint meeting with the Committee on Foreign Affairs in Moldova in Chisinau, and we were able to see the state of the road that connects Ukraine with Chisinau today. And I would like to focus on a particular issue in this ratification project that needs to improve infrastructure and build a new road that is extremely important for Ukraine to connect with neighbouring countries. The bill will only bring positive results for Ukraine and the cost of road construction will help solve one of the key problems that is today in Ukraine – this is a road problem. That is why both the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the faction “Our Ukraine” supports this bill, supports this ratification and calls on the entire room to unanimously support the ratification given, as well as the previous one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m1.u78	Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m1.u79	Please pass the word to Sergei Greeneweck.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m1.u80	Sergei Greenewecki.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m1.u81	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Block of Lithuania supports the draft law, but I would like to point out that this is about the coordinated development of the Black Sea District Motorway, so I have a proposal for reporters to take into account how important it is for us to work with the organizations of the Black Sea Economic Cooperation Organization, because it is a project that unites the Black Sea Region and from a political, economic and humanitarian point of view. I think that aside from the economic benefits that Ukraine can get, it can be a pretty serious challenge to combine the thoughts around the crisis that's taking place in the Black Sea region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m1.u82	Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m1.u83	The Yulia Timoshenko Block also supports this bill and will vote in favour, and we hope. That the hall, just like this bill, will support another government proposal to provide 25 billion dollars of government guarantees just to get loans for construction, reconstruction and repair of our roads. An extremely important issue, considering the situation on our roads. We believe that not only do we need to increase the responsibility for violating traffic rules, although this is also necessary for those who do not, but for all the indicators second among the causes of the accident, it is precisely the unsatisfactory state of Ukrainian roads. And we're looking forward to it. That Parliament will support government efforts aimed at improving the road situation in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m1.u84	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. Well, you realize that the most important argument in voting for this bill is that it was signed by Yatzenuk, your beloved Parliamentary Head. And I don't sign any bullshit. Therefore, my fellow Members, I ask you to support this bill and to vote in favour of the Supreme Council's consent to the obligation of this international treaty through the adoption of Law 0044 as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[17:12:26]] For -400, equal number. That's good, that's good. Dear colleagues, the order of the day is exhausted. We'll start tomorrow with the faction leaders meeting on agreement. So at 10 we're going to open and take a break, I think, by 11 o'clock, for the final agreement of the day's order for tomorrow. Thank you. I declare the evening plenary session closed.
