ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, we're registering. [[16:01:58]] There was 391 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. I declare the evening plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues, we have a dayly oath to the members of the Supreme Council of Justice of Ukraine. I just had a very difficult conversation with the heads of two committees. This is the regulatory committee and committee of Sergio Kiwalov. I'd like to express Sergey Kiwalov's position right now. Then I would like to express my position to the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court, Vasil Vasilovich Onopenek. Because we had a decision from the Conciliation Board, but again the situation is getting worse. Please turn on the microphone of Kiwal's Sergey Vasilovich. Is he here yet? From the scene, Kiwalov's microphone. Is this your place, Sergey Vasilovich? Colleagues, please turn on Sergei Vasilovich Kiwalov's microphone. It's on. Sergey Vasilovich, sit down. From the rostrum, if I may, everyone can see you. Because we do, the cards don't work, and they say it's a normal thing, which is a stupid thing that didn't work in the Council system. Well, there's no way to reflect the will of the deputies. Well, that's all right. They're used to what we're about to count on our fingers.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u2	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues, I would like to say that today, if we allow members of the Supreme Council of Justice to swear today, we will violate existing legislation, we will violate the Supreme Council of Justice Act, we will violate the Rules, the Provisional Rules, 212 articles of the Provisional Rules. First of all, I would like to recall that under the Supreme Council of Justice Act, members of the Supreme Council of Justice are obliged to swear an oath within two months from a member of the Supreme Council of Justice. The powers of the members of the Supreme Council of Justice begin with the adoption of an oath. And you know, today we have three candidatures to be considered at the Justice Committee tomorrow: Volkov Aleksandr Fedorovic; this is Samsin Igor Leonović; he was appointed on 4 February 2008. [[Appointed on 7 December 2007]] But today, the President of Ukraine issued a decree and reappointed Samsin Igor Leonović as a member of the Supreme Council of Justice. In order to allow members of the High Council of Justice under article 212 of our Provisional Rules, the Committee must consider the materials relating to members of the High Council of Justice to determine whether the documents are in conformity. The Act provides for issues relating to higher legal education. The law provides for many other points. We did not consider a meeting of the Supreme Council of Justice. Today, Boyko Andrey Mihajlovich also appeared, who was appointed on 21 December 2005 by the Assembly of Representatives of Higher Education Institutions of Legal and Scientific Institutions. It has been two and a half years, and today we are asking the question of how to get him to swear. You know, when it comes to Boyka Andrey Mihajlovich, he's a dean of the Faculty of Law, he's probably worth being a member of the Supreme Council of Justice, but the law strictly regulates the issue of taking an oath and clearly defines a two-month term. If you remember in 2006, in August 2006, the judges of the Constitutional Court for a long time, for 8 to 9 months we refused to take an oath, return under different circumstances, they did not take an oath. And after we removed that strict rule regarding the taking of an oath and there was a monthly period, we allowed the judges of the Constitutional Court to swear. Today in the law, I repeat, in the Supreme Council of Justice Act, article 17 clearly regulates two months, we cannot today consider admitting them to take an oath. Tomorrow, a meeting of our special committee, we will consider this issue and if so decided, we can raise the issue of taking an oath on Thursday. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u3	Onopenko Vasil Vasil Vasilovic, Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, has the floor. Please, Vasil Vasilovich, on the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Arsenius Petrovich, first of all, I would like to thank you for the opportunity to address you and to convey the position of the leadership of the Supreme Court, the judiciary on this matter. Sergey Vasilovich said it was all broken, except I didn't hear it was specifically broken. I want to say who did it and to what extent did it break it. If this is about Volková Aleksandra Fedorovich, the point of the matter is that a meeting of judges called a judge, I will not call it a name, it is not a matter of importance, but I have chosen, as a member of the High Council of Justice, Volkov Aleksandra Fedorovich. Please tell me where the question is. A meeting of judges held a conference in every area, a meeting of judges, and such a meeting of judges is not disputed. But a former member of the High Council of Justice still filed an application with the court, first to the district administrative city of Kiev, and then this dispute is resolved in the higher institutions. So I want to read you the approval of the Kyiv Court of Appeal of 29 May of this year, the resulting part only. “The appeals of the heads of the judges of the Ukraine of Philipczuk and Volków Alexander Fedorovich satisfy. The approval of the District Administrative Court shall be revoked. Implementation in the case of closure. The resolution takes on legal power from the moment it is declared.” So there's a decision by the Court of Appeal from now on. Well, these are the political parties here. Tell me, if a party is to take a decision, can the decision be brought before a court of law? I don't think so. Moreover, Sergey Vasilovich, the committee is not in a position to address this issue. Moreover, when I was chairman of the committee at the time, we considered these issues, not considered them, but said: “This is the prerogative of the Head of the Supreme Council, this is trust in the judiciary, and please take no more and no less, this is a duty. Now it's said that Wolf's missing a two-month term. Yeah, really missed, but tell me why, if for some reason the Supreme Council doesn't work, if political times don't put this issue on the Supreme Council, is it Volkova's fault, or not? I don't think so. And what happens next, tell me? If now, in the missed term, we are not allowed to take an oath, then what we should do is call a meeting of judges again, hold conferences, and it will take six months to offer Volkov again, or someone else. Well, I'll say, dear colleagues, that's absurd. It's about Boyka. And it's not all said here, dear fellows! The point is that Boyka's case was dealt with in the higher courts, and on May 15, 2008, the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine placed a dot after repeating the rulings of the local court, the Court of Appeal and the Supreme Administrative Court by renewing Boyka as a member of the Council as a member of the Supreme Council of Justice. There is a decision of the Supreme Administrative Court, what should you say here, please make a committee to check what to do? Is there a convention decision that, once again, a gathering of scientists to gather or not? The President's question, yes, he thought it was his question to replace the candidate or to reinstate the other one. It is easier to issue decrees and it is extremely difficult for us to call assemblies. So I think let's not politicize this question. I think the High Council of Justice is already working effectively today. I'm just from the High Council of Justice, we've released a few judges, we're working as the only team today, and I thank my colleagues, and the efforts of the Supreme Court and my personals have not been lost, we're already setting order in the High Council of Justice. But today the quorum was 14 people, if I had come here, there was no meeting of the higher council. That's why we need these people on the High Council of Justice. It is important not to politicize this issue, not to politicize it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u5	Thank you, Vasil Vasilovich. Ladies and gentlemen, would anyone like to make a statement on this matter? You won't deny that without an electronic system. Please, Adam Martinyuk, Mikhailo Chechetov, and Viennese colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u6	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I really don't need to politicize the issue, but in this dispute of two lawyers, I find it strange to hear the words of the Chief Justice. Vassil Vasilovich, as if you were a judge, making a decision, you would come out of the fact that someone didn't work, something didn't work, or you would look at the law, and the law says quite the opposite. If the law had allowed that in the absence of an oath within a specified term, the Supreme Council could have taken that into account, then it would have been another matter. That's one thing. The other one. 219 Article 219 of the Rules clearly and unequivocally states that the matter is being prepared and considered by a necessarily professional committee. He should consider the matter and bring it up for discussion. We're not talking about right or wrong today, this is what the committee should say. And I think in one or two days nothing will happen, let the committee look at it and we will calmly lead them to an oath. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u7	Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u8	Dear Arsenius Petrovich! Dear colleagues! That's why you think today the BUT faction of a barbeque-loving man has allowed the President to be present in the hall for the second time. For one reason only, you are right, Arsenija Petrovich, because all formalities, all subtleties, all nuances in the swearing of the judges of the Constitutional Court were observed today. Today, in the adoption of an oath to the representatives of the Council of Justice, we face a threat to a breach of procedure in the Council of Justice, which means that once again the President's BUREAU faction will not allow us to enter the Hall if the BET criticises the President and they do not care about the President's reputation. Therefore, we propose that this provocative issue today be left out of the room, not to consider it, not to blow up the situation in the hall and continue on the agenda, and that the issue be put down until the next time!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u9	Viziewski, then colleague Bondik and Vladimir Yavorowski finishes.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u10	Vladimir Viezowski, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense". I would like to look to my colleagues and just so that the moment of appointment of an additional branch of power, namely, the judiciary or those who have a very strong influence on how effective and judicial authority will be in Ukraine or not, namely, the formation of the High Council of Justice has been approached as professionally as possible. And I'd like very distinguished lawyers not to try to replace the committee that they lead with a larger body than the entire Supreme Council, to read more carefully about the committee's position and the conclusions to the Justice Council, because, I'm sure, we have to put certain priorities in place and, especially, if the legislation determines a certain priority for the election of judges, we have to listen to their vote as much as possible, not to the politicized vote of the Supreme Council. This is also true of the scientific circles of jurisprudence, if they are identified as their dignitary, we have to support it as much as possible, regardless of political belonging to one faction or another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u11	Bondik.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u12	Dear colleagues, I really don't need to politicize this issue too much because I don't have anything personal to run for office, but maybe Vasil Vasily Vasilovich didn't know everything. I now have help – this is the approval of the Supreme Administrative Court, which a former member of the High Council of Justice has accused on the grounds that there was no single vote, has complained in a cassation order to the Supreme Administrative Court. [[There was one judge who had a separate opinion.]] So, I think, and Alexander Fedorovich Volkov, as an experienced lawyer, the judge of the Supreme Court doesn't want such a warning from us that his election will be illegal, because we don't know yet, and we can't press justice like this, we don't know what will be the conclusion of the Supreme Administrative Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u13	Vladimir Yavorowski and we finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, here today is a cross-cutting example of maintaining a position of continuity on the part of some regions. You know, you loved the President so much all of a sudden, I don't think it's already written about it: "Love will be inexorably hot when you don't expect it at all." As a result, I believe Arsenija Petrovich, the head of the Supreme Court has made quite a point, there is an honest procedure, put to the vote, and we will take the oath of these representatives in order for them to enter into their duties. I see no reason to bear this question. Nothing other than political motives, political preferences, or dissatisfaction of a member of parliament here is completely out of the question. That is why we need to form a Higher Council of Justice in order for it to work. We know what's going on in the judicial system today. If we linger because someone doesn't like us, I'm sure no one will understand us. Put it to the vote, Arsenius Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, it is very easy for me to predict what will happen next. In order to avoid what everyone else has thought, I ask you to do so. First, regarding the Ukrainian Law on the Higher Council of Justice. Article 17 of the law stipulates that the oath of the members of the High Council of Justice must take place within two months of the appointment of the corresponding office. [[Please sit down, colleagues!]] But the law does not provide for a legal sanction for a violation of the relevant term. It's a so-called slashed legal norm that doesn't have a sanction that only has a hypothesis and a disposition, Sergey Vasilovich. For the sake of that. In order for us to continue our meetings peacefully now, if Sergey Vasilovich Kiwalov promises to hold a committee meeting today, as you promised me in the office, and to move this matter to 12.30 tomorrow, it will be fair, it will be legal, I will ask Vasil Vasilovich to agree with this position and tomorrow at 12.30. Sergey Vasilovich, is that how you say it?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u16	Sergei Vasilovich, Sergey Vasilovich, compromise is when we make a deal, and this is no longer a compromise. Alexander Sergiyovich, you're like the most responsible man I trust most of all, aren't you? So the faction of the Party of the Regions promised to hold a committee today at 12:30 tomorrow to ask questions about the oath of judges. Vasil Vasilovich, please understand the situation. There are two more letters from the High Council of Justice. I don't want to read them right now, one came in last night, the other this morning on the charge of swearing. That's why tomorrow at 12:30 after the break is the oath of the members of the High Council of Justice. We are continuing our consideration of the matter. Sit down, comrades. Sit down. It's okay. Have a seat. 2331, Anatoly Arkadyovich Maksuta, please come to the rostrum. I'm asking you to work, colleagues! I'll take care of it. That's what we've talked about. Alexander Bondar, okay. Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u17	“College”, “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense” faction. Arseny Petrovich, well, I've got an offer. Since these laws are directly related to the State Privatization Program, which we have spent a lot of time on, I propose these laws by reduced procedure. That's almost the same question. It is simply divided into two different laws. I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u18	Colleagues, in principle, make a logical suggestion: to consider these bills in a simplified manner. Because we went through the left-hand side of these issues when we looked at the State Privatization Program. Plus, it's about acceptance only in the first reading. There can be no question of second reading. So I'm voting on the proposal of the Bondar People's Deputy to consider Bill 2331, amending the privatization laws, by a reduced procedure. Please, colleagues. [[16:22:39]] For 226 The decision is made, although 150 is required. Maksuta Anatoly Arkadyovich, please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u19	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! First of all, I would like to thank you for supporting the Privatisation Programme, thanking those who voted and those who made the right proposals. The draft Law on Amendments to Certain Privatisation Laws submitted for your consideration is aimed at ensuring the implementation of the Privatisation Programme, which was just adopted in the first reading. If the Privatisation Programme determines the main objectives, priorities and conditions of privatization, the proposed law now defines the legal, economic and organisational foundations of the process. Today, there is an urgent need not only to review the principles and approaches to privatization that are defined by the program but also to review the methodology for privatization, the procedures for the implementation of appropriate procedures, the requirements for objects and subjects of privatization, the social aspects, the issues of contractual relations, the characteristics of the transfer of ownership to objects of privatization, the responsibility for violations of privatization legislation. The bill provides for approval in a new edition of the Laws on Privatization of State Property, on Privatization of Small State Enterprises, on the specificities of privatization in the agro-industrial complex, on the specificities of privatization of unfinished construction. The proposed projects have mechanisms that need to create the conditions for maximum participation in the economy of the state, for ensuring competition between buyers. In particular, a new order for the decision to privatize medium and large privatization is being introduced. Based on the decisions of the authorities authorized to manage the assets regarding the economic impossibility of the continuation of these objects in state ownership and the decisions of the privatisation authorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u20	Let me finish right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u21	Preprivatization of state-owned objects, restructuring of such objects in the process of privatization, is envisaged. Ladies and gentlemen, since time is running out, I would like to say that the adoption of this law is a logical continuation of the decision on the privatization programme, which is essentially a necessary and logical step. Therefore, a request to uphold this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u22	The word is given to Bondar Alexander Mikolaiovich. Please, Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u23	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, honourable national MPs, I would like to say that previously, the state privatization programmes have always been submitted with an appendix, with amendments to the relevant law in order to bring the law on privatization and the State Program into line. This time, according to legislation, the government has submitted a separate national privatization programme, a separate law – changes. A new edition of the Small Privatization Act, on privatization of state-owned enterprises, is being introduced. And two laws are being amended: the characteristics of the APC and the unfinished construction. I want to assure you that everything we've approved in the first reading of the State Privatization Program is consistent with the changes in the law that you are about to see. That is, so that the State Privatization Programme does not conflict with the existing legislation provided for in the four laws that I have mentioned. Well, these laws already have a mechanism for all sales options defined by the State Privatization Program. For example, a new mechanism has been described as selling in open auction competitions, a mechanism for sale on markets of insolvent low-price stock packages, and all the other innovations provided for by this law. The Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council proposes to adopt this law on the basis that the Economic Policy Committee has twice considered these bills, and ten votes were in favour of supporting these bills in its first reading. I ask that the same responsibilities be exercised by the coalition, and I now support these legislative changes in the first reading so that the Committee of Economic Policy and the National Deputies can improve this legislation by making changes to the second reading. I'm done here. Please, once again, I emphasize that these are laws that are necessary to make.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u24	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u25	Privatization.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u26	Thank you. Colleagues, two 'for', two 'against'. Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u27	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished members of the people! The faction of the Party of the Regions has expressed its principled position on the basic law, the law on a new privatization programme, because, in our view, the new privatization programme does not contain a methodology that ensures maximum efficiency and transparency of sales, a methodology that is in the interests of Ukraine. As the second draft is today, it is organically linked to the body of the first bill, in this situation we find it inappropriate to support the bill because it is in line with the ideology and philosophy of the privatization programme, which the Party of the Regions is against in principle. We propose not to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u28	Peter Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u29	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear voters, what is being discussed in Parliament today and which is being proposed to adopt a law, which is specifically called, is relevant to matters of privatization. In the first part, we considered the draft law, which provides for the looting of the final property set of large industrial enterprises and what is now an integral part of the State budget. This is where the initiators went even further. They are proposing that the area of social and culturalism be privatized today. These are primarily educational, health, culture, physical culture and sport, tourism, art, press, television, radio, publishing, sanatorium facilities, rest and prevention. That is to say, they have already taken serious action and have finally seized the right of the people in general to receive constitutionally what they should receive, the right to education, health care. This project will thus lead to the cost of money. We'll have to pay. A child to go to an art group is paid for because the Palace of Culture is already a private bench. And there, of course, the casino will do the brothel. They know what those who propose to privatize it today will do. The next law after that is insurance medicine, social insurance medicine. It's already said that the medical facilities are going to be a private bench, and what's more, you don't have a penny in your pocket, no one's going to treat you. Therefore, the Communist faction categorically opposes such arbitraryity that the latter are taken from citizens today, the right on the part of the State to have accessible cultural institutions, education, health care, where our children can engage in sports, tourism. And so in Kiev, all the gymnasiums stood up and took away all the kids to do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u30	Let me finish. Thank you. Valerius Pisarenko. Yes, please finish, complete, Peter Mikolaiovich. Let me finish Simone. Then Valérie Pisarenko, BUT.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u31	Therefore, the Communist faction will vote categorically against and calls upon everyone to stop today in this arbitrary manner and not to support this draft law.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u32	Valerius Pisarenko, Yulia Timoshenko Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u33	Given that our colleagues from the Party of Regions and the Communist Party have pressed the button that they support this bill, and have said in full that they don't accept this ideology, I would like to say the opposite. We need this bill to carry out the program that we approved in the first reading. And now it would be, well, probably not right not to adopt this bill, thereby blocking the program already approved in the first reading. So I think that, at least in support of my colleagues, who will continue to consider the State privatization programme in the second reading. I think both the Communist Party and the Party of Regions could support this bill in order not to break them separately. And I think that would be a normal position, a position that would show that everyone is willing to work constructively in this room. As for the need for the program, we have already expressed our position on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u34	Thank you. Other blocks and lots. Oleg Zarubinski. Please. He's entitled to the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u35	Oleg Zarubinsky, Block of Lithuania. The Lithuanian Block faction has already expressed its position on what has just been said to be the ideology of privatization. But the problem is that there is no ideology, because ideology is normal. We can't see the systems. We see the desire, pointically, depending on economic and social, and more political, conjunctivities, to privatize strategic objects of the state that are profitable, which make profits, but obviously for which we want to make money very quickly, the more so that it is sold to foreigners. Everyone understands that very well today. For example, the Odessa port factory. In whose hands there will be a strategic enterprise, a real enterprise that is responsible for national security and energy security, by the way, for Ukraine's security. So our position is consistent. We believe that we must first address those fraudulent privatisation processes that have taken place, including voucher privatization, which we will discuss at parliamentary hearings on privatization in Ukraine. To understand who really owns the privatized objects today, what they give to our nation, what they give to our citizens. And then join other processes to which itches. Thank you very much. We don't itch.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u36	Thank you. In accordance with the Rules, we have concluded our discussion of the bill by means of a reduced procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u37	You can't, you can't, you can't, you can't. Yuri Anatolyovich later, thank you for understanding. Dear colleagues! And so, we're done discussing this bill. There is a further proposal to put to the vote Bill No. 2331 on the adoption of a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on privatization. Colleagues, I beg your attention, this is the first point. Now it's number two. What we talked about with you about the list of objects. Is there any objection that we should immediately write the second point: the Cabinet of Ministers introduce a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Lists of Objects That Are Not Privatized? Alexander Bondar has no objection? Can I have that? Sure. Thank you. Colleagues! Therefore, attention is paid to voting on the basis of Bill 2331 on amendments to some Ukrainian legislative acts on privatization, which is paragraph one. Item two. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine will submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Lists of Objects Not Privatized within a Week. Dear colleagues! Attention! We vote on the adoption of the bill and the decree as a basis. Decision in general, bill on the basis. [[16:36:12]] For 226 Decision taken. We can, dear friends, work for the Ukrainian State sometimes. Dear colleagues, the following questions are of the order of the day. In order to address the following issues of the agenda, we need to decide on the inclusion in the agenda and the decision-making process, and the questions were discussed at the Conciliation Council. In order for Parliament to take a decision on it, I am putting to the vote the question of inclusion in the agenda and the consideration of Bill Nos. 2339 and No. 2192. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for 2008 and amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for 2008 and amending certain Ukrainian legislation. This issue concerns exclusively the recruitment and financing of the armed forces. And the second law is the "On Military Duty and Military Service" Act, which is the question of grading the categories of military names of senior officers. Understood, comrades, that is to say, we are voting for inclusion in the agenda and consideration of the matter. Bills 2192, 2339. Please vote. [[16:37:46]] For 248 Thank you, colleagues. I propose Bill 2192 before consideration. Anatoly Stepanovich Grizenko, I'm asking you to come to the rostrum. Vladimir Makarovich Matvijczuk, I am addressing you, you know how we respect you, but there is a short question, and where is the Minister of Finance of Ukraine?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u38	I can't tell you where he is for a moment, but I think he's somewhere in the President's office. I can't answer that.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u39	Until you find out where the Minister of Finance is and inform me. Please, Anatoly Stepanovich Grizenko, please report the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u40	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues, the bill was introduced by three national deputies: Grizenko, Kuzmuk, Petruk. He was looking at a committee meeting, one held back, all the rest of the people's deputies are proposing to support this bill, I emphasize, in the first reading. It's the same proposal as the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. In fact, the bill provides for two things to be done. The first one, and I'm going to say right now that the need for it has already dropped, because the bill in question introduced the government separately, was about getting young people who didn't serve in the service but who had full secondary education. We suggest that we immediately withdraw this passage from the bill, because it has already become the norm of another law that we adopted in the first reading and will be taken into account accordingly. The second section of this law, the second sentence, provides for the introduction into the Armed Forces of the military of the “brigal general” and the corresponding military title for the naval forces. What is the point of this proposal? The point is, first of all, it is practically in all European and not just European states. Second, this step will allow for a clearer definition of military rank. Because now, for example, a regiment commander, a colonel, he's got about 2,000 people in custody, but also a brigade commander, a colonel with four and a half thousand people, is in principle a different level of management. And that's why we're offering brigade commanders, and I'm going to remind you that the Armed Forces have moved into the brigade system as a matter of fact, we don't have any divisions anymore. As well as for appropriate positions in headquarters and educational institutions, introduce this military title. This is also relevant at headquarters, because now who knows the structure of our headquarters, we feel the same inadequacy. Senior Colonel Officer, Head of Department, Colonel, Deputy Chief of Management, Colonel, Chief of Management, Colonel, and even Deputy Chief of Staff, Colonel. And so the introduction of another degree, as an intermediate, which is accepted in European and in general in other armies, will also be useful in our view. I want to remind you that this attempt has already been made by previous calls of the Supreme Council, but unfortunately, the second reading of the document has never been reached. Therefore, we invite you to accept it in the first reading. I would like to express those warnings that occurred during the consideration of this bill at our committee meeting. Individual national MPs expressed concern about whether there would be a major increase in the number of general posts and whether this would lead to, let's just say, generalization of the armed forces. First of all, there won't be, given the fact that I'm already in the state of the armed forces, I want to say, the order and the number of general posts brought to European standards two years ago. Instead, and this is obvious to the deputies, members of our committee, who will speak from this rostrum, are not doing so in other power structures. For example, the Security Service has over a hundred generals. In other power structures, there are terrible imbalances when a military formation of five thousand is headed by a general of the army of Ukraine. The military formation, the internal forces, the general of the army of Ukraine, is because in Soviet times, the internal forces for two republics of Ukraine-Moldov led the Lieutenant General and so on. The committee's working on it. If there is Parliament's will, we can, by agreeing with the professional Chief Scientific and Expert Directorate, introduce to the second reading appropriate additional positions to this bill in order to determine the military border ranks for military formations and bring them also into line so that there is no suspicion that the adoption of this law will increase the number of general posts. Another option may be by adopting a separate law, the committee will do so, I am sure that more than three hundred votes will be found in this room in order to bring about such dire imbalances. Another suggestion or warning they made, and they're also expressed in the opinion of the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, is that taking the Brigadier General to the category of senior officers is not entirely correct, rather referring to the category of senior officers. I think we can take that into account for the second reading. So the committee is ready to work on this document and prepare a quality document for second reading. Please support him in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u41	Thank you. Colleagues, five minutes of questions. Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u42	Thank you. Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, Party of Regions Dear Anatoly Stepanovich, this is about the appointment of a senior officer. I've heard recently that most Ukrainian national MPs have heard of a high-ranking National Security Service official who's already been called General General Field Marshal, a Marshal General, a very large general, I remember recently, he was captain. If there is, please tell us all whether there is a legislative procedure for assigning such names in the state today, you said correctly, I remember, I served then, the Lieutenant General commanded the administration of the internal forces of Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan, as well as here the Administration of the internal forces of Ukraine-Moldavia. This is a discreditation of the general title. And the second question. You've just started, please give us a breakdown of this ratio, because we've always had our eyes pierced that there's a lot of generals in the Armed Forces. This is how these floor generals are dug up: internal troops, the State Security Service, or any of you can bring the profile committee here, it's not appropriate, it's a "banana republic".
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u43	Thank you for asking. I promise you that before the second reading, before that, we will prepare a manual on both border military names and numbers by state and by the fact that the generals are in every force structure. I want to report that the committee has made a decision and on a monthly basis, we will monitor and track all categories of military personnel, perhaps in his statement Alexander Ivanovich Kuzmuk will provide this information, because he is conducting this analysis and can provide it in part. I can only say that the imbalance is terrible, we have just arrived, members of the committee, from Poland, where the heads of security have a border military rank as brigade general, and we actually have lieutenant colonels, and we have generals of the army of Ukraine. And if the General of the Ukrainian Army in the Armed Forces is even more or less clear, then the General of the Ukrainian Army is in the structure, for example, of the Foreign Intelligence Service, where 5,000 is completely misunderstood.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u44	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u45	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense. I'd like to ask you a question like that. Please tell me how much we're going to be in line with the additional generals, the brigade generals, how many more we're going to have, first. It's different. Do you think the normal situation that happened to us, starting with the senior officer, is still going to the colonels, what you just said in your report today. So you can go two ways: either zoom up a little bit, or you can go down a little bit. But apparently this is because of the very low wages, so they want to raise some prestige in the ministry. So I have a question about that, and about raising the salary of an officer and the attitude towards senior officers. Apparently, the general is not a senior officer, that's understandable.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u46	Thank you. You've raised a really important complex question, I'll give you the answer, which is going to be three parts. First. When the Cabinet of Ministers, which I was still working on, decided last year on 7 November to raise salaries for all categories and bring them into the single standard system, it was decided that since 2009, we would also order an army allowance. Now it's incredibly symbolic. For example, there is a difference between a colonel and a general of five, 135 and 140, respectively. This is not an incentive. That's the first one. The other one. You're absolutely right about the fact that you have to move in a few directions and you have to take this whole chain of six colonels sitting on top of each other. This work is being done. I can say that in 2006, as the secretary of defense, I issued an order that, according to which about a thousand 200 positions of senior officers had been reduced and the corresponding posts of junior officers had been increased to put the pyramid of the officer corps in the right position. That's absolutely right. Third. In terms of quantity, the Ministry of Defence can further clarify the calculation number that will be completed by the end of the reform.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u47	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u48	I think it's going to be about 60 people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u49	Valerius Beales.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u50	Thank you. Valerius Beales, Communist faction. Dear Anatoly Stepanovich, I'm here. I, in principle, understand. In fact, some of your position, it calls for respect for the fact that you are today making arrangements in the armed forces and in military formations in general. But there's one question: How many military officers do we still have in the Ukrainian Armed Forces?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u51	Thank you for asking. I think the exact information, if there is, is going to be calculated and said by Alexander Ivanovich, I think now there are about 135 people in the Armed Forces. But in the Security Service, the last information I saw was 116 generals, inconsistently. That's why I said it. In the Armed Forces this ratio is brought to European -- one by about a thousand, even less. But in other power structures, there's a terrible imbalance that's completely out of proportion to the standards. For example, in the External Intelligence Service, there is about one general per 130-140 company. So we're going to put it in order, and we're going to put it in law.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u52	Thank you, Anatoly Stepanovich. You were speaking, and as a reporter, and as a co-reporter from the committee, did I get it right? That's right. It would be correct if General Kuzmuk took the floor from the committee, although the committee did not define him. No objections, colleagues? Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u53	Dear colleagues, the introduction of changes and the new military term "brigadier general" and, by the way, it was not new, it existed until 1943, when the brigade system was like we have today. And it's not just about introducing a new military title, it's about organizing a general military system. Sadly, she has reached an absurd point today. I want to comfort you with some numbers. Ukraine’s Armed Forces: To date, there are 134 generals. This is, by the way, less in percentage than in any other force structure. In general, military formations now number 150 generals, and the law enforcement authorities number 278. Total in state 428. It's a shame to talk about it. And now who and how much. The External Intelligence Service is 28, state 32, only 4,000. State Border Service – 47, state: 65, 32. The post of head of the Foreign Intelligence Service is the General of the Ukrainian Army, the Foreign Army is the General of the Ukrainian Army. Smile: The State Security Department -- 2,000 -- the General of the Ukrainian Army. The commander of the internal forces is the General of the Army of Ukraine. General Kuzmuk is in command of the National Guard of Ukraine. With 50,000 people, a full-time job as a lieutenant general of the Guard. Here's the transformation, that's where they're sitting. Are we going to laugh? We'll go on, tears everywhere. The State Criminal Correctional Service: there was one general, there were 22 in the state today, there were 11 for each prison one at a time. One of the most modest things to know, the Ministry of Internal Affairs. By the way, no internal forces in the state -- 64, 67. Ukrainian Security Service: 72 state, 101 available. And the State Special Branch is 10 in the state by 7,000 people, 3 in presence. Now, what are the suggestions? The introduction of the Brigadier General, and in the second reading by me and the National Deputies: Petruk, Donczak and others prepared the following, senior officer: Brigadier General, Major General, Lieutenant General, Lieutenant General, Lieutenant General, dot. The General of the Army is the only one, the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces, and he is the Chief of the General Staff within a special period. We have developed a calculation methodology, as far as the percentage should be in every force structure of the generals, which should be approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as well as the number of forces of all structures. Following the adoption of the following week, I say, if we accept it on the first reading today, it can reduce, at least, 98, generals. Thank you for your attention. Please believe and support.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u54	Colleagues. Alexander Ivanovich, colleagues may want to ask a question. Will there be no objection? Five minutes, please sign up for the question. 2192, we're just looking at one. Please, "Our Ukraine", Zinovo Skutak.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u55	I don't think we should be doing this literally. You have to tell us less logically, because the external intelligence, the army, the internal forces, that's a very different structure. And there can't be one approach from the point of view, including the same generality. Do you think there should be one approach?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u56	Absolutely not. It can't be like that. External intelligence, Ukraine’s Security Service, as well as some types of Armed Forces, are practically entirely military. That is why an appropriate methodology has been developed that takes into account the percentage of the general rank in respect of officers. And for every, of course, there can't be the same approach.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u57	Sergei Gordienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u58	Please pass the word to Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u59	Please, Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u60	Thank you. Dear Alexander Ivanovich, you remember when discussing this issue at the committee meeting, I also said that perhaps not modestly enough the authors of the legislative initiative in the sand note noted or recorded, stressed that such an approach, i.e. the introduction of these names, the brigade general and the captain-command, would promote the prestige of military service in general. Well, that's hardly convincing. Perhaps this is not the main thing that can contribute to the rise, indeed, of the prestige of military service in today’s conditions. All right, I have a question. In the United States right now, about 350,000 military personnel, 904 generals, we have 150,000, now 160 generals. So how can I be?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u61	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u62	You gave an example.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u63	One more minute, Alexander. That's the first one. So I would like to ask you what to do about the proportions of generals in the United States Armed Forces and the Ukrainian Armed Forces. And secondly, please tell me, when and where did a Ukrainian citizen hear of such titles as "brigand general"? It wasn't there, Alexander Ivanovich, and in the 1930s. There were brigades, there were comcors, and there were no brigade generals. What's more, Captain Commanders. And I mean, what are the captains, and who are they supposed to be for? What's that for? Offered to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u64	Well, first of all, in answering, I clearly called the number of generals and the number of armed forces. The strength of the Armed Forces is 196,000,522 men. There are 134 generals in line. The coefficient is less than one. You called the United States. They get a higher percentage. As far as military names are concerned. The original title of the General, a senior Soviet officer until 1943, was a comrade of the Combi. It was one star. He went on: Major General. [[two stars]] Next came the lieutenant general, five stars the general of the army, and a marshal star. [[three]] That's why I know history very well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u65	Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u66	Alexander Ivanovich, I want to thank you very much for the numbers. I want to tell you that it is certain that today our people, the electorate, have learned for the first time the strength of the generals in our army. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u67	Not in the army.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u68	I mean, not in the army, but in the power structures. Yeah, first of all. It's different. I'm interested in the social side as a member of the Committee on Social Policy and Labour. We often receive complaints from a younger officer, a middle officer. This whole generality, does he have any social benefits or raise wages, or some kind of government security or something like that? And the third. Please dispel my doubts. I, when I hear a "brief general," have an association with NATO military structures right away. So we're already quietly preparing, creeping into this NATO outside the mind, the will of the people, and so on, does it have anything to do with NATO, whether it burns to the mother of hell?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u69	Jaroslav Vasilovich, NATO, really have these military titles, but they had these, those countries that joined NATO, before. It's all an accepted system in the world. We had other views that depended on the structure of the divisional and military structure. In 1943 we switched to these standards. All over the world, the original title is brigadier general. It may be seen today as not even to me as captain-in-command, but throughout the world, the order in which names are assigned is different, and the system of military knowledge is virtually the same. As far as the general's benefits are concerned. Trust the general of the army of Ukraine, who stands before you, who has a practical career as a general for 17 years. No benefits were ever granted to any general, and the difference in financial security, as has already been said, was from.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u70	Let me finish. Thank you. Alexander Ivanovich, thank you very much. Please sit down. Colleagues, wanting to sign up for factions and deputies are, aren't they? You won't? I won't. Then, honourable colleagues, there is the next suggestion: to move on to the voting procedure. By your permission. Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, the committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. You have a draft of Decree 2192. Colleagues, we're getting ready to vote. I am voting on the issue of adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Military Duty and Military Service, No. 2192. Please vote on the adoption of Bill 2192 as a basis. [[17:02:48]] For 376. Long live the Ukrainian Parliament. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I announce the next bill, 2339. There's a letter in exchange. Volodymyr Makarovich, I invite you to the rostrum. “On the State budget of Ukraine and on amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine.”
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u71	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, distinguished national MPs, I think you will agree that the main task of further development of the Ukrainian Armed Forces and other military formations in today's conditions is to increase their resilience. One way to achieve this goal is to increase the professional responsibility of military personnel, especially military servicemen, in carrying out their duties. I don't think it's a secret that in today's circumstances, soldiers can't carry such a high burden on morals alone. In order to increase this responsibility, the government decided to transfer 27,000 military service officers from July 1, 2008. With a view to providing financial support for the implementation of the tasks of the transfer of these 27,000 military personnel into contractual form, the government has submitted to you a draft law amending the 2008 Act on the State Budget and amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. The bill provides an additional cost of 1.6 billion dollars. And the extra revenue of 1.6 billion dollars, so this bill has the right balance. Additional expenses are proposed in this direction. 903.3 million dollars for military service under contract of military service. Including 560.8 million dollars for the Mini-Defense. Main Ministry of Defence Development, 5.6. The State Special Transportation Service is 23 million dollars. The main management of the internal forces is 151.1 million dollars. State Border Service 123 million dollars, Security Service 29.9 million dollars. External Development Services 2.5 million and State Security Administration 7.4 million dollars. Of the 903 million dollars, 268.6 million dollars is to be allocated to the military's cash provision in contractual form of service, which is at the rate of 1,200 dollars a month. And the second. For free food for military personnel under the contract of 634,7 million dollars, or 27 dollars per person per day. Of the estimated 1.6 billion dollars, 200 million dollars are available to make arrangements for the transfer of the military to digital communications. As well as 326.7 million dollars to raise the standards of food for military personnel, the Ministry of Defense to 17 dollars a day. In addition, the bill provides 150 million dollars for the acquisition of inspection and surveillance X-ray systems at border crossing points with European Union countries. The increase in expenditure is proposed by increasing the value added tax on imported goods. I want to tell you that in January/May of this year, we already have overturned revenue of 2.6 billion dollars and we expect over 4 billion dollars of recovery in total in a year. The Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority believes that the bill can be adopted, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Budget Issues will also support the proposed draft. In view of the above, the government is asking you to adopt a draft law to begin the preparations for the transfer of military service personnel to the contractual service on 1 July of this year, which will take some time. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u72	Thank you, Vladimir Makarovich. Five minutes of question. Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u73	Yuri Carmazin. Party of Protectors of the Homeland, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. Mr. Deputy Minister, I support these changes because they are a very difficult situation now in the army and in the security service and in other formations, people are getting out of the service because they can't stand the inflationary press and so on, which is happening now, which the whole state can't stand, but I have another question. Please tell me, now, in connection with this, the adoption of this law, do you not see the need to vote on it immediately in two readings, in the first and second readings, so that then the changes you are preparing now, which you have commissioned, and in particular Arsenij Petrovich stresses that all the time you need to make changes to be taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u74	Thank you for asking. Of course, we would like this bill to be voted on both the first and the second readings to prepare for the transfer to the contractual form. But I know that Mr. Grizzenko has some warnings, and if he did, what the Defence Committee is proposing, we could take into account with the big budget changes. But you have to if the committee agrees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u75	Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u76	Dear Vladimir Makarović, I am interested in your phrase “the government has taken a decision on the transfer to the contractual basis of the Armed Forces”. I understand that article 106 of the Government Constitution has repealed paragraph 17, I remind you, it is the President of Ukraine who is taking the lead in the areas of national security and defence. We don't have a two-man trust in the Holding Foundation, we're still getting a two-man, now Timoshenko's gonna be in charge of the army, she's gonna be building a contractual army. What a fool! Please say it now because you will never get the money. Sources, I understand correctly, the source of this contractual army is the increase in tax pressure. You already have 2.6 billion in the extinguisher somewhere. Why don't you, Vladimir Makarovich, and your unique government, give that money back to your savings, and you've made a lot of promises, and you've talked about the differentiation of pension payments, because today we also have an open comparison. Why the contractual army?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u77	Thank you for that question. Dear National Deputies! I would like to confirm that there is no increase in tax pressure on the manufacturer. I was talking about that the above-mentioned additional expenses would be funded by the tax on the added value of goods imported into Ukraine. We're going to have 2.6 billion dollars today, and we're going to have over 4 billion dollars a year. As far as you're concerned, why don't you just point them at the differentiation of pensions and so on. I, in principle, think that your question is correct. This year, we have carried out a number of measures that have led to the differentiation of pensions. You know, for the first time since 2004, in January of this year, we've upgraded the pensioner's salary by 2004. We've also predicted an increase in the ratio of one percent to 1.35, right, the introduction step by step, and this will give us an opportunity.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u78	Oleg Zarubinski. Let me finish Vladimir Makarovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u79	That's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u80	Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u81	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear report, this is a bill called the 2008 State Budget for Ukraine on change and parentheses. [[to accelerate the implementation of the tasks of the Ukrainian Armed Forces towards contractual recruitment of military personnel]] The first position you said I understood. Please state the second position that has to do with the recruitment of the armed forces by contract, where it comes from the implementation of measures for the transfer of the Ukrainian Armed Forces to digital equipment and the acquisition of the X - ray stick and so on. What is it that's going on or what? And then I think I'll speak, I'll say it again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u82	Honourable National Deputies, repeatedly at the meeting of the Supreme Council Defence Committee, discussed the issue of improving the financing of defence. There are urgent issues that need to be addressed immediately. Look at you, except for what you said, except for the military. There's over 300 million contracts there in the Ministry of Defense, it's easy to raise food. There was a standard of £8 of 50, which is no longer possible to feed children for that amount, approved a standard of 17.42, amounting to two hundred million for digital communication. This is an urgent need that needs to be resolved today, and that is why we have taken this step. The overall costs of defence will be increased when general changes are made to the state budget. The Defence Committee supports this position.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u83	Time's up on the question-answer. Please sit down. Paul Ivanovich Zebrovsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u84	Dear Arseny Petrovich! Dear National Deputies! The Budget Committee at its meeting on May 22, 2008, reviewed the draft law. As stated, the aim of the bill is to speed up the implementation of the tasks of the Ukrainian Government in the current year of the transition to the Ukrainian Armed Forces. The project is envisaged, as the deputy minister of finance has already said, to increase spending by a billion 600, increasing the income by the same amount. This amount is actually from overcoming, to an extreme extent, at least in three months, the substantial conviction of the income part of the budget. Of course, not all of this amount goes to the Armed Forces of Reform, because about a little more than a billion goes to the Armed Forces, 150 million, as has already been said here, are going to the Customs to collect X-ray equipment, as well as 25 million 348 thousand dollars to prepare and hold alternate elections of Kiev City Council deputies, by the way, to date 42 percent of the elections in Kiev alone are funded, as well as in the Belarusian village head of the Lugutin region of Lugansk, as well as the local elections appointed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on June 1st and those that can be appointed in the second half of 2008. That's the whole point of the bill, which is going to be a billion, 605 million, 283 thousand, 500 dollars. In fact, many can agree with the government's proposals that we need to speed up the transition to, say, the contract service. And the committee adopted the Supreme Committee, the Committee on Budgets decided to take a decision in general, in the first reading and in general. However, I have a denial of this, since we do not actually make the full transition to the contract service. We give money for food, for food, but we don't give money for combat training, for service housing, which puts enough problems. We're just assigning people again to these positions of contractors and at the same time we're not ensuring their function, their main function is to protect the country. If this person really doesn't have the money, the tank guy won't be running the tank, there won't be any regular shootings, if there's no housing today, we're sorry, we're never going to get these 27,000 people. Because of this, I would ask for today, despite the fact that the budget committee has decided to vote in favour of this law in the first reading and in general, I would ask to be limited to first reading, to finalize the law and then to approve the bill as a whole at the next plenary session. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u85	There are no questions to Paul Ivanovich? And unfortunately, we're on for five minutes. Naydenov, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u86	Samilik, please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u87	Thank you. Paul Ivanovich, really, seems to me that we should support him in the first reading, because especially few who are now willing to do the sacred duty, regrettably. How do you see that those parents who anoint their children from their constitutional duty, from serving in the Ukrainian Armed Forces, pay a fine to Ukraine’s State Budget for Life Tax in support of the Ukrainian Armed Forces? We share young people with those who know that they should give due to our country, protect its borders, and with very wise ones who have very much money and can be bribed, and resolve all matters of love for our Fatherland and patriotism. Like you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u88	You know, Mrs. Catherine, unfortunately, in no country in the world is such a life tax paid, but, in fact, it's an interesting proposition, I think. But it's within another law. Within this law, we cannot accept. But if such a bill is prepared, I am personally willing to support that some amount should be paid to those who do not want to serve in the military or that they should perform alternative service, that is, care for the sick and so on, and so forth. I am personally willing to support your suggestions if a law is introduced.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u89	Mikhail Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u90	Thank you. Paul Ivanovich, you know, the title of this bill is about making changes to the State budget of Ukraine. In your opinion, last week, we said that we would not consider any government bill until the government implements the rule of law and introduces the basics of this basic law, which will make changes to the State budget, which will increase wages, pensions, and will make adjustments to inflation. So, in its time, our government adopted a decree on the terms and structure of military personnel, members of the military and the primary staff, on November 7, 2007, which greatly increased the salaries for the title, the salary for the service of the years. In your opinion, why does the government of Tymoshenko today fail to make a decision? Maybe it's because of what was accepted by the Yanukovich government? But this is about our military personnel, about increasing the prestige of their service, and about increasing the financial security of these individuals and their families accordingly. When will our decision be fulfilled?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u91	Well, Mr. Michael, I would like to say that our faction today is voting in favour of government laws on the fact that the second chapter of the Budget Act was not actually adopted, and since there was no income part, and the Supreme Council owed to the government because the income part is not being filled, so we postponed our, let's say, desire not to vote on the budget bill. As much as there was a budget committee meeting today, we were told that changes to the Budget Act were already being made this week. I remember, Mr. Michael, that decision, and when we only took a budget under the President's veto, you just accepted an increase in expenditures for the Ministry of Defence. I remember this whole question, which is why there are problems here. As for what needs to be increased today. Of course, the prestige of military service should improve significantly. And I've already stressed it. But not only is it determined by the salary. So if you really have to become a military person, you have to learn military matters. Without such training, she simply takes up a position, no less. That is why I personally propose.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u92	Let me finish my college.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u93	Vote in the first reading to address this problem in a comprehensive way, so that the prestige of the military service is actually high enough.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u94	One last question. Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u95	Dear Pavel Ivanovich, well, according to this draft law, provision is made for the provision of money to begin preparations for the transition to the professional army. Well, I'm sorry, you're kind of illiterate. You don't know that we have a professional army as of 1 January, long ago. And because they recorded 10 per cent in the program. The transition to the professional army, they gained an additional 10 per cent in the elections, and our Ukraine's ratings dropped below the plituse. And hundreds of young people, believing that they didn't join the army, are now being prosecuted. So, perhaps you would propose to BUTU, even if they apologized to the people of Ukraine for that populism, for the craziness of the ideas and suggestions that, apart from the financial capacity of the country, it would be possible to join the professional army from 1 January? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u96	Mr. Michael, I think you've already suggested this, and they've heard from you and they'll respond to your offer. I am actually representing the faction “Our Ukraine – the People's Self-Defense”, which is why we are clearly implementing the contract service plan proposed by the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces, the President of Ukraine, who foresees a full transition to the contractual service by 2010. It's within this complex program that we're offering. And it's actually the National Defence and Security Committee that's saying, to go through, as I've already said in the fourth place, it's complex to this question, not just selectively to close down the units and pay the rent, that's housing, combat training, food and wages. Such a complex preparation should be present in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u97	Yuri Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u98	Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of Regions. Dear Paul Ivanovich, please tell us, on the basis of the logic of this bill, you propose to adopt it as a basis. I mean, we're still working on it for improvement. But given that the government has promised us this week to make budget changes complex, is there? The first question is, does it make sense for us to adopt this law now? Is it possible to wait for the government to bring in a general one? That's the first question. The second question is, please tell me, if we now vote on this law or in the first, or in general, will it not motivate this government, or will it not give it an understanding, the temptation to go through not systematic changes to the 2008 budget of Ukraine, but through such cosmetic, local changes, blackmailing MPs by what, well, the urgent need, is real in the Armed Forces today, where they are comfortable? And so, I think.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u99	Thank you, Mr. Yuri, for asking. Of course, if there was a generally complex approach, it would be fairer and we could count a lot. However, to date only changes to the budget law are foreseen. In addition, the Budget Committee intends to take a rather scrupulous view of the approval of these changes, since the budget we adopted in December 2007 was readily accepted because they did not want to leave the state without a budget and there are enough calculations. As a result, the Committee on Budgets should consider this bill, not in two sessions, but in a rather scrupulous manner, including by involving representatives from areas to hear their suggestions and wishes. I think they don't deny each other, and if we can actually calculate and prepare the changes, and that will speed up the process, just to help, or to give more money to the Armed Forces. I think it's only for the benefit of the Ukrainian state and the Ukrainian army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u100	Thank you, Paul Ivanovich, please sit down. Is there a desire? There's a wish. Then I'd like you to sign up for factions and national MPs. Step away from the faction, please. The faction of the Party of the Regions, Yuri Kolocei. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u101	Good afternoon, thank you. I'm asking you to give my word to my colleague Konovaluku Valery Illi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u102	Please pass the word from the place of Konovaluku Valery Illi.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u103	Valerius Konovaluk, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues! I am convinced that today we need to find out how much the Supreme Council affects budgetary policy in the state. If this is a disgrace, since it has been almost two and a half months since March 1, and we cannot determine the state of implementation of the State Budget in the first quarter and so on. We have enough, you know, respect for both military personnel and other types of the population, but, dear fellows, food standards today both in education and in health care do not match the state of funding provided for in the law in force today. Do we not understand that macroeconomic indicators have changed in the state? Today, it's not the country's living minimum, and we're hearing about some redundancies at the expense of imported goods, at the expense of the VAT congregation. And nobody's saying that VAT payments have increased, because that's the difference between the bills, let's say, the calculations. So I am convinced that we must demand, and the government has promised, Arsenija Petrovich, that we will have real changes to the State Budget this plenary week. This is not a private question, this is a question of the state's viability, and we must be responsible in this regard. So I'm convinced that any attempt today to make any changes that don't have to do with the fundamental changes all over the country and the financing of the expenditure that people are waiting for today are waiting for the region. I'm sure you can't do that. So I also urge the Deputy Minister of Finance to think carefully about this and to work on the changes that they would have had to give to the Supreme Council two months ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u104	Oleg Zarubinsky from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u105	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear Arsenia Petrovich, fellows of honor! We have an order of the day. It contains bill 2339 on amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2008 and amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts, the bracket is closed. [[on the acceleration of the implementation of the tasks of the Ukrainian Armed Forces towards contractual recruitment of military personnel]] What do we have to offer? Only one third of it really relates to the issue that has been raised. It's really about contractors, improving the situation in the army, financing, and so on. Why are there X-ray systems here for border crossings with European Union countries? What's with the funding of the elections that have already gone through, and what will they be like? What is the quality of these bills? We don't think we're reading anything here at all, and we don't understand that everyone is so stupid, that we can interpret it by one name here in a completely different way? Arsenius Petrovich, I don't understand how we can even consider such quality bills. I don't care about the government, not the government. I gave the subject a legislative initiative in accordance with the Constitution. Who will be responsible for the quality of this bulldog mess with the rhino? That's the bulldog's mess with the rhino. It's a lie to the people's deputies. There is no relation either to the election or to the specialty of the contractual army. We only vote in the first reading, "Block of Lithuania," but we will do everything we can to make the title of the bill fit the substance of the bill or vice versa so that the substance of the bill matches the title of the bill. And don't be so disrespectful about the people's deputies, some of them still work here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u106	Denkovitch Ivan, "Timoshenko Street". Ivan Vasilovich, please. Are you out of town? I can't see where Denkovich is. Out of the way, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u107	Out of the way. Please give the word to Prokopchuku Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u108	Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u109	Dear colleagues, you know that we're starting to politicize even such matters as the Armed Forces. Believe it or not, the Armed Forces are like the perp of the defense of the Ukrainian state, the first institution to stand up for themselves, they're tired of endless reforms, from endless humiliation, because we've been looking at some of the questions here, whether it's taking a title or something. And so today, when we're going to politicize and confuse VAT here and everything else, we're never going to go out to really secure a decent salary for the military and create conditions for them to go through military service properly. So there is a suggestion to stop all of these, as it were, further political statements and move on to the vote. The army is tired of waiting for this. Let's support our Armed Forces and show our solidarity that we also care about them. And who else will have questions there about individual articles, I think in the second reading we can fix it there. Thank you for your attention. And please proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u110	Katerina Samuelk. Out of the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u111	Thank you very much. Arsenius Petrovich, I have a question for you at all. You promised, and why this was published in the media, that before the Supreme Council of Ukraine review, before the change to the 2008 State Budget, no matter and no initiative will be taken by the government to make any changes to the Ukrainian State Budget. So where is the logic, and where is the sequence in your statements? That's the first one. The other one. Of course, the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine advocates a comprehensive review of the changes to the state budget of Ukraine, because Arsenija Petrovich, on January 1, 2008, is radically different from today. I realize that the governing coalition needs to be declared ready to carry out its duties, so these particles that you know will sound so populist to our people today. The truth is being fulfilled with very late hours. As far as the substance is concerned. I support my colleagues' comments that we should finally respect the national deputies of Ukraine and the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Really, what's the election about, what's the other question? And that's why we're going to vote, the faction for the adoption of the law in the first reading, but on the condition that before the second reading, we're going to clear this bill and we're going to leave those changes to the budget that match the title of the bill, not those that are just being shoved into this bill, or maybe we're not going to read or see that it's actually written there. But as for the transition to a contract in general, I have already expressed my opinion as simply a national deputy of Ukraine, and I want to say that at the time of admission, parents and young people really come to us and ask that if our children no longer have a choice and they have to go to the army, that is to say, to some extent even a way out, because especially in rural areas of the child, there is nowhere to go to work, nowhere to make a penny. And so, indeed, these children need to be given due consideration, but the question of order of the day is the raising of love for the Father, the raising of patriotism, the raising of the protection of her borders. And we know that somehow we're solving all of these issues and we think that we're solving them globally. Nothing like that, we will not solve the main question for every young person.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u112	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u113	For every young person to be consciously committed to the sacred duty of protecting his Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u114	Roman Zvaric. Anatoly Grizzenko from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u115	Thank you. Dear Arsenius Petrovich, my fellow Members, I would like to present the positions that have been expressed at the meeting of our committee on this law. First, the law is up - to - date, and we must welcome the efforts to keep the electoral promises and move on to a contract. But the law is not well prepared, and it is true, starting with the name, which is easy to count, and as far as the matter is concerned, the colleague of Zebravsky has already spoken about it. I want to pay attention and give us the very answer to the question, we need a contractual army or we need a contractual professional army. Obviously a professional who knows how to shoot, he does battle tasks. The bill proposes to reduce the cost of repairing equipment for combat training by a total of 30 million, and this cannot be agreed with. Secondly, we need soldiers who will receive more money, better nutrition, but will they write notes and go to pay with the machine and all? That is why specific suggestions, first, are accepted in the first reading and only in the first reading. Second, change the name of the law, which is easy, what Zarubinsky’s colleague spoke of. And the third, out of a total of 903 million 284,000 dollars at least, I emphasize that at least for the Ministry of Finance, 20 percent should be driven away in three directions: the first, the restoration of technology, the second, the preparation of warfare, the third, the construction of a service residence in the midst of all the power structures. Then it's going to be a guarantee that the people who are called in addition are not going to be 27,000, maybe 20 or less, but then they're going to be more likely. And guaranteed, they'll be going through normal combat training. Please support these comments. I also understand, colleagues, from the Party of Regions and others who made warnings about non-systemic approaches, I'm in favour of a systematic approach, and it would be better if there was a draft change to the budget law that covers all spheres. Since it was introduced a long time ago, more than a month ago, we suggest that we accept it in the first reading. Maybe we've talked about this with the head of the budget committee, it's going to happen so quickly that there's going to be a general draft of changes to the budget, and since this goes into effect from July 1st, we'll be able to merge later, but it's going to be a workable document that can also be self-delivered to the second reading under some other force majeure. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u116	Thank you. The last is Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin and we move on to the voting procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u117	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine”. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm addressing those MPs who said they didn't need anything other than a contract army today. Thus, 200 million are being proposed for the digitalization of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Dear friends, do you know that we have the longest link in the army today? Aren't you ashamed of it? It's got to be embarrassing. So the sooner we adopt this law, the better. Because we're still digital in the military. When was the last time you were in parts? There is no digital connection. That is why the cost is absolutely right. Now we're paying 150 million dollars to buy the X-rays that we're going to spend. And I want to give you that number. Customs had to pay 25.9 billion in five months, and 36.1, that plus 10.2. In this regard, can they improve their working conditions so that they can find even better smuggling and all that? But we are obliged to do so! Where are you pushing us, gentlemen? You're pushing us to the stone age. Then we'll move on. Whether to enter into military service by contract, when to do it, and when the law enters into force. Excuse me, but... “Pluton is my friend, but the truth is more expensive.” The law states that he enters, takes effect from the day of his publication. That's why I think this project that came forward, and on April 7th, it says, "from the day of publication," read the law, matchmaking, it's all written here. All right, ladies and gentlemen, let's not know what the government is going to do this week, thank God. But by the time we get with you to the first, the second, the third reading, the army will be fed, the army already gets the money to translate, the contractors will get more, because it's a planned process. Today you give the money, it doesn't mean you're going to recruit the contractors tomorrow, it's going to have to run the program at this cost, and so on. So I'm suggesting maybe a non-standard solution, but let's make two reads just because we have a bigger budget, to which, changes to the budget, where we can fix everything and those thirty unhappy millions find it. In one billion six hundred and thirty million, what we're crying about, are billions of six hundred that are changing. And, thank God, the government has implemented this project. I welcome this project, it needs armies, armed forces, the Security Service, customs, all those who defend and protect this state, who it does not matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u118	The reporter and the co-reporter insist on the presentation? Reporter Vladimir Makarovich Matviychuk, microphone
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u119	Ladies and gentlemen, we very much ask you to support this bill. In the June months, we're essentially not going to have enough money to feed military personnel, and there's expenditure on this food. We ask you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u120	Paul Ivanovich, don't you have a wish? Turn on the microphone from the spot.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u121	Dear colleagues, I think we should vote in favour of this bill in the first reading, because there are many objections and additions and I am convinced that we can regulate. Next week we have a budget committee working, and I think that the proposals that will come, we'll take a quick look at them and we can accept them. I'm sure there's no need to hurry, because the funding starts on July 1st, so until now we're going to adopt this bill. But I wanted to get a quality product from the Supreme Council, not from a predator, a runner, and I don't know where we're going today. I'd like to vote on this bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u122	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I have been asked questions about the Ukrainian State Budget Act and about the bills introduced by the Ukrainian government. All that the head of Parliament does and says is that it's being implemented, because I made it clear that none of the new bills that the government is making will be considered, but there are bills that have been put into the agenda, and you realize that not to consider the bills that have been tabled and voted by all of you is a violation of the law already. The second question. Such a paradoxical situation, but this law, which we are currently considering, is called the Law on Amendments to the Law on State Budget. And third, it's important. I spoke to the Prime Minister today and just now with the Minister of Finance, the road to amending the Ukrainian State Budget Act opened today in the parliament walls by adopting Bill 2481. There is a promise that the government will act immediately in the shortest terms, and I have asked that this be tomorrow, and I hope that they will be able to accept at least the basis of the appropriate act by tomorrow, and to amend the Ukrainian State Budget Act in Parliament. So the work goes, and the new bills, of course, will not be considered as we have a direct rule of law. However, according to the old ones who are included in the order of the day, we should extend this situation according to the Rules. Colleagues, I put to the vote, now after the vote, the committee proposes to accept as a whole. But here's a lot of comments from our colleagues. That is, colleagues object to voting in general. In view of what I propose, Bill 2339 should be adopted on the basis of paragraph 1 and paragraph 2 should be reduced twice by the preparation of the bill for the second reading and submission of it to the Supreme Council. Is that how it works or not? May I? Sure. I then put to the vote a bill on the adoption on the basis of Act No. 2339 on the State, a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2008 and amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine, paragraph 2 to shorten the deadlines for preparation and submission for consideration of the bill for second reading in the Supreme Council of Ukraine twice as defined by the Rules. Vote, comrades. [[17:45:57]] For 274 Decision taken. Show by factions. I ask the committee of profile of Mikola Ivanovich Derkach and Pavel Ivanovich to quickly collect proposals, because we already have a great deal of legislation for the second reading. Colleagues, the next bill 2012 is announced – changes to the Provisional Rules. Alexander Sergiyovich. Sergey Volodymyrovich, will you or Alexander Sergiyovich? Please give Sergey Volodymyrovich the word, Sasa, and then Alexander Sergiyovich the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u123	Thank you. Honorable Arsenija Petrovich, respected colleagues, a bill introduced by the national deputies Ephraim, Sass, and Kowal, was prepared by the Regulatory Committee. The bill analyzes the proposals made to the Rules during the fifth and sixth vocations, and they were only over 60, and they are supported by representatives of various factions that represent both coalitions and represent factions that do not form part of the coalition. Therefore, in accordance with part two of article 108, article 49, please put to the vote the proposal to consider the bill in short motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u124	I don't think there's any objection to the reduced procedure? Colleagues, I'm asking you to put 2012 under a shorter procedure. Vote. [[17:47:41]] For 376 Alexander Sergiyovich, please to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u125	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, honourable colleagues, at the meeting of the Committee on 16 April 2008, discussed the proposal of the Conciliation Council of 14 April this year on the possibility of preparing and amending the Committee to the Provisional Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on parliamentary opposition and the holding of a "hour of questions to the government". Members of the Sass Committee, Koval, have been amended to amend the previously submitted bill by a co-ordinated bill of 2012 from 05.05.2008, which provides for amendments to 27 articles. [[Registration number 2012 from 03.04.2008]] Of these: changes to the 22 articles of the Provisional Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and supplemented by its new chapter 12.1 of article 67.1-67.5 – on parliamentary opposition. It is also proposed to present in a new edition articles 224 and 225 on the organization and conduct of a “hour of questions to the government”, which provide for 30 minutes for questions for government members only from members of the non-committal faction, as well as 30 minutes for questions from Ukrainian national deputies, irrespective of their membership in the coalition or opposition. The Committee adopted a decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the inclusion of a draft decree in the weekly plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to consider it and to adopt it as a basis and as a whole. In addition, I note for the transcript that, by agreeing with the initiators of the draft of the said decision, it is proposed that part of the sixth and eighth articles of the 85th Provisional Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine should be left valid and that the draft regulation should be deleted from the text of the proposed new regulation. Since the proposed revision of these parts was made prior to the adoption of the Constitutional Court’s decision of May 22, 2008. And in our opinion, they don't take this decision fully into account because they only apply to amending laws, and in the motivational part of the decision, it is stated that if there is a need to stop the law, to make changes and additions, they should be used by separate laws. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u126	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. I'm asking questions, answers. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u127	Vladimir Yavorowski, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear voters, distinguished national MPs! The “Julia Tymoshenko Block” has always demonstrated democracy in the face of opposition, as we have often been in opposition. And because of that, we believe that the stronger the opposition in the government, the stronger and more moral government. That's our principle. Because of all that is contained in this bill, which is designed to give more complete authority to the opposition, it is all made up of these amendments to our Rules. I'm sure we're voting in the first reading today because there are interests and opposition here, but this is today's opposition party -- tomorrow we can be in opposition. And we, because there is a broad coalition, because I think we have our common interests here, and that's why we need these additions to our basic law in the activities of the Supreme Council, I'm convinced that he needs to give all the votes and vote in the first reading. Indeed, there are some refinements, and I think we should do the same without delay, then go through the second reading. The “Julia Tymoshenko Block” will vote in favour of this bill and invite everyone in this room to the same fruitful and intellectual work as voting. I think you will, but we just don't have another way out.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u128	John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u129	Ladies and gentlemen, this bill expands the rights of opposition in Parliament and this is a very good signal. But I think you can only accept it on the first reading. Because we need to take a good look at these articles, but what we have warned about has happened before. The point is that our Constitution guides us to the emergence of the Rules as a law. And it was the commission of the Rules Committee to prepare the Rules as a law. And we were promised such a document would be. But we're already seeing that every day, every month, every month, we see all new changes, new changes, new changes. And so there was some kind of carefree river of proposals for our Rules. When it stops, this river, when are we really going to start implementing the Constitution? So my proposal is to work on a regulatory committee to see if there's a law on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And now we're going to adopt this bill in the first reading, and we're going to work on it, and we're going to accept it. And the next thing you know, we're gonna stop. After all, we need to fulfill our obligations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u130	Thank you. Whose faction, Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u131	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, honourable colleagues, “Block of Lithuania” fully understands that our colleagues, including the authors of this legislative initiative, want to strengthen the rights or guarantee the rights of those who do not belong to the ruling majority. On the other hand, I would like to point out that in the Constitution of Ukraine, which is the basic law, the category “Parliamentary Coalition” is clearly used. There's not a word about opposition. So it seems to me that the honourable colleagues, what they should do, are now concerned about the grinding of the Constitution, obviously at the same time with this bill, with this decree and propose some changes to the Constitution to make it a constitutional category, not a provisional regulation, that is the first. And second of all, I also have my proposals for this bill. For all the obvious reasons, public reasons. And I ask that I be given the opportunity to make these proposals in accordance with the parliamentary procedure, and the Interim Rules, by the way, and in accordance with the Rules to submit them to the Preparatory Committee for processing for second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u132	Thank you, dear colleagues, The main proposal that has emerged is to adopt the bill as a basis. Then there is the following suggestion: To accept it as a basis and also to shorten the terms of consideration and submission to the second reading. I'm talking to the members of the regulatory committee right now: well, there are things here that don't just settle. Sergei Volodymyrovich, if you please, I wanted to address you, including, here are things that not only regulate the activities of the parliamentary opposition. There is a conceptual change in the 80s, 88s, 89th article of the Supreme Council Rules, which affects the scope of powers, including the Head of the Supreme Council. By the way, the Head of the Supreme Council is the very lawless person in the system of coordinates of the Ukrainian authorities. And here you're still trimming him with everything you can trim. Therefore, honourable colleagues, once such a proposal has come from parliamentarians, I am voting on the adoption as a basis by shortening the deadlines for submission to Parliament for the second reading of the relevant proposals of the Ukrainian National Deputies of Bill No. 2012 amending the Interim Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, attention, please vote. [[17:57:21]] For 396 Ladies and gentlemen, the decision is made. I would like to brief you on tomorrow’s workday. Now it's not appropriate to start looking at the issue because it's going to be an hour at least. We have two minutes left. It's about tomorrow. So we had a demand for a faction of the Party of Regions and a vote, and I'd like to remind you, 360 votes to complete the debate on monetary and monetary policy at the speech of the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Economics. We agreed on the Conciliation Council that we would do it today. But because we have a very busy day today, I would ask that we spend 30 minutes tomorrow giving a speech to the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Economy, in total, for two to 30 minutes. Is there no objection to the decision we made last week? Okay? Ivan Grigorovich, say, good or bad, because you represent the government of Ukraine. Okay. There's no objection. Then. Wait. Yuri Bogdanovich, please sit down. Wait. There's a lot of moon here. Parliament hasn't worked here in six months. Wait. Is that why this question is accepted? Roger that. There'll be a day-to-day order, and tomorrow we'll be looking at all the ratifications made by the government. Wednesday is a classic day of ratification. The entire 30-day committee has no decision, there are 15 ratification acts by the government of Ukraine. Now, Yuri Bogdanovich, what did you want to include? Turn on the keykowski microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u133	Arsenija Petrovich, there are a number of issues that concern the administrative and territorial system. They don't call for discussion. But they're lying there and they're not settling down and they're piling up. We would like to use the remaining time to resolve the four or five questions. It's just a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u134	Tell me some questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u135	But it's in the living room. And about assigning names.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u136	We have one minute left, Yuri Bogdanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u137	Arsenius Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u138	What bills?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u139	Arsenius Petrovich, continue for 15 minutes, it is in your will.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u140	Okay, I'll be 15 minutes, so tell me a specific bill. There's a day's work, folks. This is not an arbitrary form of Parliamentary work. Colleagues, I get it. You just call. Colleagues, pay attention! If there is no objection, 15 minutes, listen to the bill. I'm continuing for 15 minutes. It's only about bills for establishing and changing the boundaries between areas and areas and names. Do you mind if we take a look, colleagues? Martinyuka, as usual, has a denial. Please, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u141	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear Arsenija Petrovich, they want to mislead you. Don't disturb Sobolev, please, I'm calling the chairman. They're trying to mislead you. Because these bills are not as simple as they want to be told. The division of boundaries, especially the division and the transfer of one territory to another, is followed by a lot of skin issues, because it's a division of territory, the assignment of one territory to another, especially agricultural land to the territory of the city, because it's taken from the villages of the territory, transferred to the cities, and then the city authorities are already in charge of that territory. Not the Supreme Council will determine what is there to build and how to take these lands away. And it's not as simple a question as they're about to tell us right now. And they want to, excuse me, put these bills through the noise. Come on, we don't have the right to jump them and watch them now.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u142	Yuri Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u143	Dear colleagues, I am very sorry to disappoint Adam Ivanovich, but in one case it is a matter of changing the boundaries of the districts rather than referring to someone else’s agricultural lands. In the second instance, it is the inclusion of the Baranja area of the Baranja City Council, which again does not touch the neighboring rural councils. And two renaming decrees, where there are no boundaries at all. So let's not look for politics where it's not there.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m1.u144	Dear friends, you can make a constructive offer, as always. So that we don't fight across borders right now, we put the boundaries down, because there's really a question. But of these four decrees, there are two decrees to rename. Can I do a renaming? No objections? I won't. Colleagues, the bill 2032 is being discussed. Bill, Order on the Rename of the City of Novoyavorovsk Yavorovsk district of Lviv district Dear colleagues, I vote for change. Is there no objection to changing the procedure for reviewing the bill? None. I'm voting for a change in the draft without a report, and I'm going to read the bill right now. So, what? And the cards? All right, let's get some cards. I vote that the bill should be amended, that we should deviate from one-off procedures, that these bills should be considered by special procedure, without a report on the basis and in general. Dear colleagues! Attention! On the procedure for the special consideration of Bills 2032 and 2428, please vote. [[18:03:22]] For 319 Now, colleagues, pay attention! I put to the vote on the basis and in general Order 2032 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the renaming of the city of Novoyavorovsk Yavorov district of Lviv district. The Supreme Council of Ukraine decrees that the cities of Novoyavorovsk, the region of Lviv, should be renamed the city of Novoyavoryvsk. Colleagues, on the basis and in general. Please vote. [[18:04:01]] For 333 Decision taken. Colleagues, the following decree, put to the vote on the basis and in general Bill No. 2428 on the appointment of the newly established settlement of the Alexandrov district of Kirovograd. Adapt to the newly created site of the Alexandrov district of Kirovograd, the village of Lisov. Dear colleagues! We vote on the basis as a whole. [[18:04:36]] For 334 Decision taken. My dear friends, I would like to thank all of you, the faction leaders, have worked very well. Until tomorrow. The only thing in the government, if there's a government meeting tomorrow, Alexander Sergiyovich, then Pinzenic will be transferred depending on the government meeting, okay? It's a deal. I declare the evening plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed.
