ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-14-m0.u1	Dear people's deputies, good morning, I'm asking you to register. Turn on the "Council" system, please register. [[10:03:20]] There were 288 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, faction leaders have gathered for 10 hours. For me now, the main goal is to find out that there are bills that really need to be adopted today or not, those that have already been introduced, by the way, into the agenda, and we should be looking at them today. We will hear all the demands both within the political forces of the coalition and the opposition that were already declared yesterday. And I think sooner than an hour later, we won't break up. So I'd like to ask you to gather for 11 hours after the faction leaders meet, and I'll fill you in on the real situation of all the bills. Because there are some very interesting things that I would like to share with the people's deputies. Colleagues, report at 11:00.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-14-m0.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the faction leaders, the MP factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine have ended and to report on the decisions that have been taken and the things that have been discussed at our meeting. The first thing I would like to point out is that if today there was no blocking of the Supreme Council's rostrum, as we say yesterday, we would already be looking at all the bills that are of a kind of stimulating economic nature, as these bills were included in the agenda on Monday on the basis of a decision of the Conciliation Council. The second is that of those bills that need to be considered. Parliament is ready to consider any legislation that is prepared and introduced by the Government of Ukraine. In doing so, of these six bills, which were proposed, only two government bills and four bills were introduced by the Ukrainian people's deputies. The third is one of the key bills: this is the Customs Tariff Act. I would like to inform you that the latest version of this law came yesterday at 7 p.m. The Cabinet of Ministers he was introduced to the eighth number, the 10th I wrote him down, and the Committee of the Supreme Council literally examined him yesterday, and so today we're talking about what went on deliberately, it's unlikely that it would be credible. Next. I've done a review of all the bills introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers. During the current week, 34 drafts were proposed for consideration in the first and second readings introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. So more of all I'm concerned about today is who misinformed the Prime Minister of Ukraine that there are no bills in Parliament for four months? The longest bill not considered was a month ago. As Head of Parliament, I am willing to take personal responsibility if it is acknowledged that there has been a delay in considering draft laws. I am addressing all committee leaders: if there is a bill that is government-defined as a priority and that is delayed for some reason on the committee, please immediately submit it. Everything is included in automatic order. The only bill that has not been included in the current plenary week is a bill on administrative or national price regulation. I would like to point out that the Ukrainian Law on Prices and Prices of 1992 and the decision of the Constitutional Court of 2000 in the Government is full of rights on government price regulation. Here are these two acts, please. However, if these bills are to be considered, we are ready to move them immediately by decision of the faction leaders and to consider them today in accordance with the procedure set out. There are no questions about the consideration of drafts. Even those hot ones that are not yet reproduced by Sergey Anatolyovich Teryochini, please. But there are 600 pages of text. Another thing that I would like to inform you is that, in my opinion, this is not a crisis in the middle of Parliament, this is an institutional crisis, and the institutional crisis is not only solved by the Ukrainian people's deputies. So the faction leaders decided I had a conversation with the President of Ukraine. If institutions cannot reach a proper understanding, it is desirable to sit at the table and negotiate. At 11.30 a meeting of factions' leaders, the President of Ukraine, the Prime Minister of Ukraine and the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, was launched. Parliament will deal with the crises it creates on its own. And if crises are created from the outside, it is desirable that those involved in these crises, including those involved, take part in their resolution. So at 11:30 today, we meet and I'd like to point out once again that we're ready to work in an exclusive design, but what's happening now is not a design. Dear colleagues, after meeting with the President today, I propose that we do not delay the day, we meet, today is the opportunity for the Ukrainian National Deputies to work on the Committees of the Supreme Council, including those laws introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers to complete the schedule. [[I think it's gonna take a while.]] So I ask, given the political situation in the middle of Parliament, we work on committees. I'll see you tomorrow at 10 a.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-14-m0.u3	Turn on the microphone. Dear colleagues, we're blocking the rostrum. I've got some explaining to do, too. I am not disassociating what the Head of the Supreme Council said, but this hall knew things, as they say, and more greedily. We voted and draft decrees, and bills, and voted when crisis was to be overcome. To date, the laws that we make and which we ask to consider on behalf of the government have been introduced. On April 1st, the very main law was introduced, the very main one, which deals with overcoming the deficit of certain types of food. That's why we're saying today that if the Chief of the Supreme Council says we're ready to consider it, we're ready to unlock the rostrum right now and consider these bills. We are ready, the head of the Committee of Terjehohin Sergey Anatoliyovich. Thank you for the committee's constant consideration of these laws, and they're ready to be introduced into the hall today and discussed. And we know that the good will of the deputies is to support, as in previous years, many other positions that were bothering the country at the time. Arsenius Petrovich, ready, please. If there's a good will to do it after the President's meeting, we'll immediately unlock it and get to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-14-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, according to the Provisional Rules – although temporary, there is nothing more permanent than temporary – I declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed.
