ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u1	Good morning, comrades. Let's register, please. [[10:01:22]] Registered -417 There are 417 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. Dear colleagues, I'm going to start today with a friend of ours, Mikhail Mikolaiovich Papiev's birthday. Let's say hello. [[Applause]] This is the first news. The second news is that there is no schedule for today’s session. So we and the faction leaders need to agree on the schedule for today’s meeting. So I'm inviting the faction leaders for an hour -- 11 o'clock -- to start work to form a schedule.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u2	Colleagues, report. The faction leaders have just concluded their meeting. Starting with yesterday's schedule, it's about ratifying a series of bills: 0042 is the Agreement between Ukraine and Turkey on Military Preparation; 0056 is the ratification of Ukraine's application for membership in the International European Innovation and Technology Programme; 0057 is the Agreement between Ukraine and Croatia on Military and Technical Cooperation and the ratification of the Memorandum between the Cabinet of Ministers and the Government of Malaysia on Defence Cooperation. [[A military day like this]] Finally, the agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers and Algeria on military and technical cooperation. That's how we actually have the ratification of military documents today. With regard to other matters of the order of the day. 1425 is a draft of the Act amending the Act on Notariat. [[It's a second reading.]] Today, we will complete the adoption of a series of bills. Next. Second reading of the bill on Ukrainian legislation. Next. Two bills are related to each other: this is a draft law amending 324 articles of the Criminal Code and 323 articles of the Criminal Code and 0981 – a draft law amending the Criminal Code and the Criminal Procedures Code. [[increasing responsibility for crimes against families and children]] It's about using a child for begging. That's all there is to it today. I ask you to vote. After the vote with a motive. Please vote in favour of the adoption of the relevant timetable. [[11:04:55]] For 280 Please show by factions. Region Party – 132, BUT – 124, “Our Ukraine” – 5, Communists – 0, “Block of Lithuania” – 19. Three minutes, please, write down your motives, and then the national MPs' speeches. There's a suggestion to rewrite the factions from the formation of the schedule. Is such an offer accepted? Please rewrite how the factions speak so that each faction can express itself. One minute, it'll be five minutes. Katerina Samuelk, Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u3	Thank you. Martinyuk, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! On the one hand, we can say that the Supreme Council is more productive than ever. Because such unanimity in the adoption of laws, as we have demonstrated in the last three weeks, has not been seen in Parliament for a long time. But unfortunately, they're selective bills. These are the bills that are coming, and today we received this confirmation from two factions at the Faction Leaders' Council. Any suggestions that have something to do with other factions, I don't want to say that they meet on the boards, but somewhere near that. Despite the fact that there are a lot of people among the factions' leaders associated with our recent history, the Communist faction has been insisting for some time now that every day the question of the 90th anniversary of the Komsomol will be put on the agenda. Unfortunately, that's all that's left.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u4	Hanna Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u5	Please pass on the word of Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u6	Alexander Efraemov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u7	Dear colleagues, some time ago when I spoke in this room, I spoke about morals in politics. I would like to return to this issue once again, on the basis of the events that are taking place here in the Hall today and in the policies of our State. Every day we hear and see on television screens statements about the formation of a coalition, hearing that by evening someone had decided that a coalition had been formed on three, then those coalitions were falling apart, then they were re-created, no one wanted to admit honestly that, as a result of the work done by the orange factions, they had worked out to such a state that they could not work together today. And to be afraid to admit only one thing that they're pushing our country into a new election. I wish you would.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u8	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u9	What was particularly remarkable was what happened to us in the form of a meeting in Arsenia Petrovic's office, when some factions were asked by others: did we set up an agenda or did we not set an agenda? We must make it clear on the issues that we have been formulating the agenda for the past four weeks, the Party of the Regions and the representatives of the BIT faction, and this agenda is working effectively in the room because all the bills that are passed from this agenda are voted on and have a positive result in the vote. We have walked away from the political aspects of this work, which only benefits the work of both the Supreme Council and our State. I would therefore like to emphasize that, despite the situation that is emerging and the country as a whole is moving towards elections, if the elections are announced, the responsibility for holding the elections is the responsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u10	Roman Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u11	Dear colleagues, I hereby declare that the proposals of our faction for the day's order are not yet taken into account. They remain unchanged: this is, first of all, the lifting of parliamentary immunity, the recognition of criminal responsibility for the denial of Holodomor, the bills tabled by the President of Ukraine on the settlement of local self-government and, in particular, the lifting of voting results on bills that give Russian the official status language, which was voted in the first reading for the support of the BUT faction. But. Dear colleagues, since yesterday's negotiations between the three factions of the Prime Minister of Ukraine stated that the BUT faction did not agree with the draft agenda in the last month, Mr Arsenija Petrovich, I would like to ask you to officially state who the draft agenda was today. And if that's the case, who did the drafts of the agenda that the Supreme Council was working on.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u12	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u13	Last month.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u14	Vladimir Yavorowski. Ivan Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u15	Dear colleagues, and I want to officially state from the faction, to thank the hall that supported our very first performance in early September. We clearly said, in the end, let's work for the people, for the state. To do this, we need to know the confrontational laws. And for a month we demonstrated to the whole country that Parliament is capable of working. There are 450 deputies, elected by the Ukrainian people, regardless of the color of our flags. So, colleagues, thank you for having adopted in this room the Mining Act, which has been in place for 10 years, for adopting the tariff grid, and from today to a third, wages have grown in the budget and pension sphere. Thank you for supporting a number of agrarian issues. Thank you for having accepted so many questions and the productivity of Parliament that it was not a year earlier. Let's film speculation on these subjects. Roman Mikhailovich, I'm sorry to bother you. We ask questions that will not be heard in the audience. MP's touchiness. We voted it in the first time we voted 100 percent, and your faction didn't vote completely, and now half of us are voting. What's the point? Stop the speculation!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u16	Mikola Shershun.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u17	Surrender the word to Catherine Vaschuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u18	Katerina Vaschuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u19	Katerina Vashuk, “Block of Lithuania”. The faction supports today’s order of the day, just as it is constructively suited to the work of the Supreme Council. In fact, the situation today is such that we can be united only by working on matters that do not disunite the hall but will unite us. And this once again tells us that obviously we were in a wrong hurry to declare, write down, in the Constitution, such great rights of coalitions that. And that makes it impossible to work constructively. We would like to see the laws of Kharkiv passed in the same structure tomorrow, a law that suffers from taxes on added value for peasants and laws relating to pensions and health care. [[aviation]]
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u20	Colleagues, a lineup. Welder.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u21	Dear colleagues, I don't understand the position that has just been echoed by the leader of the BUT faction, because it's about lifting the parliamentary integrity -- and thus fulfilling our common promises to the voters. Why the BUT faction doesn't want to do this at this stage, I don't understand. Why the BUT faction votes in favor of the Russian language, I do not understand. Why the BUT faction agrees with the Party of Regions, I also do not understand. Arsenius Petrovich, tell us to whom has the order of the day been given today?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u22	Comrades, we sit down, we occupy jobs, we work together, we reduce the temperature. With regard to the order of the day, this issue was discussed today at a meeting of faction leaders: how the order of the day is formed. The daily order is formed over the last four weeks in agreement with two factions, which, in fact, has just been confirmed by Adam Ivanovich: this is the “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko” and the Party of Regions. Yesterday, I insisted that, if there is the ability of the democratic coalition to recover, at least for the first time, let's say that this is the first time that the three factions have signed. I'm not talking about the coalition agreement project right now -- I'm talking about the first step that would make it possible to say that the question of restoring the coalition is on the order of the day and that there is a probable possibility that a coalition of three will be created. Unfortunately, yesterday, I took part in three factions, including the Prime Minister, and my position was quite clear: I had to return to the second number, before the bill was passed, which was not in agreement with the coalition agreement. Unfortunately, I never got three factions this morning. If I did, today we would be voting on these very bills, which are defined by credible members of the democratic coalition. It didn't happen. And time is getting smaller and smaller. And you can draw very sad conclusions from the way you define your public relationship. Dear colleagues, we sign up for the speeches by the Ukrainian National Deputies. Baranov, “Block of Lithuania”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u23	Baranov, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear colleagues and voters, the political struggle increasingly separates us from the daily problems of our constituents. I don't think there's gonna be any news what I'm gonna tell you about winter. And soon our apartments must have heating and all the rest of the conditions for a normal life. For many years, our State has, by its populism, destroyed housing and utilities in all the cities and settlements of Ukraine. There is an attempt by utilities to create social services units that provide concessional assistance, which perform some functions that are not entirely owned by these enterprises. We do not yet have targeted assistance, so people walk with thousands of testimonies, overwhelm the thresholds and, of course, the State, not fully financing the benefits promised here by the Supreme Council, continues to create from community enterprises bankruptcys that cannot pay wages, pay electricity, taxes and, in fact, go nowhere. Our main problem is that the Government does not understand that the housing and utility sector, like any other enterprise, works in market conditions, has to work with profits, with profitability and perform all the functions of taxpayer. Unfortunately, the tariff policy is being conducted at the level of rallying debates, at the level of the tariff under emotion, I believe that this political debate, the struggle at Schuster's meetings, must be translated into practical work. Let's gather around and talk about utilities on TV screens so people can understand us. Today, 80 per cent of the equipment in the JCC is worn out and there is no possibility of investing in loss-making enterprises. The efforts of the previous Government and today's relevant ministry have finally developed a programme for housing and utility reform and have prepared a draft revision of the regulatory framework for this necessary reform. But there is no political will. No one is going to start this reform. Moreover, not one penny is allocated for its execution. If last year, last year, the year, 4 billion grivens have been allocated to reform and to the problems of the JCC, the Government plans not to allocate a single penny to the housing and utilities industry. If that doesn't happen, Alchevsk will make us look like fairy tales and berries. That's why I'm paying attention. I appeal to the Government and to us: we must not adopt a budget that is not intended to develop and support, to address housing and utility problems. People won't forgive us. Our faction will not vote for such a budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u24	It's a light bulb. Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, will you? Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u25	Papiev please pass on the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u26	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The situation that has taken place in our country with the welfare of our citizens is of great concern to us. First, these measures, which the government promised to make, were in June of the current year, when every pensioner was promised to make a supplement of 62 bracelets, and in the way that this action was presented, confirmed that the citizens of Ukraine were once again deceived. Now thousands of insulted letters are coming to the faction of the Ukrainian Party of Regions, with the fact that the recalculation of pensions was not done as promised by the government. Today, many pensioners do not receive any higher pensions at all. And as a result of that, pension benefits and increases are calculated for citizens, resulting from a minimum of 482 bracelets, which is a low living minimum. Every pensioner in our country doesn't get 102 bracelets a month because of the underprivileged living minimum. This was done by the government at the end of last year. By March 31st, the law of Ukraine on changes to the State Budget had not been introduced, as had been predicted, and the subsistence minimum for all social groups is too low for us today. In addition, when we look at the 2009 draft budget, what do our country’s pensioners promise? The subsistence minimum will be set at 568 dollars, which is the maximum increase that a pensioner can theoretically receive, is 24 bracelets. Is that true of today’s price increase? Indeed, we today can look calmly at the fact that today’s working citizens in the budgetary field are underpaid. Social assistance is not available to many families and low - income families. In fact, when the government says there's some kind of budget surplus, it's not a budget surplus. That's 28 billion dollars that the government has saved for under-retirement, based on prices, under-paid wages, under-paid social assistance. And today we still need to draw the attention of Ukrainian citizens to the provisions of the Ukrainian Act "On mandatory government pension insurance", which includes the modernisation of pensions. That 20 percent increase in the average monthly wage that the government has made is absolutely not true. Today, for example, a pensioner who retired in 2005 receives a pension of half the size of the pensioner and is assigned under what conditions today. The same applies to the Law on Scientific and Technological Activities of Ukraine. So I encourage us to identify ourselves with the coalition at all and, above all, not think about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u27	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u28	And above all, it's a priority. Let's ask anyone there who wants to ask the question of the integrity of the Ukrainian people's deputies, let him put it. I think the faction of the Party of Ukraine claims today. Today, by the way, we have the International Day of the Elderly. Let's honor these citizens. And let's do everything we can to give them modern pensions that would provide a decent life, based on the rising prices that the government has allowed for Timoshenko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u29	Naydenov, Zybenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u30	The Communist faction, Peter Cibenko, is the first deputy head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons. Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! Respectable pensioners, veterans and disabled persons! Today in Ukraine there is the Day of the Elderly and the Day of the Veterans. For a long time, everyone knows that the level of civilisation of society is determined by how children and veterans feel. And, with such universal standards, if we approach the state of affairs in Ukraine, we are still far and wide from the level of civilized countries. And this puts Ukraine in a very difficult and responsible position before Ukrainian society. First of all, these responsible tasks are before the Supreme Council of Ukraine as the supreme legislative body of the State. Because older people, pensioners, veterans and disabled people make up a third, I'd say, of Ukrainian citizens. These are representatives of the golden generation of Ukraine, who have done tremendously for the people of Ukraine, for society. These are their hands built by a powerful national farm complex that has recently allowed the Soviet Ukraine to enter the ten most developed countries in the world. The other thing is that in 17 years, the National Patriots, and more specifically, the "pearl nationalists" destroyed and ripped it apart. Representatives of this golden generation have made a decisive contribution to the victory over fascism. In the same way, they saved not only Ukraine, but also the so - called civilised Europe and the world, which today look down on Ukraine. It's me before we national MPs have to realize it at least on this responsible day. We have a tremendous amount of debt to the representatives of this, once again, golden generation of our people. We now have a good chance that Ukraine's National Budget project for 2009 has come to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Let's talk about and accept it, let's get our older generation out of begging. Let us give due thanks to the older generation for their victorious, diligent, conscientious work and mobility. Let's at least remove the stupidity of not working 150 or 200 dollars less than in other age groups. What is it that does not discriminate against older people? Hence, respected colleagues, representatives of all the political forces represented in the Supreme Council! I urge you to be conscious and respectful of veterans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u31	Oleg Zarubinski, Mikola Shershun.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u32	Mikola Shershun “Block Lithuania”. This isn't the first time I've sent requests and appeals about the failure of the Cabinet of Ministers to execute the Supreme Council's decision on the state, actions and prospects of coping with the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, but I'm only getting an ineffective write-off. Each paragraph of the decree was discussed for scientists, representatives of public organizations, and leaders of those areas that had suffered and felt the terrible effects of radiation. The initiative was supported by 437 national deputies. People today are waiting for their housing, health, and treatment rights to be guaranteed. To date, less than half of the 19 points have been made. The decree instructed the Cabinet of Ministers to create a central executive body to deal with the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. It would coordinate the implementation of State policy on coping with the consequences of an accident, address strategic issues and identify priorities. Perhaps this is not done because the creation of such a body can at last make the social protection system more transparent and avoid duplication of functions with various services, improve the management system and use the funds with maximum efficiency. Today calls for a completely new approach to coping with the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster and protecting the affected population. Society requires us to move to the recovery and development phases of the areas affected by the radiation. But instead of carrying out the decision, individual officials of the ministries gave her an audit, thereby defending the position that the Court of Auditors had criticized, giving an assessment of the work of the Chernobyl branch. The Supreme Council’s decree is not an enigma of MPs, but it reflects the needs of those affected by the terrible catastrophe. On my parliamentary request for the government's failure to comply with the rulings, I received a copy of the Prime Minister's signature with a position, if you understand it literally, don't go into these problems, we'll figure it out without you, without the MPs, without the idea of the Chernobyls. So you can forget about solving the Chernobyl problems and not do anything about it. I strongly believe that this is not the position of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, but rather the position of the performers who prepared this answer for the Prime Minister. So the Lithuanian bloc's faction requires the government to take immediate action to address the issue in order not to disappoint the hope of improving the lives of more than two million Ukrainian citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. I hope that the Supreme Council's decision on the state of affairs and the prospects for overcoming the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster will still be fully implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u33	Akimova.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u34	Dear colleagues, two days ago, the financial world crisis reached Europe and several major mortgage and credit institutions in Germany, Holland, Iceland are experiencing major financial problems. This is no longer an American phenomenon, it is a European phenomenon. At the same time, the Ukrainian Government had woken up and found that financial risks were still moving towards Ukraine and had shown an entirely inadequate response. Last Friday, the Prime Minister of Ukraine stated that there was no financial crisis in Ukraine, there would be no, and if there was, it was not her fault. On Monday, it had already initiated an urgent meeting of the PRSP to consider what to do with financial risks in Ukraine. The question is, What is the point of panic and why should this panic be raised? And the answer is very simple. First, in a few months, the Ukrainian Government had not seen Ukraine living on the verge of financial risks because of its economic incompetence. Now the only challenge is to find an external enemy, in this case the National Bank, or the President, to blame them. I don't think that's a public approach. To date, we note that the Ukrainian Government is making no effort to mitigate financial risks and prepare Ukraine for the wave of financial crisis on the part of Europe. So far, we have seen a completely populist budget policy that has led to the spread of inflation and the accumulation of macroeconomic risks. I would like to remind you that the International Fitch Agency has lowered Ukraine's rating to negative, which means that it will be very rare and very expensive for us. In addition, there is no fundamental coordination between the Government and the National Bank. The Ministry of Finance issued a strange system and scheme for the refinancing of troubled commercial banks, and the National Bank immediately made a statement that it was against the scheme, and it was called coordination. What we need to do today. Today, instead of panic, we must demand that the Government and the National Bank sit down, calmly understand the situation, identify the narrowest areas of concern in our financial system, prepare an anti-crisis programme and propose it for consideration in the Supreme Council. Secondly, a sound budgetary policy should be pursued and funding should be provided for the stabilization fund. The Stability Fund should already be established in Ukraine today with the excess revenue of the 2008 State budget. We must now strengthen the independence of the National Bank and allow it to refinance bad financial institutions as necessary. Finally, we need to achieve.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u35	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u36	Clear coordination between the National Bank and the Government. The Government must not and cannot raise an empty panic. Today, Ukraine can deal with financial risks if it is ready. Now is not the time to panic, but the time for pragmatic and realistic action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u37	Hanna Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u38	Colleagues, there was a year ago when the election was held. And today, again today, shows that this is the end of orange history. Not because the minister of justice said the coalition broke down when Booth and Rybakov left. The fact that this is the end of orange history is clear to all today. But from every story, you have to learn your lessons. Orange history teaches us that we have learned to accept kings but have not learned to accept ordinary Ukrainian citizens and their needs. We learned to scream very loudly about Ukraine, the state, its symbolism. But when the Ukrainian flag is turned upside down in the west, across the ocean, there is no bold man who would say to the hosts: “Do not despise our national symbolism.” Because orange patriotism ends at the Ukrainian border. And it's mostly in the west, not the east. Orange history teaches that not only has its end come but its end has come to her heroes. For in these days, when we honored the memory of the victims of Nazism, and when the Prime Minister laid flowers on the memorial to the victims, we survived the victims, the few elderly with the crowns standing at the iron gate of the prime minister’s protection, and they were not allowed there! If Julia Volodymyrna knows this and doesn't respond, and she won't release whoever did it, that means it's not just the orange story, it's the end of the orange princess. But each end has its beginning. So you have to create a new story, a story that, according to John Kirilenko, should have two colors blue and yellow. Where I was born, children were taught long ago, even when today those who shout about flags feared those colors as unclean incense. We were taught this poem: “Blue sky, yellow mountains, blue and yellow flags.” There's a blue symbol in the Party of the Regions. We need to add yellow wheat and sun and create a state where there will be no different colors, where the only color — the color of our State flag — will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u39	Andrew Parubius.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u40	Honorable Ukrainian MPs, when we went to the polls, we made many promises and then committed ourselves to the electorate that we would keep these promises in the hall. And I want to remind you that the very fulfillment of my promises is those proposals that "Our Ukraine" puts into the agenda every day. This is the question that this year is going to be the 75th anniversary of the huge Ukrainian tragedy of the Holocaust. And we suggest that there be criminal responsibility in Ukraine for denying the famine. Today, most of the world’s nations support this position. For us today, it is important that we undo the parliamentary int touch. Because it was not just our promise, it was the promise of many other factions that are represented in Parliament today. It is very important for us today that we repeal the bill on referendum and on public service, where Russian as a second national language is launched. These are our principles with which we went to the elections. After all, soon, October 14th, we will celebrate the Day of Protection, the anniversary of the creation of the UPA. And I believe that today, more than ever, this week and the next, we should work on putting into order the daily bill that was proposed by the President of Ukraine almost a year ago on the legal status of participants in the struggle for Ukraine's independence in the 20's, 90's. Millions of Ukrainians are awaiting this bill, and it is important for millions of Ukrainians today that UPA soldiers, soldiers of the Carpathian Ukraine, are recognized by UVO as heroes of Ukraine, who fought for affirmation of Ukrainian statehood. I want to remind you that in 1939, the soldiers of the Carpathian Ukraine were the first to take up arms against Nazi aggression at a time when the Communist authorities signed the Molotov-Ribentrop Pact. Why are those who fought for Ukraine against Nazism unrecognized today in Ukraine, and those who signed a treaty with the Nazis are now sitting in the Ukrainian Parliament? It's a great disdain for history, it's a great contempt for Ukraine and our statehood. I believe and urge today all patriotic deputies to support the position of the faction “Our Ukraine”. I think it's everyone's duty, and I'm calling the MPs. Because when we went to the district, we promised people that there would be one national language; we promised people that we would recognize the status of UPA soldiers. And today, I urge, especially the members of the BIT faction, to understand -- the time has come to make promises, because today, unfortunately, we see that the Procremian coalition continues to act and adopt laws. I urge everyone to stop this moment and return to the state, patriotic and common laws that await the Ukrainians, because the fulfillment of their promises is not an ultimatum, the fulfillment of their promises.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u41	It's a stake. Yuri Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u42	Mr. Chairman, I ask you to give the word to Mr. Kinach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u43	Respectable national MPs, respected citizens, in the context of increasing competition for economic and political space, when, without exaggeration, every nation and state choose their place under the sun, it is essential that the state's ability to carry out one of the most important functions of protecting and promoting national economic and political interests. And when it comes to defence, energy security, support for the protection of the internal Ukrainian market, the support of the Ukrainian exporter and the creation of decent conditions for Ukraine’s irreversible integration into the world’s societies, all forces must be united around it, regardless of political turmoil in the state and political colour. We have to say that in the last period, Ukraine's foreign policy is essentially being transformed into a very unpleasant and risky stage for Ukraine, when Ukraine becomes a performer, into material for the realization of foreign, external scenarios, which seriously undermines our authority in the world. And instead of shaping people's modern standards of living, of developing economies in our territory, we go around the world with our hands stretched out. Repeated declarations by the next date of receipt of the status of an associate member of the EU or accession to the VAT, or the signing of an appropriate agreement on cooperation with the European Union, are already becoming a laughingstock instead of forming a political consensus, social support and modern standards on its own Ukrainian land. We're very concerned about the fact that today our strategic partner, the Russian Federation, falls under the scenario that we've been working on from the outside. Against the backdrop of provocative claims that Russia is an aggressor, based on the emotional position of the Ukrainian leadership, we are being pitifully beaten in our national interests. What is the Russian Federation in modern conditions? That's 28 percent of external trade, 34 billion. It's worth hundreds of thousands of dollars, hundreds of thousands of jobs. And instead of creating an equal relationship, requiring equal mutual cooperation, Ukraine becomes the performer of the external scenario by making the conditions worse for cooperation with our strategic partner. I'm sure this will be the future of the Russian Federation. The faction of the regions calls on all responsible pragmatic MPs to unite their efforts and prevent Ukraine from becoming the performer of foreign scenarios in spite of its national interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u44	Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u45	Lilia Grigorovich, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense." Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! At a time when we are involved in colorism, ikebane, and recalling our childhood, objective reality, and anxiety for today are knocking at the door of each family. I have the order of the day in my hands, it's still warm, it's just handed out, but unfortunately, it's made up again by the will of two factions -- the Party of the Regions and the Block of Yulia Timoshenko. I'm sad to say that de facto, starting on September 2, the Kremlin Coalition is operating without formalizing its status. Dear friends, I met with the Paralympic congregation literally a few days ago, as many of my colleagues did. People took up 4 jobs in Beijing with a very heavy mobile work. When they found out that democratic -- I'm saying this with some irony -- the coalition met once in eight months for coalition meetings -- and who was in our way? – they said that if they had once gathered for training in eight months, they would never have been champions. Dear colleagues, today we have a discussion of what is best: to be principled or principled without principles. I want to quote Julia Volodymyr's phrase. In 2007 “Part of the country votes for Yanukovic, part for Yushchenka. But it turns out. It's not about the principles, it's about how you deal in the coulaires. I will not participate in this.” The question is, Why is Julia Volodymyrna today and her faction participating in these culinary arrangements? Today, we are asked to raise a lot of questions. We heard a 2009 budget presentation. And I want to know, and where are the 20 billion that people should get this year? Why is it suggested that we take this as parentheses? I want to know why we're being asked to take all the risks that are taking place today for real. And we're literally hearing a relationship about deflation. I want to know why I'm being asked to ask questions in English for braces. “Nation does not die of heart attacks – it takes away their language at first,” said the principle, a very principle, although single, Lena Kostenko. I want to know why I'm being asked to ask a question about the famine, the 75th anniversary of which is coming, and the Ukrainian rebel army. Do we not sit in these chairs of an independent Ukraine because they were? The Russian Federation considers Germany’s greatest friend. So where do we have those enemies? We're being asked to take the parentheses of Ukraine. On behalf of “Our Ukraine”, I assure you that we will not be able to take the parentheses of our Ukraine and act as a Kremlin coalition, because we are, indeed, in this matter of principle. For, as John Franco said: “If I do not stand still, I will shudder. “ I don’t know
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u46	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u47	“The bloody work of many generations will perish.” I assure you, on behalf of “Our Ukraine”, that we endure, the bloody work will not be lost, and Ukraine will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u48	Carpuch.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u49	Victor Terrence, "Timoshenko's Yulia Block". On the show. First, about the MP's integrity. Unlike “Our Ukraine”, the faction of the “Julia Tymoshenko” cast all the votes “for” when voting for the removal of the inviolability. Period. Asking questions about the removal of parliamentary immunity today means putting a stop to the question, and "Our Ukraine" knows this, just wants to put a stop to the question. Why overturn the question? Because there are no 300 votes in the room, because other factions will vote in favour of removing the inviolability only when the inviolability of the President is removed at the same time. I can't blame other factions for this, it makes sense. The other one. Similarly, it is hypocritical to call here for the Law “On State Service. ” Our faction has already made all the adjustments, I stress, to address the issue of language. I just spoke to the head of the committee, at this hour, no amendment from “Our Ukraine” to settle the issue of language is made, and no amendment has been made to “Our Ukraine”. This is totally another hypocrisy, my friends. Let us speak as it is. Third. On the subject of language, let's put forward today a bill on the language of Paul Silent, made by our faction, other bills proposed by Yavorowski, back up. There is no such support. Last but not least, the President’s web site was filled with lies from the Presidential Chancellor of Kyslinsky with attacks on the Prime Minister. I want to ask, what exactly is the office of this chancellor, what is it? So here's the answer for you: on November 9, 2007, the president assigned the 2nd rank of civil servant to the city and assigned the president to this city's Kislinsky in violation of the State Service Act, because his position as deputy doesn't give him the right to such rank. The Presidential decree explicitly states: “According to the rank of Oxlinski for the performance of particularly responsible tasks. Now it is clear what the acidics are particularly responsible for. Next, we can't imagine one of the Cabinet officials on the government site starting to publicly appreciate the president's activities. For example, he began to take an interest in the work of Yushchenk as head of the National Bank, which he held from 93 to 2000, and Lazarenko was Prime Minister in the 96's, 97's, which is the peak of Yushchenka's career as Prime Minister of Lazarenko. We will not be interested today in the fate of the Bank of Ukraine and much more. In particular, where did those investigating committees split up, what did they break up, and what did they spill out? We will not do similar insinuations. And so, finally, I advise the Kislinsky, who is concerned about the Lazarenka fate with the President, under the patronage of the President, to create a public organization, let's say, "Freedom of Yuri Detokin, or Paul Lazarenko," and let them circulate their ideas there, instead of making fun of people and giving advice to the Prime Minister in negotiations with other states. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u50	Carpuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u51	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished national deputies! Although red zeroes have arisen, they are only due to the fact that the representative of BUT, in flagrant violation of the Rules, has taken my word. That's why. He took only that goal to reintroduce the insinuation against the President and to enrich the steps they had taken. Because speaking of language is very nice, and, indeed, a good bill submitted by Paul Silent, but it's registered only today. We're ready for him. [[B in m in s a l in]] Surrendered today. We should certainly consider it. Take the line. But these are just steps to enrich the adoption of the State Service Act, which takes the first step towards making Russian language a second state language. And behind the loud political battalions, we somehow fail to see the international ratings of our country, as we are perceived in the world. On September 23, this year, an international anti - corruption organization published its annual rating to assess the spread of corruption in the world. According to this rating, Ukraine divides 134 into countries such as Nicaragua, Pakistan, and the Comoros. The report noted that Ukraine was 99th in 2008 with Georgia, 118th in 2007 and 134th in this year. In connection with such achievements, it is concluded that the extent of corruption is the result of an ineffective fight against this phenomenon and puts Ukraine in one line with countries considered to be the world’s most corrupt. From the former Soviet republics, only Kazakhstan, Russia, Tajikistan, and Belarus have a higher level of corruption. Interestingly, in recent years Georgia has made significant progress in overcoming this phenomenon and has significantly increased its rating. And as Ukraine effectively fights corruption, you can follow the example of buying from government agencies, from government agencies. In March 2008, the Supreme Council repealed the State Procurement Act of 2008. And that was the first example of creating a new prokremly majority when the interests of BUT, the Communist Party and the Party of the Regions came together. At the same time, the Parliament obliged Kabmin to make a temporary provision on public procurement under the Ukrainian State Procurement Act. But as the media has learned, the “Economic newspaper” of September 23, 2008, article “The Tender Mafia is opening up Kabmin”, is preparing a draft government decision on the actual transfer of state purchases to the General Audit Authority, in which these purchases will be controlled by the same authorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u52	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u53	I bought it on. from Glaucra Ukraine and will continue to hold the 180th place of honor in 180 countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u54	Colleagues, let's move on to the day-to-day issues. What was the name? Silent? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u55	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! I would like to make some clarity in today’s bill and my name. The point is that the Language Law, two, was filed before the holidays. They're registered, they've had a discussion of two committees. They're ready to accept. Stop speculating. One law is called the Language Act in Ukraine and the other is the Act on the Status of Ukrainian Language as a State Language. Such a law was passed in the Russian Federation, in the United States, despite the fact that you know that it was not the root ethnic origin and formed it. But when it comes to English, the state thinks about its future. And that is why I would ask my colleagues from “Our Ukraine” to support this bill. And let's put it on tomorrow morning when the daytime order is formed, please vote for this law. I think he will.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u56	My colleagues, once again, I would like to remind you of yesterday's conversation in the parliamentary walls. It takes desire to restore the coalition. The desire to step back. First. Cancel all acts of legislation voted between the Yulia Block of Timoshenko and the Party of the Regions. The other one. To decide not to support the second reading, but, more precisely, to reverse the results of the first reading of the two bills: the State Service Act and the referendum. And third, most important. To sign a coalition agreement at last, to submit it to Parliament and to announce the formation of a coalition. All of it. What is the discussion? If you want to, you have to spend 15 minutes, and if you don't want to, you can spend 15 days and there'll be no explanation. Colleagues, there is the next proposal to vote in favour of the draft legislation on short-term ratification. No objections? I'm asking 0042, 0056, 0057, 0085, 0088 -- summary procedure. Please vote. [[11:56:45.]] For – 307. Decision taken. Let's start with the question, shall we take a break at 12:30? You're asking for a break? Then let's start looking at these issues after a break.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u57	Comrades, we are continuing our consideration of matters of the order of the day. Valerius Volodymyrovich Yvashchenko, please 0042.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u58	Dear Arseny Petrovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Under the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers, I am presenting a draft law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on cooperation in the fields of military training, technology and science. The proposed agreement for ratification was signed on July 27, 1994. Article 12 of this Agreement provides that it will become effective from the date of exchange of notes that inform the parties of the necessary internal State procedures. The Turkish side did so back in 1994, as reported by a corresponding note in October of that year. Regrettably, the Ukrainian side has not yet done so. The ratification of the agreement will allow for some inconsistencies in the development of a bilateral international legal base between Ukraine and the Turkish Republic in the area indicated. Since this agreement has resulted in a series of two intergovernmental agreements in May 98 on defence industrial cooperation, and in January 2007 on defence and industrial cooperation, a change to a previous agreement that has become invalid. And this Agreement on Industrial and Defence Cooperation took effect in August of the same year. In addition, in 1994 an inter-ministerial agreement was concluded between the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine and the General Staff of the Republic of Turkey on cooperation in the field of military education and training, which was completed and prepared, and aimed to reconcile the draft new agreement in this area with the Turkish side. But the Turkish side noted that without the effectiveness of the framework agreement proposed for ratification.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u59	Let me finish. Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u60	will not consider the specified agreement. And in accordance with this agreement, we are learning, today, three military personnel at the Turkish military academy and all of us know the prospects of military and technical cooperation with the Turkish Republic. Therefore, I ask you to support and adopt the Law on the Ratification of the Agreement.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u61	Taras Vjačeslavovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u62	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, the distinguished Ukrainian National Deputies, the Committee on Foreign Affairs at its meeting discussed the agreement and the bill on ratification of the agreement and unanimously decided to recommend to the Supreme Council to support the adoption of the bill. The ratification of the Treaty is exactly what the Ukrainian State needs today. This is a framework agreement. She was greatly saddened by the constant changes in the government. It's been introduced to the Supreme Council more than once, and it didn't come into consideration, and then, with the change of the other government, it came back and there was a situation that was just so comical. Since 1994, the framework agreement that has built our bilateral military and scientific contacts, social contacts between the armies of both countries, has been taught in the military educational institutions in Turkey by our officers, has been sufficiently well qualified, not yet adopted by the Ukrainian Parliament. Moreover, on the basis of this covenant, they have already been concluded, resulting from its purpose, when a number of new covenants are still in a suspended state. And so our committee as the head, the National Security and Defence Committee as the profile, is calling upon the Supreme Council to finally correct this error and ratify the agreement. It was sometimes referred to in conversations as some kind of political option, a political moment, mentioning that Turkey is a member of NATO. I've read this agreement in detail in all paragraphs, and our committee has also processed it, and I've studied it, and there are rules in this agreement that we've all made absolutely clear in the matter of bilateral contacts, there's no politics, there's no hints, there's no half-nakeds, there's no quarter-nails for Euro-Atlantic integration, and so on. This is the agreement that is even more convenient today to Ukraine than Turkey and I urge you on behalf of our committee to vote and support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u63	Thank you. Colleagues, there is a proposal to move on to the voting procedure. Thank you. Two in, two in, two in. I understand so much that the Communists only want it, so. Okay. Kojara, Zarubinsky and Cibenko Leonid Kojara, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u64	Honorable National MPs. Microphone! Aah! The Ratification Act, the treaty itself was considered on the committee and we unanimously supported this agreement and the essence of this agreement is that Ukrainian military personnel can learn from higher military institutions in Turkey and actually accept the positive and most up-to-date information that can be obtained in Turkey today. I would like to support the statement by Mr. Crnowol, the first deputy head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and I would like to say that this agreement has no bearing on NATO, this is essentially a bilateral relationship between Ukraine and Turkey in the field, particularly the training of military personnel, Ukrainians, especially higher military institutions in Turkey. So I would like to ask the Supreme Council to support, especially if we don't ratify this agreement today, a large number of Ukrainian officers who are in Turkey today will have to go back and fail to complete their training and not gain a valuable experience for the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u65	Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u66	Thank you. Dear Arsenija Petrovich, a respected colleague, I only signed up because I realized that there would be any action against this agreement. I clearly understand that the question is that Turkey is a member of the military political union, a bloc that Ukraine is not part of. In this regard, however, I would like to express the position that I have already expressed when voting for or for other ratification documents. To my conviction to consider framework agreements, and this agreement is a framework, which means that it is actually standard in dealing with other countries, including those that are not part of the North Atlantic Alliance, it is the task of bilateral relations. This is the task of a bilateral international policy in Ukraine. So it seems to me that we don't have to concentrate our attention in this case when a particular agreement and its object is convenient, and for Ukraine, that this country is also part of NATO, or in the ODCC, is an organization of a collective security agreement, or in the SOS, or in some other organization. Because in this case, the object of the agreement itself is the object of our two-way mutual relations. I suggest that we be more calm about framework agreements at all. Because, in the end, international politics must be based on a banal phrase, but on our own interests, not on the interests of who it is that is in conflict with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u67	Peter Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u68	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Before expressing the faction's position on the vote from the ratification of this agreement, I would like to draw attention to some of the points that arise, some of the questions that arise when we talk about this issue. I'm paying attention to my colleagues that the deal was signed back in '94, which is 14 years ago. I have, of course, the same as anyone who asks why 14 years later this treaty is being ratified. I can assume that, obviously, there has been some clearance made to obtain VAT from NATO member countries today, including by ratifying this agreement. Perhaps that was also an argument. Next. I want to make sure that Turkey is not only a NATO member, but also a country near the Caucasus, where the interethnic conflict broke out. And this is also a warning in a way. So I would like to say that the faction of the Company of Ukraine will not support this agreement. I'll say more, frankly, honourable colleagues, I'm surprised by the report of the committee, whose representative said that they voted unanimously at a committee meeting on the ratification of this agreement. Then I have a question: where are the political forces that collected 4 million signatures against NATO? And where are the others who beat themselves in the chest in elections and talked about us against NATO? How did they vote at the committee meeting? The Communist faction will vote decisively against the ratification of this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u69	One faction that has not taken part in the discussion has the right to speak. A colleague of Yavorowski's, a colleague of the school. The school was the first to reach out, Volodymyr Alexanderovich, and so was School.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u70	Thank you. Thank you, Arsenia Petrovich. I would also like to point out that this ratification actually makes clear framework arrangements between the two countries. And by the way, I'd like to call it about the same thing when I asked a colleague who was speaking before about Turkey, so I think that those NATO supporters or opponents who were collecting signatures, they're just resting in Turkey now, you know. Both their rest and yours, including Ukraine, do not approach the DFD, NATO, or anything. This simply brings you closer to better health. And in order to heal the situation in the Ukrainian Armed Forces, we must also have to ratify this completely neutral and state-owned project. That's why at the committee meeting, when there was a vote, we all unanimously supported it. I just want to bring this information to the knowledge of those who asked. And it's not worth speculating on topics that aren't here. Because you all know very well that the presence of a party car in this political power of production of Germany does not mean that the Communist Party supports NATO, indeed if they are going to Mercedes. So it's not worth picking up speculative things where they're not simple and they don't exist. So in fact, when we talk about interstate relations, it's not worth transferring to interlocks when they don't exist. Because it was said here that when we make contracts or framework agreements with SCO members or ODCB members, we're not talking about which block it is, and we're talking about trading with China, we need to increase economic cooperation, we need to make maximum framework agreements between the two states in order to make Ukraine a profit. That kind of profit, in fact, is this ratification of the agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u71	Colleagues, there's a new proposal, fresh in the parliamentary walls -- to go to the voting procedure. We've discussed this bill, I propose you, colleagues, to enact this Law No. 0042, to give the Supreme Council consent to the obligation of this international treaty for Ukraine. Please vote in favour of the relevant law 0042. [[12:45:30.]] For three hundred Thank you, colleagues. The law is passed in general. 0056. Maxim Vitaliovich Strych.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u72	The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council, the Honourable National Deputies of Ukraine, the passed laws of Ukraine on the ratification of Ukraine's application for membership in the International European Innovation and Technical Programme "EUREKA" are necessary for Ukraine to gain full status in this programme, which brings together 39 subjects today – the European Union and 38 countries of the European continent, including the Russian Federation. The aim of the programme is to promote scientific research, innovation, and the development of high technology on the European continent. An application to join this program was submitted two years ago in an established order. It was signed by the Minister of Education of the Czech Republic, Peter Buzzkov, and the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Stanislav Nikolayenko. Ukraine's full-fledged accession to the “EUREKA” will allow our scientists not only to be co-executors of the already existing “EUREKA” projects, but Ukrainian scientists have been doing so since 1993, but to shape our projects according to our national priorities and requirements, to participate fully in shaping the policy of this programme, and to lead the governing bodies of this program. The program foresees payment of Ukraine’s annual contribution of about 11,000. Euro. These funds were provided in the National Budget for Ukraine for this year, given the possibility to complete the ratification procedure this year. Ukraine's full status in the EUREKA programme will be very positive for the development of scientific research in Ukraine, for the development of high technology in Ukraine, for the integration of Ukraine into the only European scientific space. I ask the distinguished national deputies to support the draft law passed by the Government of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u73	Taras Vjačeslavovich
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u74	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! The Committee on Foreign Affairs, at its meeting on 17 September this year, reviewed the draft law of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on ratification of Ukraine's application for membership in the international European innovation and technical programme "EUREKA" and unanimously endorsed the decision to support the ratification of the agreement. This is one of the agreements that leads to the normal development of our scientific potential, which opens up access for our scientists to the possibility of joint research, provides for the exchange of information in the scientific sphere, and, for me, today, when we cannot allocate sufficient funds, especially for fundamental research, we can use the pan-European data bank, the pan-European contacts that are produced on the basis of this organization, to ensure that the holes that through these gaps in the budget are recovered from our scientific research. In the end, for the work of our scientists on the basis of this program, expanding their work might save Ukraine at least a little bit of the flow of our minds into foreign universities. So the Committee on Foreign Affairs, like the Committee on Science and Education, is asking you to support the ratification of this agreement. The rest of the time left, I wanted to devote to saying that we depend on a number of international agreements that are not yet signed by Ukraine and, unfortunately, the very complex system of initiating the international agreements that Ukraine is making today leads to the fact that, especially in the scientific sphere, where no one doubts that those agreements will be beneficial to Ukraine, there is no signing today. In particular, because of the not entirely farsighted position of the Ministry of Finance, where some future minimum contribution is considered to be a thing that needs to be settled as if today. That's why I would ask the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Ministry of Finance not to put a shelf in wheels in those deals that concern our international scientific cooperation. Thank you and please support this agreement.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u75	Guys, I'm asking you again. Do you want to talk about it? You don't? Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the international treaty's obligation to adopt the bill as a basis and as a whole number 0056. Please vote. [[12:50:23]] For 380 Decision taken. 0057. Valerius Volodymyrovich Yvashchenko
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u76	Dear Arseny Petrovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! If you allow, given that three laws on the ratification of similar agreements are proposed, a brief reference to the state of law enforcement of BTS with foreign states. It is based on bilateral principles and we now have 24 VTS agreements in force with different countries. This is Kazakhstan, both the Russian Federation and the United States, and FRN, Slovakia, France, Vietnam. I have a full list. If I have to, I'll leave it to you. Now essentially this Act on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on military and technical cooperation. The ratification of this agreement is provided for in article 12 of the Treaty, which states in a direct statement that it takes effect after the notification of ratification has been exchanged. Well, the special feature of this agreement is this, although similar agreements become effective through the approval of an act by the Cabinet of Ministers. The purpose of developing military and technical cooperation with the Republic of Croatia is due to the interest of our companies in the defence and industrial complex and repair companies of the Ministry of Defence. It's also part of the service of aviation technology, the provision of helicopter trainers, individual weapons, navigational equipment for the equipping of coastguard ships, which is scheduled to take place during the 8th to 15th years, and so on. Taking into account the interest of the Ukrainian side, the mutual interest of the Ukrainian and Croatian parties in this agreement, please support the adoption of the law on the ratification of the agreement.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u77	Thank you. Please, Taras Vjacheslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u78	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! The Committee on Foreign Affairs in its previous session discussed a bill on the ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on military and technical cooperation, which was signed this year, this agreement was signed. We have considered in detail all the standards of this covenant that exist. In our view, this agreement is more favourable to Ukraine, and it also has no political subtext – it is military technological cooperation between defence and industrial enterprises, military units, military science to ensure normal functioning, exchange in technology repairs, and so on. Without such an agreement, we cannot, in fact, provide repairs to former Soviet military equipment in Croatia today, to Ukrainian military factories, to the Ukrainian military and industrial complex. This agreement is beneficial to Ukraine. It is also considered by the National Security and Defence Committee, which supports it. Similarly discussed by the Committee on Budgets, which confirmed that this agreement does not affect the income or expenditure of the State budget. So the committee is asking to support the ratification of this agreement as generally convenient for Ukraine and one that is typical of all countries with which we have at least minimal military-technical contacts. And with the countries of the former Yugoslavia, we have quite a lot of contacts. There was once a great exchange of military equipment, big purchases, and so today it is mutually beneficial. Once again, there is no politics, just the purpose of its adoption. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u79	Proposal: To proceed to the voting procedure. Sign in, two for, two against. Please. Andrew Parubius.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u80	"Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense." I want to point out that this agreement was signed on May 27, 2002, and it introduces the establishment of a legal framework for military technical cooperation between countries. Ukraine has already made agreements with some 15 other nations. But unlike those agreements, the agreement states that it, this ratification is approved, is approved not by the decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, but only by ratification, through Parliament. We discussed this issue on a committee of foreign affairs and, in fact, voted unanimously in favour of ratifying this agreement. The bill has also been agreed twice by interested ministries and authorities without notice. In view of this, from the faction "Our Ukraine" I call on all parliamentarians to support this agreement. I know there's going to be a denial of the Communist faction. Who, for some reason, think that signing any treaty with NATO countries is unacceptable to Ukraine. At the same time, I would like to point out that, for a time, the Communists have called for Slovenian unity, to remind Croatia, as well as a number of other nations that are joining NATO today, are our Slovenian brothers, and I believe that, in terms of political solidarity with them, and in terms of our future cooperation, it is very important for us to support this bill, given ratification to all the halls, demonstrating Ukraine's willingness to cooperate with all the civilized world and with our very close neighbours and politically and beyond. Let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see. So "Our Ukraine" will vote in favour of this ratification and we urge all other factions to support this ratification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u81	Quiet.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u82	Please pass the word to Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u83	I thank Paul Silent for his generosity. Apart from the fact that the Yulia Timoshenko Block supports in its absolute majority the Law on Ratification of this Agreement, I would like to remind our electorate first of all. Dear colleagues, this tiny Croatia that has survived the collapse of the Yugoslav mini-empire, so to speak, you see how quickly it fits into the European world today, which is the standard of living in them. It is hard to believe that literally a few years ago there was a war, blood, and so forth. And all because the same Croats have monolithic, civilized power in all its branches today. And they don't just rip the fruit out of these branches. That's why we think. Let's do it the same way. Let this little country’s example teach us many things.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u84	Peter Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u85	I ask that you pass the word to Vladimir Josephovich Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u86	Please, Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u87	Matveev, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Well, as a good, once a good Soviet writer said, in fact, in this country, it was a very recent one, and today it was to throw military technical cooperation into a country that is part of an ethnic conflict, which no one would deny, I think is a crime. What's more, today we don't have, well, let's say, a conflict has not broken out around the ship, which has been captured by the Somali Faina pirates, where there are 33 tanks, six live fires that have been shipped from the port. The port of October from Nikolayev. That's our gun we're selling. And today, Americans are blaming us, and we are accused of having these weapons coming, not for Kenya, but for the very other States that are taking over markets today, oil markets in Africa. We must not forget one thing: a person who lives in a house with large glasses should not throw stones in the passages. We, who today have possible ethnic conflicts here in Ukraine, must not support those States in the zone of ethnic conflict by military means. Turkey is a Kurd, Croatia is a south-eastern Europe that has long been in a state of ethnic conflict. [[Don't confuse them with Serbs.]] And if we ratify this treaty, we will participate in this conflict by definition. We'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u88	Colleagues, I suggest we move on to the voting procedure. I put to the vote on acceptance as a basis and on the whole the issue of granting consent to be bound by an international treaty through the adoption of Law 0057. Please vote. [[13:00:31]] For 341 Decision taken. 0085. Valerius Volodymyrovich Yvashchenko
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u89	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! A draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Malaysia on Bilateral Cooperation in the Defence Sector is proposed for your attention. The specified memorandum is also of a framework nature. And it's obvious that there's a potential for this kind of cooperation that's going to be initiated and developed on the basis of this memo. Malaysia is a very powerful developing country. It has a very attractive place in the arms market and military technology. And so it's very important for us, for companies in the Ukrainian defence and industrial complex, to have a document that will allow the missile and space industry to organize cooperation from the provision of space imaging equipment, in the aviation sector to develop new communication and air traffic management systems for the Royal Air Force of Malaysia, to provide air and air-to-air missiles for our design bureau and our serial manufacturer Artema, to provide helicopter protection systems against anti-aircraft missiles, etc. In view of the circumstances noted, please support and adopt the Law on the Ratification of the Memorandum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u90	Taras Vjačeslavovich
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u91	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, distinguished colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies, the Committee on Foreign Affairs discussed the draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement with the Government of Malaysia on Bilateral Cooperation in the Defence Sector. We have made a unanimous decision to support the ratification of this agreement. The findings of all other committees, such as national security and defence on the positive nature of the agreement, the budget that does not affect our income or expenditure portion of the budget are available. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine supports the ratification of the agreement. Malaysia is a country for which there are absolutely no international sanctions. It does not enter any conflict zone. A country that is actively developing. Obviously, in this area, any country is building its army, modernizing it, and this is a principle for Ukraine to go to the arms market. This covenant is not directly a covenant, as is the previous one, and the next one, which will be considered, is not a treaty on the supply of arms. For this, other agreements will be signed, specific absolutely. And this is a framework agreement that opens up the opportunity for us to go to the Malaysian arms market, which allows us to exchange information, eventually to get information about what the Malaysian needs are for the supply of weapons, to ensure that our military specialists, observers, and so on are there. That is to say, this is the full amount of cooperation that is determined by similar agreements. This is one of the promising trends in the Ukrainian economy, the military-industrial complex, and in this case, because I don't think there can be any political warnings here at all. And I would ask that we unanimously support this agreement. This is our committee's request. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u92	Comrades, will you allow me to put this to a vote? Thank you, colleagues. I am willing to vote on the adoption of the law on the basis of a total of 0085 and to give consent to the obligations of the international treaty. Please vote. [[13:04:54]] For 385. Decision taken. Last ratification 0088. Valerius Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u93	Dear Arseny Petrovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! A draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Algerian People's Democratic Republic on military and technical cooperation is being presented. The agreement was signed in April of this year. And this agreement provides for the cooperation of the parties in the areas of arms and military technology, technology transfer, scientific research, the licensing of weapons production, training of military and civilian personnel, and so on. Algeria’s market for military technology and services is quite attractive, since the Armed Forces of the Algerian People’s Democratic Republic still have the technology to arm the production of Soviet times. And so the ability to participate in our enterprises, both in the defence and industrial complex and in the repairs of the Ministry of Defence, has quite a lot of prospects. With this in mind, I ask that you support the bill, accept it, and ratify the agreement.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u94	Please, Taras Blackwall.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u95	Dear Mr. Head! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The Committee on Foreign Affairs reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers and the Government of the Algerian People's Democratic Republic on Military and Technical Cooperation. We unanimously supported this ratification, we ask the Supreme Council to support the ratification of this agreement, it is also considered by the Scientific and Expert Office, the National Security and Defence Committee to be positive, it has no impact on the income or expenditure of the budget, and in the future, it brings positive results to Ukraine. Algeria is a country for which there are absolutely no international sanctions on arms. It is a country that today builds peace - loving politics, but it has internal problems overcoming internal terrorism, overcoming separatist movements, armed kidnappings, and so forth. These are the directions for modernizing and modernizing the army, plus the Algerian army, mostly equipped with weapons of still Soviet production. This is a chance for the same tanks to be able to repair at our factories, and we could be supplied with them. [[First of all, it's about them.]] The agreement is favourable to the Ukrainian State, it has no negative effects, and the Committee on Foreign Affairs is therefore asking for the support of the draft Law on Ratification. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u96	Colleagues, may I put it to a vote? Thank you. I am betting on the adoption of Law No. 0088 as a basis and as a whole and the granting of consent to be bound by an international treaty. [[13:08:23]] For 381 Decision taken. Colleagues, we move on to 1425, Yuri Romanović, draft “Pro notariat”. [[second reading]]
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u97	Dear voters, dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko faction “Parties of the Regions”. I would like to remind you, our plenary day, it was also, it was September 16, 2008, I was standing in this rostrum and we voted in a large number of votes in the first reading of the Notaryate Act. And then we talked about the fact that by supporting the bill prepared by the Government of Ukraine, we had to make a large number of rights, improvements, and take into account in this law the other rules that were contained in several other bills, which we then recalled as the subject of the legislative initiative, namely, 1425-1, Law 1177, 2377 and 2374. These bills were actually worked out, their standards that we analyzed and they were actually included in the body for second reading, the bodies of Law 1425 are taken into account, and right now in front of you, colleagues of honor, there's such a large table where you'll see that all the amendments are either completely or partially accounted for. This was a very serious work by our Committee on Legal Policy, where we tried either to work with the authors of the amendments or to take them into account in full, in part. So I want to make sure, and first of all, I remember, I was standing on the stand, and from the faction of the Communists, they were saying, look, boys, that you don't miss out on any of the wrongs, especially in the protection of citizens' rights and their access to the possibility of using notary services. We've taken all the suggestions into account. I'll say more, the people's deputies Mishchenko, Coastal, Carmazin, Bondarev, Sharov, Krutz worked very well just in the evening, although the deadlines passed, but Roman Tsaka's proposals came to us today. But I can assure you, even though we haven't had the opportunity to work in the order that legislation provides, because the terms were missed, but in fact they're all accounted for. This is one of the best drafts proposed by our committee. I would like to thank both the Ministry of Justice and those entities of the legislative initiative that made their amendments so that we would really adopt the first stage of notary reform and actually allow citizens access to the notary services of such a European level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u98	Colleagues, there are several suggestions. First offer. Ask the Ukrainian National Deputies who amended the bill and who were considered or not by the Main Committee. Is there a desire to put appropriate questions to the vote? There is no subject to the legislative initiative. The other one. Ask Leonid Vasilovich Efimenek. Leonid Vasilovich, what is the position of the Ministry of Justice on this bill?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u99	The Ministry of Justice, together with the committee and with the MPs who amended and proposed, worked and found a common position, and this bill for second reading we support. And we want to thank those deputies who worked on this project.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u100	And ask Alexander Volodymyrovich Lavrinovich as the former minister of justice who drafted this bill, which is his position on second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u101	I would say, the Minister of Justice in 2005-2006, and I want to say that this project completes the six-year journey of many notaries, lawyers who wanted to improve notarial activity as a way to protect notaries from interference with their work and to create proper conditions for work, and that all notaries should be equal wherever they work in a private office or in a state office, and that in Ukraine conditions should be created for the provision of notarial services to those who would better satisfy Ukrainian citizens. From my point of view, we have now achieved a certain result in this and a further path that will need to be taken in order for us in our country to build a single notary that will meet the requirements that we face in Ukraine and the requirements of notarial activity in the countries of Latin notariat, I think we will also be successful in taking advantage of the experience that has been gained in working on this draft law that was drawn up in the two previous governments of Ukraine. I ask the National Deputies to support this bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u102	And if you'll excuse me, one last question to Yuri Romanovich. Yuri Romanovich, in that case, if we vote on this bill as a whole, it will not lead to the adoption of this bill to the actual redistribution of the notary services market. And would the adoption of the bill be seen as a restriction on the rights of persons to notary activity?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u103	Thank you very much. Arsenius Petrovich, I can assure you as well as all national deputies that there will be no redistribution of the market for notary services. The issues that were controversial, we excluded from the discussion, first of all, about quotas. And a number of other questions. So I'm absolutely sure that this bill is balanced, both in terms of legal technology and legal consequences. It will definitely improve the quality of service provision and the protection of notaries themselves. And I am absolutely convinced that, in the second stage, Alexander Volodymyrovich said this, and this is our duty, our committee in conjunction with the Ministry, when we are already preparing for your attention the great law, the reform of the Notary is complete, I think that we will also decide these issues in such a way that no one's interest will be violated and that there will be no first negative consequences for the citizens of Ukraine and their access to notarial services.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u104	Can I ask you one more question? Do we have a difference between public and private notaries in the list of notary actions performed by each other?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u105	There's nothing left.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u106	So we're even?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u107	We don't have any left. But in fact, today and life itself required us to unify the issue. Because there was only one question that private notaries couldn't make, it was an inheritance form. Now we've brought it in, first of all, we've given a single system and control, and order, and principles, and actually the work of notaries themselves. We said that on the one hand they should be available, what the Communists were paying attention to. For at least five hours, they'll be working for at least five days. But, at the same time, there was an amendment to Mr. Suhigo that, if there were objective reasons for them to have such an opportunity, we would be grateful to Mr. Sukhoma. And now it's essentially a very, very balanced bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u108	We're voting, aren't we? After my internship, I looked at it, which is that we increased the qualifications, we had a year before, and now you're three years old. Yeah?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u109	No, no, I'll make it clear. So look.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u110	No, not the internship I'm saying, but the general terms. Three years, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u111	Yeah, we did three. Again, out of the interest of the citizens. We didn't learn much about practice. Three years of law school, it's no problem to be a notary. And we did our internship for one year. And by the way, there were suggestions, and we counted them. Well, Mrs. Samuels is backing me up, because that's exactly the question she was raising. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u112	It's important, colleagues, that this bill be primarily not for notaries, not for the Ministry of Justice, but for people. That's what's important.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u113	That's what we insisted on.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u114	Comrades, here's the next offer. Put to the vote in the second reading and in general Bill No. 1425 on Amendments to the Act of Ukraine on Notariat. Will you support me? Vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u115	I'd like your support, Your Honor. It's a very necessary law. [[13:17:56]] For 340. Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. This bill has been accepted as a whole. 14. Apologies 1343-1, Yuri Romanovich, your Law on Legal Acts on Reports, and the author of the bill was Alexander Volodymyrovich. Some of the laws introduced by Lavrinovich are adopted. The whole Parliament in Lavrinovich is just working.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u116	Arsenija Petrovich, I think those legislative acts that are proposed by the committee today, because this is no longer the law of Lavrinovich, these are bills that, in particular, have been drafted by several governments. 15 years worked. And, I think all the lawyers will understand how much we need to adopt this Law on Legal Acts. We're in a lot of trouble. We have many contradictions, and we don't know what is the law, which is the decree, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, the order of acceptance, the order of preparation, the legal technique. A number of technical issues that are settled. And here we have to thank once again not only Alexander Volodymyrovich, but here is Roman Mikhailovich Zvaric, who also worked and also introduced his bill, although we accepted Lavrinovich in the first reading, but also worked very well. A number of national deputies, the government of Ukraine actually worked for many years to get it approved. I propose to your consideration, Your Honor's colleagues, as well as the bill in the second reading. And so you have tables, you see in these tables, you see a lot of these amendments. Of these, most of them are either completely or editorially: in fact, 42 are counted completely and four editorially. And we didn't count the 40 amendments, but we didn't count them because they're wrong, just in the logic, construction and organizational structure of this document, some of them were written in other chapters. So, honourable colleagues, I would like to suggest that you now support the committee's decision, namely to vote in the second reading and in general this bill. We're not finishing the job because before I spoke to Roman Mikhailovich, he says there are some comments. I think we can then work on them by making changes if we see that this law has some kind of gap somewhere. But this is a law that is very much needed today. It is needed, first of all, for judges, because when they work to resolve disputes, they will clearly understand what standard to refer to. When we prepare drafts, we too will understand. Those officials who prepare draft government decrees, the President's decrees, will also work in uniform rules. That's why I'm asking you to back me up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u117	Colleagues, repairs? Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u118	Thank you. Dear colleagues, unlike the previous bill, which, in fact, was quite seriously prepared, for too much regret, an initial introduction, because it was only distributed today, recently the table, shows that there was haste here. Please open page 29. 29 page, article 21, third paragraph: “The amendments to the legal act are only made by the adoption of a legal act of the same kind”. I mean, if there's any rule in the Supreme Council's ruling, and then we adopt the law, and the rule that worked in the decree, we reinforce it by law, it's not possible to do that? That's one thing. The other one. In the same article, part five: “No amendments to the legal and regulatory act amending another legal act shall be permitted”. Did anyone understand what was written here? It's hard to understand. At the time of the 47th Amendment of the People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u119	Come on, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u120	At a time when the 47th Amendment of a colleague of Krutz speaks correctly and it would probably be worth it if he argued that the amendments should be made only to the original legal act and not to the Act of Amendment. That's how it's going to be clearly written. And so on. So I would ask that we give a mandate to the rule of law -- in final preparation, look at the formulations carefully enough to make them sound understood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u121	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I absolutely agree with your point of view. And you probably understand why we found ourselves in this situation. There can be several nuances like this. And that's why I'm going to Arsenius Petrovich, just during the vote, and I'm going to make a decision to have our legal authorities work out, based on this logic, this text, not by changing the content, but just by working on the definition. Why did this happen? Because we all work in a mode where we need this law, but political circumstances are pressing us in such a way that we don't know what kind of term will be imposed if we don't pass this law, the consideration of this issue. So I fully support Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk so that we, on the one hand, can ensure the adoption of the law as a whole. But, on the other hand, there were no legal nuances in that context. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u122	Alexander Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u123	Dear Adam Ivanovich, I have not been involved in preparing for the second reading, but I can tell you what is written here is correctly written. The laws of Ukraine cannot modify either the Supreme Council Order or the President's decrees or the Cabinet of Ministers' decrees. And if any legal relationship that has been regulated by the Supreme Council Regulation is regulated by law, the ruling in this section is void. So it's not about making changes, so it's all written very correctly. As far as making changes to changes is concerned, it is also correctly written, because when we make changes to any normative act, this act is “dead” at the same time as it becomes effective because it becomes the body of the basic law, the basic decree, the basic decree. Therefore, there can be no changes to what no longer exists. So from the point of view of normative technology, it's all right.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u124	Ladies and gentlemen, I think it's a decision that we don't have a legal discussion right now, it would be appropriate. Legal administration. I share Alexander Volodymyrovich's legal position, but in general. Well, I think you can potentially make preparations for the signing of the Head of the Supreme Council again to see if it's possible. All definitions are clearly defined. It doesn't change the meaning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u125	Celebrities of the Olinick.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u126	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw attention to Amendment 14. It refers to the Attorney General and his status as the subject of standardization. The point is that not only does the Attorney General issue procedural acts, he issues acts aimed at organizing the work of the Office of the Prosecutor's Office. These acts relate to an undetermined circle of persons, such as the order of registration of applications and reports of crimes, the procedure for the sole calculation of crimes, approved by the Joint Order of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Attorney-General; the procedure for checking detained persons in detention rooms and in detention centres, everything relating to vagrancy, and so on. This can be recalculated and completed by sectoral orders. These acts have all the legal features and must be in the legal system. If we do not add the Attorney General to these subjects, his acts, which refer to the entire circle of persons, well, all citizens, in fact, will not simply have legal power. I ask you to put to the vote my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u127	Oil. Again with the repair number.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u128	14th Amendment. The Attorney General is invited to add to the list of subjects that make contributions. which are subjects of the norm, i.e. its acts, which it issues, are non-procedural, are legal acts.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u129	Thank you. In principle, I'll explain the position. I totally support Mr. Oily. You can put it in. And perhaps we'd be better off avoiding citizens' rights being protected and supporting their amendment. But what we were guided by: so we thought that right-wing was still, well, based on the logic of the bill, it belongs to other subjects. That's why we decided. But I'm asking you to identify the national MPs. And I think it would be appropriate to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u130	Explain it to me, colleagues. That is, we include the Attorney General in the circle of the subjects of the norm, and thus the rule of the law applies to him. But what I see in your amendment may raise the question: For what acts? I mean, the Attorney General's procedural acts, too? What is understood by the subject of standardization: the organizational structure of the prosecutor’s office, what is it?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u131	It's the same situation as an order. Minister of Interior. So the Minister of the Interior organizes the work of the Ministry and issues legal and regulatory acts for this organization. The Attorney General issues two types of acts. Procedurals don't apply here. They're regulated by the Criminal Procedure Code or the Correctional Code, and that's clearly set out in the general part, that's the code that we're talking about. With regard to this law, the scope of application is clear as to the organization of the activities of the prosecutor’s office.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u132	Mr. Svetoslav, I wanted to consult you on how we're going to deal with this issue because of the prism of independence, the lack of involvement of the Attorney General.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u133	And it's not about addiction and engagement, it's about sorting his acts according to. So, for example, ministers are ministers, they are ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u134	Ministers have a completely different legal status. The minister is an authority of the state. And this is the Attorney General. I understand your motivation.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u135	I don't think there's going to be any questions, the problem is that organizational issues are regulated by normative acts.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u136	So let's write this out more clearly. Because I've read it and I've come up with a question: which circle of legal acts will the Attorney General fall on? Now, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u137	The Attorney General of the Department of Labour and Public Prosecutions. How about that?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u138	Wouldn't it then be a question that the Attorney General is ordering the appointment or release of a deputy there, or another district attorney's office, or would it not be possible to bring the Attorney General's Office on personnel matters under this law? Do you understand? That is, so that we do not violate the principle of the independence of the Public Prosecutor's Office.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u139	Arseny Petrovich, well, there's no problem, for example, with the minister's actions, he's also issuing staff orders.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u140	Another friend is a minister. We've got a lot of ministers, they're changing packages. So the minister is the official person of the State Executive Authority.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u141	Let us simply add “to the organization of the work of the prosecutor’s offices”. Because it's definitely not personnel, it's organizational orders.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u142	Alexander Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u143	Dear colleagues, as you have seen, the original text of the law did not contain a draft law, nor did it allow the Attorney General to be the subject of the rule. Of course, such acts, which may be normative with the Attorney General, may be very few and should necessarily go through all the procedures provided for other normative acts. It is not possible to speak here about the organisation of the Public Prosecutor's Office, or anything else, because the law itself contains a definition of what is a “normal act” which necessarily affects the rights and freedoms of citizens and regulates certain areas of activity. So in this case, we can support the introduction of the Attorney-General's positions, understanding that these can only be separate acts that can have standards that apply to citizens' rights, and nothing more, and there are no other acts on transfer orders in any way, not to mention procedural things. They can't be here in principle. Therefore, I would like to support, in fact, only the introduction of the procurator general and the dot into the circle of subjects.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u144	Yuri Romanovich, you wanted to say something.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u145	First of all, I wanted to say that, in principle, there's no problem here. Alexander Volodymyrovich, to a certain extent, took my stand and made it clear. Since there is a subject of regulation of this law, there is a definition of legal acts, within the limits where the subject matter is regulated. Within the scope of the regulation of the law, the Attorney-General issues his acts, and there is a law in force. There are no such cases, so it doesn't work. So I think we can vote on this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u146	Bondar. And Adam Ivanovich. After Bondar Adam Ivanovich. Please. Bodnar, Bodnar.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u147	Thank you. Dear colleagues, if we are to help our lawyers, first of all, judges and those who apply this law, we should pay attention to such things as these. We need to talk about the completion of the act when we talk about the law. I just took the first article, and we have the definition: “Law is a legal and regulatory act that is approved by the Supreme Council”. We need to say “adopted by the Supreme Council”, then we will know that this is a done deal. And in that case, the law is already the law, not the draft law. And secondly, I'm concerned about defining the codification that's provided here because it doesn't match the scientific principle that exists in jurisprudence. It turns out that codification has the right to re-examine the content of those legal acts that will be included in that codification. It bothers me, because I don't know who's going to rework it at all. Please give me an explanation.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u148	Thank you. I, if you'll excuse me, first of all, this is exactly where we can interpret things differently. I think that the legal administration, when it works out, that question is "approved" or "approved," is precisely the kind of case where they can be trusted to write it in accordance with standard-setting practice. Now, for direct codification. I didn't see there were any problems. Is the codification taking place in what way? How do we adopt codes? We take essentially a certain area of legal regulation, even if there were different laws, we bring them together into a single structured, consistent article, by chapter, by content, and we vote. That's why it's different from the incorporation where we're mechanically simply folding either by date or subject to regulation those legal acts that are approved in this area. The definition here, I'll read it. Codification is the process of compiling different legal acts into the only internally harmonized and structured act by recasting their contents. There's no denying it. But some questions, from the Colosseum, yes, why do we face problems in court especially in practice. When, within one subject of regulation, different legal acts give different standards. One says you can't. The other says you can't. How can we deal with such a situation? Of course, the official acts as he pleases. Or give me a bribe, then we'll refer to another standard. That's why there's such a thing as codification. That's why there's this standard that's being processed. To understand when we codify, we intervene, actually making a new legal act.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u149	Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u150	And when we incorporate, then we just fold them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u151	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Of course, it would be wise to complete the problem that they have faced. Because we're breaking the law right now. That's why I'm going back to what's going on with the prosecutor, the prosecutor, the attorney general. I think the committee did the right thing by rejecting the amendment of Comrade Pisarenko. The point is that the Public Prosecutor’s Office should be an independent, supervisory body. If we introduce a prosecutor under this law, he is obliged to register all his acts with the Ministry of Justice. Because everything that seems normative becomes only an act when it is registered with the Ministry of Justice. This is the old scheme that the Attorney General's Office is said to be a member of the Ministry of Justice and so forth, and so on. It's about the same opera. Therefore, I propose not to support the amendment of Pysarenko’s colleague but to support the committee’s position.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u152	Colleagues, now, can do a few things. Here we go. I'm going back to my colleague. I very much ask you to hear the position exclusively in law. We have the Attorney General's Office in general in a separate chapter of the Constitution. It is a body of special jurisdiction under the Constitution. We're going to make an allologetic move when we get the Attorney General under the control of the State Executive Authority. And it has to be exactly the opposite. I mean, I understand your messenger, it's the right one, but we're going to have a legal coalition by the very legal acts, when Minniest says it needs to be registered, and it doesn't have to be registered. So we're going to create a conflict. I ask you, given the specificity of this body, not even to question its independence. And if the committee has made such a decision, please accept the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u153	Let us, however, address Mr. Olivenic. Taking these arguments into account, he may call it off.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u154	I'm talking to Christmas. Mr. Saintslav, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u155	Dear colleagues, I have in principle raised this professional discussion to make sure that we, even the stenographer of this session today, are sure of the logic of how to manage, and I agree to withdraw and not insist on my amendment, I agree. On the other hand, we need to understand that the order of the Ministry, the Minister of Internal Affairs, will have legal power, and here is the order of the Attorney-General that, including disciplinary responsibility sometimes arises, people are fired from their jobs and the rest of the questions are resolved as not to have such legal power. And in the courts, for example, I'm predicting immediately that the liberated prosecutors or some other question will be asking that this is not a normative act -- it's some kind of instruction from a literary genre. About the problem. I agree to withdraw my amendment, but this does not remove or resolve the issue of the status of the Attorney General's acts.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u156	Once again, I say that the Ministry of Internal Affairs is the authority of the State executive. So there's no question that the Ministry of Internal Affairs is going to be under a given law that is subject to, I would say, a given law. According to the Attorney General, thank you for your position. Now the second is about technical law. I am now saying under the protocol that if we adopt this law as a whole, it is imperative for the Governing Body and the Committee of Profiles to prepare before the signing of the Head of Technical and Legal Grounds, Expertise and the relevant regulations. Now I'm going to say it. Now one more thing, comrades. This is what colleague Bodnar said, and I also drew attention to this thing that you said. It doesn't correspond to an article in the 91st Constitution. We have a draft law: a legal act is approved by the Supreme Council. And the Constitution says, "The Supreme Council accepts it." That is, the word “approved” should be replaced by the word “accepted”. This is article 91 of the Constitution. Now I have another question for Yuri Romanovich. Yuri Romanovich, there was such a brief Talmud of 23 pages of suggestions to the bill of our administration. How do you appreciate taking these suggestions into account? I don't put the office of deputies in any way. But people are professional, they've been looking into it. What is counted and not counted?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u157	In fact, the vast majority of the arguments are taken into account. I'm going to tell you that those who didn't count or went beyond the logic of this bill, or they were in conflict with that logic. So actually, only those that we thought fit in to make the law a single, complete, complex document. If there is, for example, one system of classification of normative acts, so that we do not interfere in some part of it. If there's one logic to preparing legal acts there, then so be it. They're not worse or better. They just have to figure out whether this is the way we're going, or if we're going the other way. And so that's how we tried to solve it. Not enough, we had a lot of suggestions and amendments from Roman Mikhailovich Zvaric. Absolutely correct, absolutely balanced, absolutely appropriate, but they were built in the logic of the bill that he was drafting and we, without denying their contents, simply did not consider some just because they might lead us into even bigger problems if we mix in this way.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u158	Another question, Yuri Romanovich. In our first reading, we had an editorial that the Supreme Council of Ukraine had the right to explain laws. Is it left or not? I'm looking for him, it's part of a fourth, and I can't see him. It's not the Supreme Council's jurisdiction, we don't have the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u159	No, it's not the Supreme Council's jurisdiction. Although I think, personally, it is my view that interpretation should be done by the Supreme Council, but the Constitution tells us otherwise. That's why we've actually cleared this rule, even though this discussion may be between lawyers, but it should be decided in a different way, by making changes to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u160	And the last question is not the last, but the last, the 57th. We have in our 57th article an official publication of acts. We spoke on this point, which would have been very clear, because in the first edition there is only an official of “The Herald of Ukraine” and where we shared “The Voice of Ukraine”, “The Presidential Gazette” “The Government Courier”. In order to determine the circle of the media, where acts can be published, so that we don't create a monopoly on this market, because often, we also remember the historical examples when we were abused, including by not publishing, or by publishing a single act in separate editions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u161	Arsenius Petrovich! Thank you for those words. Sergei Grigorovich Mishchenko, who had just raised his hand to make this proposal, we also discussed it before I went out to the rostrum and we suggest that they be included in the paper, as you say, “The Voice of Ukraine” and “The Government Courier” and “The Herald of the President of Ukraine” also be listed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u162	And last of all, comrades! As far as the acts are concerned. Now we're going to vote, I want to ask you one more question.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u163	You see, this is a very constructive job.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u164	I'm just a very boring person, that's all.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u165	Like all lawyers, by the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u166	Last one, Yuri Romanovich. I'll put it all to the vote. One last question. We didn't include regulators under this law?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u167	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u168	This is the National Bank and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u169	To date, the National Bank registers acts involving Ukrainian citizens and refers to those authorities whose registration is mandatory.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u170	Here I want to give you a position, if this is the National Bank, and if we respect the Constitution of Ukraine, then the Central Bank cannot be subject to this law. Alexander Volodymyrovich, you know this story, I am very grateful for the work that the Ministry of Justice has done, but the Central Bank cannot fall within the scope of this law, and I ask you to support me as the former head of the Central Bank. If we want to save money and make sure that money is provided, the central bank has to be completely independent and reactive in making decisions, reactive.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u171	Arsenija Petrovich, I think that this amendment should be made, because remember the four percent that our nazbankins robbed of by their decision, and then we said, remember that it was not possible to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u172	No, no. It's simple, you know.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u173	We might be able to ensure that they too are governed by the law, not by their own judgment.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u174	There's a special law on the National Bank, colleagues. So let's do this, let's go step by step, right. So paragraph one, we gave the Attorney General the opportunity to work in constitutionally defined parameters. Supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u175	The oilman doesn't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u176	Thank you. There is no insistence on the subject. Next. The second question regarding the 57th article is official publication. I ask you, once again, we must vote for it, colleagues, let's look at the table, 57 articles.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u177	Jaroslav Mihajlovich, this is the right of the head of our committee, Mr. Mishchenko Sergey Grigorovich, and the head of the Supreme Council, Yacenyuk Arseny Petrovich, is absolutely correct. You have a board, look, there, we just have a technical question right now, the U.S. government won't fix it, we have to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u178	Article 57. Official publication of legal acts. After the words “the government authorities” add, there are newspapers “The Voice of Ukraine”, “The President’s Minister”, “The Government courier” and beyond. Yeah? Please vote. Dear colleagues, please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u179	I'd like your support, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u180	Colleagues, these are your work, come on. You want us to print legislation with leaflets, you want us to hang what we've accepted on the poles. [[13:46:48]] For 276 Copy that. The next one, as far as it goes.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u181	Nazbanku, we have a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u182	I don't see him here, where the National Bank, you know, I suggest, I suggest, I suggest when we take a general vote to exclude the National Bank, so that, because there are several articles, I'll say it under the transcript. What's the rest of it? Colleagues, who else wants to vote? An oil man, a colleague, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u183	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to Article 49. This applies to the State registration of legal regulations, in fact, it is the main one for this law. For some reason, I did not understand paragraph 5. That is, mandatory registration resulted in orders, decrees, orders from other government authorities that are subject to standardization. Why it fell out, I honestly can't understand why we don't register these categories with the Ministry of Justice as well as, for example, with the Cabinet of Ministers. I have a request here while we're working with the law, too, to make it clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u184	Yuri Romanovich, your position.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u185	Article 49, in principle, we basically have Bondarenko's amendment, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u186	She fell out.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u187	Oh, I just fell out.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u188	So I'm proposing a transcript for inclusion in that case, if we're going to take it as a whole, in the second reading and in general. Colleagues, who else has the paperwork and the suggestions so we don't let anything go? Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u189	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Arseny Petrovich! Dear colleagues! We've been given this document today, a very serious, very important document. I'd like to draw your attention to sheet 67, which is written on behalf of the legal administration with observations. So just so you know, despite the fact that we were given the law in violation of the regulations only today, no comments were given to anyone. They're gone. We can't see them, we can't appreciate them. And then no amendments, Arsenius Petrovich, can be accepted. But then the comas can't change, the legal department and you can't change. So whether we want to or not, we will have to come to the third reading procedure. I'd ask you, right here was Adam Martinyuk, who said the law was raw. It's really raw. It's a very serious law. But he's still raw. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u190	Yuri Anatolyovich, I have a question for you. Look how we work. We try to put aside the questions that require discussion. I am grateful to my colleague Oliynik on matters that still require legal discussion so that we do not cause harm. We've postponed. If necessary, we will make changes to this law. We are now going to meet and offer the head of the Supreme Council so that we do not harm Nazbank. We'll be able to process and weigh it. But I have a question for you then. And when will this be the third reading, and will it be at all? This question is also a factor in influence. Look, even Roman Mikhailovich Zvaric, who has very many observations, very, even in principle, he told me today, Yuri Romanovich, I will not harm because I know that this law is necessary; but know that this law requires serious work. So, actually, I would ask you in this context to adopt it in general. And if it's going to require improvement, by making changes, we're going to work on all of those issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u191	Roman Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u192	Dear colleagues, I am really silent about this bill for one reason or another. As a member of the committee itself, which had considered this bill and had decided to give its consideration to the Supreme Council of Ukraine in its second reading, and having also, as Yuri Romanović had already said, the author of many amendments to this bill, but not being invited to this phantom committee meeting when this bill was being considered, of course I have the impression that it was not on the committee at all, but elsewhere. And that's why I'm giving you the opportunity to complete this, I don't want to call this a comedy, but this process that you started with not only this bill, but the Supreme Council of Ukraine in general. I'm sitting silent. So don't mention my last name, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u193	Thank you. I can't help but mention, because you're a man who's worked so hard to have this law in the hall today, so that Ukraine gets this law, and we can't help but celebrate your role in this process. And even I don't think we should share opposition, coalition on these issues. Because it's about the interests of Ukraine. This is about the interests of Ukrainian citizens. And that's why we didn't try, it's not in our favor, we don't have any leverage, neither Mishchenko, nor Miroshnichenko, nor Lavrinovich, nor any of our committees, to make sure that this law is personal there or corporate. And the only thing we're trying to do is to pass a law that's been in preparation for 15 years and can't get a proper number of votes because lawyers can't make a deal. It's in these definitions that we're depriving Ukraine of the law. Well, we can't go on.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u194	Colleagues, there's a brilliant offer. Put the bill to the vote in a second reading and in general with consideration. First. Where the law, the definition of the definition, is the law. It's not legal, it's not something that's approved, it's what's accepted to bring into line with the 91st Constitution. The other one. Edited by Revoslav Olijnik And the third. Remove areas of regulation of the National Bank. Dear colleagues, I am putting to the vote in the second reading and in general with the mandate of the Legal Authority to conduct appropriate technical and legal expertise and to prepare for signature by the Head of the Supreme Council and the Preparatory Committee as well. Vote. [[13:53:47]] For 312 Hooray, comrades, act accepted. Thank you all, colleagues, I think there was a very substantive discussion. I have another offer. We have exactly six minutes left, six minutes left, we have two pieces of legislation. I'm asking you to get through the legislation quickly. After that, if it's time, we'll talk again. Victor Dmitrovitch, please, second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u195	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, distinguished colleagues, two bills. The first, number 0963, is the introduction of the Ukrainian Criminal Code in accordance with the Ukrainian Children’s Protection Act and the Ukrainian Family Code and provides for increased responsibility for crimes against the family and against children. Dear colleagues, three proposals were made by legislative actors. All three are taken into account, and this law, honourable colleagues, corresponds to the terminology approved by Parliament under Law 0962 of the Law on Responsibility for the Depravity of Minors, and this law was passed on September 25 of this year. The authors of the amendments to the law were satisfied with consideration, and there were no others, so the committee asked for support and approval as a whole as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u196	Colleagues, this needs to be voted on immediately, because what we're dealing with here is pure horror. To immediately vote and turn to the law enforcement system, demanding that the rules of the Criminal Code be followed, because terrible things are passing. Dear colleagues, I am voting on a second reading and in general bill No. 0963 amending articles 304 and 323 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. Please vote. [[13:56:03]] For 316 Yuri Anatoliyovich, they don't burn when you don't press the button, but when you push it, it burns. 0981. Vladimir Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u197	The honourable chairman, honourable colleagues, the bill has also been designed to establish criminal responsibility for the use of the child for begging, to ensure the proper protection of the rights of children, and to prevent the spread of the beggar business with the use of children. Arsenija Petrovich, the law has not been amended, but there is the same problem that arose in the adoption of the 0585 law, where it was about establishing the type of punishment: compulsory treatment for chronic alcoholism and drug abuse. So this law has the same norm that imposes compulsory deprivation of parental rights as a form of punishment. In the first reading as an ideology of this norm, it was accepted by the committee as a proposal by the author of the legislative initiative. So I would suggest, Arsenija Petrovich, that there should be no veto of the President so that we can make article 55 c., which is supplemented by the MP's right, read: “The removal of parental rights may be applied on the grounds and in the order laid down in the Ukrainian Family Code.” And in the sanctions of the articles, which provided for the punishment of the deprivation of parental rights, delete. And that's how the law is passed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u198	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u199	This is the same as what Parliament did in Law 0585, where domestic violence was involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u200	One more time.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u201	I'll say it again.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u202	Again.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u203	In this bill, which has number 0981.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u204	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u205	The second reading was amended by one of the National Deputies: To supplement the article of the Criminal Code of Ukraine with the rule on the deprivation of parental rights as a form of punishment. But the point of law enforcement is, again, that. That the order and grounds for the removal of parenthood are defined by the Ukrainian Family Code and cannot be a form of punishment. The same legal position was expressed by Parliament in the adoption of Law 0585, which dealt with compulsory treatment for chronic alcoholism and drug abuse, and this treatment was defined as providing medical psychiatric care in Ukraine. Thus, article 55 reads that parental deprivation takes place on the basis and in the order set out in the Ukrainian Family Code, and all rules of parental deprivation are excluded.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u206	I remember. It's accepted. Colleagues, pay attention! As I put it to the vote. In the second reading, and in general, to adopt a bill that takes into account the law introduced by the People’s Deputy Moses, which corresponds to the conclusion of the General Legal Authority. You get it, don't you? So we can have a texture. And to sign it, give it to me after a technical legal argument. Colleagues, we vote. [[14:00:02]] For 323 Decision taken. Colleagues, I'm showing you the factions. Asshole, please. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u207	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! It seems to me that now is not the best times for the families of the Faina sailors who have been captured by Somali pirates. I think tomorrow, when we agree on the issue of the agenda, it would be appropriate to invite representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Defence to inform us what these ministries are doing to save our sailors. Since September 25, these sailors have been in captivity. We don't know, and there's no clear information in the media about what's going on, what's going on in this office to save our citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-01-m0.u208	Dear colleagues, tomorrow will be tomorrow. Today, I declare the plenary session closed.
