ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-21-m0.u1	Good morning, dear colleagues! We'll register, and then I'll explain on what legal grounds we'll register. [[10:06:12]] There were 424 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Let me brief you on what you know from the media. There was a very difficult discussion last week to restore the work of the Ukrainian Parliament and to ask the President to suspend Presidential Decree No. 911 on the early termination of parliamentary powers. This decree was published in the Presidential Gazette this morning, and it became effective accordingly. In view of this, the legal coalition, which exists with regard to the interpretation of article 90 of the Constitution of Ukraine, is: at which point the Ukrainian Parliament ceases to operate, in the event that the signed Presidential Decree is withdrawn. There is every legal basis for the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and not only for the adoption of legislation, but also for the referral and signature by the President of Ukraine of those acts of legislation that will be approved by the Ukrainian Parliament. As for today's order. I now propose, in accordance with the Rules, to register with the factions for the performances, and we will continue to move on to the agenda. Please record, statements from factions. Please repeat the factions, one faction has not been recorded. Persevere, the Communist faction. Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-21-m0.u2	Dear colleagues! Simonenko, the Communist faction. As we all understand, the situation in the country is critical and much of what Ukraine expects is determined not only by external factors but by the free policy of the past 17 years. To determine the nature of the anti-crisis measures, the Communist faction proposes that the following fundamental points be taken into account. The idea of liberalizing all relationships has burst out, and this has recognized the peace that must be abandoned immediately. Second. All the hopes of those who tried, the so-called national patriots, and the return of the national traitors, had moved to rely on the policies of the International Monetary Fund, which had proved to be a cabal for Ukraine and should therefore be abandoned. And I believe that we must, in determining the anti-crisis measures, today determine how we feel about the following fundamental issues. These anti-crisis measures should not be carried out by simple, poor people but by owners of enterprises, owners and oligarchs. Secondly, we need to make a decision about the order in the country, because we do not have the practical administration: the Cabinet of Ministers is one of dealing, the President is another, with a political front; Parliament is blocked today, the vertical authority of the heads of administration is in fact dealing with the placement of property remnants rather than with the administration of the country. Therefore, when we talk about governance, we naturally need to bring all the laws that we must adopt into line, and during this period of crisis, we need to tighten the governance of the country. I look at our proposals from the Communist faction that the crisis will continue for at least one and a half years or up to three or four years. We therefore propose today, in counter-crisis measures, to define a clear policy of support, not of speculative banking capital, but of a real producer. And the National Bank must today lend, not commercial banks, but directly by Parliament's decision, to lend the most important to the production and other sectors of the enterprise that allow jobs to be held today, to fill the internal market and to provide jobs for our population. Next. Today, we propose the immediate introduction of the State monopoly on the realization of grain abroad and the exclusion of what grain traders can do today is 10-15 people to create prerequisites for hunger in Ukraine. In this way, we will stabilize prices and allow today to create normal living conditions for our citizens. Further.We propose measures that, if owners today fire people from the enterprise, these enterprises immediately transfer to the property of the labour community and point out that almost a million people are expected to be unemployed and that they are returning from Europe, we are well aware that organized crime and failure to manage processes will overwhelm the country. Next. We, the Communist faction, propose to immediately introduce a monopoly and control on the gas and oil wells and thus, today, tightly control the production of gas and oil and remove all the merchants who sit in this business. Next. I suggest that we immediately establish the strongest monitoring of electricity tariffs today. Today, it is not necessary for some commissions to deal with the distribution, but clearly on the team, namely, the Cabinet of Ministers, the distribution of electricity and tariff policies, to make sure that we have order in the country. Next. Many talk about the need to tighten belts. We Communists propose to extend the belt, first of all, to the owners of enterprises, and today, and to the Cabinet of Ministers, we may be able to make our efforts in this regard, first of all to force all those who own accounts abroad to return all money to the national economy of Ukraine. If not returned eighty per cent of the funds abroad, immediately accept the sanctions and the National Bank must terminate the licences issued for the opening of the accounts. I believe that we must immediately begin the final phase of negotiations with the Russian Federation at the price and volume of gas supply, just as we should immediately begin negotiations with the Russian Federation on Ukraine's entry into the Single Economic Area. Only this can save the domestic producer today. We propose, the Communist faction, in the anti-crisis measures today, to stop Ukraine's entry into WTO laws. To protect Ukraine's market from imports and, above all, to fill the internal market with our products. Our task today is also to remove the dollar's bracelet and protect it as a national currency. We are talking only about some of the priority measures, but the conclusion must be that in the country today, the destruction is determined by specific political forces. The orange team and nationalists have shown their complete failure.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-21-m0.u3	Peter Mikolaiovich, do you want to finish? Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-21-m0.u4	They have shown their complete incompetence and the faction of communists today has warned that Parliament should work. We must establish an anti-presidential coalition today and take immediate decisions to change the Constitution and abolish that post. Only then will we restore governance in the country and resolve the specific measures necessary to eliminate the consequences of the crisis that has already entered our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-21-m0.u5	Irina Akim's faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-21-m0.u6	M. Dear colleagues! Today we see a very interesting trend, Timoshenko and the Prime Minister themselves have adopted the image of the savior of the nation. I mean, it's another indication of inconsistencies and double standards. Ms. Timoshenko denied economic and financial problems in Ukraine in her press conference on 16 October. Two days ago, she woke up and saw that there were problems. And now the other story is this scarecrow about Armageddon, and the terrible catastrophe that could happen if that government went out of power. What's he talking about? This indicates that Mrs. Timoshenko is now very afraid to be responsible for all the activities that led Ukraine to the threshold of the economic and financial crisis, and she actively wants to shift the blame completely to everyone. And there's guilt and there's an answer. To date, a thousand handed over by Timoshenko to our people have applied for the freezing of deposits in banks. To date, 11 billion unreimbursable VAT is deteriorating and our enterprises are already critical, you know, metallurgical, chemical and construction enterprises are at risk, and 80 per cent of farm enterprises in agriculture are lost. Here is a picture of the activities of the Government of Timoshenko during this year, a result with which it has overturned Ukraine, in a situation where it would have to strengthen the country in order to counter the rising financial and economic flow from the West. I would like to recall that since February, the Party of the Regions had warned of the existing economic risks and proposed concrete measures. In August, we talked about the impossibility of adopting a populist budget that would lead to a financial crisis, we registered two bills, one on the independence of Nazbank, one on financial issues, one week ago a bill on the guarantee of the contributions of individuals, and we show by concrete efforts and actions that we have a programme of anti-crisis measures while the Government does nothing and does not even give an idea of the programme of these anti-crisis measures. To date, we do not need to be afraid of problems, disasters, and we need to work pragmatically and clearly. We know that economic problems are not solved through economic dictatorship and we have market measures that will not ensure dictatorship in the country, but economic discipline and order. But to that end, we need to adopt today in Parliament several bills based on the proposals put forward by the Party of the Regions, in particular those related to the guarantee of contributions, namely those related to the organization of the stabilization fund in the country and other bills. They will help us to join forces and help Ukraine deal with the financial risks of the measures taken by the civilized people around the world. To date, we must free the country from a Government that has double standards, non-professionalism and a reluctance to work. Let's do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-21-m0.u7	St. St. John's.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-21-m0.u8	Vladimir Stretovic, Party of the Christian-Democratic Union, faction "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense". Dear colleagues, when I chose my course in life 35 years ago, I was overwhelmed by the lines of Felix Dezhinski, who said that only a checker could be a person with a warm heart, a cold head, and a clean hand. More than ever today, we need a cold head, a warm heart in our love for Ukraine, and clean hands to do good things. Unfortunately, today the Ukrainian politician does not hear what the Ukrainian people want. Now 90 percent of the population doesn't want to make an extra election. This is not what the majority of parliamentarians want. Yet, for some reason, they all speak for the fact that these elections are to take place. If rulers are unable to rule the country, they should be assisted by a college body named the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Because we are the representatives of the 46 million people so that in times of crisis, when there is a threat to the existence of a state, we will gather and feel this danger. And today she's knocking on our door. And I'm convinced that each of you understands how the owners of industrial enterprises in Donetsk understand that the peasants of Zitomirsk understand that all people of good will understand that we have no use for elections. How can we get out of this situation? I come out with a completely transparent, pragmatic offer. For this period, while we stabilize the situation, let's put together a name coalition, make Parliament working to ensure that the voting and the laws that everyone needs, all humanity, all people, vote unanimously. And that's how we're going to keep Parliament, and we're not going to talk about elections. Of course, the classics of law can tell me how you, Vladimir Stretovich, an education lawyer, are trying to create an unfractional coalition. And I'll tell you, there are contradictions in our Constitution, because it says that each MP votes in person. This means that everyone pushes the button after aligning their internal position with what is proposed in Parliament. The personal responsibility of every MP! If the Constitution or the Rules had written that we were voting by factions, that would not have been the case. And since we have the responsibility for what's happening in the country, I propose to start today, Arsenija Petrovich, please, you can lead this process, to form a coalition of MP factions that has more than 226 votes, and Parliament has worked to challenge the threats facing Ukraine today. Remember Shevchenk’s words are: “Ukraine has been taken to the land itself, its children’s worst plagues have been cut apart, the blood of the righteous one from the ribs has been poured out as if they wanted to enlighten the mother’s eyes.” In other places he writes: “It is not the same to me that the wicked will come up, and in the fire they will awaken.” The dawn of Ukrainian statehood sees fire. I urge you not to allow this fire and I conclude my speech again with the words of the poet: “Hold my brothers, I pray you, I pray you!” Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-21-m0.u9	Denkovich. Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich, BUT.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-21-m0.u10	Dear voters, the great tribulation strikes our common house and, as the people say, when the house burns, it is necessary to put out the fire, not to explain who is the elder in the family. Not too much if I say so. Today, society, people who can lose their jobs, their wages, their savings, they want to hear clear and clear answers about how the authorities in Ukraine will respond to the challenges that the global financial crisis has brought to us, and how we will protect every small Ukrainian from it. First. It is obvious to all the savage absurdity and madness in this situation that parliamentary elections are taking place on an early basis. In fact, the only thing they've learned to do perfectly in our country is to hold elections. Not many in the world where so many electoral campaigns have taken place in such a short period of time. Unfortunately, during the plague that is now unfolding in the country, he demonstrated that we have more politicians than government officials, because politicians want elections, and government officials care for the people and the country. The truth is that during these years of political turmoil in Ukraine, the whole industry has been formed. Today we see a huge army of experts, analysts, sociologists, political scientists, all kinds of non-party projectiles, that is, those who are willing to stand up for any position or idea, raise any flag they want, only pay more for it. And if you think about the cheap imagemakers, the pirates, the advertisers, the other clowns behind the different species, there's not a hundred thousand of these kind of energy-energizing benefactors who are happy to get paid in envelopes, as the classic said, by hard work. In other words, the country has already formed a whole range of societies for which the election is a harvest. In the case of such harvests, the people are even more specific: “To whom war belongs, and to whom the mother is born.” And this huge army of Politezorabbits is also playing to the polls. Don't people know what kind of money they're going to throw into the pit of this next political war, and where does that huge money come from? And we're still wondering where the shadow economy came from and why political corruption took its root. With this possible election, the presidential race is about to begin. After that, the native oracles are already forecasting to repopulate the Parliament in a timely manner, for under the future factor of the nation to have the majority in the council. After that, local self - government elections will be held in turn. In short, “Our song is good, start from the beginning.” The process of reelection in the country is already becoming questionable unstoppable games. Where is the nation where the crisis is, when a river is passed to a blind, cold olympus? What is the conclusion? Stop this theater of absurdity immediately. The country must rest both from politics and from politicians. People are already tired of this permanent political show -- it's not democracy. You have to put a moratorium on any election in the country, at least for a period of time. If it is done, for example, at the same time a year later, both the Presidential and the Parliamentary. Let the people choose the leader of the nation at once, but at the same time let the majority in parliament choose the leader of the nation under him. The term of the year that we propose before the elections should be dedicated to working for the country and the people without coalitions, speciations and pre-milliads, because the crisis that has struck the world is not a week or a month as anyone thinks. The financial catastrophe that the entire world community is experiencing today threatens to develop into a deep and lasting depression that can last for years. Remember what a similar crisis has become in the United States in the 1930s: the collapse of all banks, total unemployment, the famine in the country that bathed in luxury a week earlier. And how can such a crisis turn out for our economy, which has just started to get back on its feet? The question is rhetorical. If someone thinks that in two or three days in Parliament we're going to vote for something and it's going to be okay, and the global disaster is going to pass us by, he's going to make a big mistake. A united Europe has been gathered three times, and nothing has been resolved. Everyone understands that the world has become different, that there is a need for constant hard work, that there is no one universal recipe. The U.S. presidents, former, present, future, Senate, and convention, gathered together to set aside several hundred billion dollars. Did it save America? No, the search is ongoing. Every day, the Ukrainian Parliament should also work on problems that threaten the state, because it is here in public that discussions decide the fate of what will be done by the government, by the National Bank, by local self-government. All these proposals are gaining power and can take full effect only after they have been established in the Supreme Council. And that's true. We really need to be a team of country defenders at this difficult time, as Prime Minister Yulia Timoshenko calls us to do. Third. If anyone really hopes that something will change immediately after the early elections, that a people with joyful banners will come to the polling station and support someone -- one, loved by all, and then immediately by Parliament, a coalition will be created and a government created.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-21-m0.u11	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-21-m0.u12	So that's a deep illusion. Even with the ideal conduct of all procedures in anticipated terms, the first law will at best be adopted in this room not earlier in May. If you do not believe, take and count, more precisely, the previous year. But what's more, by May, the whole country's economy could be a complete mess. And the fourth. What do we propose today? We should first consider anti-crisis, not electoral bills that need to be put into effect urgently, giving all possible weights to the government to prevent or minimize the crisis in the Ukrainian economy and make people's lives worse. There's not a dozen of them for today. What happens tomorrow will be tomorrow. We all need to work daily and continuously. On the count of every minute and every penny, let us remember that, friends. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-21-m0.u13	Vladimir Litwin, “Block Lithuania”. I announced, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Vladimir Litwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-21-m0.u14	Dear people's deputies, good people! These cries, which have just been said, are somewhat late, would have to be demonstrated from the very beginning, because what the Ukrainian authorities are doing today can be described as: “The bonds change, trade in truth.” And I want to remind you, dear colleagues. Where have you all been before? As early as September, as soon as the Supreme Council of Ukraine began its work, we proposed our faction, our plan of immediate action, and we sent out all the factions. We didn't get any reaction. So I will use the opportunity to refresh them in your memory, our suggestions. Obviously not as much for you as it is for people. First. Adopt a social agreement signed by the President of Ukraine, the Prime Minister and the heads of the deputy factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which is to be endorsed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine as the Law on Basic Principles of Internal and External Policy. This act should provide for clear and unambiguous interpretation and application of the provisions of the Constitution. In addition to everything else, it should stop the practice of cheating all the turmoil that is taking place in Ukraine on the imperfections of the Basic Law and delay the introduction of constitutional changes before the situation is normalized. Next. Prioritize internal and foreign policy by delaying decisions from discussion issues, such as relations with NATO, linguistic, religious, historical, and the Black Sea fleet, and so on, which divide and disunite society, weld people. Next. The formation of state power -- I emphasize -- state authority, including government, which would have national confidence, legitimacy in people's perception, and so, publicly, based on professionalism and taking into account the need to expand the basis of political responsibility, including in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Next, and I would like to stress in particular: the total real depoliticization of law enforcement structures and the judicial system, the lack of further involvement in political divisiveness. Examples of the latter confirm the urgency of such a question. The government's downgrading by a third. We demanded it and offered it a few months ago -- only yesterday, the President talked about it in the definition of 20 percent. Next: the harmonization of the number of MPs in the local councils is proportional to the number of people, the establishment of executive committees at the district level, and the remaining areas of government only have control functions, and, of course, a change in the electoral system. Second: the formation of the State budget in clearly defined priorities, such as health care, rural areas, housing, education and science, social security systems. Third: to provide the public with all the information about the extent of social obligations that the State has to implement in accordance with current legislation and the list of laws that the current authorities do not implement and explain why social laws are not being implemented; to identify a compensation package for preventing the deterioration of human life; and to publicly abandon the culinary form of social decision making. Fourth: A decision to reform the system of pay is made immediately, which is now artificially underestimated by the state more than three times and, accordingly, by pension insurance. The state must assume responsibility for living standards throughout the country, clearly defining minimum social standards. And we're definitely against those proposals from the anti-crisis package to freeze for two months the subsistence minimum with the minimum wage. To begin with, those who propose such action should demonstrate it in their own lives. And fifth, introduce differentiated taxation of citizens' incomes, progressive taxation. I am convinced that the rich should pay, especially now, and not call for consolidation and understanding, so that the entire Ukrainian people can save their capital once again, that will not be the case. Sixth, do a public analysis of the results and consequences of the privatization that has already been done and bring about a revolutionary order here. Then we can't move.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-21-m0.u15	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-21-m0.u16	I want to emphasize to one man who screams, you have the truth like a eunuch with a harem. And now, in fact, to provide, in the event of illegal privatization, for the failure to fulfil privatization obligations, for the return of property to public property, or for the payment to its real value, for the real guarantee of the protection of private property to be obtained honestly. Seventh, to determine the list of enterprises, objects, and spheres that ensure national security and sovereignty of the State, and then should not be privatized. Eighth, to conduct a public and national inventory of all without exception of land, to bring all land relations into line with valid legislation. And the ninth, to establish strict rules of conduct for those who work in the public service. In practice, judicial reform, including the suppression of corruption. In particular, to determine the choice of judges and to compare corruption to treason. And the tenth, to bring about an elementary order in the country, starting with the fact that the authorities have to hear people and finish or the conditions of our lives. Which Ukrainian citizens have already suffered. And finally, we support the adoption of the Stabilisation Fund, just like the Population Deposit Guarantee Fund, all other so-called anti-crisis measures should not be implemented at the expense of the people, as is suggested. I'm sure the crisis to be suppressed at the expense of people is a crime. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-21-m0.u17	Dear colleagues, now on the agenda for today's meeting. So I want to warn you right now that the formation of the order of the day is done only in accordance with the requirements of the Rules. According to the Rules of Procedure at the previous meeting of the Conciliation Council, two decisions were taken: first, the voting of the bill, and more specifically, the drafting of the daily bill amending the State Budget Act of Ukraine, and second, the Act of Ukraine amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the organisation of the electoral process]] In the second bill, 228 votes were cast. [[3294]] Colleagues, pay attention! To be included in the agenda and to be considered without a committee decision. Now for the budget bill. So I remind you that this bill was introduced as a bill that provided for the financing of the elections. But yesterday there was a meeting of the Conciliation Council. Sorry, there was a National Security and Defence Council meeting yesterday. A number of suggestions were made at the NPO meeting. In addition, yesterday there were negotiations with factions to support or support the bill. What has now changed in this law? It's not a law now that's the main purpose of the election funding, it's a law that I've had this morning, including it's been regulated to solve two fundamental issues. Question number one is a fund to guarantee the contributions of natural persons. Today, the minimum compensation is $50,000. If we are now adopting the Act on Amendments to the National Budget Act, which is proposed to take account of the decisions of the National Bank, compensation may reach 150,000 dollars. I mean, is that clear? An increase in the deposit guarantee fund and the recalculation of one billion dollars that the National Bank has made in addition to the deposit guarantee fund. The second question raised yesterday by the Prime Minister of Ukraine. She raised questions about the need for privatization, although there is great doubt that someone will buy something in today's financial crisis with negative ratings. But the Prime Minister insists that certain objects that may be hypothetically acquired may be offered. Yesterday's decision agreed on the question that such privatisation costs should be channelled exclusively into the stabilisation fund. And this stabilising fund can be used either on the basis of a separate law, and by the time such a law is passed, the government is in agreement with the MPA. These are two basic points. So we're solving people's issues under the deposit guarantee fund; the second is we're dealing with the stability of a really crisis situation and the allocation of funds to a stable fund. The third question is the financing of the electoral campaign. This is a package where votes were collected for voting yesterday. So I suggest you pay attention now! – that before the decision we made, 228 votes last time, we would consider Bill 3294 and 3283 in general without discussion, and include them in the agenda. Colleagues, pay attention! I am asking to vote in favour of the inclusion in the agenda of 3283 and 3294, which has already been voted. Vote. [[10:39:44]] For 201 The decision is not taken. What's the next option? I suggest you do it again. Would you like to make a statement? Please speak up. One minute at a time. Write down one minute from the faction. Olga Bodnar.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-21-m0.u18	Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich, please have a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-21-m0.u19	Ivan Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-21-m0.u20	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, distinguished colleagues, considering the situation of Arsenija Petrovich, I ask you to listen. Valentina Alexandrovich, come on, please. Arsenija Petrovich, we propose now as we have the practice of the last days and the last weeks of Parliament's work, taking into account the extremely difficult situation that is, we now propose a break of at least half an hour to assemble faction leaders to discuss the agenda. Yesterday, the Council of Nazbek and Defence reviewed the proposals of the government, the National Bank, to deal with the crisis, to prevent the crisis and to minimize the crisis. Where's the package? We should consider it and discuss it. Arsenija Petrovich, only after that is the election issue, but only after that is the budget change. Let's talk to the faction leaders. Where's that package and what's in that bag? Gather us together, please, and then we'll go into the hall. What are we voting for now?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-21-m0.u21	Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-21-m0.u22	Please pass the word to Oleni Lukash.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-21-m0.u23	Olena Lukash.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-21-m0.u24	Thank you. Dear colleagues, do you know what strikes most today? A representative of the faction, who has his own Cabinet of Ministers, has just told us that the Cabinet of Ministers does not have an anti-crisis package, has not introduced any draft legislation regulating the economic crisis in Ukraine, and has offered us to endure terror without end instead of voting for changes in electoral legislation, and to establish in the State a stabilization fund, a fund to guarantee payments to investors and so on, as proposed by the People's MP, and that they have not voted in favour of the day. I'm still asking my colleagues to calm down, and now or after a break to see these bills again. They: (a) guarantee the return of contributions, (b) the establishment of a stabilization fund, (c) the allocation of funds for elections so as not to tolerate another year of free work in the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and (d) settle some electoral procedures. Don't be afraid of the judgment of the people, don't be afraid.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-21-m0.u25	Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-21-m0.u26	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Our Ukraine. I don't think all the colleagues have understood the right proposal from the head of Parliament. He suggested normal things: to vote in one law, to fill the stabilisation fund, to increase the deposit guarantee fund, and to resolve the issue of financing out-of-order elections. If we lose our emotions, we certainly need to vote on such a proposal, for it is, on the one hand, an anticrisis measure, which, unfortunately, has not yet been implemented by the government, and on the other hand, a political crisis that can only be solved through the conduct of successive parliamentary elections. So I propose that we put this question to a vote or after a break or a break and solve these problems, because lately we only hear the Prime Minister's talk about overcoming the crisis, but we don't see any real action on its part. So it's going to be Parliament's work and it's the right approach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-21-m0.u27	Peter Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-21-m0.u28	Simonenko. The Communist faction. We propose, as a matter of priority, to consider anti-crisis measures. We assume that today, the President and those who now support his adventurous proposals want to exclude the work of Parliament and thus add to this chaos to our people's administration the coming catastrophes. Why are they in such a hurry today with the early elections, the well-respected voters, I want to explain to you that I understand. They're in a hurry because in a month or two, you'll all understand when you come to the polls, that you're asked to vote for those who, as business owners, will drive you out, who'll make you unemployed, who won't pay you deposits in banks, who'll raise the price of bread, as they do on drugs today, they'll all be on the list. That's why they're in a hurry to get the election today so you don't know who's gonna throw you out on the street tomorrow. Therefore, the faction of communists requires immediate consideration of the anti-crisis measures and the legislative enforcement of the actions of each responsible person. Don't let that happen.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-21-m0.u29	My colleagues, once again, accepted Catherine Timofievna, you haven't been able to sign up. Well, turn on Catherine Timofievni.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-21-m0.u30	Dear Arsenia Petrovich, thank you. Dear colleagues! I think that on the list of those laws, before the list that we're going to vote on anti-crisis, we need to put in a second reading a law on taxation of the village by tax on added value. If farmers start paying 20 per cent of VAT from the new year, the entire agricultural sector will be bankrupt, as the year will end with a cost of not more than 7-8 per cent. And it's also going to be jobs, and wages, and investment climate, and so on. So, including in the review of the laws, Arsenija Petrovich, I very much ask the Conciliation Council on behalf of our faction, "Block of Lithuania," to put this law in order of the day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-21-m0.u31	Dear colleagues! In the last meeting of the Conciliation Board, I put to the vote what you agreed. In order to avoid political speculation about the financing of elections, the bill addressed two basic issues: the Deposit Guarantee Fund and the State’s Stability Fund. And you're voting for it. Well, there has to be some explanation that you're not voting. For 30 minutes, we went to the faction leaders' meetings.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-21-m0.u32	Honourable MPs, given that the impossible conditions created for Parliament's work -- the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko Block -- are still blocking the work of the Ukrainian Parliament, there is no way to address any of the issues -- this morning's plenary session is declared closed. In view of this situation, there will be no evening plenary meeting today. I'll see you tomorrow at 10:00 in the morning.
