ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u1	Good day to you all, distinguished national MPs! I'm asking you to take your seats. Dear colleagues, in view of yesterday’s decision by the Constitutional Court, I would like to point out that the written registrations of Ukrainian national deputies, which will now be given to me at the morning plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, are crucial. However, I would like to register further in the "Council" electronic system. [[10:02:58]] There are 447 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. I would like to ask all the Ukrainian national MPs to sign up at the registration tables today to confirm the legal fact that there is a Ukrainian national deputy in the plenary meeting room of the Ukrainian Parliament. Dear colleagues, the morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. In connection with the Constitutional Court’s ruling of April 1, 2008, I would like to point out that the Supreme Council of Ukraine ruling of March 16, 2006, No. 3547-4, which does not correspond to the Constitution of Ukraine, has ceased to be valid since the adoption of the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Thus, the Ukrainian Parliament is governed by the following articles of the Constitution of Ukraine: Article 82 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which determines the power of the Ukrainian Parliament. In view of Parliament’s election, two thirds are in the Chamber, thus the issue of the efficiency and efficiency of the Ukrainian Parliament cannot even stand in the order of the day. The second is article 88 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which defines the mandate of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to organise the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has been elected and will exercise his appropriate authority. The next is article 91 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which defines how decisions are taken by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, namely, half of its constitutional composition; And finally, this is article 8 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which states that the norms of the Constitution are the norm of direct action. In view of this, honourable colleagues, prior to the legislative settlement of the issue of the organization of the working order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court, namely, pending the adoption of the Ukrainian Act on the Supreme Council Rules of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Parliament will, in the first and foremost cases, be used and guided by the standards of the Ukrainian Constitution, which are rules of direct action, and which clearly state that the decision of the Constitutional Court has not affected the right and effectiveness of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as the only body of law in the Ukrainian State. With regard to the further order of work, I would like to point out that we need to make organizational decisions on how to adopt the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of the Supreme Council and how to work exclusively for Parliament during the time when the Supreme Council of Ukraine will consider in the first and second reading and in general the relevant Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Yesterday we had a discussion on this, and I would like to ask Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov, head of the regulatory committee, to inform Parliament about how this situation can be resolved. Please, Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, given that the decision that we must take must be legally ascertained and we must not allow any inaccuracies, there is a proposal to take a half-hour recess in order for the lawyers to look again at all the details of the document that was prepared overnight and to return to the Hall in half an hour for consideration of the matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u3	I think it's a wise decision. I would ask the faction leaders and, Alexander Sergiyovich, you, and, accordingly, the main members of the regulatory committee to come to my office so that we can now put a dot in the standard design technique within 15-20 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u4	I want to give you a brief message. We have, unfortunately, a Ukrainian policy, when last night we agreed and signed a draft regulation on an appropriate provisional regulation, this morning, because everyone has a claim to his own genius and authorship, unfortunately, did not agree to part of the ruling. But the process, practically completed, is now the committee's chairman, Ephraim, asking the members of the regulatory committee on the third floor to meet to approve the decision proposed by the faction leaders. At 12:30, we begin the plenary session under any circumstances.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u5	which are located in various places of the Ukrainian Parliament, to enter the Parliamentary Chamber to decide on the future work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, we continue our morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Meetings of the Rules Committee were concluded. I invite the head of the Ephraim Committee to the rostrum to inform us what decisions have been made and what proposals will be made to the Ukrainian National Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, as a result of a lengthy discussion of issues on the Regulatory Committee, then on the Conciliation Board, the next procedure for your consideration of the situation following the decision of the Constitutional Court is proposed for consideration by the Regulatory Committee. The absolute majority of the members of the regulatory committee have concluded that it would be logical to submit and consider today the first law under number 2204. It's very simple, all of you. He's on your hands, and he's not carrying any, uh, heavy loads, although he can be judged differently. And then consider the decrees of the interim Rules, which Arsenius Petrovich has prepared, and you have it in your hands. I think it's under 2338. 2338. That's exactly the sequence. This gives us an opportunity to respond to the Constitutional Court's decision and to continue the work of the Supreme Council and to open the way for further legal debate to decide correctly on the further approval of our core law, which we are working on in the Supreme Council. Thank you. I'm ready to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u7	Who wants to ask the Head of the Rules Committee? Just as the Rules do not work, so we will give our word as in the good old days. Please, Klukkowski. Then there's Kenzier and then there's Carmazin. I'll switch over later. Let's start on the left.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u8	Dear rapporteur, the bill you are proposing is referred to a legal and regulatory act called the Supreme Council of Ukraine Regulation. Instead, according to the Constitutional Court’s decision, it is established that the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules can be adopted exclusively by law. So that's the legal act that you refer to in your draft law, it's not in nature. And I would also ask that you also answer such a very simple question. Do you know of any law that consists of a single line that could create such an abracadabra that refers to three separate laws? Because in one line you refer to three separate laws. That is, the Law on Status, the Committees Act and the Law on Temporary Special and Investigative Commissions. And that's all you've managed to do in the same line. And you suggest this is called the law. Do you not think that this is to some extent hypocrisy?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u9	Dear Roman Mikhailovich, I simply answer the second part of your question. I would not be so firm in assessing activities, including those of our colleagues. Because the law that is proposed is signed by all representatives of factions without exception. And my last name's not there, so it's easy for me to talk about it. So, I wouldn't go to an offensive tone with my colleagues. And with regard to the legislative framework, you know, different laws are being passed, including from two points, you don't know me any worse. As for the first question, it is purely professional. The law that is proposed for adoption does not stand as a rule as adopted by the Rules, under a law that obliges us to do so by the Constitutional Court or some other inpostasy. Therefore, today it may be argued that the Rules can be adopted within the framework of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u10	Klukkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u11	Thank you. Yuri Klukkowski, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear colleague! Please tell me how you agree with the two steps you have proposed: first, to adopt a law whereby the order of the activities of the Supreme Council is determined by a document called the Rules, and then to adopt another document called the Temporary Rules. Do you not feel that the adoption of such a law makes it impossible for you to adopt a provisional Law?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u12	I answer that question. First of all, the law that is proposed for adoption is defined not only by the Rules but all the procedures provided for in the Constitution, which, as a result, must be carried out by the Supreme Council, and we shall be guided as deputies in our work. That's the first one. Now, with regard to the second question, you know that we have proposed to adopt, not a temporary one, but to adopt the Rules of Work of the Supreme Council, but on the basis of what you said and said earlier, Roman Mihajlović Zvarić, we have come to the conclusion that, in this situation, as a temporary transitional rule, in order to comply with the Constitutional Court's decision to adopt the provisional Rules. To continue to instruct the committee concerned, for a certain period of time, to develop, either on the basis of law or on the basis of another instrument, the relevant Rules, which I think will be submitted to the Hall in two weeks and proposed to you for approval.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u13	Who else has the question? Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u14	Yuri Carmazin. Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. Dear reporter! I've followed those suggestions closely, and I want to say with great pleasure that at the end of my vision, I've always said that the Rules Act should be, and this Rules should be unconstitutional. Thank God his Constitutional Court is now unconstitutional, raise my speeches, you'll see. But I suggest that we should not be putting it now, such a law should be adopted, this regulation should be issued by the Head of the Supreme Council, call on the provisional Supreme Council Rules for a period of time before the adoption and application of the Supreme Council Rules of Procedure Act, so that we can write down the time for it to take effect, and write it down immediately so that we can develop it, put it into effect for two weeks, adopt it in the first reading and work it out immediately. And yet, don't you think it's necessary to describe the activity of the opposition, not to pass a separate law on opposition and so on, and here it is, in the law on.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u15	Dear Yuri Anatolyevich, almost everything you have said is foreseen for further work and, more importantly, the regulation already contains a unit that may be proposed for consideration in the next version of the opposition regulation. This decision has already been taken accordingly. We therefore have yet to continue to improve this document in purely professional, purely legal work. With regard to the adoption of two documents, you are well aware that we needed to find a compromise on which everyone would agree to make that decision. As a result of what we propose, practically, the Committee had a unanimous view that today must be done in this way. I may not agree with anything either, but as part of reaching a compromise today on decision-making, I would still go to the option proposed by the regulatory committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u16	Kenzier.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u17	Jaroslav Kenzior, National Movement of Ukraine, faction "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense". Alexander Sergiyovich, does it not seem to you that even in this provisional version of the Rules, there would be a second article in which the place and language of meetings of the Supreme Council should be deleted, or the fourth paragraph in which it states that “a speaker who does not speak the national language may speak another language, the translation of his speech into the national language is provided by the Supreme Council, if necessary”. Either delete or remove the word “in case of necessity”. So there's a Constitution, let's talk about certain provisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u18	Dear colleague, thank you. I was assigned here by my constituents. And my voters in their majority speak Russian. I have great respect for my constituents, so I also try to speak the language they understand. And I'm also trying to learn Ukrainian. And if I spent most of my life in English, I think I wouldn't be doing much worse than yours, I'd be speaking Ukrainian. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u19	Chechatov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u20	Honourable Alexander Sergeyevich, judging by the tone and sarcasm with which our respected lawyers Roman Zvarić and Mr. Klukowski asked questions, can be seen whose lobbyist political ears are swayed by the decision of the Constitutional Court. I therefore propose that, in order to bring Parliament into a constructive position, the compromise, the right decision of the committee, which Aleksandr Sergeyevich has made, vote and proceed directly to the agenda, be put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u21	Comrade Zarubinski, then colleague Bondik.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u22	Thank you. Dear Alexander Sergiyovich, I would like to ask you to repeat what Arsenius Petrovich said this morning, that the work of the Supreme Council is legitimate, regardless of the conjunctural decisions of the order, that we are acting on the basis of the basic law, the Constitution, so that's fine. We just have to sort out our internal regulations technically right now. And so you don't think that this debate that's been going on has crystallized the issue that's got everyone who's really not controversial, because the controversy is going to impose a decision on us by the Constitutional Court, and you understand that very well. And it is that the Supreme Council is to adopt the provisional Rules. In that case, he is not the subject of discussion and conclusions by either the Constitutional Court or anyone else and of setting a deadline, a month to prepare the final version of the Rules, everyone would agree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u23	Dear colleagues, I fully reaffirm what Arsenija Petrovich said at the morning meeting, and I will allow all of us to recall that the Supreme Council has worked 12 years in the Chamber from 1992 to 2004. Once again, I stress how difficult the question is, the change in the Rules, or, more importantly, the writing of the new Rules. Why the Rules Committee had taken this matter so seriously, because everything with regard to the amendment of one paragraph of the Rules was linked to the changes that would have to be made. As for the legitimacy of the action of the Supreme Council, it cannot in any way be questioned, because we are guided, above all, by the Constitution of our State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u24	Bondik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u25	Dear Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u26	After Bondick, School.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u27	You know, I've rightly noted today the distinguished speaker Arsenius Petrovich Yacenuk, who in Ukraine is acting under the Constitution of the rule of law, not the rule of law, that's what I'm reminding you of. So, you know, this submission, you don't have to take a lot of time to have this discussion, really, someone has looked at and someone has had a good time destroying parliamentaryism in Ukraine, they've looked at old-fashioned submission and language has gone all the way out there about requests from national MPs, and the Constitutional Court has gone beyond the limits of authority, and we know what the fight is between the President's Administration and the Constitutional Court, so I suggest you focus on your proposal that we should adopt, not the law, but the decision. It's our right. And work with determination. Make it temporary, by no means the law. Because remember, the law, it has to be signed by the President. Where are the guarantees that he'll sign it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u28	In making this compromise decision, we have made the corridor wider. We have left the field of action for us, for the parliamentarians, to take a further decision, one way or the other. Depending on what will be worked out and what opinion will ultimately prevail here, in the room, the decision will be taken. It's either a decree or a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u29	School colleague, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u30	Thank you, Arseny Petrovich. Well, first of all, I would like to remind you that no one can question Parliament's work. Parliament is in operation. And the only thing we have to do now is spend almost half a day trying to figure out what we have to do after the Constitutional Court's decision. So I would like to remind you that the Constitutional Court is also motivated by the provisional rules, also by the provisional regulations. Therefore, as legislators, we need to remember and also consider the law on this regulation. But anyway, I'd like to see someone else. I'd like us to put a dot in the discussion. Of course, we don't have the right to temporally divide, give a month to draft the regulation law, a week. Until the law on regulations is passed, there is a temporary provision, or temporary regulation. And I would like the chairman of the Regulatory Committee to confirm and stress this. Only then will we withdraw the discussion and move on to normal, constructive work. And over the law of regulations and over other laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u31	Thank you very much. It is this amendment that Arsenija Petrovich has also agreed to it as the author of the bill. There are no deadlines for working from the time limit to the time limit. The time that we will need in order to adopt the relevant document must be determined, not on paper, but, in fact, on work. Now with regard to the relationship and determination of the actions of the Constitutional Court. As legislators, I think we must treat with respect all the branches of power that are in our State. And if we have given the Constitutional Court the right to make a final decision, we must first set an example, implement this decision and then find a solution from the legislative point of view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u32	Grenevetsky Sergey Rafailovich, Bilorus Oleg Grigorovich and Knazevitch, and we conclude the discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u33	Thank you. Dear Arsené Petrovich, I would like to remind you that the Constitutional Court was formed in accordance with the Rules of the Supreme Council, 212 articles, when the procedure for the acceptance of an oath was laid down constitutionally. But there is a decision of the Constitutional Court. We have to do it. I have a proposal to put to the vote a decision on the provisional regulation and then return to the proposed project, Alexander Sergiyovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u34	I would not support this decision because, in the logic of the actions under discussion, we have devoted much attention to this issue at the meeting of the regulatory committee. It was necessary to consider the adoption of the law at the outset and then, under this law, to take the relevant decision. And then, if the President signs this law, then we'll have our own actions. If the President commits this law, we may have other actions. But the logic of the matter must be in order, as I said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u35	Belarus Oleg Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u36	Dear colleagues, over the course of 3, 4, 5 and 6 calls for 10 years, we have heard in this Hall that the Rules should become law. At last, the Constitutional Court accepted our verdict, and we can't beat it. I have a question for the committee. We have the Rules. He has the status of determination. Can't you just consider it for a week and accept it as a law? That it has to be changed in order to stretch this harmony for a long time. Let us quickly accept it, or today, or this week as a law and work.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u37	Dear Oleg Grigorović, I would also like to support your point of view, but I do not think that this will be agreed by a number of our colleagues who have prepared alternative drafts, and they are now under consideration in the Governing Council's Regulatory Committee. Plus, we have dozens, if not hundreds, of amendments to the Rules. We have considered 57 of them, which are not politically oriented, and we have approved, and we propose that the Supreme Council in the next Rules take these amendments into account. There are also developed issues related to the opposition – what Karmazin has already said here today, they have also been considered. If the Hall agreed to consider the matter in this respect, it would take a minimum time to consolidate and place it in the Hall, as a document, as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u38	Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u39	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, honourable colleagues, the truth of the national wisdom of the fact that until the thunder strikes, the man will not be crossed, reigned today in the Ukrainian Parliament, because it is good that we have finally come to terms with the fact that the constitutional judiciary, as defined by the Law on the Constitutional Court, is far from perfect. Because, indeed, in 1996, when this law was enacted, all realities could not be taken into account, including those now envisaged by changes to the Constitution. Unfortunately, however, when the President of Ukraine raised the issue of the need for amendments to the Constitutional Court Act, the opposition committee rejected the bill and sent it away for further work. Although it would be a basis for taking and processing, including the entire law. There is no need to be false and not to follow double standards, because the Constitutional Court has not violated anything; it has not acted on its authority; it can do so if it sees that the other position of the document which is being accused is contrary to the Constitution. As for the temporary situation. If we do now, we will accept it today, we would very much like it not to be permanent. So we still offered to go back to what we had.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u40	You know, colleagues, the first part of my question is not about me, it's about another committee. With regard to the decision of the Constitutional Court, that is a very controversial view, I would not like to comment on it in the Chamber. These are non-public comments. And we need to see professionally whether one structure can actually tell the other what order it needs to work. I don't think there's anyone in the state with such powers today, and, God forbid, someone will be given. But that's my personal point of view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u41	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Dear colleagues, there is an offer to finish the talk and move on to the work of the subject. The first thing I would like to point out is that in view of the fact that the Constitutional Court of Ukraine has declared an unconstitutional ruling as a whole, the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which was adopted in 1994, are formally and legally renewed. That's right, in a word. So in view of the fact that the ruling is declared unconstitutional in general, and this is the order that invalidated this, thin, 94 year, so if someone there thinks that Parliament is now operating without the Rules, I'd like to dispel them. Parliament is operating on the basis of the 1994 Rules. This is the first postulate. Second, regarding the order of passage of the relevant bills. There are two approaches: the first approach is to vote now 2338, this is the Supreme Council's decree to approve the Supreme Council of Ukraine's provisional provisional rules. The first article of this decree states that the Provisional Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council are approved prior to the legislative settlement of matters of organization and order of action of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The second item is the commission of the Committee of the Supreme Council, the proposal to clear the deadline for the drafting of the relevant Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council. What do we gain by making such a decision? First: we legitimize purely internal organisational procedures for Parliament's activities, which have nothing to do with the rightfulness and efficiency of the Ukrainian Parliament, but have nothing in common. That is whether this document is, or not, a parliament right and effective and can adopt, and binding, all laws with all the consequences. The second bill is 2204. All I have to say is my position on this bill. I know Alexander Sergiyovich's position, but be aware of what this law says. Unless Parliament can pass a law on organizing its own activities in four terms. Well, it's legal ignorance and legal nihilism. Well, it's hard for me to even comment on such drafts. Moreover, read this law. What's written here? “Organization and order of activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is being established.” And now I'm going to list what we're going to do: The Constitution – once, Ukraine's "On the Status of Ukrainian People's Deputies" Act – two, "On the Committees of the Supreme Council" three, "On Temporary Investigations Commissions" four and the Rules. What about ten more? with several dozen laws that have rebuttal rules and which also have a direct bearing on the activities of the Supreme Council, reading from the Police Act and ending with the Procuratorial Law and everything else. So we're, like, going deliberately to restrict the powers of the Ukrainian Parliament? So what am I proposing? This law is unlikely to decide, but nothing will be decided more precisely. Please, Alexander Sergiyovich, a replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u42	Thank you, Arseny Petrovich. I would just like to answer your question because we had, hopefully, a professional discussion on this issue. Those laws and dozens of others that you have not listed, the Supreme Council should simply comply with them. It lists the laws listed in the Constitution and must guide us. That is why they appeared in this document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u43	Very arbitrary, Alexander Sergiyovich, interpretation of this law. It's extremely arbitrary! Therefore, if this law is to be adopted, it is necessary to add “and other laws of Ukraine”. Then there is any legal logic in the matter. In view of what I propose, colleagues? In order to compromise, the Ukrainian Act on the Organization and Order of the Supreme Council should add the words “and other laws of Ukraine”. Is there no objection to that? I won't. So let's do this. Let's put a vote on the inclusion in the agenda so far in bill 2204. I'll give it to you, Yuri Bogdanovich. On the inclusion of the daily bill 2204. Please vote. [[12:59:46]] For 380 Such a bill is included in the agenda. Please, Yuri Klukkowski. Please show by factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u44	Dear colleagues, let us carefully read the text of this bill. It contains a reference to the Ukrainian Law on Temporary Special and Temporary Investigations Commissions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This law did not take effect. What do we want to do? Is this a new law to give effect to a law that has not entered into force under the Constitution? Is it also legal purity and legal literacy? Let's think about that ball of trouble that we're going to create with this law. And after that, what will be the next action of the President?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u45	Who else would like to make a statement? Sas, please, Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u46	Thank you. Dear Arsenius Petrovich, well, before I went to the question of the law, I wanted to respond to Yuri Bogdanovich Klukkowski's reply. The bill does not refer to the Ukrainian Law on Special or Investigative Commissions, but it states that the questions of organization and order of activity are established by the Constitution, the laws of Ukraine: the status of the National MP, the Committees, the provisional ones – i.e. there is no reference to a specific bill. So I think Yuri Bogdanovich this link is not correct. Arseny Petrovich, is the decision of the Committee on Rules that, at its meeting, decided to submit and propose to support this bill at the meeting of the Supreme Council. As for your proposal -- other laws -- well, in principle, as one of the drafters of the bill, I don't deny it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u47	Alexander Efraemov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u48	Thank you, Arseny Petrovich. Sergei Vladimirović here said he did not object to the introduction of other laws. Arsenius Petrovich, you must specify where other laws are enacted.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u49	Before the word “and the Rules”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u50	That's right, we agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u51	Thank God. Sergei Volodymyrovich, the only comment that, with all due respect for the regulatory committee, the regulatory committee cannot and will not replace the will of the entire Ukrainian Parliament. We appreciate your offer, but Parliament will decide whether or not to accept it. Therefore, we will certainly put your proposal to the vote. Colleagues, now, as far as the law is concerned, let me read it again under the transcript so that there are no questions: “For the organization and order of activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.” The Supreme Council of Ukraine decides: First. The organization and order of activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is established by the Constitution of Ukraine, the laws of Ukraine: “On the status of Ukrainian National Deputies”, “On the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine”, “On temporary special and temporary investigators of the Supreme Council of Ukraine”, other laws of Ukraine and the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, [[Comma]] [[Dot]] The other one. This Law takes effect from the day it is published.” Question: Shall we go to a meeting and exclude the words of the temporary special and investigative commissions of the Supreme Council? From the hall. Nope.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u52	Don't you want to? Okay. In the Constitution, there really is this norm, I don't remember the 89th, it seems to predict, and there's a direct norm. That's why we don't, in fact, violate the Constitution, but we're going to take the floor within the Constitution. So, colleagues, I propose to adopt Law 2204 as an editorial that has just been read by the Head of the Supreme Council as a whole. For now we have the first, the second, namely, the law first, the second reading, and in general, and to go to the provisional Rules. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[13:04:04]] For 359 Decision taken. Please show by factions, although the fate of the law, as far as I am concerned, has been formally and legally understood. So if this is a compromise, well, let it be in order to adopt the provisional Rules. Now, colleagues, the Supreme Council's regulation on some of the issues of legal and regulatory enforcement of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, registration number 2338. Completely in this edition, which is in your hands except in the second paragraph of the words “over the month”. Anything else, please vote. Please vote. [[13:04:54]] For 386 Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to welcome you to the fact that Parliament continues to work within the framework of the current legislation of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Please show by factions. Who has the question? So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. Formally and legally, according to the Rules. By the way, we have adopted the Rules in the same way that it was valid for us, except for the three articles — articles 219, which are recognized by the Constitutional Court as being in conflict with the Constitution. I mean, we've also implemented the Constitutional Court's decision. As far as the agenda is concerned, we should now have speeches, announcements and messages from the MPs. Please sign up. Please, Party of Regions, Iljaslav Grigory Alexiyovich. Alexander Sergiyovich, will you be performing? Is Ilya's speaking? Lavrinovich Alexander Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u53	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues! You see how much time we've spent today to solve a situation that came after a challenge that was addressed to the Ukrainian Parliament. I want to point out today that in Ukraine we are seeing a methodological continuation of the attack on law and law. And we see how decisions are being adopted today, both in the Constitutional Court and in the Constitutional Court. We understand that perhaps an effective Parliament and a just and effective Constitutional Court are not needed in Ukraine today. And it is clear that it is much easier to adopt and implement illegal solutions for the absence of such important institutions. I realize that someone near the head of state wants to have all the law enforcement and judicial authorities as a service of his own desires. Today, when we look at the decisions signed by the President of Ukraine to repeal his decree to appoint a judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, there is an immediate question about both legal logic and common sense and formal logic. Of course, you can cancel anything, even the birth certificate. But ask yourself, ‘ What will happen after that? Is it possible to believe that there was no man at all? What were the legal consequences of her life, her activities? Or, if the decision to be appointed is overturned, then the person who spent the budget on the work of the one who never turned out to be criminally responsible will be called to account. It's not our president's friendship with the law, and the Constitution is in his way. It is clear that another rule of law would be needed instead of the rule of law, predicting the supremacy of the wishes of Viktor Andriyovich. In this way, the presence of the Constitutional Court, which from time to time can spoil the mood or break plans by recognizing the unconstitutional norms of one or another law, and may even be expressed wrongly about the constitutional referendum if it is to be held. These are great restrictions. We have seen, for example, the decision of the Constitutional Court of May last year on the unconstitutionality of the provisions of the Judicial Act, which the President was supposed to be unable to appoint to the administrative positions of the judges of Ukraine. After that, we see the President's proposals in Parliament now, which envision a new appointment. We had a decision by the Constitutional Court that the Supreme Council, without the President's appointment, could release any member of the Cabinet of Ministers. In the first reading, to accept the amendments to the Kabmen Act, which stipulates once again that this exemption can only be given by the President. Clearly, it is desirable to make sure that the court is correct and makes the decisions that are needed. And if a year ago the fear of the Constitutional Court making an obvious decision on the unconstitutionality of the President's decrees was the reason for the attack on the Constitutional Court and the reason it was blocked. At the same time, several judges succumbed to excruciating pressure, two of whom failed to do so and wrote their own statements and stopped their work at the Constitutional Court. One judge, through the courts of general jurisdiction, proved the illegality of the steps that had been taken in relation to him. Today, when preparing to give Ukraine a new Constitution from the President, the legitimacy of this Constitutional Court is questioned. Because half of this composition was sworn without complying with one of the procedural requirements set out in the Constitutional Court Act. Is this the fault of the judges, whether it is a matter for the Supreme Council to swear, or for four, five, six years the President of Ukraine, the Prime Minister, the Head of the Supreme Court, the Head of the Supreme Council, who should be present in the session room? I think that if Mr. President had an unrestrained desire to release Susan Stannik, he would have to pay attention to signing a decree last May on releasing her "for breaking an oath," he admitted that it was an oath because it was impossible to release her for breach if the oath was not accepted. I think it's good to be friends with formal logic. And when the court annulled that decree, he admitted that he was violating the oath.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u54	Korge, please, Timoshenko Street. Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u55	Dear colleagues! On behalf of our faction, I wanted to draw attention to the not a simple situation that has arisen today with the implementation of Ukraine's budget, and this means the implementation of the basic socio-economic programmes for which the Supreme Council voted. Today, two very important public components of the state budget, which are linked to the privatization process and to the process of bringing in non-corruption public land auction schemes, are effectively blocked. We are concerned that yesterday, when the President of Ukraine was not in Ukraine's territory, a presidential decree was issued that stopped the Cabinet of Ministers Decision on the conduct of land auctions. It's not clear what the logic of the President's Secretariat is, do they think that we still have to steal land, that we still have to make corruption schemes with the land, or do we have to make public auctions with the sale of land? I will inform you that in Kiev in the past year, there have been serious trades or serious land decisions in 221 positions, only in competitive terms 8 positions and one position at auction. Experts say that the loss to the Kiev budget is more than $10 billion. I have a question that we want all over Ukraine to have these billions of dollars made by officials or firms associated with officials. So I'm convinced that this was a wrong decision and this decision is going to be overturned, and we're going to do everything we can to make the land, like national wealth, if it was sold or alienated exclusively in the process of auctioning in a public and transparent way. Likewise, I am convinced that the privatisation process will be unlocked in the session room and we will begin to implement the programme's budget, as decided by our decisions, and accordingly we will not tell pensioners or teachers that there is no money, because the privatization programme is not being implemented. Second position. From our faction, I express my concern that the scenario of Parliament's transformation into an appendage or the total elimination of Parliament as an institution is clearly being implemented. Yesterday's Zacarpathian ruling, I apologize, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine on the Ukrainian Rules, is clearly a political decision. I'm one of those people who referred to the Constitutional Court, and I've asked for restrictions on my rights as a national deputy to work with MPs. The Constitutional Court has given me the answer that he is less interested in parliamentary questions, and the rules are not law at all. So if we continue to address the Constitutional Court and say that we are concerned about the situation, there, as a rule, in the Cherkas region, and the Constitutional Court will tell us about Germany, then why this Constitutional Court? So I think that's the subject of Parliament, and maybe the OR, of what's going on with the Constitutional Court. I'm not a political likeness of the members of the Constitutional Court, but if we release the members of the Constitutional Court right now for fighting at school, it'll end badly. Therefore, the subject matter of the Constitutional Court, as the highest judicial institution, is a subject that Parliament must control. From our political power, I would like to say that we are absolutely convinced that all that has to do with the adoption of changes to the Constitution is the exclusive prerogative of the Ukrainian Parliament. Our faction was the initiator of the establishment of the Temporary Investigation Commission, and I am convinced that if we succeed, or perhaps even after lunch today, we are in favour of the decision to establish a Temporary Constitutional Commission to approve in the session room and to move the process of change to the Constitution from the culinary system into the public process of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. By the way, I'll tell you that according to sociological research, almost half of Ukrainian citizens believe that the Constitution should be followed. This means that all changes to the Constitution should be approved exclusively by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Then it is possible to approve in a referendum, but after consensus has been found in Parliament. The initiative to adopt a referendum without Parliament is supported by a variety of studies ranging from 10 to 20 percent. So let's both listen to the Constitution, and most of the Ukrainian citizens, and the constitutional process will be done here. So I would like to pay attention to all the officials of Ukraine and say that when we work together, we benefit from our work together. And finally, I want to end with positive information. You know that in this session room, 425 deputies supported the law on restrictions on the advertising of alcohol and tobacco. The Cabinetman worked on it, the President signed it yesterday, and so we did a good thing together. So let us do more good things than hinder Parliament from following its instructions and following the law of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u56	Gordon, the Communist faction. Cibenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u57	The Communist faction, the first deputy head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, and the first deputy head of the Council of Veterans of Ukraine. Dear colleagues! Dear voters of Ukraine! On the calendar of mid-August, April, I apologize for the final provisions of the Ukrainian State Budget 2008 Act, the Ukrainian government is obliged to amend Ukraine's State Budget not later than 1 quarter 2008. The government has already declared approval of its programme of activities not to submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine changes to the state budget, despite the fact that the government is bound by the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for 2008. What does that mean in practice? And that means the next thing. Since May 1, 2008, the State Budget Act has entered into force, depriving the most vulnerable of the population of Ukraine of the most unprotected of the aid provided for in the current legislation. According to the Communist faction, up to 80 percent of veterans, children of war, who have been most cynically used in elections by bullies and nastics, blacksmiths, military personnel, and many other categories, will be deprived of the aid. This is how the orange coalition and its government have “protected” the most disadvantaged segments of the population. Where is the limit of the cynicism used by the orange authorities without changing the state budget of Ukraine? At least the faction of Communists is no longer surprising. We are once again indignant at the efforts of the executive to fill the gaps in the budget at the expense of the most underprivileged of the population, especially the disabled, the pensioners, and the veterans. Not surprisingly, the practice of restricting the system of existing benefits by the Ukrainian State Budget Act was first applied by the government of Yushchenko in the distant year 2000, and this practice continues today. But today's situation with the use of the budget for cutting, cutting, sequestering -- however it may be, take, underlining, the benefits provided by legislation are worth talking about. As cynical as an active orange government has done, no one has ever acted, even in post - Soviet Ukraine. And the fact that the government and the coalition have not only deprived 80 percent of the most disadvantaged groups of people with legal aids, but also attention is money, has deprived them of the opportunity to challenge this decision in the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. This happened because these political shulers removed from the existing laws the standards that could have been considered in the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. This is already, as in that proverb, the government is always right, and if it is wrong, see paragraph one. Indeed, the human mind has limits, and wickedness, and I would add wickedness to it, and man’s wickedness is boundless. The political forces that now formed government and coalition have cynically used the voices of veterans, pensioners, and invalids in elections. Now they have disgracefully disowned them. Yesterday I had to take part in a meeting at the Ukrainian Veterans’ Organization. A veteran asset is simply impressed, outraged, shocked by the cynical disrespect of power toward the older generation. At this point in the process of agreeing on a decision by the Organization of Veterans of Ukraine to carry out a protest campaign, the date and form of the protest will be further announced. By the way, the need to make changes to Ukraine's state budget is also evident in the situation that is currently being paid for savings that were registered on February 7th. The Ukrainian Communist Party faction in the Supreme Council of Ukraine claims that similar actions in relation to the older generation are not only the top of cynicism but also a direct violation of the Constitution of Ukraine. And we will do our best to protect the most disadvantaged part of the population of Ukraine from the abuse of power. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u58	Jaroslav Kenzior “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u59	Viacheslav Kirilenko faction "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense". Dear colleagues, we want to violate a subject that may be disturbed after lunch if at least two factions insist. Since we believe that this is a matter on which they insist at no time at all, it is necessary for the faction to give it an official warning. As we know, changes to the Constitution are being developed by the National Constitutional Council, headed by the President of Ukraine. This council includes representatives of parliamentary factions, as well as local self - government, the public, well - known lawyers, and political scientists. It was designed to prevent any branch of authority from being tempted to write the Constitution. It is within this national area that every politician, scientist, or public figure can defend his vision of the future Basic Law. Not long ago, the Party of Regions withdrew its deputies from the Constitutional Council and declared the need to establish its own Constitutional Commission in the Supreme Council. But one thing when such statements are echoed by a party that is opposing. And it's a very different thing when the BUTT faction claims to be friendly to us and announces the intention, together with the regionals, to take the appropriate decision of the Supreme Council. Suitable. [[We don't need applause, we're just expressing our position.]] To the voters who support the democratic coalition, we want to say that according to paragraph 1.4.2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Coalition, which is an integral part of the coalition agreement, I quote: “the coalition supports only those bills and regulations that have been agreed upon in the government by consensus in the coalition council and correspond to the content of the coalition agreement.” I'm reporting to any consideration of the question of creating a temporary special commission on changes to the Constitution. Neither in government nor in the council of the coalition has this issue received any consensus. Moreover, his discussion did not take place. Therefore, we feel that it is completely out of time to consider the matter, which will only further disunite the MP’s corps. Dear colleagues, we urge all of us to begin by making at least one change to the Ukrainian Constitution. And when the Constitutional Court returns its conclusion to us, if it is positive, vote in 300 votes against the parliamentary immunity. And then we will see whether only two factions are fulfilling their commitments to the electorate, or whether all the factions represented in Parliament. Secondly, Parliament can think about other changes to the Constitution, especially those that affect the content of the powers of the President, the government, the Parliament, the judiciary and so forth. In any case, the faction “Our Ukraine – the People’s Self-Defense” wants to state right now that whatever combinations are not built in or outside this Hall, we will never, under any circumstances, allow anyone to be ousted from the position of the publicly elected President of Ukraine, because the Ukrainian people do not want to. Now here's the next one. Dear colleagues, and those in the coalition, and those in opposition, I don't think we can go any further with the draft amendment to the 2008 State Budget. The entire Parliament has decided that this document must be submitted by 1 March. We understand that a democratic government is working under difficult circumstances, feeling great pressure from opposition and so forth. But we are convinced that tomorrow at the government meeting, and as members of the coalition now talk about it, there must be a draft change to the 2008 budget, and tomorrow it must be brought to Parliament, because at the time of the discussion there are many vicious issues: increasing the financing of energy conservation programmes, increasing the financing of the Armed Forces for the transition to a contractual basis, introducing a 20% allowance to rural teachers, doctors, librarians, budgeters, as it is provided for by the social initiatives of President Yashchenka, etc. This is a work for Parliament that will unite all factions and, of course, other social benefits, you're right. Besides, Arsenija Petrovich, I would like to address you on behalf of our faction. With your permission, please add 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u60	Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u61	I'll just finish the sentence. [[B in m in s a l in]] For the unverified. Dear colleagues, according to unverified information, Russian President Putin reportedly expressed doubts about Ukraine’s territorial unity. Of course, we do not believe in unverified information, but it needs to be verified. Therefore, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" asks the Head of the Supreme Council to formally address the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine so that the government and the Ministry will address the request to the Russian Federation and we have received an exact answer, was Russian President Putin saying such words or did he not say? Because if I did, NATO collective security supporters in Ukraine would double. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u62	Thank you, Viacheslav Anatolyovich. Grenevetsky Sergey Rafailovich. Litvin Volodymyr Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, when you look at what's going on in the session room, at the growing opposition, you're inadvertently referring to the famous words: the narrow circle of revolutionaries, they're terribly far away from the people. This can be said, sadly, of us. More and more clearly, the main threat to Ukraine's security and independence is the Ukrainian authorities. Inadequate, incompetent, irresponsible, and everywhere corrupt, the power that is turned solely upon itself lives solely by itself and struggles fiercely for authority, national ownership, and the interests of the State and the average people. Everywhere, at any given time, we're going to win. A hundred days of government is a fierce victory. Bucharest, NATO summit is no less victorious. The question is, who is it? Who's defeated? People, Ukraine clearly proved to be victorious. That kind of forcing people to believe in illusions, that kind of cheering washes away any prospect of our state self-assurance. Although we talk about it all the time. You have to stop singing yourself, or you will have to sing to the Ukrainian people and to the Ukrainian state. We need to stop until it's too late, focus, think responsiblely about what's going on in the country, what's going on in the organization of power, what's actually going on in our team, the 450 MP Corps, when we're building commissions against each other and finding a continuous relationship. The fact is perfect and obvious, and this was shown by the NATO summit in Bucharest, that Ukraine has great geostrategic, geopolitical significance, and that's why it had such a crazy place of opposition to the psalm of the Ukrainian question. Unfortunately, we failed, failed, and failed to take advantage of this opportunity to prove the advantages of Ukraine. Because that's why we're treated exclusively as a bargaining coin in geopolitical schedules. And we're all going on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on. There will be no such master. We must prove Ukraine’s ability to be a state of our own. Finally, we need to realize that we need to give Ukraine a chance to be independent. As soon as we had an attempt and had a chance to become a Ukraine of our own, we kept on playing Ukraine after a short period of time, and Ukraine was constantly losing. And all politicians need to go back, figuratively speaking, to Ukraine. I am convinced that this is a positive result of the NATO pandemic, which has shown that Ukraine should itself set up the country, no one will do it for us. The consumer attitude toward Ukraine’s participation in international organizations must be abandoned. We need to set up a country based on people’s interests, not on our imaginations of what people need. By rephrasing the words of the famous Chancellor Gorchakov, let's say that Ukraine should focus on itself. To that end, we must resolutely abandon the practice that has been strongly imposed on the Supreme Council of Ukraine to work for the challenge. You go to the next plenary meeting of the Supreme Council and you think, what other political task will they have and will try to implement in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which paralyses any deal we reach before the day. The second thing we need to do is think about the state of the country, not in the sweets class, but in reality, in practice. Step away from giving up your party interests as social ones. For example, the mayor of Kharkiv has been elected by everyone, but no one is talking about the absence of the Kharkiv Aviation Company, the business that made up the glory of Ukraine. [[Let me finish.]] The glory of Ukraine. For four months, people don't get paid -- no word about it has been said by harkov climate promoters. Maybe we should take Mayor Hark's turn, but let's see. Ukraine is one of the seven countries that design, manufacture airplanes, and we are less likely to increase our chances of political elections. It may be necessary, but the complex needs to be done. Last night, at your request, the Supreme Council, like all of you, I accepted men. 47 people were at the reception. Black people came in demanding the return of their benefits. And I ask, who voted in favour of this law? The previous government, which stopped 45 social laws and now stopped 102 social laws at 105 billion. And we're saying that we want to work for the result. Conclusion, respectable colleagues. At the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we need to discuss the situation of Ukraine's socio-economic situation, listen to the President's message, the government report, or the information you want, the National Bank's report, and adopt changes to the budget, the main economic law, which is what Ukraine needs. I realize it's hard, it's hard, but I think we should probably give up the presidential election and start working. Otherwise we'll be talking about Ukraine, unfortunately, in the past tense. We take personal responsibility with you all, I'm sure, personal responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u64	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the time for the speech has come to an end, and we turn to the question of proposals for parliamentary hearings in the period leading up to the conclusion of the second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call. You have suggestions on your hands, I propose this question without discussion. Is there a desire to discuss the matter? Please. MP Marmazov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u65	Arsenius Petrovich, we, our special commission for the monitoring of privatization, have offered to hear the issue of privatization in the current stage of economic development by June. Well, they gave an explanation and so on. Well, there's another question that people's deputies are asking, is Litwin and Zarubin: privatization certificates. Public policy perspective. Well, we suggest that this issue be included, as an integral part of our question, in order to go to parliamentary privatization hearings in general, not in particular on certificates, but in a month's time on privatization.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u66	Colleagues, who? Zarubinsky, colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u67	Put these issues together.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u68	With all due respect to my colleague Marmazov, I don’t think I can agree with this proposal and that’s why: Marmazov’s colleague is proposing a really important issue related to privatization at the current stage. I want to emphasize, obviously, the issues that have been raised here, enough, especially those that are relevant today. We suggest that the Block of Lithuania consider the question that hurts millions and tens of millions of cheated people in the 1990s, who have been deceived, who have been deceived, who have been told that you will have a 50 million share, and they actually have nothing. They put their certificates in, they don't have dividends, and seven million didn't even file those certificates. It's a serious socio-economic, I want to emphasize the problem. So, colleague Marmazov, agree with what we could do in May, as it is supposed, to consider, more precisely, parliamentary hearings on this issue, and then in June, you would sum it up.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u69	There's this next proposal, my dear colleagues, that we actually have a reference that consists of 30 bills. If we are to act on the Rules now, solely under the Rules, we should now vote on all thirty full-procedure orders. Is that logical? That's logical. Because the approach proposed by the Supreme Council is not clear to me. What should I do with this help? What, to vote for help? So let me put it this way: now the question of this. The proposals are postponed, the drafts are held at the Conciliation Council in part of the parliamentary hearings that we agree to, and we will vote on them one day in the next week on a full list of all that will be agreed upon by the MPs. Is it supported? Thank you. We move on to the next issue of the agenda: this is information from the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council on the investigation of the facts of the violation of the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine in the field of tariff, property relations by the Kharkiv city head Dobkin and the Secretary of the Kharkiv city council, Kernes Hennady Adolfovich, in carrying out their duties. Reported to the head of the Temporary Investigation Commission, Lázko Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u70	Dear Arseny Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u71	Pisekundi, Oleg Valeriyovich. I'm sorry, my colleagues are asking for a procedure. I request from Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich and Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov and Bondik. And a colleague of Silence.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u72	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear Arseny Petrovich! We're doing this. about this question, you remember talking to the Conciliation Council and everyone came, as I understood, all the factions, without exception, had reached an agreed position, which is worth listening to the report of the Temporary Special. the investigation committee on Harkov's case, but on one condition: if there was a TSC meeting, it would not be on his own behalf, but would report on the results of what he did and the report that he did was heard by the Interim Investigation Commission. Because, unfortunately, this is the second time we have listened. Clearly, this is not going to be the end of the day. We will listen to reports every week, speeches by the head, not a report by the commission. So I'd like to hear, if this is a report, the result of the commission's work -- no objection, no need to listen. If he's approved at the board meeting.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u73	Efraemov Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u74	Thank you, Arseny Petrovich. I would like to continue what Adam Ivanovich said. Last time we put it, it wasn't a commission report, it was one person's point of view. And we now raise this question, Arseni Petrovich, without having the written opinion of the Commission. I stress that there should be a written opinion of the Commission on this matter. This raises the question: why is such attention given to one investigative commission, and why are we not currently putting on the agenda the approval of those investigative commissions that have passed the committees and which are not on the agenda for some reason? What we are observing is more like a political massacre against the leader in the region than a real clarification of the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u75	Colleague Bondick, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u76	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, I really wanted to say this. Should we listen to the TSC’s decision, which authorized our colleague Easy to speak on behalf of the commission, or should we hear the report of Deputy Láška herself? Because seeing what we've been given, I can see it's Oleg Lacha's benefit. And I ask you to pass the word, for there are documents, Oleni Lukash.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u77	Who else wanted to speak? All right, buddy? Silence, excuse me, we have silence, and then Lukash. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u78	Dear Mr. Head, I would like to ask you to include in the agenda of this session parliamentary hearings devoted exclusively to language politics in Ukraine. The thing is, six years ago.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u79	He's not at parliamentary hearings, he's on a temporary commission for Kharkiv.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u80	Okay. I'm backing this up a hundred percent. But no. You've released this item. Arsenius Petrovich was released. Six years have passed since the parliamentary hearings in these walls. An appropriate decision was passed. I wish we could. and a prepared law and a whole block of laws dedicated to the language realm. And so I'd like to ask you not to let them out of your sight. And as for the commission of inquiry, I understand that I support it 100%.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u81	Please, Olena Lukas, and let's finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u82	Thank you, Arseny Petrovich! Dear colleagues! The case is that the previous report was handed down to the Ukrainian National Deputies, but it was hidden that Kharkiv City Council, the head of the contested report, was denied along with the rulings and decisions of the court. Now we're going to try to hide these documents and prove that there's some kind of document that confirms a certain person's guilt, and one person is going to do it. Personally, I remind you that the principle of presumption of innocence is still in force in Ukraine. And I remind you that you've received documents that completely contradict your report. And I remind you that you, for example, are trying to impress us with information about the abuse of Mr. Dobkin by a document signed by former Mayor Shumilkin. So I have no reason to trust your report today, I do not want to hear it, and I ask Mr. Head to remove this question from the conclusions of the panel's college body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u83	Dear National Deputies! Dear colleagues! In order to hear whether there was a sitting of the Temporary Investigation Commission or not, it would be desirable to give the head of the Temporary Investigation Commission a word. And after that, when the head of the Interim Investigations Commission informs Parliament of the form in which the meeting took place, then we will certainly ask him a question. Because when the Conciliation Board was in place, I said that we were interested in the meeting of the Interim Investigation Commission. If there is no act that confirms the availability of signatures and the sitting of the Interim Investigation Commission, it cannot be the order of the day for the election and you know it. So let us give the word Lakota and you can ask him all the questions on this matter. Oleg Valeriyovich, five minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u84	Taras, Taras! Take it easy. Dear Arseny Petrovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u85	Colleagues! Calm down! The Conciliation Board voted yesterday, and then you ask him all the questions and we make the decision accordingly. Please, Oleg Valeriyovich, speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u86	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, we have voted with you to the Supreme Council Rules, it is estimated that in fact, 10 minutes, not five minutes, but I think I'll be in in five minutes. The questions asked by the honourable colleagues were a little ahead of me, and Adam Ivanovich, and others, I particularly invite Mrs. Lukas to work on the commission of inquiry, because she receives materials that the commission of inquiry does not have. She's talking about materials that seem to have come from the Harkowan mayor, and I haven't personally seen these materials today. I'd like to explain whether there was a question from the people about whether or not there were meetings of the commission of inquiry. There were two sittings of the commission of inquiry, the last of them on April 1, 2008, and of the nine members of the commission there were five. Name is Gritzak, who shouts that he was not there, Laško, Katerinczuk, Harowski, and Haiman, five, were absent from the other four members of the commission. There were three questions in the agenda, first, hearing Hajman's report on his trip to Harkov, when the subway, second, hearing information about the arrival of the materials to the commission of inquiry and third question, about the opening of a public commission of inquiry in Kharkiv. When we came to the second question, when we heard about the material received, Vasil Mikolaiovich took a table where each member of the commission signed in his own presence, erased his signature, and talked to a colleague who was not present at the meeting and said “I am not here”. While he was present during the discussion. Four of the five members of the commission present and the protocol drafted voted in favour of the information distributed to you today. They're asking what's going on here, and it's clearly written to the honourable lady, who says, "I don't want to hear, not see." It's in Soviet power once, we haven't read it, but we condemn it, so don't turn into these famous classics. The materials, the information provided in the information provided by the Interim Investigation Commission, were received from the Department of Internal Affairs, the Ukrainian Security Service, the Ukrainian Audit and Audit Office in the Kharkiv region, the Prosecutor's Office of the City of Kiev, the city of Kharkiv and the region of Kharkiv, from residents of the city of Kharkiv. Here are the materials that are obtained from these institutions. No fact, there are such folders on the inquiry committee, we have a two-meter-high safe where I store all these materials. The big folders with the materials are concentrated here and the things that are in these folders are explained here. But what was I trying to say? I mean, I'm not talking about the fact that the members of the Party of the Regions are not sitting on a committee of inquiry is explained only by the fact that the quorum is broken down, the work of the commission of inquiry is destroyed. Let me finish, Valérie, then you ask the question. Valérie, let me finish. Let me finish. Valérie, please let me finish, and then you'll explain. Well, how could I not? Valérie, our committee was meeting on April 1st. Let me finish. Please. The efforts of representatives of the Party of the Regions to sabotage the work of the investigation commission on Kharkiv are dictated only by one, to break the commission's work and to make sure that there are still people in the Kharkiv government who cannot lead the Harks. But I, my dear colleagues, would like to finish by asking Arsen Petrovich today not to listen to the information of the commission of inquiry for the following reasons. I believe that this information cannot be heard separately from Decrees 22, 28 on the appointment of mayors Kharkiv and Harkow City Council for the term. This decision was made by the Committee on Questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u87	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u88	This decision was made by the Committee on Local Self-Government, and it came to a positive conclusion, and I think we need to look at the draft decision on the appointment of the early elections and consider the information of the commission of inquiry and then decide on the holding of the early election of Mayors Kharkiv and the City Council of Kharkiv. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u89	Thank you. Maybe, Oleg Vasilovich, you could be halfway there, Oleg Valeriyovich, for a half-minute to clarify some things. Dear Oleg Valeriyovich, would you please tell us whether the decision of the Temporary Investigation Commission has been drawn up in accordance with the requirements of the law and the Rules? Not the organizational arrangement, but the commission's decision?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u90	Arsenius Petrovich, according to
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u91	As Tomenko reported. Tomenko had a decision on Kiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u92	Arsenius Petrovich, I'll keep you posted. On April 1, 2008, there was a meeting of the commission of inquiry, which was attended by 5 of the 9 members of the commission, after a question had been raised to consider the information that had come from the law enforcement agencies, a distinguished, honest, honest colleague of mine Vasil Mikolaiovich Gritzak suddenly realized that he was in a minority and decided to break down the quorum and crossed out his signature in the information about the appearance. But he is present during the consideration of the matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u93	Thank you! Thank you, Oleg Valeriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u94	And the commission voted four out of five.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u95	Thank you! Thank you. Dear colleagues, please record for three minutes. After that, Vasil Mikhailovich, there will be a replica. Lisko Oleg Valeriyovich again.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u96	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. I want to emphasize once again that all colleagues should pay attention to what's going on in the hall. I mean, I haven't been able to say anything yet. They say we don't want to hear it. I went out to say that we need to take this issue off the table today, because there is no point in considering it without a decree of 2228 on the appointment of the early elections. They've circled the rostrum, they're not fighting, they're ripping the microphones, they can't say anything. What caused all this? Why was there no such reaction when the issue of Kiev was considered? Maybe that's what Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvin said, why isn't the airline operating and all the plants in Kharkiv not working? Maybe it's because there's power like that. That's why it doesn't work. And we have to change the power to make it work. But how many are not interested in this room to change this power to make it work. Because there's information that tens of firms, 300,000 square meters of Harkowl land
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u97	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u98	Yuri Carmazin. Dear fellow national MPs! Obviously, you can all see that you need a law called “On Temporary Investigators of Parliament”. Can you not see that such a law is needed? Do you not see that before asking questions in the order of the day, documents need to be handed out? Including the commission's decision, and so on. That's all there is to it. So I'd like it not to be that one group, whether it's opposition today or some business group, because this opposition group that's been preventing the reporter from saying anything at all right now, it kind of reminds me of a business group in Kharkiv. I just know her well, business group. So, dear friends, let's not let this continue to happen, I have an offer to the Head of the Supreme Council. Only when you've got the paperwork ready, you've checked them, and then you're going to put it in the order of the day. Otherwise you can't bet. Although there's no regulation
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u99	Grenevetsky Sergey Rafailovich, it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u100	Thank you. Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues! It seems to me that such compromising options only create more problems in the work of the Supreme Council. So I would like to support my colleague Karmazin in the fact that such questions need to be prepared seriously. And the commission should be responsible. What's more, it's the first capital of an independent Ukraine. And as we know, all the revolutions started in the capitals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u101	Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u102	Thank you. Please give the floor to the national deputy Lukash.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u103	Lukas.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u104	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I wish to remind you. There is not one court decision that recognizes the actions of the city authority to be illegal. Therefore, the consideration and hearing of our nato-pinkerton without quorum is now clearly premature. On the merits of the consideration of the matter in this Chamber, the Interim Investigation Commission is in fact ignoring the constitutional principles of the rule of law and the presumption of innocence. And here's what I want to draw your attention to. If we are now to hear this weeping Mrs. Marple at a time when certain claims are being heard in the courts. What effect do you think this will have on the courts that deal with cases? This would be nothing less than a clear and unabated pressure on the courts, and on the part of the highest legislative body in the face of its orange part. It's not a legal barrage. This is a violation of the law and an abuse of the law. I'm asking you, Arsenius Petrovich, not ready to act, but he wants to be beautiful. Let's buy a mirror. Let's buy a beauty salon for the Supreme Council, and let's do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m0.u105	Dear colleagues, the legal and formal need to do so is to bring two questions into order. The first question is the report of the Interim Investigation Commission. And second question, 2228, after the report of the Interim Investigation Commission. And so to address this issue in a set, what exactly did the head of the TSC ask. There will be a decision by the TSC, so we will also consider the report of the Interim Investigation Commission and Decree 2228. Therefore, I propose to stop the discussion and vote in favour of the inclusion of the daily report and regulation 2228 after the relevant report of the TSC. Please vote. [[13:56:32]] For 212 Decisions, honourable colleagues, are not accepted. In view of this, the morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Until the evening meeting.
