ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-24-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! I hereby declare open the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I'd like to announce how we're doing today. Now there are consultations in government, in the President and in factions. Thus, at 10: 30 a.m., a meeting of the Conciliation Council will be held at the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. As a result of this meeting, if we go to a version of the agreed agenda, we'll start work at 11:30. So I'm going to call it a break until 11:30.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-24-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, there is a meeting of the Conciliation Council of Ukraine with representatives of all factions and Prime Minister of Ukraine, Yulia Timoshenko. My feeling is that we're finding a way to look at the bill that relates to the exit. or minimizing the impact of the global financial crisis on Ukraine. There are still nuances about how, how, how, and when we're going to do it. So I'm going to announce the extension of the break to 13 hours and I think at 13 hours we're going to definitely decide how to proceed.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-24-m0.u3	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. We need to register. You guys don't stand on the start-up platform, you check in and you're on your way. Out of respect? I got it. [[13:02:09]] Colleagues, 424 Ukrainian national deputies are registered in the hall. At Mikola Vasilovich Kravchenka's birthday today, I really don't see Mikli Vasilovich. We should welcome him. [[Applause]] Dear National Deputies, we sat down during yesterday and today with factions leaders. The first point to be made is that we have resumed the work of Parliament in order to block it, and for a week we are successfully in the blocking phase. And today it was a very unpleasant situation when it was discovered that all the technical means of voting had been blocked. After that, we have now removed this situation, but we cannot do so, to put it mildly. The second is about solving the crisis. Unfortunately, two crises are united vessels — political and economic. And it's impossible to solve one without the other. But this morning we have six acts of legislation to deal with the consequences of the global financial crisis. Six. The government law has no confidence, nor does it have adequate support, like all the other five additional acts of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In order to get the result, namely to put the law to the vote and to adopt it as a whole, I think the only right decision has been made: I have signed an order to create a working group to harmonize all six acts of legislation into one and to seek political consensus between all political forces. Those who sign or vote for this act will be responsible and have the right to speak about their involvement in the economic problem in Ukraine. So it's proposed that all six laws be passed in the same law and a single law be passed on to Parliament almost as we did when we decided to make changes to the budget to deal with the consequences of the disaster. Next. In order to address this issue, it is necessary to vote on changes to the calendar of meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The next plenary week was predicted to be one working in committees and districts. In order for Parliament to sit down, I propose that we now vote on the changes to the calendar plan. [[I've made the appropriate decision to change the calendar plan, it's, by the way, given to you.]] This is Bill 3313. Once again, I would like to point out that for us the effective vote on the financial crisis is very important. Failure to vote will result in a breakdown of the negotiating process with international financial institutions. So I would like to propose, firstly, to vote on Bill 3313, a draft amendment to the calendar plan for the third session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, so that we can consider the issues of the agenda that were voted yesterday by Parliament. That's why I'm putting to the vote Bill 3313, amending the calendar plan for the third session. Attention! The next week is the plenary. Please vote. [[13:06:06]] For 368 So I signed the order. I'm asking the members of the working group to work on Saturday and Sunday, and for 12 hours I've had a meeting with both the finance minister and the factions. So that what's going on over the course of the week doesn't happen. We're at a freezing point, not just at the freezing point, but at the eternal blocking point -- either we're adopting legislation, or we need to close this whole story. I'm announcing the adjournment of today's plenary session. Tuesday morning is a plenary meeting, and Monday at 12 o'clock, I have a working group meeting on all the agendas that were voted on yesterday! Thank you.
