ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please prepare for registration and invite the national deputies to the session room. Turn on the theme "Race" system. [[10:01:19]] They registered in the 395 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the Ukrainian National Deputies: Moskal Hennadija Hennadiyovich, Tomenko Mikli Volodymirovich. Let's welcome our colleagues and wish them all the best. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday at the meeting of the leaders of the MPs, we agreed on a list of issues that are scheduled to be considered today — Thursday and Friday. This order of business is given to you, i.e. the schedule of meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for December 11-12, 2008. We agreed on the Conciliation Council that this week and the next we will devote an exclusive consideration of the package of anti-crisis laws in order to prepare the necessary basis for the adoption of Ukraine's 2009 State Budget. So, dear colleagues, if you have no objection, then I will put to the vote a motion to approve the schedule of meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for December 11-12, 2008. There's no objection. So I'm voting on the proposal to approve the schedule of meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from 11 to 12 December 2008. Please vote. [[10:03:25]] For 282 Decision taken. Factions are requested: Region Party – 27, Timoshenko Yulia Block – 150, Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense – 58, Communist faction – 27, Litvina Block – 20. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the day-to-day issues. The draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine on the prevention of the negative effects of the global financial crisis on the development of an agro-industrial complex, the report by Minister of Agriculture policy Melnik Yuri Fedorovich and the co-rapporteur of the Tax and Customs Committee of Terjehohin Sergey Anatoliyovich. The bill's registration number is 3353, it's a government bill, as well as Bill 3352-2 of the draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine to prevent the negative effects of the crisis in the agro-industrial complex by the deputy head of the Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations, Ribuk Sergey Mikolaiovich. Please, from the motives of Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u2	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, this is a question to you too, because you are the chairman of the Supreme Council, but you will not answer it, because you have nothing to do with it. But I'd like to ask the people's deputies and the leadership of the Supreme Council who wrote these bills to refer to the know-how they proposed. We're looking at two alternative bills, bills that deal with one issue. Someone so wise in the Supreme Council is that he has written down, you see, at the request of committees on various committees. Where the author of the Teryohin bill was appointed to the Teryochin Committee, where the author of the Prophecy Bill was appointed to the jury committee. And we are, as it were, well. This has never happened before, and it can't be that alternative projects report to different committees. So one committee is going to stand up for its bill, another committee is going to stand up for its own, and that's an alternative. Then I'd ask you to find out who did such a stupid thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u3	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, this is a very correct question. I ask the secretariat to prepare information on why this has happened so that we do not allow it to continue. Then I'll inform the people's deputies why this happened. Yes, I invite you to the report of Yuri Fedorovich Melnik. Yuri Fedorovich, how long do you need? The reporter's asking for five minutes. Respectful colleagues may ask, How many questions will we ask? Since the question is important, give up to 10 minutes to ask. I'll talk to you for up to three minutes and five minutes, respectively. And we're going to do the same thing with the alternative bill. Is there no objection? And 15 minutes to discuss. You don't? Thank you. Please, Yuri Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u4	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! As you know, Ukrainian peasants in the current year, with the support of national MPs, have very good production indicators and have laid the foundation for the 2009 harvest. However, the financial crisis can deplete all the positive gains of the agro-industry complex if the necessary measures are not taken at the level of the Supreme Council and the government. To our profound belief, an agro-industry complex can become one of the drivers of the entire nation's exit from the financial crisis through a system of multiplication of economic relationships with other sectors of the economy, namely: chemical industry, fuel-energy, machine-building, processing, financial sector and others. In order to prevent the negative effects of the financial crisis on the development of an agro-industry complex due to an unfavourable price situation, both in the internal and external markets, primarily in the grain market, a draft Ukrainian law has been developed that foresees: first, support for the real economy through the creation of conditions in the implementation of plant production for a more favourable price environment. Protecting the domestic producer of animal production and creating conditions to avoid unfair competition between domestic producers and importers; taking effective action to activate the sunflower and oil seed market, one of which is the temporary elimination of the import duty rate. the export of seeds to the sunflower; the granting of the right of the Cabinet of Ministers to impose by its decision a tariff on the cost of maintaining the relevant government price regulation object. This will allow for a more flexible and rapid response to price developments, increasing the competitiveness of the domestic producer. Financial interventions in an organised agrarian market under government price regulation at the expense of the State’s stabilisation fund. Providing financial assistance to banks on the basis of the cost of a stable fund for long-term and new loans to be given to agribusiness enterprises. Prolongation to agricultural credit producers involved in 2005-2008 at interest rates is not higher than those provided for by basic credit agreements without the application of fines. Providing agricultural producers that store their own grain at certified grain warehouses in the 2008-2009 marketing year with the cost of the State budget partial compensation for the cost of grain storage up to 70 percent of the estimated cost. In our opinion, the adoption of this bill will allow some stability to the situation in the agri-industrial complex, because the measures that have been taken at government level today are not enough. Please support the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to prevent the negative effects of the global financial crisis on the development of an agri-industrial complex. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to inform you that, at a government meeting, a decision has been taken to supplement the bill with a standard for the continuation of 2009 valid for today, and I would like to stress that it is in the context of the special regimes in force today that the taxation of farmers is taxed on added value with the payment of taxes on the added value of processing companies. I believe that, as a result of the preparation for the second reading, taking into account the proposals made by the people's deputies, the bill will become absolutely perfect and will allow the peasants to preserve and develop agricultural production. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, the report is concluded with regard to the bill. Please sign up for a question to the Minister of Agrarian Politics. Please sign up. Ten minutes, we have a deal. Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u6	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear Yuri Fedorovich, I think that both the national MPs and those who listen to us have no doubt that there is a constant need to maintain such an important sector as agriculture, and what is particularly important for Ukraine, and what is more, it needs to be maintained in crisis conditions. But I fear that under the sign of crisis, we sometimes allow things to be solved by the financial groups, some of which are trying to solve their problems. Well, for example, I didn't find in an "explanatory note" an argument why the government is still proposing to introduce a zero bet on moving the sunflower outside the state. As far as I've been informed by our specialists, we have enough businesses in the state to recycle any gross sunflower congregation. So we're going to export at zero, and we're not just going to export, and we're only giving this right to organized organizations and so on and so forth, so we're feeling right now some, well, sorry, leather interest. Why is the zero bet on the sunflower?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u7	Thank you, Reverend Adam Ivanovich. Now I want to say that this rule is one of the most controversial in this draft law, but it is the zero rate position supported by agricultural producers for one simple reason: today the prices for sunflower in the internal market, which agricultural producers maintain, do not satisfy and do not compensate for the cost of producing it. It's because of this rule that the government has proposed that this should be a temporary derogation for import duty, that we can balance the internal oil market and support agricultural producers at a price. This norm -- it's absolutely forced, on the one hand, and on the other hand, it's completely temporary. And once again, I would like to stress, perhaps without intruding in the debate, and without operating on numbers, that this is consistent with both the farmers' association, which stands for the interests of 43,000 farmers as well as the country-wide union of agricultural enterprises. This is also in the interests of manufacturers.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u8	National Deputy Vizevski, faction of "Our Ukraine". Can I ask you a question?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u9	Vladimir Viezowski, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense". Mr. Secretary, I have a question. I'm on this side, next door. Mr. Minister, I have one question, I am convinced that, together with this room for second reading, we are working on a good law, either on the basis of government or on the part of the people's deputies. But I have a question for you as to the minister. Have you seen the documents that you banned, or have you restricted the export of grain and oil from Ukraine, thus hitting the Ukrainian farmer? And second, have you seen the documents that you imported so called meat in Ukraine, or have we been hit by a Ukrainian farmer? I'd like to hear about those three points, were your visas?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u10	According to the meat import documents, I have strongly denied and, to this day, deny the possibility of any alcohol imports of meat into the territory of the State. According to the documents relating to the 2007 export of grain, the restrictions on the export of grain, in 2007, my signatures under these documents are because it was at that time a requirement, which in my view was entirely justified by the drought that took place at the end of 2007.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u11	Alla Alexandrovska, the Communist faction, please, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u12	Please give the floor to Petra Nikolaevich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u13	Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u14	Dear Yuri Fedorovich, please comment on what is the situation today with so - called donor raw materials, especially meat? How much does it take? Who's driving? What are they turning into? Where are they going? How much is being exported? Please comment on what kind of shadow schemes are, let's say, which plots are using these shadow schemes to destroy our own animal industry, and so on, to make a profit without paying taxes. How do you propose to protect our people, Ukraine, our peasant, how to protect the interests of the state?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u15	Thank you for asking, Peter Mikolaiovich. With regard to the donor scheme, I would like to point out immediately that we are proposing a ban on tax treatment in this bill. As far as I'm concerned, it's a perfectly reasoned action, because according to customs figures for the 10 months of the current year, about 70,000 tons were imported into the DMV for about $90 million. At the same time, the tax and VAT benefits, I think, are 30 percent in the area, about 27 million dollars. As for me, the two structures involved in importing meat under the tax scheme are given the preferences I have been given completely unreasonable, unwarranted, and all of this raw material in violation of the Law “On transaction of donor raw materials in external economic relations” is not exported finished from this raw material, but remains in the internal market of Ukraine. This is a direct violation of legislation, and accordingly we insist that this rule be upheld.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u16	Allow me to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u17	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u18	Mikola Vasilovich Kravchenko, please ask your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u19	Dear Yuri Fedorovich, I have a question. Clearly, during the financial crisis, it is necessary to respond, help, and so forth. When I considered this issue at the committee meeting, your representative practically agreed that our commitments to the WTO on agriculture had been seriously damaged before the financial crisis, before the economic crisis in Ukraine. Please tell me if you agree with that for the financial period. Do we have to give up the commitments that we made before we entered the U.S.A.? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u20	Dear Mikolo Vasilovich, distinguished national MPs, I am confident that, today, by means of negotiations that are binding among the members of the WTO countries. We will always be able to stand up for the position offered by the government today or proposed by the national MPs in the draft law, and we will need to stand back. I would just like to point out that in a financial crisis, most countries are taking measures to protect the internal market. And in particular, about a month and a half ago, the countries of the European Union, which are all members of the WTO, introduced import duties on grain up to 90 euros per tonne. So they're protecting the internal manufacturer. On the other hand, by their other act, they introduced an export subsidy for certain types of meat into the SND countries, i.e. they also advocate the producer’s interests from the point of view of promoting its production to the external markets. Therefore, the standards that today need to be discussed with the WTO, which are proposed in the bill, I am confident that we can find understanding with the World Trade Organization by defending and arguing this position in the World Trade Organization.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u21	Ivan Alexandrovich Hare, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u22	John Hare, Ukrainian People's Party, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Minister, over the current year, half a million tons of meat have been imported to Ukraine from abroad. And this was under way to fight price increases. It was said that if we drove large quantities, we would break prices. As you can see, prices for meat have not been broken. How do you feel about the effect of this on cattle? Has agriculture been cut off? And today we have cheap grain. Would it not be better for the grain to feed that head and have meat of its own? That's the first question. And the second. You know, our agricultural enterprises are used in banks. And in many banks, there was money. Agriculture is a special activity. What does the government do to liberate this money and immediately return it to agricultural enterprises? It's cattle. They're not iron seals that can lie down. What does the government do in this direction?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u23	Dear John Alexander, distinguished national deputies! I'm going to name one of these numbers that in the current year, agricultural producers have only received about 15 billion dollars in loans in banks. And thanks to these mechanisms that were implemented under the State Budget Act 2008. More than 10 billion dollars of credit are set up as a premium with partial compensation for the use of credits. And so today, the Ministry of Agriculture policy has already, more faithfully, initiated a decision, and the government has supported that decision, made an appropriate decision to distribute partial compensation for the use of credits for extended loans. So the government has made a move. We are also constantly in dialogue with commercial banks. And for today, I can tell you that this dialogue has a certain amount of results. But in order for our dialogue to be complete, bloodlined by law, we ourselves propose some of the rules for regulating lending in the agricultural sector as the rules of the bill that was introduced for consideration by the people's deputies. What's happening today is imported.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u24	Allow me to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u25	Imported over 400,000 tons in 10 months. It's a questionable topic, but from the point of view of the Ministry of Agrarian Policy, it's always been consistent and constant. We predicted 250,000 tons of meat in meat production. This number was justified in terms of the balance sheet. Everything else, as far as I'm concerned, has damaged the development of agricultural production. But to date, the government has decided to ban the tax system because of a government decree taken at a previous government meeting. I think that this rule will be absolutely not ambiguous then, but absolutely clear if it finds reflection in the bill, which is proposed in part of the ban on meat imports.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u26	Thank you, Yuri Fedorovich. Time's up. Dear colleagues, the co-report is invited by the Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Tax and Customs Policy Sergey Anatoliyovich Teryohin. In five minutes. Three minutes to ask how we agreed.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u27	Thank you, Mr. Head. Good afternoon. Before I speak, I would like to remind you that I do not see Mr. Martinyuk, not I am the author of this bill, but the government. If I were the author, the bill would look completely different. Why? According to the Committee, the bill raises a number of criticisms, including, as has already been said, amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Export Export Rates for Seeds of Certain Oil Crops. And then distribute, enter licenses and distribute them as non-automatic licenses. In our view, this is a fairly corrupt mechanism and it is necessary to set a clear quota here on second reading, the so-called automatic-licensing tariff quota, “first came, first received”. The bill is also proposed in the Ukrainian Customs Tariff Act to restore rates in effect for the first of January 2008 in some positions of the first and 24th groups. And in group 05, set specific premiums and full import duty rates of one and a half euros per kilogram. This is an effective rate of about 120-130 percent. Such a proposal is totally contrary to Ukraine’s obligations under the GATT WTO Treaty and the ratified protocol. If you approach the restrictions on imports, including agrarian, you will need to do as you are offered after lunch in Project 3379, where a substantial 12 - percent allowance, including agrarian production, is set for GATT’s 12th article. Paragraph five of the law proposes to amend the law on the primary measures to prevent the negative effects of Finns. It's a crisis. It should be noted that the financial interventions proposed in the organised agricultural market in accordance with article seven of the Ukrainian Rural Support Act belong exclusively to the competence of the agrarian fund and it is clear that no stability fund can carry out such operations. In addition, the possibility of providing financial assistance to banks, taking into account the amounts of long-term loans already provided for in paragraphs (b) and (d), of the first Ukrainian Law on First-Level Measures to Prevent the Negative Consequences of the Financial Crisis. It's a major science. There is also a reference to the donor raw material, as it is absolutely inappropriate to propose amendments to the law on donor raw material. These issues are regulated by the relevant article of the Law on State Financial Support for Agriculture. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council, in its conclusion of November 17, 2008, notes that the bill is intended to be sent for pre-processing and re-reading. But the committee has supported a different position, given what I have told you, we have decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adopted draft Law 3353, on the basis of mandatory exclusion from its text of the rules relating to changes to the customs tariff, as unacceptable, which will be the basis for the veto to apply to this bill and reflect these positions in Bill 3379, which we will consider today in our first reading. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u28	Thank you, Sergey Anatolyovich. Let's sign up for the questions. Vaszczuk Katerina Timofievna
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u29	Dear Sergey Anatoliyovich, we have indeed spoken at the committee meeting about the need to strengthen the law, particularly that of Yuri Fedorovich, our minister, about the extension of credits written in such a form, it does not oblige the banking system, nor the National Bank, nor even the adoption of the budget to settle the issue. Is it not better to make a change to the Banking and Banking Act, except that it will remain in this law, to be duplicated in that law? And the second moment, remember, we were looking at changes to the budget, where we suggested a substantial increase in rural lending costs was not supported, which is what we need.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u30	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u31	I see. Thank you, Catherine Timothy. Sadly, though, today, although we have urged the Head of the National Bank to listen, this has not happened. I remind you that right now, almost 50 billion dollars of refinancing has gone into the banking system. And instead of going to the real sector of the economy, including the agricultural sector, they went to the currency market where the currency was bought and sent to external creditors. I mean, roughly, we've closed off our liabilities to foreigners with our money. So I totally agree with you, we have to change the scope of this article in this law. And to write in this way that if the bank is asking for a refund and it has a loan portfolio of borrowers from the village, then please let it take this refinancing and direct it to the extension of these liabilities. And in the National Bank Act, in general, it would have to be written that the refinancing policy is primarily aimed at promoting economic stability and development. Not in financial and monetary schemes, as is done.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u32	Ribuk Sergey Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u33	Thank you. Fishbowl. The faction of the Party of the Regions. It's vitality. Dear Sergey Anatolyovich! I want to let you know, if you don't know yet, that everyone who's involved in agriculture, if only he's speaking out in the village that Terjokhin's deputy is going to be in trouble.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u34	Thank you for your assessment.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u35	And I've got a question for you. You have great authority in this regard. Now you've been protecting the WTO, not your country's country. You tell me, please, the WTO and the European Union have asked us not to do anything when they forbid the export, export, export grain, wheat, raise the rates of exit. Did he not ask? And when there's a situation about the SOT elementarius that if food security is threatened, any country, Ukraine, including, we have the right to regulate customs policy, don't we have the right? Why do you ask that question? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u36	Thank you, Your Honor Sergey Mikolayovich! I just don't have the ability to compete with you in the agrarian sector. But I can tell you that there is an appropriate procedure for entering special import balance allowances to play balance of payments. We can introduce increased tariffs, we can. But not according to the procedure here, because it's a gross violation of the 12th, 13th, 15th and 18th GAT articles. We can't do that and we'll veto this law if you want. And here's 3379, where all of these agrarian and other positions, there's textiles, there's machine-building, and so on. As it says, so we can do it. And when I report the next law, I'll tell you why we can and how much we can do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u37	Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u38	Thank you. Dear Sergey Anatolyovich! One of the reasons for such a profound systemic crisis, which has affected all sectors of the national economy, including, as you rightly said, the agricultural and industrial sector, is the customs-import adventure and the short-term administration of today's unique government “command”. That's the effort, you remember, in the spring and summer, to stop the work of the Zaporezian oil-fat combination. Tell me, please, your attitude, you know, you're an experienced MP, not once in this rostrum was discussed this stupid problem -- the introduction of a zero rate to get the sunflower out. Today Zaporizka, Hersonska, Mikolaiivsk district is being breathed from the fact that the earth is simply being used barbaric and ruthlessly, trying to sow more sunflowers and raise some money. Your attitude towards the introduction of a zero rate for moving the sunflower abroad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u39	Negative! And so the discussion, a little bit more about the committee discussion. We have been shown that today, on the balance sheet of production and processing of seeds, we have less than two million tons left that cannot be used in our oil industry. So let's get this seed out of the country. We have a question, well, if you say there's a million six hundred or a million five hundred tons to be exported, set the so-called export tariff quota, where you write zero or ten. In the Russian Federation, by the way, there was a discussion, two weeks ago the government agreed, reduced, set tariff quotas and reduced, although the traders offered zero. We didn't make it. So we said on the second reading, dear friends, you have a balance of one and a half million, please set the quota and don't write like you wrote, distribution, not automatic licensing. Got it, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u40	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u41	There should be an automatic license, directed only at those who produce the seed, not at traffickers. That is when we vote in our second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u42	Thank you, Sergey Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u43	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u44	I invite you to report to the author of the alternative bill, Rijuk Sergey Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u45	Dear fellow national MPs, you and I are looking at a very complex and up-to-date issue as a draft law. I'm using not only the reporter, but also the deputy head of the agrarian committee, and I want to say that the government's project, looking at virtually all of them unanimously rejected it as unacceptable, because it is systemsless, does not take into account the interests of all types of agriculture, businesses, organizations and institutions. Some of the problems that have been raised from the context, starting with the sunflower, are described as anti-crisis measures. This cannot be done because agriculture is not now in a deaf, irreversible crisis, but earlier. And today’s government continues this destructive policy of agriculture as well as agriculture. So I have a table of how many years ago we had the rural population and how many are left today. This is the structure of how much grain and sunflower, and everything else, fruits, vegetables, that is zero. That's how much organic fertilizer they've been importing, and now how much they've been importing. So it's not a product anymore, it's a toxic substance that our children and all people consume. Because there's no organics, it's just heavy metals pulling the plant into itself, mineral fertilizers, and so on. Today we must admit, though all guilty, without exception, here present and absent, that essentially eliminated industrial farming, where less than 600,000 cows remain in Ukraine, is one and a half acres [100 ha] of cattle! Anyone who's ever done farming can be horrified, sorry for the bad word. And now voted by the former, perhaps by a coalition, antichrist law has banned the financing of private agriculture, which today gives three quarters of all produce, other than grain and sunflower, 95 percent of vegetables, 98 percent of potatoes, 55 percent of meat, and so on. So this anti-crisis law actually stops funding who -- directly agriculture, and it wants to continue funding who -- latifundists who already have 100, 200, 150 hectares of ore land in a so-called lease and not only, and today we have to support this law. So the opposition government, the Supreme Council committee, voted by absolute majority in favour of the bill, which I report to the opposition government in charge of Yanukovic, so that we can approach systematically so that we have this, in Russian, "resurrection" in the positive moments that were still there and should be in agriculture. First and first, we say that let's create the whole community, the whole nation's stability fund for not supporting agriculture, the word "support" should be forgotten when we really want to save our country's sector -- the most expensive for everyone. Support is all the same as treating a doctor's sick feet, a sick person's, but giving him a church and saying, "Church." This is support. And treatment is a stabilising fund when we have to give to any government, if it's trusted by Parliament and the people, and say, "Here's 10 billion, and we don't write you down where you want to go, we give it to you for the flexibility of agrarian politics during the marketing year, and please use it as you think it's necessary, and we'll ask you at the end of the marketing year, how you used it, and what the efficiency of use is." What's more, we're offering 5, 5 or 6 percent of the entire national income budget of Ukraine to send for the reproduction, development and new creation of an industrial and industrial competitive agriculture. Then we offer a series today.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u46	Finish it, Sergey Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u47	I'm done. We wouldn't even have 10 minutes for that kind of legislation, so we agreed for five minutes. That's how the hop-stop runs. We don't understand it that way. I'm done. But customs tariff policy also has to be not the only regulatory moment in the Cabinet of Ministers, but as one of many systems. Take the same sunflower, and in our bill it is, but we say that we have five times as much sunflower as our land can stand, the structure of the sown areas. So let's, within quotas, let's give farmers that have nothing more to sell, but the left-hand side of the sunflower to the enterprises that we have because we export the sunflower to 56 countries of the world. [[This is Teryohinim I'm agreeing with right now.]] So how smart are we going to be if we're going to ban exports today in any way, in any way, in any quota and so on. So we suggest that we adopt our bill in the first reading. There are many valid proposals from all factions regarding the drafting of this bill by Yanukovic, and then we will go to the finish line in the second reading. I'm sure we're going to have a system-based, consistent, respectable bill in the Supreme Council that will be the law and help agriculture get out of the systemic crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u48	Thank you. Please sign up for a question. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u49	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense”. Dear friend, you have now asked serious questions, but they are not written in the law. You didn't see it coming, and do you think it's necessary for the law to provide for how specifically an agribusiness enterprise will approach the bank, and how will it prolong a loan at which rate? All you predicted was the creation of a stabilising fund based on a withdrawal from privatization. Are you predicting another source? I'd just like us to take a thoughtful look at the question of the sources of repayment and the solution to your project. So that's what I'm talking about in article 1 of your project. And I have a second question about groups of goods. In group 02, don't you think you should expand, 02 should write, not the code that narrows down and allows you to bring in all the Ashmoths that come in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u50	Thank you. Anyway, let me ask you a second question. I agree with you that you can do 0.2 and in the second reading we have to do that. Moreover, we have a number of suggestions regarding the agricultural group's agricultural product codes. On the first question, I did not say in the absence of time that the faction of the Party of Regions and the opposition government in addition to this bill proposed 19 more, including a separate Act on the Stability Fund of this 10 billion. And it already specifically states what a stable fund is, which is a source of funding, how to manage it, who has to manage it, but within the limits of what the Supreme Council should do, within the limits of the law. We're not supposed to write legislation here instead of the government, so agree with me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u51	Vaszczuk Katerina Timofievna
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u52	Sergey Mikolayovich, we'll support both the government law and your law, but agree that two laws should be made the only one, and make it very clear that you actually write a clear rule on loan prolonging. The other one. Clearly, taxes on value added include taxes paid by food companies, milk factories, and carnivores to peasants, especially singles. And the third. It's good to normalize the agrarian fund. Because now we're starting to buy sugar. And a lot of factories, especially in my Volina, want an agrarian fund to buy sugar made not from sugar beets, but from the sugar of the heart. And to save not our weeds yet, but the overseas ones. That's where we're supposed to bring it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u53	Thank you, Your Honor Catherine Timothy. In this case, I fully agree with you, I support the question-making process, and I'll say that when we look at the bill of government and the bill of opposition government on the committee, we counted 95 percent of the government's proposals. And we're not saying they're bad, we're just saying. I was just saying in the introduction that this government bill is not systematic, it's not even on the ranking, what's more important, what's there. We're absorbing it, so to speak, which is why we can find it, but we're going to insist and we're going to vote on the basis of our bill. And you're right about the agrarian fund. If we let any sugar and other sugar be diluted in it, and someone wants mineral fertilizer, someone wants technology, we'll do DAC "Ukraine's Bread No2," we'll bankrupt it and then we'll be guilty, and you'll be the initiator of the creation of the agrarian fund. So I support your position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u54	Matvienko Anatoly Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u55	Ukrainian Republican Party "The Council", "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" Block. Sergei Mikolaiovich, I welcome the democratic right of the opposition government to submit its bills, and that's wonderful, and a lot of money really interesting, but I'd like to ask you two questions. First. I'm a little freaked out by yours. A Communist approach to the fight against new forms. You said farmers and gold diggers. I want you to clarify, the Latifunds are the ones who rent pies today and. in one volume or another, and how much then, where the proportions of such latifundists are. If we don't support them, that means we don't support the entire agrarian sector. And the second. Speaking of sugar beet and sugar, do we realize that today's tight spot is not the production of sugar beet, but its processing, since we don't have the right base, and if we don't engage and give preferences to investments that would create a processing sector, we're going to lose the sugar industry. I'd like that. Do you know if you're predicting which one?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u56	Thank you. Dear Anatoly Sergiyovich, I, when drawing the latifundists, want to say that I was, I am, I am, and I am, and I am, a passionate supporter of the very highly specialized agricultural production. And I think that's the perspective behind this big load. But when I said it, I said that we should remember that we have 49,000 farmers and 6.5 million private farmers who have an average of a thousand hectares, one and a half hectares of land, but produce two thirds of all production. So we're doing this 180 farms with 100 hectares of planning, and the government is planning to support it, and by eliminating the special fund and the tax regime, it's also quietly eliminating the financing of these 6.5 million private enterprises that are not commercially produced, but they're producing products, you know, that's why. And for sugar, the subject is separate, another.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u57	Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u58	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear Sergey Mikolaiovich, I am pleased that such an expert in all fields, especially taxes and finance, such as Sergey Teryohin, has recognized you as an expert in the village and, reading the bills, you can really say that a government minister wrote one agriculture minister, and this alternate two agricultural ministers are former, so it's much more promising. And I would like you to focus right now on what the difference between your two bills is, and more specifically, on what is the advantage of your bill? That's one question. And the second. Our decision will depend on your bill's support, as you will answer that zero bet on the sunflower you're unfortunately defending if you remove it from this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u59	Thank you. I'll try briefly, Adam Ivanovich, that the difference is that we're going to start with a stabilising fund of 10 billion plus 5.5 percent of the budget, that's another 17 billion and that's essentially funding. What is more, we plan to have these funds go directly to an agricultural retailer and not just a producer, that is, proportional to the work invested and so on. Next. We propose to release, continue the operation of a special taxation regime, which is not proposed in this regard. We suggest that we exempt from taxing the imported purebreds operation so that we can start reproducing, reinvigorating industrial livestock, and porking. And a whole set of moves. And basically, Adam Ivanovich. It's a zero bet. I personally object, at least because we have, if this continues to be such a primitive regulatory policy of the government, or to ban everything or everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u60	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u61	Thank you. Here. But if we give zero bets, the next year farmers and others sow another million hectares of sunflower. You can't do that. You can't do that. It'll be populist, too. I'm saying that we could agree with you on the second reading if you did as Teryohin said, right here he said, after Russia they did. In Argentina, the rate has been raised now. And we're going to be fired. That is, to find a quota that will not reduce the level of production in our processed oil companies at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u62	Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u63	Thank you. Sergei Mikolaiovich, I've already said that one of the reasons why the Ukrainian APC is as close to its collapse as ever is, apart from its lack of leadership, import disorder and nothing here, and we have to tell people honestly, to nothing here is the financial crisis. The price of shares in the Tokyo or New York Stock Exchange, for example, Poland stopped buying, banned the purchase of Ukrainian wheat in general, and we opened borders for Polish meat instead. Please give such examples many times. Customs tariff. Your attitude, your second question, is the customs tariff on vegetable fats that Ukraine imports and so on to load our Ukrainian oil trucks. And reprocessing these vegetable fats. What is your attitude towards customs and this product, which is not produced in Ukraine, for example, palm oil, it comes from abroad. Two questions. Adventures are imported and customs tariffs on fat.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u64	Thank you. In order for this truly adventure, and once and for all to end with it, we must not only foresee it in this law -- we must foresee in the Customs Tariff Act and not allow what the current government wants in the hands of the President: to eliminate certification of products in order to stop only its own technical conditions, so that the quality of products is not marked, with what is written down, to eliminate the Committee on Product Control and Quality. So we have clear market protection, and in this case, with regard to the production of appropriate codes, starting with meat, we can ban imports definitively, more of these low-cost crashes and so on and so forth. We've defined it in the bill, it's all just to be implemented after we accept it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u65	Thank you, Sergey Mikolayovich. Have a seat, please. Let's sign up for a discussion. Weaving Roman Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u66	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! In principle, I would start answering the last question -- the one Adam Ivanovich asked. To be honest, there is no difference between the two bills, either in government or in what a group of national deputies has proposed. In principle, there is one good rule proposed by the MPs regarding leaving this option as it is now, the VAT tax regime. But nevertheless, what I heard today from the Minister of Agriculture when he said that the government had developed an additional standard and left a zero VAT rate on dairy and meat suppliers in the livingweight, I think we should vote today on the basis of a bill submitted by the government, and take some of the rules from the MPs' bill concerning specific VAT taxation. So I would think that would be a normal position. The only thing I would ask everyone is that if we now vote in the first reading, literally today, tomorrow to gather committees and agar politics and tax. And for the second week, this bill is to be voted on as a whole, because, really, there is a problem. I'd like to point out this situation here, and we're talking about two bills that are about helping those banks that are lending loans to agriculture to participate in the state, but that's all proposed next year. And the situation is, as has already been said, about 15 billion dollars has been credited to agriculture. And a lot of the banks that were involved today in the crisis. And even if we do, of course, call on them to prolong loans and no real funds, that's just not going to work. And either the banks go bankrupt and that's the way the agricultural enterprises go bankrupt. Because the two bills are about creating a stable fund. But by the time it's created, by the time the funds are found, our manufacturers need to be loaned after January 1. So I think the government just needs to meet those banks right now. They are, in principle, certainly not many, who seriously lend to agriculture. And now, by New Year's, to decide the principle of how to help them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u67	Tereshuk Sergey Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u68	Dear colleagues. Sergei Tereshuk, “Block of Lithuania”. I would like to start by welcoming everyone, by restoring the work of the session and very pleasantly, and perhaps it is important that our work began with the consideration of important bills, such as overcoming the financial crisis and especially in agriculture. In agriculture today, more than ever, the situation is extremely difficult. It's much worse than it was in 98 when there was a crisis. There was also no need to buy seeds, fertilizers, herbicides, but there were no such huge loans that agriculture received today. These loans have been purchased by technology, and construction is under way. And today, like a suitcase without a pen, you can't carry it, and you can't drop it. If the state doesn't intervene today, I don't say too much, there's going to be a disaster in agriculture. Why did this happen? Of course, there are consequences of the global financial crisis, but there are also mistakes in our national policies in the agrarian sector. You know, today's paradoxical situation is that agricultural products are enough today, stocks piled up with grain. At the same time, besides rape, note, except for rape, and wheat, and barley, and peas, and corn, and sunflower today at a cost, the price of produce does not cover expenses. Why did this happen? A few years ago, we said, "Can't do this." cancel the restrictions on the export of cereals. Grain production has been in storage since last year. At the same time, today, about 15 million tons of surplus grain that is being squeezed into the market from the huge crop that they have grown. Accordingly, there is no price. We introduced quotas for oil exports, we lost the market. Now we're reaping these fruits. So today, in our opinion, of course, we need to take all the better things that are in these bills. First of all, we need to take out too much grain from the market. This can be done in part through the agrarian fund. This is the first thing you can do. The next important question is to limit the yield of meat to our market. We've been talking year after year, since probably 98, about meat being imported into Ukraine. Today, meat, too much meat, cannot be released because there is a cheap grain that must be turned into meat. Therefore, it is necessary to restrict the import of meat to Ukraine and to ban the tax system altogether. I fully support Sergio Anatoliovich Teryochin. 16 billion credits were given to banks, and I asked banks, how much did they put in the village? You know, there's no bracelet village. Everyone's saying that 16 billion went away, the villagers didn't feel it. Next question. That's why we're offering the target cost of giving to commercial banks, and they have to be sent to agriculture. Therefore, the Block of Lithuania will support both bills. We're proposing to build a government bill, create a working group, and of these two bills, rejecting political passions, make a bill that will be able to save, I emphasize, save agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u69	Slata Victor Andryovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, they love our rulers, especially before elections or festivals that have recently been rural, to praise the village, calling it a cradle nation. Here, of course, they're right -- indeed, the cradle. But the agrarian activities, especially in 2008, were so plentiful that all the agricultural production complexes, people, and even the villages, came out of it. With this pump, the announced program “10 Steps to Meet People” this year, as a minimum, rejected the country’s cradle, the village, 10 years ago. And indeed, the situation in the countryside is terrible. Here are some pearls of power in the APC in 2008: an unwarranted rise in prices of mineral, fuel and oil materials, plant protection products. This has led to a sharper and higher inter-branch price imbalance, a deterioration in the financial situation of agricultural enterprises. What's the problem? This year’s prices have dropped by two, three, four times, and prices in supermarkets and markets continue to rise. Why don't you just call it that? It's like being bullied from the cradle of the nation. Government administration has failed all major markets today in the APC: grain, oil, sugar. Dr. Dergererve, mentioned several times today by my colleagues, has turned into a grocery store that actively destroys its own manufacturer and supports the second farmer from a second picture. And at prices, you know what comes from the border and the border for no price or meat, and the prices for carnage increase for all meat products. Again, where is “Delta”, who has “Delta”? Perhaps some fiscal and administrative authorities need to look very closely at this issue. There is no State control over grain exports. Paradox. By 90 percent, it has already been declared to export almost 90 percent of the food wheat, which in our country, you know, is very little. In 10 months on basic programs: The social sphere of the village, the fertility of the soil, is virtually no match. And the last. We're seeing government pseudoactivity. There's a lot of APCs and other real sectors of the council's economy -- the coefficient is zero. Thus, on a professional committee, honourable friends voted in favour of the MP bill described by Ribub. And other bills, including government bills, are all valuable.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u71	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u72	For the second reading, we take valuable moments. That is why I propose to support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u73	Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u74	Dear colleagues, honourable voters, the crisis has revealed very serious calculations, virtually criminal calculations, in the conduct of agrarian reform. Conclusion first. Ukraine, from its agricultural exporter, became an importer. As a result, whether small or large crops, people’s lives do not improve. Prices both increased and increased for bread, for meat, for milk. Why is this happening? The main conclusion is that modern Ukraine is, first of all, an area divided between clans. What should we do? The projects that we're looking at today are, first of all, we're fixing holes, and for the sake of the oligarchs, and we need to do that by using a systematic approach and protecting the interests of the state. First of all, for the village to work, you have to force the banking system to lend 3-5 percent of the year's credit and put a dot on it. Secondly, the law on Ukraine's accession to the WTO should be stopped and the implementation of agricultural products abroad should only be done by the State. We've got 6.2 million tons of sunflowers, and we've got 7.2 million convertibles, if we're reprocessing, the state will have twice as much as the oligarches, putting the sunflower in its pocket at zero rates abroad. Set up appropriate customs congregations to import products that are grown by our peasants. Europe today has banned the implementation of Ukrainian bread, and I think we should think first of how to protect our agricultural producer. Next. Money to cover the difference in loan rates issued to our peasants, concentrate and direct to the purchase of tractors and combines of a domestic manufacturer. The money that's going to be spent per hectare of grain seed is for the purchase of fertilizer and centralized, free of charge to our peasants. In 2009, 50 percent of the country’s country’s produce was obtained through government purchases. resources, and then 50 to put on the market. There are 10 or 12 million tons under the sky today, why? And because the oligarchs practically all cleaned up, manipulated at a price, bought 600 dollars at no cost, and if the government ordered, five million to sell, if the state sold, that's one and a half billion dollars we'd have then and ten billion more to give to the peasants. Two million tons, let's say we convert it into alcohol, it's five or six times that we're going to have much more and so we're loading our power yes and we're not going to insult the peasants. The state has to set up a hard policy for lysing companies, and they're only going to have to refocus on domestic technology, that is, when they're getting budget money, they're going to buy only our combines.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u75	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u76	Thus, only large commercial production can save the village and Ukraine. Only a state-owned system can provide a solution to our nation’s food security today and raise the village economically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u77	Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u78	Dear Head! Dear colleagues! Dear voters! It is very symbolic that just after the restoration of Parliament's work, the first law in the midst of anti-crisis is being considered as an agrarian law, just to overcome the crisis in the agri-industry complex. I think that everyone already believes in this room and I think a positive vote is going to be that it is the agriculture of Ukraine and the entire APC system that should finally be the locomotive of our domestic economy and there are a few, they say, absolutely clear arguments. The first argument, dear colleagues, 2007 when the world was prosperous, was the first ever to talk about hunger, and a hundred countries were starving. In 2008, the year of total crisis, no one says hunger, because the reproducing of food in the world is, first of all, a grain group. But notice, Ukraine's largest producer in the world of mineral fertilizers and exporters, export of mineral fertilizers from Ukraine is zero. What can be expected in 2009 is where millions of tons of Ukrainian mineral fertilizers are not produced. The next year’s famine can be predicted with certainty. We are among the six countries in the world that are able to feed more than ourselves, and we are fourth in the world to export a number of food crops to a plant group. Dear colleagues, when they speak for a positive balance, which is the most important sector of currency spending, the biggest drink of weight is not in the amount of the total, but in the spirit of weight is in agriculture, because we give a net monetary profit. When they talk about metal, friends, look at the amount of gas that's always expensive. And another agricultural machine building, if we restore it, and the technical provision of agriculture has been zero for 15 years now, agricultural machinery can absorb up to 10 million tons of foreign metal, that's where the market in the internal market, for which 15 governments have been fighting until now, and that's not yet resolved. What has been done for agriculture and what else needs to be done to restore its status. We've solved the question, here's a few months of value added tax, a special mode of repairing it, so we're leaving the orders of the producers. We've kept a fixed agricultural tax, not for a year, but for good, it's a third less tax burden than in other areas. What needs to be done and whether there is an answer to these laws that are proposed is partly the answer, so it is only on the first reading and the second reading that we need to work on. We must maintain a special tax regime for animal products, which is 3.1 billion dollars, not a grant, but a tax save. And this answer is in this bill. We certainly need to destroy the tax system as it destroys Ukrainian agriculture. We need to reduce import volumes considerably through tariff quotas, customs, and so forth. If it didn't hurt, it was the WTO. Finally, we need to resolve the issue of extension of credit.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u79	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u80	Colleagues, we've got about 50 billion in the APC of credit resources, we've got to go around 6-12 -- that's a matter to be decided by law. And the main thing is the anti-crisis measures. What are the prospects? The very main forward-looking action must finally decide what no government has decided in 15 years -- to move on to the real balance of production, consumption and exports so that we don't lose resources in vain: human, financial, our natural resources, which are truly unique. And then so we don't politicize the question. Friends, we propose to vote first-reading government and to work with the proposal of deputies, including proposals for an agrarian fund and so on and so forth. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u81	The time for discussion is up. Yuri Fedorovich, do you have a need in the closing word? The time for discussion is exhausted according to the decision taken today in the session room. Excuse me, this is a decision that was made in the session hall. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please sign in from the procedure. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u82	Yuri Carmazin. The Party of Motherland Defenders. "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense." Dear Chairman! We didn't make the decision to deprive the deputies of their right to speak, only the faction workers did. We didn't accept any changes to the Rules. In particular, I have specific proposals to make sure that there is no empty promise of turning agribusiness enterprises into banks. We have to make it clear in the law that, after the appeal, within five days, banks provide for the extension of until 1 November 2009, unliquidated loans entered into in 2005-2008 at interest rates not higher than those provided for in basic credit agreements without the application of fines. At the same time, the foreign currency loans should be credited to the national currency at the rate of the bank at the time of the acquisition of the loan. And the negative rate of the difference is covered by the National Bank. The National Bank covered seven billion, covering three commercial banks. And now we need him to be an agro-industrial complex.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u83	Cord Vitaly Terentiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u84	Please pass the word to Oleg Laszko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u85	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. We urge the Hall to support a government bill that will obviously help to deal with the negative effects of the global financial crisis in agriculture. And in particular, in the second reading, I propose to include in the bill that we make changes to the Law on State Support for Agriculture, in the part of granting authority to the agrarian fund to export public price regulation objects. Today, article 6 of the Law on State Support for Agriculture prohibits the export of grain. Now today, the agrarian fund, there are over two million tons of grains gathered, and what? And they're sitting on this grain and they're doing nothing. And in a favourable price environment, I think you could sell this grain at a normal price abroad and then fill in the budget. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u86	Kravchenko Mikola Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u87	Cowchenko faction commies. I wanted to tell our voters the following. Here came a figure that said that 70,000 tons of meat had been imported into the country, which is said to have been processed here. So I wanted to inform our people that fifty per cent of this meat is genetically modified. We've destroyed the certification of this meat, the rest we've been getting by farce, and think about it, I've learned with horror on the committee, we've been getting skeletons, that's the meat we need to feed the animals. Imagine, respectable people, consumers, what kind of meat we get from abroad. At the same time, ideologist Terehin and ideologist Petnicki are doing everything they can to comply with the instructions of the WTO even in the face of a financial crisis. I wanted to speak for the termination of my obligations to the STO.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u88	Teeth by Mikhail Vasilovich. Hare Ivan Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u89	John Hare, Ukrainian People's Party, faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Ladies and gentlemen, two bills have been handed over to you, which would be very beneficial to adopt or incorporate all the bills in the bill under discussion. I'm talking about Bill 3367, where it's about government procurement in crisis situations. The authors are Yuri Kostenko, Jojik, and Davidenko. And I think the inclusion of this bill will give us the opportunity to buy the products of our national producer, starting with meat and finishing with a combo. And the second bill, number 2444, is the amendment to the Income Tax Act. This is about taxes on the income of the owner of a private farm. So I'm going to suggest, as the author, that we reduce the rate or even make it zero, and then we're actually going to help the village. And in general, with these or only export-import operations, that's not what we're going to give. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u90	Ladies and gentlemen, do you have a need in your closing statement? The miller Yuri Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u91	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished national MPs, I would like to thank the people's deputies for discussing the bills and the government and the national MPs, and I am convinced that there is my thesis that, after the second reading vote, a bill will be prepared that takes into account all the positive parties and the government and the bills passed by the people's parliaments will allow us to go to a completely constructive bill. So I'd like to ask you to support the government bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u92	Thank you. Sergei Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u93	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we must base one of the bills today. Of course, by doing my own will and belief, the committee and the faction persuade you to vote in favour of the MP's bill, but since there have been many proposals and contradictions in the debates on article 4(4) on import-export duty rates for oil crops, I propose, as co-author of the bill, to vote in favour of the MP's bill except for the exception of paragraph 4 and consider it separately, to create a working group and. in the second reading. Except for this paragraph 4. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u94	Terjehoin Sergey Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u95	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to remind the committee's decision that we're recommending a government bill, but on the second reading, we're looking at three issues in particular. First. All customs standards of both export duties and import duties. The other one. This is a change in the order in which banks are refinanced to lend to the village. And the third. This is the order of use of the stability loan for the Ukrainian Agrarian Fund. Finally, I would like to remind National Deputy Kravchenko that the agreement on agriculture and the first 24 groups of customs tariffs were agreed during 2003-2004 during the chairmanship of the government of Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic. Unfortunately, we have already received this, so know to whom the claim is made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, the co-reporters have spoken. There is a suggestion that the authors of an alternative bill should immediately delete article 4, paragraph 4, in the Transitional Regulations when determining the position in the first reading. Did I get it right, Sergey Mikolayovich? That's right, yes. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. They're out of procedure. I'm voting on the adoption of bill number 3353 in the first reading. [[11:21:06]] For 233 Decision taken. I'm requesting a profile committee, please work to make a decision on the second reading. By factions, please show me. Region Party – 0, “Club of Timoshenko” – 153, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” – 61, Communists – 0, “Block of Lithuania” – 19. People’s deputies propose to set a shorter deadline for preparing the bill for second reading. Please, I am proposing a vote to shorten the time of preparation for the second reading of this draft law in accordance with the Rules. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:22:17]] For 237 Decision taken. Let us now consider the next question of the order of the day. Bill No. 3344 on measures to protect the population from the effects of the global financial crisis. Ukrainian National Deputy Kirilenko Viacheslav Anatoliyovich reports.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u97	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. Dear colleagues, your opinion is the proposed Social Anti-crisis Bill 3344, which has been passed quite a long time ago as a response to the primary social needs of the global financial crisis. Our goal is to implement the 2009 budget economy, which will allow for the accumulation of significant resources and direct them to the statutory increase in salaries and pensions. Unfortunately, during the month that the bill was in Parliament, the social situation in the country deteriorated considerably, especially in terms of unemployment. Moreover, the real income situation of fellow countrymen is also deteriorating and requires appropriate social measures. Since during January-Yellow inflation was already 18 percent, and prices for products have risen by sometimes 100 percent, we need to regulate citizens' incomes through wage and pension mechanisms, which are subject to changes in the relevant legislation. But my bill consists of two parts: the first one foresees the economy of budget expenditure, the second part is the amendment of four basic social laws. As for the first part. We propose for 2009 by the end of the following year to introduce a moratorium on increased staffing in all authorities, government authorities, local self-government, social insurance institutions and other state-owned enterprises and institutions that will ensure the economy of the pay-for-work fund. In addition, we believe that it is not possible to increase the cost of maintaining all public authorities throughout the whole following year, except, of course, those costs that relate to the payment of salaries, the payment of salaries and the payment of public services. The same applies to the introduction of a moratorium for the following year on capital repairs, on capital construction again for government authorities, local self - government institutions, social insurance institutions, public enterprises, and institutions. Of course, and this bill predicts that this does not apply to the capital repairs of those buildings that are in an emergency, and this does not apply to the final completion of the capital work that needs to be completed a few months before completion. In addition, in the first part of the bill, we offer a moratorium on the purchase of budget money and the cost of social security cars for officials, because, I think, in the face of a financial crisis at least all the following year, government officials, local government officials and social workers can drive on old cars and not use budget or insurance for such purchases. In general, we believe that this part of the economy in all organs of power, and this should apply to both the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers and the Secretary of the President, will be a significant signal to all those who are also obliged to extend their belts in order to raise their social costs at the cost of the economy. We also propose amendments to four basic social bills. First. With regard to making changes to the Law “On the Universally Compulsory General State Insurance for Unemployment. We believe that standards that provide for the financing of partial unemployment should be put into effect. Now the main problem that is becoming avalanche is unemployment, which is not official and complete, but partial. So people are busy for two days with five jobs, they're busy for two or four hours, not eight, and there's no compensation for that right now. Such compensation must be provided for in the basic law on unemployment insurance. So we're proposing appropriate standards that will provide for the payment of insurance to people who have partial unemployment of two thirds of the tariff rate. It's going to be a big help to the owners of businesses who can't pay off their lost wages right now, and it's going to be more than just a social step on the part of Parliament, because that's how we're going to solve, at least at this point in time, the question of partial unemployment until we see clearly where employment can be reclassified. And, for example, from metallurgy, chemistry, machine building to other industries where work hands are now needed. The other one. We propose to amend the Employment Act and provide for public work funding at the expense of the State budget from January 1st next year. Now the situation is that public works can only be financed at the expense of institutions and at the expense of local budgets. Now there's a zero in the facility. No institution can now order, with a small exception, public works, and thus, employment through this system cannot be secured. Local budgets are also, unfortunately, largely empty, barely able to pay the current salary and finance the expenditure that is invested in local budgets. Therefore, only targeted programs supported by the state budget can raise this issue in the following year. So hundreds of thousands of people who are unfortunately going to be liberated to some point until the crisis is overcome should get the opportunity to engage in public works and build roads, bridges, infrastructure -- everything about the development of the country, preparing for the Euro-2012 -- eventually other jobs. And it can only be funded by a targeted program, distributed by various departments, which is foreseen by the State Budget of Ukraine. A corresponding change is proposed. Next. Third change. It refers to changes in the Wages Act, and it applies to the sole tariff network. The last three governments, by the way, since 2004, have been implementing the Single Tariff Network. Not even true, since 2002. There were three stages of the single tariff grid, and we introduced the third stage. This means that the differentiation of work at the right level exists with respect to both the budget and those working in the private sector, because the only tariff network is ultimately the orientation for the indicators that are provided for the payment of work and are provided for in the general tariff agreement and in the sectoral agreements. Now, unfortunately, there's a government decision -- Decree 939 of October 25, which says that the tariff rate of a first-level worker is frozen at 545 dollars. There's a colossal because the minimum wage, officially set by our budget, has already reached 605 dollars since December 1st. And obviously, since January 1st, it's going to increase even more, given inflation, price increases and so on. If we don't cancel this regulation -- and we can do this because of the corresponding changes to the law, and so the government's self-restraint is limited here, then the only tariff network, so to speak, is hanging out and the billing base is falling considerably, and so there's not going to be a proper increase in the pay for all the fees of the single tariff network. To prevent more such approaches, we propose appropriate changes to the Pay for Work Act. And this applies mainly to budgeters, and this is millions of people who work with doctors, teachers, librarians, words, all those who receive salaries at the expense of government and local budgets. And the final amendment concerns the Act on State-wide Compulsory Pension Insurance. Now the rate of insurance for the year is 1.35. We've been promoted since last year, and this has led to an increase in pensions. But the coalition is that the valid pension law thus has the changes that we have voted that this rule is to increase the pension coefficient to 1.35 – it only works until December 31st of this year. So from January 1, 2009, if we don't have a separate decision, the rate of the insurance internship will return to the last one -- 1:00, that is. And so from a legislative point of view, we're going to have to count pensions in terms of reduction, and this is prohibited by the Constitution, and I think it's forbidden by election programs and programs in general, without the exception of the political forces that are represented in this plenary room. This is the fourth change that we're proposing to accept. The main thing is the bill should be adopted by the end of this year. Since January 1, 2009, if we don't make the necessary changes, millions of budgeters and pensioners may be affected, and we should not allow that to happen to you. Thank you for your attention. Report completed.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u98	Thank you. Let's sign up for questions. Sergey Anatolyevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u99	I give the floor to Petra Mikolaiovich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u100	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u101	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Your Honor, I read your proposals carefully, and I would like to say that we should first answer how the newly formed coalition is set up to submit the 2009 State Budget project by the end of December? Because all you're talking about is the rules of the State Budget Act. If there's no government budget, there's going to be funding one twelve, and all of your populist statements are going to go out the same way that all of them did. So please answer: In the coalition, the new one you created when you put in the budget? In order to officially confirm in the state budget the specific lines already in place, by giving specific figures that will confirm exactly what you're saying. Because if you don't have a government budget, all of your conversations today will remain just conversation, just like before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u102	Thank you for asking. My dear colleague, we are all here in the hall, and we understand that the 2009 state budget should be accepted. The government is currently having a discussion on the approval of macroeconomic indicators. Representatives of our political power in the government have a position on this issue and we call for a realistic approach to the 2009 budget. As far as I'm concerned, I don't think they're populist, because the word of my bill is aimed at eliminating the negative effect of mass unemployment, which is most likely to be in the southern and eastern areas and provides for the financing of partial unemployment, which solves the problem by 90 percent. Of course, the budget should provide for the financing of at least three paragraphs of the bill that I have proposed. And what the 2009 State Budget is going to be like, we're going to define everyone with you here in the hall when the government gives it to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u103	Jódzik Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u104	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party, faction of "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense". Dear Viacheslav Anatoliyovich, an extremely important part of your bill is the establishment of a moratorium on the purchase of cars for public authorities. But it is known that this year alone, government authorities have purchased hundreds of millions of dollars of imported cars. Do you not think that your initiative should be expanded by setting up procedures for the implementation of imported vehicles purchased in the last three years, and spending on social spending, and for the following years to ensure that government authorities purchase only domestic vehicles, thus supporting the Ukrainian manufacturer? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u105	Thank you, Jaroslav Ivanovich, for asking. We certainly believe that the best slogan for all Ukrainians is “buy Ukrainian” including Ukrainian cars. And this idea has been dwindling into authorities and parliament for a long time, but somehow it doesn't always work. And the government and everyone, regardless of color and orientation, are usually unfortunately driving on imported cars. So I think that if you and I can speak in a consolidated way, we and the domestic manufacturer will support it, and the nation's prestige will be properly maintained. As far as my bill is concerned, he clearly proposes in the first part to limit expenses, more specifically, to limit the increase in the state of employees in the authorities and local self-government, not to increase expenditures on other needs, to prohibit capital construction and repair and to buy cars in general, except for the exceptions provided for in the bill. More precisely, or more simply, all authorities should stretch their belts.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u106	Kravchenko Mikola Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u107	Please pass the word to Gordienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u108	Sergey Gordienko, Ukrainian Company faction. Your Honor, of course, you can agree that the whole power has to stretch its belts. But first of all, I would like to tell you that one of the pillars of your presidential authority, Governor Valérie Assadchev of Poltava today, takes a manic stand for the district council session and suggests that 1.7 million dollars be allocated to build a monument to the one who came to conquer our land. This is Carlo XI and Mazepi. So I think that's probably ridiculous, and you should give here an estimate from this rostrum of why. In parallel, in the Orgitsky and Chernuchen regions, funds are planned to close the maternity ward for the purpose of economics. This was not the case in German.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u109	Dear colleague, thank you for asking. I'm going to tell you for example that we don't have governors in Ukraine. They were governors in Russia. We have the heads of district and district government. As for Assadchev, he's a wonderful expert. God grant everyone in this room to be such an expert. And he's in his place. As for Carl XI and Swedes, the Schwede monument was put up by the Russians long ago when there was another country. And they don't have any questions about that. And that ministers, MPs, coworkers of all authorities and the Poltava District Administration, including the cost of savings that can be saved: car purchases, capital repairs, every computer, advertising. See what the center of employment is doing right now. One commercial. It's all the money from the Social Insurance Fund. That's how all the expenses have to be saved. And you and I have to control how these expenses are going to be saved. I think that's the point of this and I'm asking the bill to support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u110	Thank you, Viachelav Anatolyovich. Have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u111	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u112	Papiev Mihailo Mikolaiovich, Head of the Committee on Social Policy and Labour Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u113	Thank you. Honourable National Deputies of Ukraine, Honorary Fellows, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy and Work considered this bill with the so loud title “On Social Protection Measures against the Impact of the World Financial Crisis”, realizing that the bill was prepared in a hurry, it is not balanced with other bills and bills that constitute the expenditure of the State budget. However, the committee considers it necessary to make the following observations to this bill, in articles two and three of chapter one of the bill on the prohibition of increase, compared to 2008, of the maintenance of local self-government bodies. And this has to be selected separately. When the 2009 local budgets are approved and a moratorium is imposed on certain types of government and local budgets, the following should be noted. Dear colleagues, if we are to write Ukraine's laws with disrespect for the Constitution of Ukraine, we will only have a deepening crisis. Please see article 143 of the Constitution of Ukraine, according to part one and part two of which the authority of the local self - government authorities is established upon approval of the budgets of the regional communities. And this is the exclusive competence of the relevant local councils. If we are to settle this issue by the laws of Ukraine and rely on the central authorities of the state, then we will have to place a cross on the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government. In addition, the law provides for only the right of control and accountability of local self - government authorities to perform their functions. The economic role of local governments in coping with the consequences of the financial crisis lies in the practical implementation of central government policies if the bill is adopted by the authors. And given the inactivity and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and the central government, I think it's just going to blow up the socio-economic situation in Ukraine at all. With regard to the ban on increase, compared to 2008, expenditure on the maintenance of mandatory public social insurance funds and the imposition of a moratorium on certain types of expenditure. If we are talking about some Europeanism, the European choice of Ukraine, we need to introduce civil society institutions in Ukraine in general. I would like to remind you that we have not yet adopted the Law on Social Dialogue of Ukraine, and if we look at the management of the general government social insurance funds at all, it is not government, it is self-governing organizations that are governed by principles, the principles of parity and the principles of tripartism. That is, the government of these funds includes representatives of the state, representatives of professional associations, and representatives of employers. Therefore, if there is such a desire, it is the State’s representatives in this fund who may, without any restriction on the functions of the institutions of this fund, bring to the attention the draft law on the idea proposed by the author and accept it in the manner prescribed by the basic law on compulsory government insurance. In part three, two bills proposed by the drafters of the bill to establish the size of the official salary of the tariff rate. A staff member of the first tariff level, according to a single tariff grid, and that he should be set at a level that cannot be lower than the legislatively defined minimum wage, I would ask the drafters to read the previous paragraph of this same article, where this rule and the current edition provide for the establishment of a first-class worker's tariff rate exceeding the statutory minimum wage. And the proposed edition, it gives the active authority the right to set the first tariff level at the minimum wage level, and that is to narrow down the rights and freedoms of citizens, which are already enshrined in the law in force. If you look at both the Main Scientific and Experimental Authority and its conclusion, the Scientific and Expert Office has also made a number of observations on this bill, for example, how will the ban on increasing the number of enterprises, institutions and organizations of municipal property be implemented. Actually, in 2009, even the plumber, ZECK, won't be able to accept it, because that's going to be the limitation of the law. And it's actually me, and the committee thinks, and I think that when the bills are written with that name, they have to have their contents in the title. The committee decided to recommend it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u114	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u115	The Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on the basis of article 114 of the First Rule of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, paragraph three of the draft Ukrainian Law on Social Protection Measures against the Consequences of the World Financial Crisis, to return to work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u116	Questions, please write down. National Deputy School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u117	Dear reporter, I would just like to make a general statement, you really don't see me behind the strong backs of the national MPs, but nevertheless. In general, you represent the opposition at this point, the opposition, when proposing constructive bills is looking forward to a successful review of these bills by the majority, and the situation in the country now is that in principle it doesn't matter who is proposing a bill to work for the benefit of the people. But let's turn this around, so if we were in opposition and we were passing this bill, you wouldn't be in opposition, you'd never vote for it. We remember the past years, especially in 2006, when constructively high - quality and meaningful proposals offered by opposition were simply not considered in the session room, so I would like to hear your assessment of this approach then and our objective approach now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u118	Thank you. Dear colleague, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that I am on the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine right now not as a representative of the opposition, but I am authorized by the committee to report to you the decision of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on this bill. Speaking of my own opinion, I would ask that the current authorities today do not urge opposition to do so. Please submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian Budget Act 2009. Give those bills that today actually corresponded to the title “Overcoming the Consequences of the World Financial Crisis”. The inaction of power, it cannot foresee a replacement and its activity and opposition, or then step out of power and the opposition will come and work. In addition, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the relevant bills on coping with the financial crisis, the 21st Bill, are submitted by the opposition government to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and will be considered as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u119	National MP Grigorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u120	Lila Grigorovich, "Our Ukraine People's Self-Defense." Dear Mr Papiev! For a moment, I reject each faction of us. You said this was an unbalanced bill. Friends! By the time we begin to balance our needs under our political little conjunctural circumstances, the crisis will be balanced by 46.3 million citizens. As far as I know and as far as I know, there are members of the committee sitting here, of the 7 members present at the committee meeting, 6 supported "accepting as a basis". Do we have a conscience, or do we not? But those remarks that gave analytical direction to the second reading can all be corrected. So first. You have lied, and the members of the committee will continue to speak and support me. The other one. We have a conscience in front of people, we don't balance political interests here because of the crisis on our people. I ask you to uphold this law and vote by Parliament. And yet, tell the truth about the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u121	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Look, now it turns out that why I said there's no balanced bill if there's going to be extra funding. For example, I am in charge of funding part of unemployment. But if we are to make the right decision, this article should be provided for in the National Budget Act of Ukraine. In addition, I would be more interested in how the current government has violated, even the current rule of the Ukrainian Law, in fact, the current wage is frozen for budget workers and the government's decision to exceed the government's mandate of 545 sums minimum. The first tariff level for budget workers, which is 3.5 million Ukrainian citizens, is frozen by wages instead of setting the first tariff of 605 dollars. Therefore, it is necessary today that the leader of one of the factions that is part of the coalition submits a bill, while the government that represents the coalition acts in a way that does not at all conform to the current legislation of Ukraine and.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u122	National MP Gordienko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u123	Sergey Gordienko faction of the Ukrainian company. Mikhail Mikhailovich, of course, I am very grateful that you have said very good things about employees of local self-government. And I'm implementing this law today, if he, God forbid, will be accepted, I'm sharing all the concerns, that with the unemployed, they need to be supported. This is a tragedy for the people! But a farce is being made today! There is no law yet, but the authorities have already given a command to local governments, boards, anti-crisis measures and the result of these measures: they will shorten the "Grandmother Masha" working as a technician, or they will not buy the Kraut. But still, the cars and everything will be bought? I'd like to tell you one thing. Don't you think the biggest economy would be if we stopped funding the President's Administration at all, or at least 99 percent reduced it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u124	You know, my opinion is never to make such populist, emotional decisions. Let's take each of the structures, including the President of Ukraine, even though we don't have a law yet on the President of Ukraine, but there's the Law of Ukraine "For the Cabinet of Ministers," there are laws of Ukraine that apply to the authorities of the local executive branch, the authorities of local self-government. Let us implement these laws and if we can implement the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws and promote that the Cabinet of Ministers does not take decisions that contradict the legislation already in force in Ukraine, the Constitution of Ukraine, which would not violate 22 articles of the Constitution of Ukraine, do not make social protection of Ukrainian citizens worse, I think that we could then say that crisis management is happening at a more significant pace than it is now. And in my opinion, the crisis in Ukraine today is getting deeper and the further this power is going to be, the crisis will lead Ukraine to a breakthrough.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u125	Thank you, Mikhail Mikhailovich, sit down, please. Let's sign up for a discussion. Please sign up for the discussion. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u126	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Ladies and gentlemen, I was impressed by the introduction of this law. First, we have to accept it, another question, in what way. I have just heard a statement by the chairman of the committee, Mr. Michael Papiev, and I ask him either to deny it or to confirm the information I have from the committee members that the decisions of the committee have allowed six out of seven to accept the law. Although this does not mean that there are no questions before the law. There is no doubt that there is a question in the title of the law, for its contents do not fully fit into what it says. There's a question to the point. So I'm going to propose that we adopt this law in the first reading, and I'm going to also shorten the time for its work, the regulatory time that is set twice. And the first article, which sounds eloquently like a slogan, and it sounds, reminds the audience, reminds you, honourable deputies, yes, “to ban the increase in the state of government officials, local self-government bodies, as well as enterprises, institutions, public and municipal property organizations”. So, no more, no less, it's simple. So I think we need to make it clear that it's supposed to be a shortcut, not just to ban the increase, but to predict the reduction, and this reduction in government authorities and administrations can't be less than 10 percent, and in organizations where their spread of numbers will be governed by budgetary funding, we can't tell local governments, it's a violation of the Constitution. So we can offer local self-governance to the authorities, so I'm going to immediately propose a formula, and I'm going to suggest to the authorities of local self-governance that we don't anticipate an increase in the state. In this way, we can come to terms with the Constitution of this law, which in this case will have a positive effect. In general, we have to show that we're going to start shortening ourselves. So I would ask you to prepare a decision on the reduction or the elimination of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's autobase, let's address this issue, let's not go any further and we can do this in this law, I think, Viacheslav Anatoliyovich, to include, because this is specifically about the legislative authority, and we didn't foresee, what did we all foresee, and we didn't foresee legislatively? Let's write here, too. So, honourable national MPs, I'd like us to adopt the law, narrow down time, cut back time, but we've worked on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u127	Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u128	Dear colleagues, I would like to make it clear immediately that Michael Mikolaiovich Papiev's head of staff has stolen the impreciseness. The committee's decision, when we heard the bill, was recommended to the Supreme Council to accept it as a basis. But this is not the main problem of those groups and bills that should minimize the possible and existing negative social consequences of those bills that we are waiting for. The main problem is that the only bill that has been tabled in the session hall today, which is intended to help our people socially, is the bill: Vyezivski, Kirilenko, Leipzig. I ask in the old new or in the new very democratic coalition: when will the Committee on Social Policy and Work await your government government's bills? Because I'll tell you what can happen. We can work out things that bother our people and get caught up in the same veto over and over again. Someone, and the former First Deputy of our committee, former Minister and Deputy Prime Minister Viacheslav Kirilenko knows that. There may be good intentions, but they may be blocked by the fact that there is no money, so they don’t want to do it at all. People, demand as a coalition this unique team a new approach to the social sphere. Look, the insurance ratio, the right legislators, we had 1, 1, 2, 1, 35. We stopped the pension reform. Since 2005, when we started playing before the minimum pension, we have stopped the pension reform. We returned to the pension system with a balance sheet and an extremely low level of compensation for the loss of a person’s income when he retired. What does that lead to? We need, but once again, to move from 1.35 to 2. Because the people who did more than 30, I'm sorry, in industrial regions and 40 years of age, they're in some state of insult today. One more. We have to make a pension, because it's not an escape from poverty, as it is in Ukraine. It's also a purchasing power. The growth of the purchasing power of our population is also a battle against the crisis. So we're looking for new approaches in a crisis to the concept of reforming the pay system. The pay in Ukraine, on the one hand, is absolutely not conducive to the replication of the labor force, on the other hand, is growing very often, completely independent of the productivity of the work. Third. Savings. Dear colleagues, please stop fooling people. A thousand, and a half thousand, until jobs are created in savings, until we tell people in time what our Ukrainian debt is, it's all populism and demogogia! Let's wait for the bill's government. How many reports I've made from this rostrum?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u129	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u130	8 Savings Bills. They all received negative reactions from Mityukov, ending with Pinzenik. There's no money, and I'll see you later. Well, the government has shown that you can do it. We can move on to the legislative promotion of the social protection of our citizens, but it has to be the joint work of the coalition and the coalition government, if it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u131	Dear colleagues, there is a suggestion that we complete this consideration and then announce a recess. Is there a deal? I'm putting to the vote the question that we're working on before this draft law is finalized, and then we're gonna take a break. Please vote. [[12:00:25]] For 366 Decision taken. Cibenko Peter Stepanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u132	The faction of the Ukrainian Company, the first deputy head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! I can indeed, like the faction, welcome the intentions of the new old coalition that have been declared. Well, who can deny that in the face of a harsh, comprehensive economic crisis, there is a need to save money. That's an absolutely smart offer. But I was hoping that in this new-old coalition, at least two political forces that were part of its previous composition, today from this rostrum, they're already reporting what they've done on the way to overcoming these disasters. Indeed, there are two major problems that affect a large number of people in Ukraine. Even though the current authorities are now trying to hide the real extent of unemployment by sending workers on forced vacations, after a reduced working day, after an incomplete working week. However, the most important cannot be hidden. And we can't hide this. Today, my esteemed colleagues, every day, I didn't talk about it, every day in the centres of employment of Ukraine, as unemployed, 11,000 people are registered, receiving unemployment status. And the second number I'd like to give you. It is that the inflation rate for 11 months this year is 19.5 percent. What does that mean in practice? In practice, this means that 1 out of every 5 pension bracelet is eaten by a pensioner, 1 out of 5 social assistance bracelet is eaten, 1 out of 5 wages is eaten. And this list can be continued. I want to do it again. I can welcome the intentions set out in this bill. But. What is happening today in practice? To talk about the need for budget savings, the following is happening. Obviously, I don't have any other data, so I'm going to use what was in the media to build a 20-30-century hunger memorial, primarily 130 million, and a billion. It's so economical! To build Stephen Bandera's memorial in Ivano-Francisco 75 million. It's so economical! Dozens of millions are used to repair and improve the presidential residence. That's how we save our lives.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u133	Finish up. Suskevich Valeriy Mihajlovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u134	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like only as the head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons as a Professional Committee to say that, according to our competence, the section of this bill, which deals with amending the Law on the General Compulsory State Pension Insurance in respect of the $1.35 per cent insurance price, I would like to remind everyone today that the pension system, the pension reform has been suspended, is the government of Timoshenko, the government of Timoshenko itself has initiated an increase in the price of insurance for the first time this year. That is why the committee supported this proposal by the legislator and believes that it is appropriate to introduce it into the legislation of Ukraine. In doing so, I want to say that the government has already upheld this rule by its corresponding decree in November. And now I want to give my word to my colleague, Shevchuk Oleg Borisovich, the first deputy head of the Committee on Social Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u135	Thank you. Dear colleagues, it is obvious that this Bill 3344 is aimed at ensuring compliance with the conditions of state social standards and the protection of the social rights of citizens in the context of the global financial crisis and minimizing its impact on Ukraine's economy. But in our view, most of the proposals mentioned could be considered as being included in the 2009 State Budget Act, which is now being prepared in the form of separate articles. In addition, some of the proposals for amendments to Article 6 of the Act on Paying for Work are unnecessary, and this has already been discussed today, in particular with regard to proposals for establishing the size of the official salary of the staff member of the first tariff grade in accordance with the Single Tariff Network and the minimum wage. This position actually duplicates the same standard of law. The proposal to pay employees of all institutions, institutions and organizations of the budget sector on the basis of the Single Tariff Network, which is approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, also seems unnecessary. The changes to the Employment Act of Ukraine regarding the introduction of public work funding not only for local budgets but also for the State budget do not address the important issue of how to create effective motivations and incentives to expand the sphere of public work, both on the part of operators and for citizens who are forced to apply to employment services in search of work. In addition, we believe that the social protection package, including the state impact on this process, should be much broader. In particular, it is timely to consider such bills as State support for small businesses, employment, prices and pricing, a social dialogue that has been discussed today, and social services, a new edition. Viewing the bill as an organic continuation of the government's policy, the government most social, responsible for Ukraine's independence, part of the "Julia Timoshenko Block" in our committee is already actively working on the drafting of this bill and preparing it for second reading, and we believe that the result of the first reading of the bill may be.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u136	Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u137	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! It is a pleasure to note that the Supreme Council has finally been engaged in real parliamentary work since today. This is already very positive. And that's why I'm going to talk not about political things or propaganda, but about the actual bill. As the theater begins, everyone knows, from the wardrobe, so the bill begins with a title. The name does not match the substance and content of the bill. If the name is “draft of the Act of Action.” on something, there should be a package of measures, a package of measures, a complete package of measures. If, as in this bill, individual segments, individual positions, individual changes are proposed, the bill should be called “for some measures” because it is not a complex of all measures that provide social protection for the population. This is the first position. The second position is that we obviously need to move away from this established standard for several weeks now when we talk about the consequences of the global financial crisis. We know very well that the crisis is internal by more than a global crisis. The global crisis is a bulwark in this problem, which is “increasing” to the crisis that has arisen in Ukraine as a result of a completely internal and economic, social policy. Finally. When we talk about the social protection of the population, obviously, what really needs to be involved here is the things that are socially protecting the population, not just the limitations, I think, the fair limitation of congestion, the capacity of government officials and local self-government workers. Therefore, I would very much like the authors of this bill to include in complex measures that they believe can socially protect people, to include a norm for which they did not vote: when, as a result of the manipulation of the Anti-crisis Act in Ukraine, a standard was removed, and more specifically, incorporated by manipulation of the text of a norm that made it impossible to match the minimum wage and minimum wage. This is the social protection of the population itself. First position. Second position. I think that the drafters of the bill and all who support this bill should be included in the package, in a package of measures and the setting up of an hourly wage in Ukraine, because this is more relevant than ever, it is not a social attack, it is a social protection. And the last. I have already said twice in this rostrum that there is a very simple way to reduce the burden on the State budget on government spending: please pay back the expenditure at the 2007 level, because in the 2008 budget, the Supreme Council has 17 percent less expenditure than in 2007, the Cabinet of Ministers – 38 percent less expenditure.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u138	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u139	Thank you. More than in 2007 and the State Administration by 57 percent. You don't have to invent a bike. In 2007, all government authorities worked? Worked. So that funding is completely sufficient. In general, the idea of this bill is correct, but I think there will be a lot of work to be done in preparing for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u140	Kirilchuk Evgen Ivanovich. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u141	Thank you. I have one minute of this observation. When the committee rapporteur spoke behind the rostrum, he used the sentence several times: “The messiness of the government”. I think it was his personal opinion, he had to emphasize it. Because today, in the ministry he headed yesterday, or a year ago, there's no worse indicator than they were with him. And to give such an assessment, he has the right only in the media, where he can speak as he pleases. And I think he should apologize for not making that decision. And his task is to report on what the committee decided, and he's turned everything around instead of telling the truth to the hall. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u142	Váchaslav Anatoliyovich, do you have a need in the final owl? Please turn on the microphone from the site to the national deputy Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u143	Viacheslav Kirilenko, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense". Dear colleagues, I ask everyone to support the positive that everyone can see for themselves in this bill. Of course, it is inexhaustible. I agree with my colleague Zarubinski that these are some measures. Why some? Because we've been doing this on hot leads. Only the first crisis to respond to the financial and banking crises appeared, and we immediately introduced a social crisis, realizing that it was inexhaustible and constantly underscoring it from the rostrum. So we call on all colleagues from all factions to make the right suggestions that have just been made and about the hourly wages of work and about the subsistence minimum, and so on in the second reading mode. Of course, if we now vote in favour of this bill, the government will have to take that position into account in the deputy corps and take it into account in the determination of budgetary indicators and in the budget reports. Because all the issues related to the single tariff network, wages and pensions, they touch the budget in one way or another. At the same time, I still think that both the government authorities and the local self-governance, and the Socstres, should pull up their belts. Yes, we cannot interfere with the local self-government budget, but if Parliament adopts such a law, it will be a guide for all officials of local self-government who will make appropriate budgets. Socstrech is a story at all. Tens of billions of grevens are the budget of three Socstrach funds, without the Pension Fund. These funds are managed by governments and executive directorates. In these expenses, you can believe anything you want. In 2005, I did this, and in all three social funds, a huge amount of expenditure was found to be anything but insurance, for computers, for capital construction of employment centers, sometimes for palaces and choirs, for a hundred times already provided software, for machines and for others, for social workers, but it is not necessary for insured persons to do so. So the Socstre must feel the interest of the Supreme Council in controlling this system. No one's going to interfere with the work of triangular governments and supervisory councils, it's not right, it's a violation of legislation, but the Socstrach should clearly feel that it is viewed by the Supreme Council as representatives of all factions. And so I'm convinced that these signals are very useful. I come out in my opinion from the fact that the committee, as has just been confirmed by the colleagues in the profile committee, and I have made an appropriate decision of November 17th, has proposed that the bill be based on it. And that's exactly what the scientific expertise has concluded. The comments that my colleagues have made, I take it, are also ready to work on them together. And I'm proposing this bill as social and necessary, to support it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u144	Mikhail Mikolaiovich, is there a need in the closing word? Please, Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u145	Dear colleagues, you know that committee. Yeah, I talked to him, he decided to accept this bill as a basis, but I would ask our colleagues anyway, and I'm here to support my colleague Dry. You know, if we're going to deal with the crisis in the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and only, and it's going to be the initiative of the separate national deputies of Ukraine, and it's not going to be a comprehensive approach that should lead the government, and we should be seeing some kind of comprehensive Ukrainian law today, Ukraine's bill on crisis management. Because first of all, who is suffering from the crisis today? Low-income citizens. Today, we do so with the Ukrainian Act on State Aid to Low-Supplied Citizens, where the amount of aid is limited to 200 dollars. At the same time, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has been considering a bill approved by the Committee for the establishment of State aid to low-income citizens at the minimum of living. For some reason this bill is not perceived today by the ruling coalition as the anti-crisis that protects our citizens. And one more thing. It is strange to see when the ruling coalition, with one hand, introduces a bill that would force the government of the same coalition not to break the law when they set the size of the first tariff level of the single tariff grid. Today, the anti-legal, anti-constitutional step taken by the government of Timoshenko has actually been taken. I'd like all 3.5 million Ukrainian citizens working in the budget area to know about it. Not enough that this year we did not look at the size of the minimum of living due to inflation, and the government has now frozen the actual wage for people living on wages. Dear colleagues, one more question. When we establish Ukrainian preferential laws for a particular sector, either for one or another, or in dealing with one or the other, we need to provide for mechanisms to finance the problem at the same time. What we can talk about when we don't have a change in the 2008 budget, when the government was due to submit the 2009 State Budget by December 1st, and it's not there when we don't have any macroeconomic indicators at all in 2009. What does the government do? What does the Ministry of Economics and the Ministry of Finance do? What's our internal gross product going to be? What Is Inflation Expected? What fund is expected to pay for the work? And many other questions. Therefore, this law should be called “Improving changes to certain laws of Ukraine”. He has no bearing on overcoming the crisis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u146	Thank you. The discussion is over. I am voting on the adoption of the draft Social Protection Act in the first reading of the outcome of the global financial crisis. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:19:35]] For – 266 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to tell you that we will begin our work after a recess on the question of the election and appointment of judges. There's a break coming up. The plenary session will continue for 12 hours for 50 minutes. The factions, please, on the board.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u147	Please invite the national deputies to the session room. I understand that we have been delayed in adopting the relevant bills, but it is time to get started. Please. Ladies and gentlemen, we continue our sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We are in the turn to discuss the issue of making an oath to the members of the High Council of Justice. And the next is the election and release of the judges. I ask the Head of the Justice Committee, Sergey Vasilovich Kiwalov, to the rostrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u148	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Yesterday, on December 10, 2008, the meeting of the Justice Committee considered the adoption of an oath by members of the Supreme Council of Justice of Kravchenka Konstantin Timofeievich, Barbara Valentin Petrovic and Volkova Aleksandr Fedorović. On the issue of the taking of an oath by members of the Supreme Council of Justice of Kravchenko and Barbara, members of the Committee took a unanimous decision. And recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine include this issue in the agenda for the next plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. During its consideration of Volkov's candidature, Aleksandr Fedorovic was found to be a judicial member of the Supreme Council of Justice. On 26 June 2007, at the first stage of the eighth extraordinary meeting of judges, at the initiative of Volkov Aleksandr Fedorović, a decision was taken to suspend the term of office of a member of the Supreme Council of Justice, Paley Valentina Mihaylovna. Its powers were terminated within a year and a half earlier. On 7 December 2007, Volkov Aleksandr Mihajlović was appointed as a member of the Supreme Council of Justice at the second stage of the same meeting of judges. Subsequently, Paley appealed to the President of the Council of Ukrainian Judges for recognition of the decision of the eighth extraordinary assembly of judges on the early termination of his authority and for the appointment of Volkov to her place, the unlawful and the annulment of those decisions. The third person on the defendant's side was the same Volkov. By decision of the Kiev Administrative Court of Appeal, the proceedings in this case were closed due to the failure of the judges to appeal the decision to convene judges in the courts, although there are 55 articles of the Constitution which clearly state that any decision can be appealed in court. It is interesting that the rapporteur, I would like to draw the attention of the people's deputies and those present, in the case of the so-called Paly, and in the latter, the presiding judge was none other than Judge Baranenko Igor Ivanovich, the co-existence of the wife's brother Volkov. Well, it's coffee. I would like to remind you that the panel of judges in this composition was composed of three judges, one of whom was Baranenko Igor Ivanović, a relative of Volkov Aleksandr Fedorović, who was in fact a party to the case and, of course, a party in favour of which the decision was taken. Another judge, Babenko Konstantin Anatolievich, presented a special opinion on the decision of the Kiev Court of Appeal, in which he fully disagreed with the judgement and recognized it as a violation of procedural law. I would like to draw the attention of the people's deputies in Ukraine that, although the judges are obliged under the law in such cases, this has not been done. Moreover, the Committee had also found that, in the personal cases of judges Volkov Aleksandr Fedorović and Baranenko Igor Ivanović, the fact of kinship had been hidden, and that the schedules had not been filled in. On the basis of the decision of the Kyiv Court of Appeal, issued on 3 December 2008, the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine decided to revoke the decision of the Kyiv Court of Appeal. To date, therefore, the case so-called Pallium is being examined in fact before the Administrative Court of First Instance. Accordingly, until today, the time of legality of the appointment of Volkov as a member of the Supreme Council of Justice is controversial. According to Philipczuk Peter Philipovich, the decision of the Ninth Meeting of Judges of Ukraine, held from 13 to 14 November 2008, confirmed the decision of the Eighth Extraordinary Meeting of Judges to appoint Volkov as a member of the Supreme Council of Justice. Such a decision was taken by an open vote in violation of article 10, part one, of the Supreme Council of Justice Act. While members of the Supreme Council of Justice and the law are stressed, they are elected by secret ballot. The Committee on Justice has received numerous requests to defer consideration of the matter in the case. Having considered the materials supporting the information provided by the Committee, it was decided to defer consideration of the acceptance of the oath of the members of the Supreme Council of Justice, Volkov Aleksandar Fedorović. On instructions until the results of these verifications are obtained from the Supreme Council of Justice. That was the decision made yesterday.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u149	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Yesterday we discussed this issue on the Conciliation Council, today we talked to a number of leaders of the MP factions, and given the position of the committee, there is such an offer. To entrust the committee with appropriate law enforcement and judicial institutions, and more specifically with judicial institutions, to study the matter, to get a complete objective picture, and to return to the question of swearing at once three persons. Let's just say what time does it take? Next Thursday does all this work?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u150	Vladimir Mikhailovich, why? If there has been a unanimous decision on two members of the Supreme Council of Justice, let us bring them to the oath. What about Volkov? Sunday, ten days. The Supreme Council of Justice, the President of the High Council of Justice, is present here Izovtov Lydia Pavlovna, let us listen to her. How? If the Committee's decision is and is taken unanimously, what are we going to do here, let's allow them until they take an oath. That's two minutes. There is no dispute between the two candidates to the judges of the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u151	Dear colleagues! And that logic has the right to life. But for us to have an understanding among all factions there is such an offer that obviously must be supported by all. Let's study this question. The final verdict and we will not begin the discussion now, taking into account the sensitivity of the subject, taking into account the processes that have taken place during the last period and which we have witnessed. Now let's move on to the question of the election and release of judges. And I'm sure it'll make sense. Now we're going to have a discussion and there's going to be opposition, and that's what I'm going to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u152	Vladimir Mikhailovich, there will be no discussion! Let us vote then to allow these two to take an oath.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u153	Dear colleagues! I will now put this proposal to the vote so that we can make a decision. There are two suggestions. First sentence of the Committee for the oath of two judges. And the long proposal is to postpone consideration of this issue, let's say for a week, in order to make an agreed decision. I'm putting to the vote the first proposal to take an oath now from two judges for whom there are positive conclusions from the committee. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:01:42]] For-160. The decision is not taken. I'm voting on a second motion to move the question and return to its deliberations, to take the oath of elected representatives of the court to the High Council of Justice, to the next plenary week, to the extent that the committee and the judicial offices are ready. Please vote. [[13:02:28]] For 379 Decision taken. Let us now consider the question of the election and release of judges. Rapporteur of the Head of the Justice Committee Sergey Vasilovich Kiwalov. Please, Sergey Vasilovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u154	Dear colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Justice at its meetings on 29 October, 12 November and 10 December 2008 considered the appointment of the head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the head of the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine, the head of the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine on the appointment of judges on an indefinite basis, the election of judges previously elected on an open-ended basis and the submission of the High Council of Justice on the dismissal of judges from positions under general circumstances. Honorable members of the national parliament, under the procedure laid down, read out the name of the judge, the judge rises from the seat, and if there is a warning to him, the national deputies report it from the place. Such a judge is temporarily removed from the draft ruling and we return to his consideration after voting on other candidates. The judges are in the guest bed and on the balcony. Draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine 3368. The committee recommends that judges be elected on an indefinite basis: Dnipropetrov's Administrative Court of Appeal, Anatoliyev High; The Kyiv Administrative Court of Appeal, Lithuania, Natalia Mikolayevna; Kyiv's Court of Appeal Koratun Olen Mikolayevna; Sevastopol’s Court of Appeal of Agriculture, Tkachenka Mikhail Ivanovich; the local Lenin district court of Vinnice Mikhailenko Andrija Vasilovich; the local Lutsky District Court of the Volin district of Sovitchuk Andrija Evgenovich; the local Telmanov District Court of the Donetsk Region of Chinov Alexander Viktorovich; the local Peter County Court of Kirovograd district of Cheyenko Yulia Volodymyrna; the local Prevali district court of the Luhansk district of Koladova Vitali Juriovich; the local Koden District Court of the Odessa district of Sopilnjak Alexander Mikolaiovich; the local Hmelnicke Mesblnice Court of the Hmelnicke District Grab Ludmila Sergiyevna; the local Corsun-Shevchenkov District Court of Cherkas region of Svetko Sergija Leonidovich; The local Visnicke District Court of the region of Cherniewec, by Philippeuk Ivan Vasilovich; the local court of the Dnipropetrov district of Kesh Natalia Borisovna; the local court of the Zitomir district of Lozymsk Irina Vasilovna; the local court of the Zaporozhye district of Azezbean Tetjana Anatoliyevna; The local court of the Poltava district of Bezruk Tetjan Mikhailnov; the local court of the Hersonian district of Germany, Lyubov Mikolayevna; the local commercial court of the Hmelni district of Muchu Mikola Evgeniovich; the local court of the Czernovetsk district of Andriy Anatoliyovich; the local court of commerce of Kyiv Balaca Sergija Valeriyovich and Paska Mikola Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u155	And Paska too, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u156	Yeah. Please support the draft decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u157	Dear colleagues, I understand that there is a warning about Balac Sergey Valeriovich, did I understand you correctly? Yeah. Please turn the microphone on again. Yeah, who, Portnow, huh? Please. And now that we're defined, and then you're going to say your point of view. Now.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u158	Andrew Portnow, Timoshenko Street. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, now we have a member of our faction Angela Labunska to give her warning. But I want to say that these warnings have been checked by all of us at the Justice Committee meeting, and none of them have been confirmed. Therefore, our political power plans to support this judge in his office. And I would also like to point out that some Ukrainian national deputies use their parliamentary powers not by appointment. That is why we plan to support this judge, and in the future we call on all national MPs not to use their personal parliamentary powers for personal purposes.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u159	Dear colleagues, a warning has been given regarding Sergey Valeriovich Balatz. So let's do it this way. We're going to get him off the list, vote for everyone. And then we're going to talk about this problem and we're going to vote separately. What other warnings are there about names? You don't? That is why such an offer is made. On the adoption of the draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as the Order on the Election of Judges, registration number 3368, removing the name of Balatz Sergey Valeriovich. No warning? Please vote. [[13:08:59]] For 381 376 for 381, sorry, you're making a decision. Welcome to the judges who have been elected on an untimely basis. Yes. Now it's about Balac Sergey Vasilovich. Please, motivation. Who's it gonna be? Please, Lukashuk. Then in a row, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u160	Vladimir Mikhailovich, honourable deputies! Balak is our landman from Hmělničina. And it's completely positive. I think that relationships and complaints, that's prejudice, are the result of personal relationships. So I ask you to put it to a vote and we will exercise our constitutional right, and the MPs will be determined on this candidate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u161	Dear colleagues, I don't see very well. Names. Sayenka, please and Pisarenko, if you'll excuse me. And Labunska will be right now, come on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u162	Dear colleagues, I'm brief. I think everyone here understands the question. We have discussed this situation for a long time at a committee meeting with no evidence. So I propose to go to the vote and support the judge. Let them work. Unfortunately, we have a different court system for today. I would like the chairman of our committee to tell us today also about the situation in the Lviv Administrative Court, where there are significant corruptions. And including, if there is a Supreme Court head here today, I think we should listen to him too, when millions of dollars are being removed from the judges and they are not on the bench where they are today, that is not a very good example for the judicial system. As for Balatz, I propose to support this candidacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u163	The national deputy of Labunsk. As for honourable colleagues, recent events, the chairman of the committee will make an appropriate report on this matter. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u164	Yes, the national deputy of Labunsk. What I'm saying is, well, they don't exactly inform our colleagues exactly what happened on the committee. I would like to inform you that on the committee, the committee knew that appropriate complaints had been sent to the relevant authorities regarding the suspicion of the theft of state property at the state-owned enterprise Transigal. At the time of the committee's consideration, I had no official response from the Attorney General's Office. On December 1st, here I am demonstrating the original, I have received the reply of the Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine, Mr. Kudriavtsev. that the Prosecutor's Office is referring to an investigation in accordance with article 121 of the Constitution and articles 13, 15 of the Ukrainian Law to the Prosecutor's Office of Kiev for decision-making. That's why I think that if there's a judge in the first place, that's an official answer. And so please don't do anything like that unless before the answer comes and there's no decision in the faction how to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u165	Yes, Your Honor, from another faction, Jaroslav Suhi and then Mikola Rudchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u166	Dear colleagues, well, I apologize to the Deputy Labunski immediately, if she or she does not. I remember in the early 2000s, some Labunska Angela Viktorovna, in favour of Megamotors, tried to take away 20 percent of the Motor City shares. I would like to remind you that Balak Sergius is the same judge in the Hmělnicke district who helped us to stand back at the train station of the Zaporozhye company “Motor Sich”. And now I understand where these attacks came from. The session room can and will never be a place for personal accounting. I suggest we put this to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u167	Thank you. Mikola Rudchenko, then a colleague. Now, one minute, we'll be there.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u168	Dear colleagues, "Block of Lithuania", Mikola Rudchenka. I want to tell you that, unfortunately, the election is over, and the squabbles continue. Yesterday, the committee considered Bragina, the Andrusha district, a rural area of the Gitomir region. And from one of my colleagues, statements are constantly coming out and he wants to turn into the Supreme Council what's being done in the Zitomir district council, that's where the roots come from. So I would like today, dear colleagues, let's show that we can support honest, decent judges and vote for Balatz, who will be worthy to handle his case. Well, we're definitely going to have to go back to Zitomirsky and we're going to have to figure out why, just when we have to vote, in a day and a half, complaints are coming on the same day. Let's forget about 2007; let's start working, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u169	Please, People's Deputy Pisarenko. Well, say your last name, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u170	Please give me your word. Give my colleague Portnov a word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u171	Please, Portnow.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u172	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry to ask you this second question. In fact, the Ukrainian national deputies have now been misinformed as to the existence of problems in the Ukrainian Attorney General's Office regarding this judge. I remind you that if any Ukrainian national deputy applies to the Attorney General's Office, that is the kind of letter she writes to the prosecutor of Kiev. If this letter had any claim about criminal persecution or the existence of abuse, it could be said that this candidature should be postponed. We propose to put a question to the vote and predict that there will now be a majority of the composition of the Supreme Council for this judge.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u173	Alexander Alexander Budgerak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u174	Thank you. Your Honor, it is not possible for legal representations to be transferred to the Supreme Council in the Supreme Council. You can't. settled in the Supreme Council with a young judge. He is a young man, a promising, beautiful family, and he cannot, I am sure, break a law or another. And I'm asking you to support such a person, otherwise with the hands of the Supreme Council, we oppress young, promising people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u175	Who else will be performing? Vladimir Yavorowski. And now let's move on to the decision-making process. The position of the committee and we'll make decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u176	Vladimir Yavorowski, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear colleagues, I'm really uncomfortable with the fact that in the midst of our faction, all of a sudden, this discussion opened up here. However, I do not know this judge, and I have the possibility of a completely objective side. I didn't hear any argument here in the hall, which, let's say, would give me some sort of suspicion or something. There are people -- MPs, our colleagues from Hmielnica who know this judge. So let's vote and forget this incident.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u177	The committee's position is to vote, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u178	Yes, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that Judge Balac Sergei be elected on an untimely basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u179	Taking into account the committee’s proposal, as well as the opinions expressed in most speakers, I put to the vote the decision to elect Balac Sergio Valeriovich as judge of the local court of agriculture in Kiev on an untimely basis. Please vote. [[13:17:27]] For 332 Decision taken. We welcome Sergey Valeriyovich to the election of the judge on an untimely basis. Announcing Order 3369, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u180	The committee recommends the selection of judges previously elected on an indefinite basis as judges of the Court of Appeal, and we predict that there will now be a majority of the composition of the Supreme Council for this judge.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u181	Alexander Alexander Budgerak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u182	Thank you. Your Honor, it is not possible for legal representations to be transferred to the Supreme Council in the Supreme Council. You can't. settled in the Supreme Council with a young judge. He is a young man, a promising, beautiful family, and he cannot, I am sure, break a law or another. And I'm asking you to support such a person, otherwise with the hands of the Supreme Council, we oppress young, promising people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u183	Who else will be performing? Vladimir Yavorowski. And now let's move on to the decision-making process. The position of the committee and we'll make decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u184	Vladimir Yavorowski, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear colleagues, I'm really uncomfortable with the fact that in the midst of our faction, all of a sudden, this discussion opened up here. However, I do not know this judge, and I have the possibility of a completely objective side. I didn't hear any argument here in the hall, which, let's say, would give me some sort of suspicion or something. There are people -- MPs, our colleagues from Hmielnica who know this judge. So let's vote and forget this incident.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u185	The committee's position is to vote, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u186	Yes, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that Judge Balac Sergei be elected on an untimely basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u187	Taking into account the committee’s proposal, as well as the opinions expressed in most speakers, I put to the vote the decision to elect Balac Sergio Valeriovich as judge of the local court of agriculture in Kiev on an untimely basis. Please vote. [[13:17:27]] For 332 Decision taken. We welcome Sergey Valeriyovich to the election of the judge on an untimely basis. Announcing Order 3369, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u188	The committee recommends the selection of judges previously elected as judges of the Court of Appeal of the Mikolai district of Yvchenko Olen Mikhailnovna. The Court of Appeal of the Hmelni district of Letyuk Peter Jakovič, Jermaluk Oleg Igorevich; The Lviv Administrative Court of Appeal, Karalus Vladimir Marianovic; Odessa Administrative Court of Appeal Stupakov Inna Gabrielna; Local Zaporez County Administrative Court Matthews Olga Vitaliyevna. Please support this draft decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u189	Dear colleagues, are there no comments on the candidates? Therefore, the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the election of judges for adoption as a decision is put to the vote. [[Registration number 3369]] Please vote. [[13:18:55]] For 371 Decision taken. We also welcome judges who have just been elected for term. [[Applause]] Decision 3462 is announced for consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u190	The committee recommends that judges be elected on an indefinite basis: the Court of Appeal of the Zátomir district of Zavezun Sergey Mihajlovich; Kyiv Olinchuk Allu Sergiyevna Court of Appeal
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u191	An oil man.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u192	An oil man. I'm sorry. Alla Sergiyevna. The Žitomir Farm Court of Appeal Budeshevsk Ludmila Alexiyevna; the local Kyiv District Court of Simferopol Thopoia Alexandrovitch; the local Winnick district court of Bondarenko Oksana Ivanovna; the local Dražkow City Court of the Donetsk district of Grubnikov Aleksija Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u193	It's a rubble.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u194	The tomb of Alexia Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u195	Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u196	Mikolaiovich. The local Kuibyshew district court of Donetsk Gavrylova Viktor Anatoliyovich; the local Rokitni district court of the Jeremeichuk District, Sergey Volodymyrovich; the local Bogoduhovsky District Court of Kharkiv district of Igor Sergiyovich; the local Kyiv District Court of Kharkiv the Cherodnik of Victoria Eugenyevna; the local court of commerce of the Dnipropetrov region of Yuzikov Stanislav Georgievovich; the local court of the Zaporozhye district of Djomina Alla Valentinovna; the local court of the Poltava district of Kirichuk Alexander Anatoliyovich; the local court of the Ternopil district of Rudenko Oleg Volodymyrovich; the local court of the Kharkiv district of Słoowa Hanna Ivanovna, Jarizka Volodymira Alexandrovich; the local court of the Hersonian district of Priguzu Pavel Dmitrovic; the local commercial court of the Hmeljna district of Dimbolovska Vejacheslav Viktorovich; Local Economic Court of the Czech Republic, Natalia Mikolayovna, Čevguza Oleg Vasilovich; The local court of the Czernovetsk district of Dutka Vitali Volodymirovich. Please support this draft decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u197	Dear colleagues, are there any warnings about candidates that are just being hailed? A draft decision on the selection of judges for adoption is put to the vote. Please vote. [[13:22:22]] For 378 Decision taken. [[Applause]] Welcome to the judges who have just been elected. The draft regulation 3463 is announced for consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u198	The committee recommends that judges previously elected on an indefinite basis be appointed judges. The Kyiv Administrative Court of Appeal, Fedorov Galina Grigorovna, Local District Administrative Court Nesterenko Ludmila Alexiyevna. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u199	Dear colleagues, no warning? It's a draft ruling, registration number 3463, on the election of judges for adoption as a ruling. Please vote. [[13:23:24]] For 380 Decision taken. Welcome to the judges who have just been elected. Draft Decree 3370 is announced for consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u200	Dear colleagues, the project was introduced in exchange for draft Decree 3370 of 13.11.2008. The death of Supreme Court judge Shabunin Viktor Mikolaiovich. The committee recommends that the judges be dismissed: the local Novopskow District Court of the Luhansk Region of Petrushlav Svetlana Alexiyevna, in connection with the application for dismissal at your own request; Please. Also: The local Stahanov City Court of Lugansk, Gubrienk, Anatoly Ivanovich, in connection with the application for a state of health pension, which prevents the continuation of duties. Honorary colleagues, since Gubrienneka sent a request to the committee not to consider his application for resignation in connection with an improvement in health, I propose that this judge be excluded from the draft decree. Please support the draft decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u201	Dear colleagues, there is no objection that the name of Gubrienka Anatolia Ivanovich should be excluded and voted in favour of the dismissal of the judge of the local Novopskovsky District Court of Luhansk - Petrush Svetlana Aleksivny in connection with the application for exemption at his own request? No warning? A draft of Decrees 37, 3370 on the release of judges in the portion of the Judge of Petrusz Svetlana Aleksyivna, the release of judges in connection with the application at their own request, is put to the vote. Please vote. [[13:25:37]] For 375 Decision taken. It's announced before the ruling, draft Decree 3364.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u202	The committee recommends that judges be dismissed in connection with the application for resignation: the Court of Appeal of the Dnipropetrovsk District of Pred Dmitr Ilić; the Court of Appeal of the Suma District of Doub Mikhail Vasilovich; the local Magdalino District Court of the Dnipropetrov district of Weaver Olen Timofievna. Please support the draft decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u203	Dear colleagues, no comments, no warnings about the draft ruling? A draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, registration number 3464, on the release of judges for adoption is put to the vote. Please vote. [[13:26:46]] For 373 Decision taken. We have considered all the decisions concerning the appointment and release of judges. Allow us once again, on your behalf, and all of us together, to welcome the judges in office and to want a responsible job, especially in today’s situation. Dear colleagues. I see. Dear colleagues, we've had an appointment from the Conciliation Council to the Justice Committee to present their position in connection with the violent events that have recently been recorded in the judicial corps. In this regard, I ask Sergey Vasilovich to inform me about the position of the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u204	Dear National Deputies! On 2 December 2008, the President of the Lviv Administrative Court of Appeal, Zvarić Igor Stepanović, was detained by the Ukrainian Security Service and the Office of the Procurator-General of Ukraine while receiving a bribe on a particularly large scale. During the search, $1 million and $2 million were seized in cash. On 4 December 2008, a criminal case was instituted by the Office of the Procurator-General of Ukraine in respect of Igor Zvarić. On 7 December 2008, he had already been charged with the crime. Guilty Igor Zvarić or not, of course, will determine the verdict. But the charge itself is too serious. This particularly serious offence under article 3 of the Criminal Code is punishable by imprisonment for up to 12 years. In addition, the President of the Court of Appeal, whose jurisdiction extends to the entire Western region of Ukraine, is accused of 8 areas with a population of more than 11 million. That is, a special official with considerable authority. In this case, article 147 of the Ukrainian Code of Criminal Procedure provides for a special procedure for removal from office until the completion of the criminal investigation. Since Mr. Zvarić was appointed President of the Court by decree of the President of Ukraine on 20 November 2006, the decision to remove him from office as President of the Court is only eligible for adoption by the President of Ukraine. The reason for such a decision is the reasoned decision of the Attorney-General of Ukraine. Yesterday this issue was discussed at a meeting of our Committee on Justice. Therefore, as Chairman of the Committee, I have already requested the Attorney-General of Ukraine to order the immediate removal of Igor Zvarić from the post of judge. The President of Ukraine is requested to issue an order for the immediate removal from office of the President of the Lviv Administrative Court of Appeal. Ladies and gentlemen, I must inform you that as early as 20 February 2007, our committee established a working group to verify the increasing complaints about the implementation of justice in the Lviv area. But the Council of Judges, by its decision, prohibited us from carrying out such an examination, stating that we had no right to intervene and thus interfere in the work of justice. This judicial authority has sent this paper to us. We had a lot of discussions on this issue, people's deputies, members of our committee, went to all factions, but, unfortunately, there was nothing we could do because there was an appropriate court decision, in accordance with the decision of the Council of Judges of Ukraine. That's what we've got so far.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u205	Thank you, Sergey Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u206	I've got a decision, I've got it. The decision was signed by the President of the Council of Judges, the first Vice-President of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, Philippchuk Petr Filipović. And this treatment is for the members of the committee. And it points to existing legislation, and it is stated at the end that we as members of the committee have no right to intervene because they see this interference in judicial activities.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u207	Sergey Vasilovich, thank you. Now, dear fellows. Thank you for the information. Let's give the committee protocol to generalize these facts together with the Supreme Court, to offer approaches. Perhaps we should consider this matter separately if we are to do so. But this should be serious and reasoned, within the legal field. I would like to point out to you, Your Honor, that the Supreme Council of Ukraine has just received documents from the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine. “I am directing the enforcement of the decision of the pretrial investigation body to remove Igor Stepanovich from the position of judge of the Lviv Court of Appeal. The Chief of Investigations of the Attorney General's Office ordered the removal of Zvaric Igor Stepanović on 16 June 62, the native of the village of Knajpil, the Old Sambir district of Lvivsk, higher education, married, living at such an address, from the office of judge of the Lviv Court of Appeal. Order to send a copy to the Supreme Council, the Council of Judges and the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, a copy to the President of Ukraine and a copy to the Prosecutor General.” So the document is appropriate, we need to take adequate parliamentary measures. Now, please, write down five minutes of this, so I think we need to exchange thoughts. While you are writing down for the reasons of the vote, Yuri Karmazin asked for the reasons for the previous vote on the election and release of judges, one minute. Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u208	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich! Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear National Deputies! Dear Mr. Head! Leaders of the Court! In February the year will be fulfilled as it is illegally maintained, and in fact the authorities in the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine will usurp. And that's in the whole community. We have reported that, contrary to article 126 of the Ukrainian Constitution, where it is written that a judge is dismissed from office by the authority he has chosen, in the event of a judge reaching 65 years of age, Mr. Demchenko Sergey Fedorovich was to be released. But today's paperwork, yesterday we looked at on the committee, did not come from a qualified panel of judges in the Supreme Court. Therefore, in view of the fact that there is no qualified commission, I propose that we urgently resume the rule of law and the Constitution throughout Ukraine and stop the raid.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u209	Yes, dear colleagues, we have arranged five minutes for the exchange of information that has just spoken. Catherine Semenovna Samojlik, a faction of Communists. Microphone, please. The next Aryan instead of Vasilek.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u210	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. But I wanted to go on with this subject, and I want to say that we really need to take a fairly detailed approach at all, that it's good that we're under the ‘ura’, we're applauding the judges, and what's more, they're already forgetting that they've actually gone through the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Let me give you an example. Kiev’s state - owned mechanical technology, a normal state - owned technology, but some wanted to take it away because it was in the center of Kiev, taking away land and housing. Do you think where the trial took place? In the city of Dniprostinsk Dnipropetrovsk and all for the benefit of the bandits who are already being talked about today. I want to tell you, only after my publications have I been able to warn the Supreme Court. And that's why these "do not interfere" letters, "do not go," they don't do anyone any good. We, Vasil Vasilovich, want order to be and that we understand each other.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u211	Arjev, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” faction, instead of Vasilek. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u212	Dear colleagues, the situation with the Lviv Court of Appeal has long matured in order to resolve it. Because I personally worked on the commission of a committee to combat organized crime and corruption to investigate the situation surrounding the looting of areas in Lviv and also about the forest near Lviv. The commission of the committee revealed that the most important factor in this case was the Lviv Court of Appeal. And so I won't be surprised if it turns out that a certain amount of material resources have been removed, including for these matters. But once again, I want the competent authorities to deal with it, and we need to address it as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u213	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u214	Thank you. Jaroslav Suchy, the city of Zaporozhye Party of regions. Dear colleagues! The fact that some judges are unclean in hand says much. But I am far from accusing everyone of bribery altogether. We need to investigate and have evidence. I think we should talk today about the need for dialogue between the branches of power in this session hall and in our society. We'd like to listen to the judges, and the judges should hear us. It may be necessary to make changes to legislation that will make their work easier. And at the same time, we could call them, give some examples of strange decisions, and I'm not accidentally talking here about the attempt to raid the VAT company "Motor Sich", one of the decisions of the legendary Cave Court judge. So, 20 percent of the shares in the Motor City are taken away and handed over to a company like this, that's all. And let's move on, appeal. Well, it's good that the Supreme Court stopped new and new, but I'm paying attention to the Westerners, and you listen to the special cynicism of this Welder, and it's been mutilated.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u215	People's deputy Ivanenko, faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u216	Please give the floor to the People's Deputy Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u217	National MP Pisarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u218	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I want to say that this is certainly an example in recent years when the Attorney General's Office, in fact, has already given society this resonance. I think, first of all, I would like to thank those colleagues of the Attorney General's Office and the Security Service who participated in this operation, really, a lot of work has been done, and now we have some terrible facts that we need to respond to. I want to finish with my colleague Mr. Dryo's statement that the judges explained where they got the million dollars that they got. That's a good job -- they're slaughtering a million dollars. But I would like to ask you, Vladimir Mihajlovich, that while we have the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine here in this room, I would like to ask the Supreme Court of Ukraine for this reason and see if there is a case before the Supreme Court of Justice and when we receive an appropriate application to the Supreme Council for this judge.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u219	Thank you. Katerina Vaschuk, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u220	Katerina Vashuk “Block of Lithuania”. Today, I would like to address all the judges for whom we voted in kind. Dear colleagues! As if this is the end of our obligation, we choose you as friends today. Later, we have no right to interfere with your activities. But when we work in the districts, we hear a lot of citizens' appeals when decisions are made, which is not known by law, especially as far as land is concerned, property in the countryside. Often, in order to please individual groups, illegal decisions are made and people blame us: “You have chosen such judges!” Therefore, all of us need to keep in mind that the highest is for the citizen and for each official, the law, and especially for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u221	Dear National Deputies! Exchanges were made, and there was an appeal to the Head of the Supreme Court, Vasil Vasilovich Onopenk. Vasil Vasilovich! If I may, briefly, because we are not discussing this matter, please. We'll keep working on our schedule.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u222	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, distinguished national deputies! First of all, I am grateful that at least you have come to discuss the problems in the judicial system. Indeed, the judiciary, like every authority in the state, is a “disease”. She can't be “healthy”! That is why this question is only part of the problems facing the judicial system. We'll deal with the cook. I don't want us to just call him a criminal today, until the court's decision, to pre-issue the “orders” before the court's decision, because there is a presumption of non-criminality. I just want to say that I'm grateful, really, for the work done by the D.A., the Security Service. But you all need to know that the left-hand side here is the judges themselves. There would be no judge's permission to make the relevant procedural decisions; there would be no evidence of that. So at the convention, at the last assembly, we stated that the judges themselves would be cleansed, and you know the principle of my position, my colleagues, and we will do so. But I would like to refer to you all, I, Vladimir Mikhailovich, please, find a time once twenty minutes, thirty minutes, so that I, with a chart, will speak out and show you what the real problems are in justice, so that together we can start to cite, you, by adopting the relevant bills, we will also apply to this hand, just as the order in the judicial system. I'm sure we can do that. There's just no time today. And you'll see that we're on the right track, I have the Supreme Court. And the last. The Supreme Court has not yet been provided with relevant material regarding the arrest of Zvarić from the Attorney General’s Office to the Supreme Council. We're going to go, we're going to look at it and bring it to you, as I literally recently put on the head of the local household court of the Mikolai district of Kowala, arresting. We'll go, we'll go, we'll go, we'll go, we'll go, we'll go, we'll go, we'll go, we'll go, we'll go, we'll go, we'll go, we'll go, we'll go, And lastly, Sergey Vasilovich, do not twist the facts in this important hall. The judge's board doesn't interfere with checking. You wanted to interfere with the judge's actions and confuse the judges with how to handle these cases. So the Council of Judges made the right decision. And I would like you to tell people the truth. The Council of Judges just expels and takes the principles of decisions against those judges who violate the law and the oath. The Ukrainian Council of Judges adopts the principles of decisions by the heads of the courts, which it has appointed. So we'll sort it out. I ask once again, give me the opportunity to inform you and society for 20-30 minutes about the problems that are in the judicial system and the ways that we can solve them. Parliamentary hearings, please, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u223	Thank you. Dear colleagues, obviously there are, I see, I see. Obviously, we need to agree together now that we will assign committees to our respective committee, the main committee here, Sergey Vasilovich, to prepare a discussion of this issue. Let us consider it without delay, but by carefully preparing it, taking into account what will have to be done to make practical decisions. Now, Sergey Kiwalov has the right to the replica, please, Sergey Kiwalov's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u224	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, you know, you're just wondering. They went to Lviv to check out representatives of the BUT and Our Ukraine factions. And when they arrived there, they were not even brought to trial, they were prevented from considering issues related to citizens' complaints, and you, at a meeting of the committee, deeply respected by Vasili Vasiljevic, along with the President of the judiciary, I stress that the judiciary is headed by the First Vice-President of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. You've said and written that you want us to give the MPs your appeal to the Council of Judges that you have no right to interfere with the court's activities and to verify any complaints that come before the committee. And today you're disinforming the entire Supreme Council by saying it wasn't. I knew you could say that, so I took your papers with me.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m0.u225	Thank you, fellow believers, for this is another testimony that we need to work from the fact that we are doing one great thing, at least we are obliged to do so. So, obviously, your colleagues, you support the proposal that you should prepare a discussion of this issue and discuss it in principle on the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to issues. Maybe we'd heard. We have such a problem, my dear colleagues, I ask you to listen. We agreed, more specifically, on my proposal to the Conciliation Council, that given the need to adopt a whole package of anti-crisis measures, and considering that we need to adopt another law on amending the budget, which concerns pension insurance, including the coal sector of people, that when the committee decides, we will also consider this bill today. So I have a proposal, so let's just go ahead and announce the break you're proposing, we're going to decide that we're going to be working at the evening meeting before the day-to-day debate, including the draft amending bill for the 2008 State Budget. I'm good. Well, if there's no committee decision, we won't consider it. We'll be there tomorrow. Dear colleagues, I beg your attention, we have made a decision at the Conciliation Council, if there is a decision by the Committee on Budgets, it is a matter, one minute, that we will consider today last. If there is no budgetary committee decision, this question will be brought to the attention of the Supreme Council of Ukraine tomorrow, the first in this area of the Supreme Council's permission to consider it without a committee decision. But in finding common ground, understanding on the committee, we cannot make 14 million hostages. So the decision will be made. I am voting on the proposal today to work on the issues set out in the schedule for Thursday. Please be supportive. Please vote. [[13:48:54]] For 258. Decision taken. Please, by the factions. Region Party – 0, "Timoshenko Yulia Block" – 151, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" – 60, Communist faction – 27, "Litvina Block" – 27. Then, honourable national deputies, the morning meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed. The evening session will begin at 4: 00 p.m. Everyone please be in the session room. Thanks for the job.
