ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u1	Good day to you all, dear colleagues. Please register. [[10:04:01]] There are 432 Ukrainian National Deputies registered in the Hall, and the morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine declares it open. Dear colleagues, yesterday according to the decision of the Conciliation Board, a day’s order was formed. Once again, let me tell you how the first half of the questions will be dealt with: we begin with the oath of the Ukrainian People's Deputies, then the oath of constitutional judges of Ukraine, then the vote under Law 2481 and the signing of this law in the walls of Parliament of the Supreme Council and the President of Ukraine. After this announcement, message, statement and consideration of issues according to the order of the day that you have in your hands. Colleagues, Barvinenko Vitali Dmitrovitch and Jarty Vasil Grigorovitch today are the nominees, so I'd like to welcome our colleagues. [[Applause]] Ukraine's Honourable National Deputies participated in the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, President of Ukraine Yushchenko Viktor Andriyovich and Prime Minister of Ukraine Timoshenko Yulia Volodymirovna. Welcome. [[Applause]] Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we begin with the procedure for swearing by Ukrainian national deputies. On 29 May of this year, the Central Election Commission registered the Ukrainian National Deputies elected on 30 September 2007 in a multi-mandatory national constituency on the electoral list: The parties of the region are Fedun Alexei Leonidovich, “Blok Litvina” – Polishtuk Oleg Viktorovich, “Clocus of Yulia Timoshenko” – Steshenko Alexander Mikolaajovic, Ungujan Pavel Yakimovic, Filippenko Vladimir Pilipovich, Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovic, Lemza Vladimir Dmitrović, Sočka Alexander Aleksandrović, Pavelnko Viktor Viktorovich, Dubila Valerija Alexandrovich, Yagoferova Anatolija Mikolajovic. The Constitution of Ukraine, article 79 of the Constitution of Ukraine, calls for the formation of an oath by Ukrainian national deputies. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Fedun Aleksei Leonidovich, is invited to make an oath to the rostrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u2	I swear allegiance to Ukraine, I pledge to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence in all my actions, to ensure the welfare of the country and the welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u3	Thank you. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Polishchuk Oleg Viktorovich, is invited to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u4	I, Polishchuk Oleg Viktorovich, swear allegiance to Ukraine, commit myself to all my actions to defend the sovereignty and independence of Ukraine, to ensure the welfare of the country and the welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u5	Welcome. Steshenko, Aleksandr Mikolayovich, is invited to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u6	I, Steshenko Alexander Mikolaiovich, pledge allegiance to Ukraine, pledge all my actions to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence, to ensure the welfare and well - being of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties with the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u7	Thank you. In order to make an oath to the rostrum, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Pavlov Yakimović, is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u8	I, Hungarian Pavel Yakimović, pledge allegiance to Ukraine, pledge all my actions to defend the sovereignty and independence of Ukraine, to care for the welfare of the country and the welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u9	Thank you. Filipenko Volodymyr Pilipovich, Ukrainian national deputy, is invited to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u10	I, Philipenko Vladimir Pilpovich, pledge allegiance to Ukraine, commit myself to all my actions to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence, to ensure the well - being of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u11	Thank you. The National Ukraine of Vlasenko, Sergey Volodymyrovich, is invited to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u12	I, Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovich, swear allegiance to Ukraine, commit myself to all my actions to defend the sovereignty and independence of Ukraine, to ensure the welfare of the country and the welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u13	Thank you. Lemza Volodymyr Dmitrovich is invited to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u14	I, Lemza Volodymyr Dmitrovic, swear allegiance to Ukraine, pledge all my actions to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence, to ensure the welfare of the country and the welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u15	Thank you. Sodka Alexander Alexanderovich is invited to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u16	I, Judge Alexander Alexanderovich, swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u17	Thank you. Paulenko Viktor Viktorovich, Ukrainian national deputy, is invited to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u18	I, Pavelenko Viktorovich, swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u19	Thank you. Dubil Valeriy Aleksandrovich is invited to the rostrum to make an oath.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u20	I, Dubil Valeriy Alexanderovich, swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u21	Thank you. On the rostrum is invited to make an oath by the Ukrainian national deputy Yagoferov Anatoly Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u22	I, Yagoferov Anatoly Mikolaiovich, swear allegiance to Ukraine. I pledge to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence in all my actions, to take care of the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u23	Thank you. Honourable National Deputies of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Parliament is working again in full constitutional composition, and this is 450 national deputies of Ukraine. Let's welcome both our new colleagues and ourselves. [[Applause]] In accordance with article 148 of the Constitution of Ukraine, Ukrainian national deputies are appointed judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, namely the Widowishman Sergey Leonidovich, Nikita Yuri Ivanovich and Baulina Yuri Vasilovich. Article 17 of the Ukrainian Constitutional Court Act clearly defines the procedure for swearing the relevant judges of the Constitutional Court. This rule of law provides that the oath of the judges of the Constitutional Court is made on the basis of the mandatory presence of the President of Ukraine, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, and the head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. Thus, Parliament has preserved a fully formal and legal procedure for swearing to the appropriate judges. For the oath of Judge Widowishenko Sergio Leonidovich, I invite him to the rostrum of Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u24	I, Widowishenko Sergey Leonidovich, solemnly and conscientiously swear to the high duties of the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, to ensure the rule of the Constitution of Ukraine, to protect the constitutional order of the state, to protect the constitutional rights and freedoms of man and citizen.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u25	Thank you. To make an oath to the rostrum of the Ukrainian Parliament, the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, Nikitin Yuri Ivanovich, is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u26	I, Nikitin Yuri Ivanovich, solemnly swear to honorably and conscientiously perform the high duties of the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, to ensure the rule of the Constitution of Ukraine, to protect the constitutional order of the state, the constitutional rights and freedoms of man and citizen.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u27	Thank you. To make an oath to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Judge Baulin Yuri Vasilovich is invited to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u28	I, Boulinus Yuri Vasilovich, solemnly swear to honorably and conscientiously perform the high duties of the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, to ensure the rule of the Constitution of Ukraine, to protect the constitutional order of the state, to protect the constitutional rights and freedoms of man and citizen.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u29	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, apart from the constitutional composition of the Ukrainian Parliament, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine now operates in full constitutional composition. And I think let's welcome the Constitutional Court with this event. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, Bill 2481 is presented for your consideration, namely, the proposals of the President of Ukraine for the last Friday of the key budget bill 2481. I invite you to the podium of Schlapak Alexander Vitaliyovich for a report from this question. Alexander Vitaliyovich, I'm sorry, but our fellow MPs didn't listen very carefully. When I announced how matters would be dealt with, I emphasized how the issue would be dealt with. After 24,81, the faction leaders spoke immediately. Thank you. Please, Alexander Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u30	Mr. President of Ukraine, the Honourable Head of the Supreme Council, the Honourable Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Honourable National Deputies, the members of the government, are present! The head of state was forced to take advantage of the veto right to this very important law. The proposals made by the Head of State are fully government - backed and relate to issues related to the sale and rental of land, namely, land. First. By the law that came upon the head of state, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is given the right to determine, without any restriction, and the criteria are further defined, except as defined in the law, any case where land lease rights are acquired without auction. You can't agree with the government's right without any restrictions and criteria to further determine any cases where such land areas are subject to sale outside the land trade procedure. This is a direct step toward applying a series of uncompetitive exclusions and may lead to a violation of the principle of equality of operators. The standards that give the Cabinet such powers are proposed to be removed. The other one. The legislative amendments to the Ukrainian Code of Land are proposed, inter alia, to refer to the powers of the central authority of the executive on land issues of sale to citizens, legal persons of land and forestry. It should be noted that according to articles 19 and 20 of the Code of Lands, the purpose of the assignment of land, such as the lands of forestry or the land of stock, is determined both by state land and by land belonging to local communities. Thus, the central authority of the executive on land issues is given the right to sell land, both state and municipal property. Disposal of local self - government authorities to manage their respective lands violates the right of territorial communities to land, provided for in article 142 of the Constitution of Ukraine. It is therefore proposed that the central authority of the executive body be removed from land matters. Third. The law that came to the head of state is permitted by agreement with the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on budget issues to sell agricultural and municipal land for the formation of sources, to finance preparations for the final part of the 2012 European Championship. However, the committee’s mandate to accept the sale of agricultural land does not correspond to the constitutional status of this body of parliament. Moreover, it cannot be accepted that Moratorium is effectively cancelled for the sale of state and municipal agricultural land under the terms of Ukraine's Euro-2012 preparation for the absence of laws on the State Land cadastre and the land market. This rule is proposed to be excluded. Four. Under the Act under consideration, chapter 10 of the “Transitional Positions” of Ukraine’s Land Code is supplemented by a new paragraph 18, which states that prior to the entry into force of the Ukrainian Law on the Order of Conduct of Land Trades, land auctions in the form of auctions are carried out in a manner established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. This situation is contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine, under which ownership of land is acquired and exercised exclusively in accordance with the law. The rule of procedure for granting the Cabinet of Ministers of these powers is proposed to be removed. Fifth. In the law, there are mutually exclusive provisions prohibiting the sale of leased land, the lease, the lease agreement, which has not ended and the obligation of the new owner to continue the lease on previous terms in the case of sale. This may lead to double standards and abuse of the tenant’s dependant in the sale of leased land. It should be noted that the attempt to rework the Earth’s Codex could have caused new, significant problems in this area. At the same time, a bill 0883 on amending some Ukrainian legislation on the promotion of construction has been being drafted in Parliament for two years. According to experts, he is able to solve a number of problems that exist in the field of land, including those that I have just discussed. This bill is ready for second reading, and in view of this, the Head of State has deliberately avoided attempts to regulate them directly, setting an example of how to solve problems through special laws rather than budget problems. I ask Parliament to support the President's proposals, as this will confirm the sources of income for social protection funds, the Pension Fund, as well as individual sources of income for the State budget. At the same time, this will be a signal to the government for the immediate introduction to the Supreme Council of a bill amending the 2008 budget. So we could get a complex solution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u31	Thank you, Alexander Vitaliovich. Dear colleagues, the Rules provide for questions and answers to the rapporteur. Any questions, any answers? None. Thank you, Alexander Vitaliovich. I invite the chairman of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the budget of Mikola Ivanovich Derkac to the rostrum. Please, Mikola Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u32	Mr. President, honourable government, Arsenija Petrovich, a colleague, in accordance with article 128 of the Provisional Rules of the Supreme Council, the Committee on Budget Affairs, with the participation of the authorised representatives of the President and the Cabinet of Ministers, reviewed the proposal of the President of Ukraine to amend some of the Ukrainian legislative acts adopted by the Supreme Council on 23 May 2008. On the basis of the consideration of this issue, the Budget Committee adopted a decision at its meeting on 2 June: recommending to the Supreme Council that the President's proposals be supported by the Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine and adopting this law in general, taking into account the proposals made by the President of Ukraine, with editorial reference to article 16 of the Land Rental Act. At the same time, in the process of discussing the President's proposals, comments were made by national deputies, members of the committee on possible threats to investors' rights, tenants of state and municipal property in the event of the sale of such property. Since such a problem requires thorough professional work, the committee sent a letter to the government requesting urgent legislative proposals to address the issue. The Committee on Budget Issues proposes the adoption of a law amending some Ukrainian legislative acts with proposals by the President as a whole. The findings of the committee, the comparative table, the amendment to the law and the proposal of the President of Ukraine are given to you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u33	Dear colleagues, are there any questions to be asked to the head of the Committee of the Ripper Mikli Ivanovich? There's a question. Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, so please log in, five minutes, question-answer. Valerius Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u34	Please tell me that you've analyzed the fact that, in fact, the law that is now committed by the President and put into the room with the proposals has actually abolished the entire revenue part of the budget. And this meant that if the hall does not now approve of it, the country is out of budget and out of income. Please tell me what you think, and if the President's Secretariat has prepared proposals not about the promise of law and re-appealing it, simply to submit it, if it is considered to be unconstitutional, to submit to the Constitutional Court, as is done with the Cabinet of Ministers, which is already blocked by more than 50 items today by the application of the Constitutional Court. Please indicate whether it is appropriate to re-examine such positions by filing them with the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u35	Thank you for asking. Dear colleague, we are in a temporary position that, if we do not accept the President's proposal today, the income portion of the budget on many issues can. Many sources of income will not be available. As far as procedure is concerned. There is a point to your proposal or question. But in time, if we follow such a procedure, there may be problems with the implementation of the income part of the budget. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u36	Sergey Teryohin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u37	The honourable chairman of the committee, please tell me how to get out of such a colossal event, which, after that, has become quite a strange veto, I think. See, the decision taken by the Constitutional Court was as much as it was, almost two weeks ago. This decision had been overturned by changes to fiscal laws. Let's say it's tobacco excises or vodka, rent payments and so on. Even if we adopt this law today, the President will solemnly sign it here, it will be published tomorrow in the Voice of Ukraine. What should tax payers do these ten days or two weeks? At what bets will they have to report on the basis of this month, do you know? I don't see, for example.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u38	Dear colleague, there is a problem in this regard. However, I believe that the payers of the respective types of taxes will have an understanding of these 10-15 days, which were in a temporary conflict.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u39	Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u40	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear Mikola Ivanovich, please give me the answer to two questions. First. The comparative table shows that the second president’s amendment was taken into account by the committee with editorial rights. So this is essentially, you can think that it's counted, you can think that it's not counted. So I have questions and let the President's representatives tell me if they agree with this editorial bill, because all the other proposals are fully taken into account, and the second is included in the editorial line. And the second principled question and the conceptual question. When we adopted changes to the State Act, when we passed the State Budget Act, because most of the observations are about selling land. Remember, in the final positions of this law, we wrote that we would allow and proceed to the sale of land only after the Cabinet of Ministers passed the relevant laws on land cadastre and so on and so forth. The Supreme Council so far.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u41	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u42	Unfortunately, the Supreme Council has not yet considered any of these bills, as well as all of the changes to the State Budget Act, which was to be in March months. That's how we respond to what we're about to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u43	Thank you for asking, Adam Ivanovich. On the first question. Yesterday, at a meeting of the Committee, the drafting amendment was taken into account and agreed upon by the representative of the President. With regard to the second question of the sale of land, the question was a fair one, of course, to change the basic laws and then to regulate and grant the right. After.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u44	Last question, Michael Catherinechuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u45	Mikola Catherinechuk, European Party of Ukraine I propose to support the President's proposals and pass on the word to Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u46	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u47	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Mikola Ivanovich, I have a question for you, as head of the committee, of a global nature. It is meant that the budget committee should do and think now when preparing the Land Cadastre Act, the Land Market, where I believe it has a significant role to play in assessing the land and your committee. Did you create any preparatory group for this, or do you do it now, because it's extraordinary things, and, you know, when I passed the law, that's the question I asked you that you can't, there's a problem, and the President saw the problem exactly where I put it. So how are you getting ready? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u48	Thank you. Such a mandate is given, we work together with the relevant professional committee and government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u49	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u50	All right, I won't.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u51	All right, Mikola Ivanovich? Thank you. Please sit down. Honourable National Deputies of Ukraine, shortly after the voting procedure. Article 130 of the Rules defines the voting procedure for the adoption of amendments by the President of Ukraine. I would like to point out that this is not the veto of the President, but that is the President's proposal for legislation adopted by Parliament. The President's proposals are considered in accordance with article 45 of the Rules in order to know the issue of editorial law. I'd like to ask Alexander Vitaliovich Schlapak to brief you for one minute, or do you agree with the editorial revision of paragraph two, because it's not meaningful, it's editorial. Dear colleagues, I would like you to know that paragraph two is taken into account in the position of the President of Ukraine, the one proposed by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Colleagues, now about the motivations of the vote. This law, you recall, was difficult to pass last Friday, but we accepted it. In that case, if this law is not adopted, it cannot be said about the adoption of a new edition of the State Budget Act, as today the actual revenue part of the budget is cancelled. So I'm going to the left and right side of the hall, this is not the law of the political party, this is the law of the political power, this is the law that aims at stabilizing the financial sector of the state. I ask you to support the relevant proposals of the President, which have been worked on the committee and which have been adopted unanimously by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In view of this, colleagues, attention! – I am voting on the adoption by the President of Ukraine of proposals for amendments to some Ukrainian legislative acts adopted by the Supreme Council on 23 May 2008 and the adoption of the bill as a whole. Understood, colleagues? Attention! I am announcing the procedure for voting on the President's proposals and the adoption of Law No. 2481 as a whole. Please begin the voting procedure. For – The technical problem is the registration of new National Deputies Cards. The vote was over. The results of the vote will now be announced. This has to do with the new 11 cards. [[B in m in s a l in]] We can't be like people. Wait two minutes, please, there will be the results of the vote on the board now. [[B in m in s a l in]] We're reloading the system so the opposition doesn't say what. We've got the first results on the vote, right now, I don't want to publish them, but we're reloading the system. There are new national MPs, we are voting again because Vladimir Avrumovich was unable to vote. (U in m in s a l i) Are we ready for the vote? Dear colleagues, in connection with the registration of new national deputies, and the new 11 cards, and the problems with our technical staff, which I will then deal with, I put to the vote the question of returning to the vote under Bill 2481, taking into account the President’s proposals. Dear fellows, be quiet! Calm down, please! Yuri Anatolyevich, sit down and vote, please! Attention: We put to the vote the question of the return to the vote on Bill 2481 and the President's proposals. Please vote. [[10:40:59]] For 226 Back to the vote. Please find out who didn’t have the card. I am now voting on the adoption of Presidential proposals and Law 2481 as a whole. Colleagues, pay attention! The voting procedure shall be announced. Vote. [[10:41:34]] For 226 The bill was adopted. [[Applause]] I'd like to welcome the government of Ukraine. Please submit an appropriate bill and applications to technical staff for discharge from positions, if they do not know how to work with computers, let them work on the farm! Ladies and gentlemen, I give the floor to President Yushchenko Viktor Andriyovich of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u52	Dear National Deputies, distinguished Arsenija Petrovich, members of the Constitutional Court, journalists, guests, invited! I'd like to ask you two questions. The first question is the oath of the judges of the Constitutional Court. And here I'd like to say a few words to that effect, this decision. In the last, almost 13 months, we have for the first time a fully formed Constitutional Court. In my opinion, the decision that took place today in Parliament and the acceptance of the oath of constitutional judges tells us that both at the political level and at the level of the State institutions we come to a full understanding that the Constitutional Court of Ukraine should be restored in its status, the normal work of the judges of the Constitutional Court should be ensured. I would like to testify that those trials, including those of the institution that have been going on in the Constitutional Court for the past eight months, have been talking about a number of things. First, corruption comes out of the Constitutional Court, a normal professional process begins, the political impact on the Constitutional Court's decision diminishes. These are extremely important things for us to form the high status of the Constitutional Court, which, thanks to which we could settle many issues, including the relationship between the institutions of power in Ukraine. In other words, I would like to say that we should all take care of the high status of the Constitutional Court, implement its decisions and properly express ourselves about its activities. This starts with any state, including the Ukrainian state. I would like to comment separately on the decision that led me to the Parliamentary Hall today, the May 22 decision. I would like to point out, fellow honourable Members, because there was someone from BUT who was asking questions about the tragedies that the Constitutional Court had adopted and stopped the budgetary process, and I would like to remind you that the Constitutional Court had not repealed any law, the Constitutional Court said to the Supreme Council, to the President that, colleagues, all the laws that have been passed in this country, be good to do. And we have 75 billion social laws. The budget is accepted – 30 billion is accepted for funding. Excuse me, who's going to fund 40 billion? The Constitutional Court said one thing: If a law is passed, it must be enforced. If we cannot enforce the law, we must either change it or cancel it. Please tell me, isn't this the order we've been waiting for, maybe more than a decade? Because everyone who proposes a new social initiative wants to be Ukraine's new Santa Claus. Let's give it up. No one can really answer where to take it. I'm sure, Your Honor, if we're honest Ukrainians, we should have applauded the decision of the Constitutional Court. It is good that he came to such a professional interpretation of this decision. The other one. What is involved in today’s decision. Colleagues, the President has promised those things that I believe should be voted on, first of all, by communists and socialists, if they were in the hall. For example, I ask you a question. One law, adopted in a country, says that we have a moratorium on the sale of agricultural land. Is that true or not true? Really. There is a law that states that this law confers the right to sell agricultural land. Can you please tell us what to do with the president, the lawyer, the society? Guided by what? The first phrase or the second phrase? The following position. I don't think there's anyone in this room who would say that the land can be sold outside the auction. It's already been adopted as a multiplication table. We have to sell all the land legally through auction. Apparently, yes. Yes, of course. Then comes the second position that is given outside the auction to a separate office in the state to sell land. But this isn't about the price. Alexander Mikolaiovich! Excuse me, excuse me. If one office sells, I immediately verify that there will be no market price. So we're talking about that. Colleagues, when we don't create a competitive environment and make a decision like this, can it finally be fair? No, he can't. I'm not vetoing because I don't want to see a full budget through the motion of the earth. I want to talk about that if there is an order of sale of land, this order should be determined by law, not by the provisional standards of anyone. Because we're going to be trouble for these mothers. And that's exactly what my veto is about, this order and this other order. And so, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for perhaps such a difficult decision and for such difficult debates, but I am convinced that the things we have adopted, including the amendments to the Rent and Land Code laws. They gave us more order in our land relations. I want to thank you all, even those who didn't vote, because your position, I'm sure, was that these norms were introduced into the law. Thank you all. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u53	Thank you. Honorable National MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u54	I'm signing. Dear colleagues, I sign this law and it goes into effect. [[Applause]] And the fact that Sergey Terjochin asked questions, Sergey, I'll give you, you know, the answer. And when this law was passed a week ago and the breakup was seven days ago, how were you going to form concessions in seven days? In exactly the same way as in ten days. It is the law that governs the order in which we compensate for the wrongs we have in the last seven days. Such a norm was included in the previous law, and I did not promise it, and it remained in this law. Problem solved.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u55	Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, I ask that I be given the opportunity as a good host to hold the President of Ukraine and the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Ten minutes is a break, and we're starting with the faction leaders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u56	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. We continue the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Colleagues, please come to the hall. We sign up, colleagues, for the performances of authorized factions. Attention! I'm announcing the recording. Leonid Fedorovich Litwinov, Party of Regions. Colleagues! Who's speaking from the faction of the Party of Regions? Anatoly Kirilovich Kinach.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u57	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues and national deputies! The faction of the Party of the Regions requires the Government to immediately implement the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to review Parliament's changes and additions to the 2008 State Budget, which was due before 1 March of this year in a set of anti-inflation measures that would guarantee social protection against rising prices and high inflation rates. We have to say that government socio-economic policy, the 2008 State Budget, has in the last period turned monetary and exchange policy into political and commercial projects to support various political adventures and finance and serve the first stages of future electoral campaigns. The government has already begun to use, in its internal opposition, especially between the presidential and government verticals, methods in the principle of “the worse – the better” that deepens the crisis in the vitality of our state. Against the background of increasing external risks, primarily energy prices, food products, the complex situation in financial markets, the essentially ruined policy in the country, which was focused on energy conservation, energy efficiency, the ruined budgets of local self-governance authorities, the state-owned programmes, including attempts to eat the remnants of strategic enterprises in Ukraine, which determine our national security. Therefore, we strongly demand that if the government fails to comply with these requirements, first of all, that a draft amendment be made to the 2008 State Budget, which is the main factor in inflation and lowering the standard of living of citizens, we will demand that we ask the question of the resignation of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, to which we are sure the Red Card has already been presented by the Ukrainian people. Currency exchange policy is a matter of great problems and concern not only for those who form gross national product, jobs - industrialists, entrepreneurs, employers for our citizens. Uncoordinated actions, unsuspecting, unprofessional decisions on this issue dramatically reduce the competitiveness of our exports. Our citizens are losing their savings, and combined with the reduction in customs tariffs on imports, the re-evaluation of the bracelets poses a threat to the unprecedented increase in consumption in Ukraine of those goods that we are able to produce ourselves. There is a growing negative trend towards foreign trade, although some projections for this year may be down to $20 billion, which means creating thousands and thousands of jobs abroad, and filling foreign budgets. The World Trade Organization is a unique opportunity for Ukraine to strengthen its position in European world markets. At the same time, we determine that the government has failed to implement once again the decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and has not made its proposals in programmes to adapt the Ukrainian economy to the world's trading organisation's business conditions, especially in the areas of risk, such as agribusiness, processing, food, automotive, light, textile and a number of others. This essentially creates conditions for unequal competition, especially in the internal market, between our manufacturers and their competitors, who import their products into Ukraine. Especially in the light of recent events with devaluation of bracelets and increased cost of credit resources in Ukraine, which are essentially isolated from access to medium-term and long-term credit resources. We find that it is deepening, and international experts have already identified it, the crisis of government is deepening, there is a state responsibility simulation in the form of so-called "Yellow Cards" and, in fact, there are no decisions made by the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, Ukraine's laws, etc. We demand rapid, concrete and highly professional actions aimed at overcoming the economic and social crisis in Ukraine, and we will not be foreign observers in solving these problems.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u58	Thank you. Ivan Grigorovitch Kirilenko, faction of the "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko".
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u59	Dear Arsenia Petrovich, fellows of honor! Life in Ukraine and especially political life is so fast that you sometimes experience more than you have lived and lived in five years. And yesterday, on the motives of the events that took place last week, especially yesterday, there were some political speeches that took place today so markedly that they forced our faction from this rostrum to state the following. Dear colleagues! Politicians and society have grown weary of opposition, of fruitless struggles, of political intrigues. Society requires stability and predictability. And the politician is also tired, feeling that he too wants to unite his efforts and start working. Note the sign event that took place today. The absence of one of the leaders or the government or the Supreme Court would make the oath of the judges of the Constitutional Court illegal. All of them came today. And it's probably a very good signal that the highest levels of government can finally have an understanding of the kind of species that the people are waiting for today, and society. Note the experience of our neighbors in the north when the elections took place, how the inauguration procedure followed, and the oaths of the government manager. The first said at the inauguration that “the Russians, you can plan your future quietly”. And the next day he said, "We can plan our future peacefully not for two or three years, but for 20 or 30 years we can look at it calmly ahead." Can we say this today to society, to business, to the economy, to all sectors and spheres of life and to the national economy? Will anyone believe those words of politicians of any kind. So, honourable colleagues, another conclusion that we are asked of ourselves, as they say, both Belarus and Russia, and our Polish neighbours, who are constantly supporting us, have long united their efforts around their national idea -- the development of their nation, their people, their state. And every morning they go to work, there's a good Russian word for building, we go to fight each other every morning, there's enough to do that until there's no turning point. So I support the speech of the previous colleague who said we need decisive action, we support. Yes, we need decisive action, but only when we join forces. The internal factors we need to get out of control, the internal ones, that's exclusively our Ukrainian. These oppositions, these political intrigues, are an endless political struggle. The external factors that Anatoly Kirilovich here called, really, these are threats, these are challenges. The financial crisis has not affected Ukraine – we have an undeveloped stock market. The mortgage crisis is we're just starting a mortgage market. Sorry, the financial crisis has already told us something and it's just like they say, flowers. The food crisis in the world is serious and long-term. Twenty - nine countries in the world are already starving. Ninety-two on approach. We are one of the five states of the world, one of the five states of the world that can feed not only itself, owning 27 percent of the world's better lands and only 0.4 percent of the territory. Friends, there is something to work together. In fact, today, look at the agenda, we voted on a key law. The next key law is the Customs Tariff. And we are addressing the problems of Ukraine's accession to the World Trade Organization. It's not that simple, but we need to put it on the legal track. The next is the State Privatization Program. Colleagues, now around these laws, can work together and work constructively. Only then, after making these decisions, including personnel decisions, can we really close the whole chain that the government can allow to make changes to the budget here, and in fact the new budget for 2008, when we know clearly that there are real sources of fulfillment, there is political will, there are solved human resources problems, there are many other factors that we give to the government as mechanisms to work. Fellow dignitaries, a significant event that took place today when all the top officials were present, it's probably a reflection of what society, politics, is about to begin to understand. I would very much like to expect this to be serious and long - term, for that is what society requires of us. Thank you for your attention. Let's get to work!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u60	Thank you, Ivan Grigorovich. Please, Mikola Mikolaiovich Rudchenko, Block of Lithuania. Vladimir Litwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u61	Dear Head! Dear colleagues! For starters, I'd like to make one point or think about it. “There is no need to offend people who work on the farm, because not everyone can be a teacher’s children, I am convinced that there have been many people here who have been born on the farm and who today make up the pride of the Ukrainian people.” And now, essentially. The events that took place and related to the elections in Kiev and the conclusions can be summed up in one word: “The elections have ended – forget it”. The elections ended as a catalyst for social development, such as the assessment of those in power, as the possibility of coming to power by new people who have ideas, visions, professionalism, and that has no bearing on their conscience in order to work and do what they so generously say to people during election campaigns. Elections need what? Power, money, and they allow manipulative technologies to be applied, as well as access to the media. Therefore, I am convinced that if the election is not concluded, the work committee organization, the principles in organizing the work of the commission and the counting of votes, then the next election is not necessary. We need rich people to gather and divide the country. Please tell me if you had to count 60 ballots per board member and you had to count for a week. The voices were pushing as they needed to be. And we're pretending that everything we have has happened in a democratic way. We need to change the electoral legislation and the commissioning and the election behind these ridiculous party lists. Otherwise, bad prospects lie ahead. Next. Regarding the law that has just been passed, 24,81. We are here completely, our faction shares the opinion of the President of Ukraine that we must implement the decision of the Constitutional Court. We fully share the President's position that every social law should be considered and whether there is room for enforcement. And in fact, they did the same thing, but in one vote -- they removed those laws that were suspended from the budget body, and they voted in a new version. We'll wait for the Constitutional Court's next decision. There is a need for order in the management of the budget. Here there were many complaints that the voter bribe in Kiev was taking place. Please tell me what you can call the state budget to allocate an additional 1 billion 700 million to the election. They say there's no money. Please tell me what to say to the pensioner in Ternopol, Equine, in Žitomirščina, in Winnić, who receives a pension of 3,4 times less? This, my dear fellows, has been handed over by the coalition here. What conclusion? Either order up, or announce once again the elections are complete in the country, then there will be money. Where is the conscience, and where is the responsibility? It's not called a voter bribe, it's called a state policy. Today, decisions were made, and it was solemnly signed. I think there's a lot of people here who might recall being forced to sign the amendments to the Constitution in 2004. We hope that after that, there will be no such talk about making the wrong decision again. So we propose and ask the Head of the Supreme Council to publish a list of national MPs who have so cordially voted in favour of this decision that people will know who to go to for social benefits to veterans, disabled people, Chernobylers, military personnel, others who have taken the funds. And one more moment, dear colleagues. We talked about a policy course, we let a couple out. What decision did they make? No decisions were made. And people who keep money for savings stole 130 billion dollars. They played in the exchange rate policy, and they stole money from people. Who will be responsible? I'm sure that's what we need to talk about. And we insist that a special meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine be held and that it be honestly and objectively stated what is going on in the country and what needs to be done because these political games need to be completed. The country has been dropped into mice, and we are no longer moving anywhere.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u62	For help, by your permission. They are usually born, not on a farm, but in a maternity home. Adam Martinyuk. Peter Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! The country will be built with so-called Presidential initiatives. At the meetings, many ask the question: What is the reason for the inadequate conduct of President Yushchenko? The Head of State, who was the last to fall in Europe for a lifetime of breathtaking inflation eaten by the rocks inside the orange coalition, forgetting what the rule of law and justice was, did not see a more pressing task than the war on monuments. He's still resting on the graves. Jushchenko wants to hide the results of his criminal policy, which is called anti-Ukrainian, even his many-year-old allies. Obviously, the behavior of the guarantor has one very scary motive — to establish a totalitarian nationalist regime in our country — of juschenkovina. The political leaders of the Lviv region, who support Yushchenko in carrying out his order, have already accepted a request to cancel Victory Day. The followers of the Nazi Abbera named Serius, Stephen Bender, decided to declare 2008 Bendera, a pathological killer and a convinced fascist. On 5 February 2008, in Geneva, the President signed an act of national treason on which he capitalized before the WTO and began the process of destroying the domestic producer, the Ukrainian village, the basic industries and so on. On 16 May, following the accession of the WTO, the GUEST gave an order: to be guided by international tariff rules, not by its own national legislation. For customs officials, these international standards have been transmitted electronically, and the reduction in revenue to the State budget from the reduction of customs duties for the benefit of, again, the World Trade Organization and the import oligarchs have been compensated by the increase in the value of the goods, i.e. by the consumer: again from the pocket of our citizens. President Yushchenko, by his decree, has just sanctified the land of his heads of administration. The introduction and implementation of genetically modified products, the vaccination of our children with a deadly vaccine only indicates that the “orange” regime has begun the practical destruction of the nation, i.e. those plans that are determined by their overseas hosts. Before that, I would like to recall once again that in 2000, the cynicism with which President Yushchenko has spoken has been the first, as Prime Minister, to have stolen, i.e. stolen, from the people, 13 billion griven from our voters, cancelling all the benefits, first as Prime Minister of Ukraine. At the same time, creative groups are now going abroad to support the world community in assessing the events of the 32nd to 33rd years as genocide, and this recognition is seen as a political issue. The culture is not financed, and 10 million bracelets have already been illegally spent on foreign concerts, and 15 million bracelets are still expected, noting that these costs are not budgeted. The Minister of Culture continues to smuggle money illegally by spending more than 4,000 fines in our anniversary. Where does the Court of Auditors look? What's the Attorney General's office doing? Where is the Security Service, which should be strictly at the protection of our independence? The Yushchenko confrontational course and its political environment endangers the development of relations between Ukraine and Russia, the extension of our bilateral treaty, the revision of trade and economic ties, and industrial cooperation. The deliberate refusal of managerial authority to cooperate with and negotiate with the Russian Federation, and a more focused course on the deterioration of this cooperation, will strike at the national security of the country. Ukraine's accession to NATO on the European continent will create a new climate of tension. So it's a ban on the right to say what you think. Yashchenkovina is a massive illegal repression against the dissidents, the rehabilitation of Hitler's accomplices and the criminal attempt to re-examine the outcome of the Second World War, the dictatorship of the oligarchs, it's a de facto loss of sovereignty, it's a war not only with the past but also with the future, it's the Ukrainian fascism of the 21st century. Ukraine's company has been warned: the country faces a new grave threat to the Fascism of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u64	Viacheslav Kirilenko, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u65	Dear colleagues and distinguished voters, Ukraine has grown tired of politics. We have now witnessed a classic political performance that aims only to sow enmity between Ukrainians for as long as possible. It is only here that the President, the Prime Minister, the coalition, the opposition have now come to an understanding in Parliament, on the other hand. We must immediately go out to the rostrum and sow enmity wherever possible. What is more, it is surprising when representatives of political power are involved, with the death and blood of tens of millions of Ukrainians. No words of repentance have been declared in connection with these deaths. And these people, who have no right at all to instruct anyone in our country, are telling us about any threats. Obviously, they just want to prevent the normal lives of Ukrainians, the peaceful development of the country, and the happiness of all children, regardless of where they live, in Donbas, in Crimea or Galicina. Here we have just been told all kinds of fears, but they forget to tell us that thousands of children from Luhansk every holiday visit Lviv and meet Ukrainian children there, just like they do at home in Lugansk. Tens of thousands of children from Donetsk visit Ivano-Frankish, the Blacks and meet the same peers there as they want peace, peace and confidence in the future of their parents. Therefore, I am convinced that the future is only for those forces that will work constructively in the interests of the whole country, despite any provocations of the Fifth Column, which unfortunately we believe is the last cadence in our Parliament for the time being. Let's get back to normal Ukrainian business. First of all, we've just passed a law that should become a starting point for the government to introduce the budget. We believe that on Thursday, after tomorrow's government meeting, the changes to the 2008 budget will be presented to all deputies, and there we will see a reaction to inflation, to the need to review the size of some social benefits, minimum wage and minimum wage rates, and a range of other economic and social indicators. It's a normal job. We think the government should have done it for a long time. Now we've passed the law, Thursday we're waiting for changes to the budget. In general, we are convinced that without systemic economic reforms, we have no prospect under which politics would not now take place. So at the time of the introduction of the government's Tax Code, which will undo the economic and business damage, the archaic tax system is estimated worldwide. Unfortunately, we will not be able to change the tax system by taking effect on January 1st of the following year. But now, by the end of the year, it takes time for the Ukrainians to have at least a new Tax Code from 1 January 2010 that would allow those who create jobs to work normally and transparently and those who work for them to receive a large and legal salary. Thirdly, we cannot avoid solving land issues. All of this talk about a moratorium that seems to be in operation is no more than a fantasy to cover up those who, while hiding in a moratorium, continue to steal the land of defenseless peasants. Parliament should adopt the Earth cadastre as soon as possible, the Land Market Act and the real legislative reform on land issues. Without this calm conversation, the economy won't move, and we won't protect any investors or, most importantly, ordinary peasants. Most of all. Our faction many want to bring into various scandals on different subjects. So I have to say that we're not on the road with political scandals or political intrigues that they don't have. We are set up for peaceful and long - term constructive work in the interests of the country. And let the fifth column go mad. It's their business. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u66	Dear colleagues, the time for statements by authorized factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine is over. I'm announcing the next bill. This is Bill No. 2351-1 on Ukraine's Customs Tariff. This is the second reading of the bill. I invite you to the rostrum of Sergio Anatoliovich Teriochin. From the procedure? Please log in for five minutes, three minutes out of the procedure. Sergey Anatolyovich, please wait three minutes for the colleagues to appear. Five minutes. Roman Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u67	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, I don't understand what the procedure might be right now. The question is ready, it's announced, the profile committee has made the right decisions. I would suggest that we go to a quiet job without politics and consider this very important bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u68	Mikola Komar, Party of Regions. Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u69	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues, I believe that today, in the presence of the President, a gift must have been given both to the country and to the President, if the Government had not raised such small questions, but had changed the budget that the country had been waiting for three months to mitigate the price shock for the population. Unfortunately, however, the Government was unable to make full changes to the budget, which would mitigate the price impact on the population, compensated social losses. With regard to today's bill and subsequent ones, our position is that first of all it is necessary to consider a law imposing a moratorium on privatization in order to ensure that the best strategic assets of the country do not go away from the hammer and that the money goes to finance the Government's populist ideas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u70	Alla Alexandrovska. Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u71	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear Arsenija Petrovich, I ask your attention, please pay attention to the Committee on Rules of Procedure and the Committee that prepared this issue and to those who speak of politics. I'm not talking about politics. I'm asking you to give me an answer as to who made the service floor during the preparation of this question. Here's a 267-page bill that was adopted in the first reading. 267. Here is a bill that is prepared by the committee for second reading, where there are only four pages. Where did the rest of the articles of the Supreme Council’s voted in the first reading go? Not only should we not allow ourselves to be examined, we should conduct a formal investigation, we should file a case with the Attorney General's Office, because this is already an act against all the MPs, and we can count on no one to monitor the passing of the bills that I said I would and would do. And this isn't the first time Teryochin's profile committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u72	Jaroslav Kenzior.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u73	Jaroslav Kenzior, National Movement of Ukraine, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". I want to correct this lie that came from the Supreme Council's rostrum about the fact that the Lviv District Council canceled the celebration on May 9th. This is totally not true. Although the question must be asked, Ukraine should celebrate the victory of World War II, as celebrated and celebrated throughout Europe before May 8. And that would certainly have to be done through Parliament. The other one. All of this, forgive me, for the Galician word “pascaling” of the chief communist, all of these fears that relate to some fascism, Kirilenko said, in fact, that red fascism is going to live through its last age and will be thrown into the wastebasket of history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u74	Valerius Beales.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u75	I'd like to propose to pass on the word to Communist Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u76	Peter Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u77	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Respectable comrades! Once again, the fact that nationalists do not know the history of their own people is confirmed by the latest statement. In fact, World War II ended on 2 September rather than on 8 May. When the soldiers did not study history, I forgive him that he did not know the story because he was spreading the oranges to the soldiers, for which he was brought to criminal responsibility. And this people's deputy is trying to tell me who knows history and who doesn't know. Clearly, the Criminal Code then smoked cigarettes, so to speak, when the concubines were cruising, that is why it explains what war is.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u78	Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u79	Please pass it on to Jaroslav Kendzior.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u80	Jaroslav Kenzior.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u81	Kenzier. National Movement of Ukraine, faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. Dear fellow national MPs and honourable voters, I have already repented to all the Ukrainian people for stealing a T-34 tank while serving in the Soviet army, two minmets -- they're still lying in my grandmother's house in Strys waiting for the right moment to crush communism to the end. And they'll be good for us. Thank you. And from the fact that I robbed the Soviet army so bad, the Soviet Union collapsed, and I lost the Soviet Army's credibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u82	Thank you, Your Honor. A very meaningful discussion. So I would like to go to Bill 2351-1. Sergey Anatolyovich Teryohin. Sergei Anatoliyovich, first, essentially the second, in the form where a series of articles took place, namely the large Talmud, which was to be distributed with all the rights considered and introduced by the committee. That's why I'm asking for substance and form. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u83	Dear National Deputies, see, this Talmud, 597 pages it contains, was distributed to the Supreme Council, the National Deputies on second reading. Everyone has one. The changes that have occurred since the document was re-readed take three pages. The rest of the changes have not been submitted. That's why, Mr. Adam Ivanovich, in order to save the expenses of your electorate and the nerves of the employees of the Supreme Council Secretariat, the committee also advised the Supreme Council Secretariat to distribute a bill to you on the three pages you received. Again, after the rest of the questions that were accepted as a basis, there was no change. I'm on the transcript, the reverend Arsenius Petrovich, all the codes proposed by the committee to be transferred to January 1st next year, I dictate. It's in shape. As I understand it, Adam Ivanovich, you will not vote for anything, so this question is esoteric for you. The second. Honorable National MPs. Don't look, gentlemen of the Communists, don't look, please! Four amendments were made, one of which was rejected, which is my amendment, which suggested that this law should be put into effect from the time of publication. But in view of yesterday’s committee meeting, where, together with the Ministry of Economics, compromises were made on some codes and their transfer on January 1, I withdraw my amendment. The rest: Number 2 is Teryochina, Kruglova, and others; 3 is Sigala, Davidenka, Saint and Guillera; and 4 are fully accounted for. Again, it's all agreed with the Ministry of Economics. So I'd like to take these rights into account to put this bill in a second reading and in general to replace the current order of the Head of the Ukrainian State Customs Service, which is not the law, as far as you know, and can be charged at any time in the courts. We need a normal legislative base and we need to get the right to set and change tariff rates exclusively.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u84	Let me finish, please. Sergey Anatolyovich, do you have anything else to say?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u85	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u86	Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u87	And finally, I'd like to announce, among other things, that on the committee yesterday, everyone voted in favour of the bill. Representatives of the Party of the Regions, representative of the Communist Party, representatives of the Block of Lithuania, BUT, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" all without exception. What we're talking about, what bets we're proposing to move to January 1st, are the positions that apply to bones, carcases, and parchment for meat and birds. We need at least six months to adapt domestic legislation to support these areas. This applies to the questions of the motorway, where other than light cars were added to 2,400, and also to trucks and buses, this applies to the insistence of the faction of the “Regions” of chocolate products and this applies to wine products. You know, there's an absolute collapse in this area today, after the banned duty rates have been removed and the exchange of excise duties on horse alcohol, we absolutely need it as a minimum, once again, six months to adapt these areas to the challenges and threats of the global economic system, so clearly, to the rules of the World Trade Organization. So my report is complete and I would like to put this project to a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u88	Please sign up, three minutes. Alla Alexandrovska. Adam Martinyuk? Alla Alexandrovska, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u89	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Arsenius Petrovich, the question is indeed very serious. We were handed over a document. This document contains a registration number and a rewritten second reading. That means that the document that was given to us is cancelled, and instead we're considering this. You know, it just strikes me because Terehin is not the first day, you understand that this document is being posted on the Supreme Council's website, we need to stop now, I'm serious, we need to hand out that document and we have to vote for it. In fact, there's no objection here, but you can't. You actually replaced that table with this one, it's very serious, it's the first time in history that we've had that.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u90	Answer?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u91	Peacocks. Yes, please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u92	Yes, I would also like to remind Mrs. Alexandrovsky that she is not the first time in Parliament, so on the site of the Supreme Council you accept as a basis, read the Rules, if that is the case. What's accepted as a base changes in some positions is given out what you've been given. If you want, I can give you this stack of paper, yes, carry it with pleasure.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u93	Igor Alexeyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u94	Please pass the word to Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u95	Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u96	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Well, I'm not surprised, though he's a bearded MP, that he doesn't know the Rules, because he's a very rare guest, only when he needs to lobby something, he shows up in Parliament. What you are talking about does not refer to a repetitive second, but it refers to a rereading of a third reading. That's the first one. But I don't have any more questions for you. Arsenius Petrovich, please tell me what law, if we accept, will you sign? Are these 4 pages that are official or 267 that are official in Terhochin’s mouth?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u97	597, you have something wrong.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u98	Mikola Kravchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u99	Cowchenko, the Communist faction. The same way you manipulated, I mean, the coalition, manipulated when the budget was adopted and 100 laws overturned the one law of the budget, and as a result, we came to a terrible conclusion today. So you need to do a little bit more of an adjustment to the hall, because you're kind of acting like Zadornov on stage, talking about Americans. And the question is, don't you think it's an official crime that customs are now operating, not governed by law, but guided by any instructions or internal orders?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u100	Thank you. One trailer. Zadorin, if you remember, likes to laugh at Americans and Communists. Secondly, really, it is difficult for me, rather than a good constitutional law expert, to comment on the legal conformity of the order of the head of the State Customs Service of the Constitution. But we're actually passing this bill to end this situation, to bring it into constitutional order. Then, here in the Supreme Council, the fate of our protection of our borders will be determined, not by orders or telegrams, of one of the executives.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u101	Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u102	Mr. Reporter, Your Honor Sergey, first of all, don't burn yourself in these discussions, they're not worth it. Second, perhaps most important. The adoption of this law will not add some 270 million dollars to the budget. And a lot of them are industrial goods, not food goods. It's not that big, of course, for the national budget, but anyway, what do you think makes it possible for us to close this gap in the budget?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u103	You know, it's getting easier here. We don't need to introduce new taxes, we just need to develop our external trade. According to forecasts made by the government and the Ministry of Economics, the full implementation of the rules of the World Trade Organization will result in an annual increase in our trade, as a minimum, to the equivalent of $1 billion, or 780 million. Clearly, this will expand the tax base and not only the external tax but also the internal tax system, because the income of our businesses will grow. That's why it's all there. At first, we're actually going to have a balance problem. You remember that on May 16 the collection of customs congregations as a class did not end; they did not get the same amount as before, as a percentage, the small amount is now being collected. And this has more impacted on the income of the budget, there's more than 700 million. The bracelet was more than what you're asking. But we expect positive results from the introduction of the World Trade Organization Agreement.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u104	Dear Sergey Anatolyovich, if I may, first question in fact, and then I will answer all colleagues in uniform. The first question is essentially. I have before me a letter dated 21.05 from the Prime Minister of Ukraine. 2008, which indicates that Kabmin supports Bill No. 2351 and not Bill No. 2351-1, and notes that the bill is currently under consideration in the Supreme Council, it is a “tier one” which contains a position that is contrary to the commitments made by Ukraine under the WTO Protocol. I have a question for you and a question for the Cabinet of Ministers: are we going to get into a legal conflict?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u105	Can I answer that?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u106	Yes, yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u107	We're not going to get into a legal court. We could be in a legal conflict if this bill were to be considered by the time of Ukraine's accession to the WTO. Dear Arsenija Petrovich, we are already full members of this organization since May 16. We can use so-called appeal procedures within the SOT, we can defend our positions by changing the rules of implementation or by increasing the rates. But appropriate consultations are needed. So it's two things, I'm sorry. The original bill 2351, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers, was different from the rates of the agreed tariff offer that we were given when we ratified the WTO agreement. 2351-1 completely, without any change, reproduces what we ratified according to the protocol, no less, absolutely authentic. The only problem that can arise in our negotiations with colleagues from the World Trade Organization is the suspension in these six positions for the introduction of new rates on January 1st next year. But I repeat, this is already a process of negotiation, and I am confident that the representative of the Cabinet of Ministers will confirm this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u108	Thank you. Valery Teziyovich, I'm interested in a formal legal question. I have an official letter from the Cabinet of Ministers in support of Law 2351. I'm asking you under the transcript to tell me if you support Law 2351-1.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u109	The government's official position is expressed in the Prime Minister's letter, and this letter certainly hasn't been rebutted.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u110	Second question, if you please, Sergey Anatolyevich. If we have a conflict between the adopted law and the rules of the protocol that we have ratified, we need to apply Article 19 of the Ukrainian Tax System Act, namely: if two competing rules go between the national law and the international agreement, the rules of the international agreement are applied. Again, will we not have a conflict on this issue?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u111	But there won't be a colossal, Arsen Petrovich. We don't set these bets forever. In accordance with the protocol that we have joined the WTO, which means we have adopted the GATT statute and the WTO statute, we have the right now to change both down and up, these rates, but with the next or previous consultation procedure. So there will be no problem. We spoke to Valery Teziyovich yesterday. Please confirm that such a position, as outlined in indent 1, will allow the Ukrainian side to argue its position in Geneva so that no questions will arise in our partners in the World Trade Organization.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u112	I had to raise these two questions in order to be a stenographer so that it would not be found that the government did not support the bill. All the materials are, all of them are fixed by a stenographer. Now, as to the question raised by the distinguished colleague Adam Ivanovich. Unfortunately, Adam Ivanovich, in this situation I am forced to take the position of Sergio Anatolovich Teriochina. I will read article 119 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, what does second reading mean? “On re-second reading, the Main Committee only submits proposals for amendments made after the second reading to articles or parts of them that were not accepted in the second reading. This includes all proposals, amendments, including those made to these articles, or parts of them for the previous second reading.” We will now ask: Is the second part of article 119 of the Rules fulfilled?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u113	Again. A given table, which was accepted as a basis, was given to the Ukrainian national deputies. She hasn't changed now. Why, I'm sorry, handing out what's on your hands, no change, but 597 pages?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u114	So when we voted on the bill in the second reading, we gave out the entire package of documents, taking into account all the amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u115	Exactly.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u116	Then the Main Committee took advantage of the 119th part of the first and gave it to the additional materials that were distributed during the second reading and the comparative table only after the amendments that had not been taken into account. Did I get it right, Sergey Anatolovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u117	That's right.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u118	These amendments were not voted on, for the law in general was immediately put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u119	I got it right. I would like to remind you that after each amendment, we voted in the second reading, after each of which the Ukrainian national deputies insisted.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u120	That's right, it's all gone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u121	There's a stenogram. Where there was insistence, we voted after every correction. Colleagues operating exclusively within the limits of the Rules. Believe me, if there was a deviation from the Rules, they would stop the proceedings now. Well, there's a 119th, there's nothing to blame for this situation. Now we go as required by the Rules. Amendment No. 1 of the people's deputies, Teryochina, is rejected by the committee. National MP Teryohin, what is your position on this amendment?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u122	I don't insist on my right.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u123	So I'm not voting on this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u124	Exactly.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u125	Amendment 2, Terjehohin, Kruglov. An amendment is considered by the committee. Teryohin, Kruglov, do you want to fish? You don't want to. Thank you. Amendment 3, People's Deputy Seagal. It's been taken into account. Don't you want to say it? None. Amendment number four, National Deputy Moscal. It's been taken into account. Does Hennaday Hennadiovich want to talk? He won't. So all the revisions are counted. Those amendments that are rejected are not urged by the national MPs. That is why I am now following the procedure for adoption in the second reading and in the whole of the Customs Tariff Bill, number 2351-1. Dear People's Deputies, we vote for adoption in the second reading and in general bill 2351-1. We're 12 years old. Please stop the vote, give Martinyuk a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u126	Can I sit down?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u127	Yes, please, Sergey Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u128	Thank you. Dear Arsenius Petrovich, let's all read it together by the end of the 119th article. Part four says that the second reading of the bill is done by the second reading procedure. So we have to go through the second reading procedure, not take four pages of text, but take 500 pages of text and go from the beginning to the end.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u129	I'd like to say again, colleagues, well, why do we read the Rules like we want? Well, let's try to read it systematically. Clearly written, only suggestions and corrections are made that were not accepted in the second reading. I may ask the following question: Are there national deputies who have amended the law and insist on voting on the amendments? Colleagues, is there a question? I won't. Please don't catch me on the Rules. Everything is clear, according to the 119th Rules. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, I am voting on the second reading and on the whole of Bill 2351-1, amending the Ukrainian Customs Tariff Act. Vote. [[12:01:59]] For 367 It works, you see. We can if we want. 12.02 – break, reverend Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u130	Dear colleagues, we continue our morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'll start with an announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law “On the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine” and article 59 of the Ukrainian Council’s Provisional Rules of Procedure, I inform you of the entry of the following national deputies: Suchenka Aleksandra Mikolaiovich, Unguryana Pavel Jakimovitch, Pilpenka Vladimir Pilipovich, Vlasenka Sergija Valeriovich, Lemza Vladimir Dmitrović, Sočka Aleksandra Alexandrovich, Pavelka Viktor Viktorovich, Dubil Valerija Alexandrovich, Yagofer's Anatolia Mikolaiovich, part of the deputy faction "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko", as well as to the coalition of parliamentary factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, after this announcement, I would like to point out that the coalition is fully stocked. Second announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law “On the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine” and article 59 of the interim Supreme Council of Ukraine Regulations, I inform you of the entry into force of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Polishchuk Oleg Viktorovich, into the membership of the Lithuanian Parliamentary faction “Block of Lithuania”. Colleagues, we're announcing the next bill. Bill No. 2330. Draft Law on the State Privatisation Programme 2008-2012 Five minutes. Please sign up. Victor Turmanov, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u131	Please pass the word to Chechtovo.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u132	Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u133	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues. The faction of the Party of the Regions insists that the draft law, sponsored by Anatoly Kirilović Kinah, “On the establishment of a moratorium on the sale of strategic facilities until the entry into force of the new privatization programme”. We understand that the privatization programme today is on the agenda, but the two-reading procedure may extend for a month or more, and we do not want the best strategic facilities to be sold from the candace. On the other hand, the adoption of a moratorium until the new privatization programme enters into force will be a good incentive for our coalition colleagues to come to the hall and to vote in a friendly manner and support the programme. We therefore insist that this bill, as we have agreed on in the package, be included, now we have voted in favour of placing it on the agenda, and it has been considered today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u134	Eugene Marmazov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u135	Arseni Petrovich, we will also support the adoption of Law 2233. And we're proposing all three laws: 2330, 2331 and 2233 -- at the same time, they're interconnected and they can't be broken. If we start talking about it, all three laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u136	Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u137	Arseny Petrovich, we have daily bills that determine the future and not only the budget, but also the social sphere of Ukraine. I'm pointing out that there's no authority in this room. First of all, there is no power in Ukraine. There's been no order in the government for a long time, and now there's no power, there's 36 people in this room, so what are we going to consider, opposition more than power? I don't understand who should vote for what? Or let's go back to that vicious practice where we used to punish such walkers, Tunisians, saboteurs with bracelets, or let them concentrate and gather, because they're relaxed, look at all the rows empty. If we had that in the factory, we'd have been forced to the "fucking mother" that the people are looking at. Arseny Petrovich! Take action, look at him with his fingers sticking to the left, to the right instead of sitting around working on the laws, running around the hall waving his hands. What are these approaches? It's not a constructive government, it's a government that needs to be hoofed and knee-deep.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u138	Alexander Efraemov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u139	Thank you, Arseny Petrovich! Dear colleagues, I do not wish to see the work of the Supreme Council become a farce. Arsenia Petrovich, and I would not like to see the decision taken, including by you, and entrusted to the Conciliation Council, then unknown by whom. I would like to recall that on Monday on the Conciliation Council, you gave the mandate to include Bill 2233 in the consideration of the privatization bloc, especially since it is registered and has the right to consider earlier other bills. We are well aware that today the coalition, if it is gathered and indeed will be present in the Hall, would like to consider directly the privatization bills, that they want to privatize and we are interested to hear that too. But we reserve the right of the people's deputies to act further.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u140	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u141	We therefore insist on the implementation of the decision of the Conciliation Council and the inclusion of Bill 2233 on the agenda today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u142	Alexander Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u143	Alexander Bondar, “The Council”, “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense” faction. I give a statement to the speakers that the representatives of the Party of the Regions should have come to the committee of economic policy that discussed the issue, including the moratorium. And on the basis of the findings of the Scientific and Expert Directorate of the decision of the committee for submission, the Head of the Supreme Council has sent the bill to the authors, such as one that does not meet the rules of procedure, violates the budgetary process, the code, and has no scientific and economic grounds. That's why I don't think we need to raise this topic right now, because first of all, the Party of the Regions demanded that the State Privatization Programme be considered as the fastest possible. Let's go to the question and take a quiet look at the program, make our comments, suggestions, and accept it so that Parliament can take your proposals into account in the second reading, including your proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u144	Alexander Efraemov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u145	Thank you, Arseny Petrovich. In fact, I would like to draw attention to the non-hungry that our colleagues are allowing themselves to speak here in the hall. If the Economic Committee decides whether or not to comply with the Rules, we will go a long way. I would like to remind my colleague that he was a participant in the meeting when the Privatization Commission, after considering the matter, supported the President's decision and vetoed the actual privatization of facilities that it would like to privatize the Yulia Timoshenko Block to date and distribute as they see fit. And if we talk about a principled position, we are absolutely against the consideration of the bill that you have put in place because you have not written in this bill where even the funds will go. What you are not consciously accepting is that you are torpedoing the adoption of changes to the State budget, and that is not a beauty at all, and it confirms once again that you are trying to speculate on this subject again by “punishing” these funds. This was already in 2005, and you have a huge desire to do it again in 2007 and 8.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u146	Dear colleagues! Now listen carefully to the offer. I have asked the last plenary meeting of Parliament to withdraw the bill 2233 because I have expressed my position and I can repeat it again: this bill is contrary to a whole series of legislation. Sadly, he was not excluded from the order of the day. I'm talking to the Party of the Regions faction. If we are building an exclusively constructive process and if we really want to bring in a clear privatization structure, which we privatise, how we privatise, where we spend the budget, which is the mechanism of this privatization. So I ask that we consider the State Privatization Programme itself. We'll look at it today. If we accept it in the first reading, it is not necessary to consider Bill 2233, which is logic, we will now consider the bill, we will work it out. Today, privatization is stopped and stopped, not by acts of the Supreme Council, it is stopped by acts of another senior public official due to violations of the Constitution. So if we systematically approach the second reading we are working on a good bill, I would like to review the position that we are now starting to consider this bill, and we have put off the relevant questions about the moratorium, because I hope that this bill will be effectively voted on in the first reading. I'll explain why in the first reading, we don't even have a committee decision, and you know it. If there is no committee decision, I cannot physically put it in a second reading. So I suggest so, we consider Bill 2330, and we'll work on it. Please, Anatoly Arkadyovich Maksuta is the first Deputy Minister of Economy of Ukraine. Please repeat Ephraim's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u147	Members should understand in the Chamber, is Project 2233 included in the agenda or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u148	The bill is currently not included in the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u149	Arsenius Petrovich,
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u150	Sorry, it's on the order of the day, I tricked you, sorry, honestly. This bill is included in the agenda, but there is no agenda for today's bill; it's in the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u151	Arsenius Petrovich, at that time, we insist that the draft law on privatization has been incorporated into the agenda today. We can assume that the Government programme will be considered first, but on one condition that Bill 2233 will be included on the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u152	If I may ask you to do so, I will address this problem after considering the 2330 bill of government. Because in order for me to be included in the agenda, I emphasize, not in the agenda of today's plenary session, that is to say, a proper voting procedure for the members of the Conciliation Board, because there were no votes to form today's 2233 schedule. So let's go to 2330, or the state privatization program, and then we'll work it out on the march. Anatoly Arkadyovich, please. Anatoly Kirilovich, I'm sorry to interrupt. Dear Viacheslav Anatoliyovich and Ivan Grigorovich, the honourable leaders of the coalition, could I ask you to do so, this is a key bill of state and government to find the national deputies and try to have Ukrainian national deputies present in the hall, not their absence and empty chairs. I'm calling on the Supreme Council's apparatus, once again to announce that the relevant key bill for Ukraine is under consideration. Excuse me, Anatoly Arkadyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u153	Dear Arsenia Petrovich! Dear National Deputies! The Government has submitted to you a bill on the State Privatisation Programme for 2008-2012, drafted in accordance with article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on Privatisation of State Property and the Integrated Resolution of Privatization Problems. I'm going to remind you that privatization in Ukraine has been going on since the 1990s, and at various stages this process has solved various tasks. We've had periods of mass privatization, we've moved on to monetary privatization since 2000, which has made a significant contribution to the filling of the budget's income, a number of sectors now have a significant amount of privatization, we've actually come to the final stage of this process, which relies on the government and on the whole authority to produce and approve new approaches to privatization. There was an urgent need to adjust principles and approaches to privatization, to change legislation on privatization and to adopt a new programme. The current legislation does not provide for the realisation of modern privatization requirements, does not address the problems of privatization of large strategic enterprises, nor does it provide mechanisms for privatizing unattractive objects, including small shareholdings that do not ensure efficient enterprise management. As a result, the main goal of privatization is to increase socio-economic efficiency in production, to align the privatization process with the economic development strategy. In addition, the State programme proposes to define new strategies and priorities, as well as the objectives and conditions of privatization of state property in 2008-2012, in particular to complete privatization as a whole as a socio-economic project of large-scale property reform. In particular, the priorities of privatization for these years are proposed to define: optimizing the structure of state ownership in the manufacturing sector; engaging in privatization of buyers with long-term interests in the development of enterprises; selling small and low-lying shares of individually defined immovable property objects, construction projects; selling of profitable and low-income enterprises under the buyer’s obligation to carry out financial recovery of such privatization facilities; selling high-end facilities to provide for budgetary tasks; and increasing revenue to the State budget. So the programme that you're looking at is doing two important tasks: modernising production; improving the financial situation of those enterprises that are owned by the state, through the privatization process; and also filling the State budget. The following approaches to preparation and privatization are defined. During this period, privatization will include, first of all, those objects that continue to be owned by the State ineffectively and require significant additional public spending on their maintenance and development, namely: loss-making enterprises for the purpose of their financial recovery; small packages that do not provide a decisive influence on the State’s activities; and unfinished construction. Privatization of strategic economic areas will take into account the programmes approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for the development of such sectors, which should be part of the defined areas of privatization. Planning of the privatization process is under way, the process of designing forecasting tasks, and the identification of objects to be privatized is being organized. This will be done on the basis of the conclusions and suggestions of the ministries and other executive bodies of the authorized authorities. Authorized administrations, implementing national policies in the relevant areas of government, implementing strategic objectives and development programmes in the relevant sectors and sectors of the economy, identify objects that are economically appropriate for privatization, make up a list of such objects as a result of an analysis of their financial and technical status, the efficiency of the use of state property, the socio-economic consequences of privatization of objects of strategic importance for the economy and security of the State. The project sets out how to apply privatization methods, improves the sales mechanism to ensure maximum transparency through the wide application of competitive privatisation methods, such as auctions, open price offers for auctions for attractive objects, auctions with lower prices of lotteries and auctions without announcing the price of objects for which demand is not available. To ensure openness and transparency of privatization processes and achieve maximum involvement in the privatization process of effective owners, the bill provides full and reliable information on all stages of privatization of objects, avoiding changes in the terms of competitions, auctions, open trades. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill has already been considered on the committee, and a report will be made, and the government is asking for its support in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u154	Dear colleagues, we're signing up. 10 minutes - questions, answers. Mikhailo Kosov. “Julia Tymoshenko’s Block”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u155	Mikhailo Kosov, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, Party “Reforms and Orders”. A very well-designed project that you just reported. And of course, those principles, apart from the list of objects themselves, and the principles that you propose in approaches to privatization, are long overdue, and they are long overdue, as it were. I just want to say that in my time in the Supreme Council of the Fourth Council, I was addressing the Cabinet of Ministers on the basis that the Cabinet of Ministers should be very detailed about the situation that exists in the already privatized enterprises, it's not about reprivatization at all. But it is known that very many failed privatized enterprises fail to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u156	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u157	How in such a case, as it were, do they, those investors, meet the most fundamental conditions of privatization in terms of production itself, plus the social security of the workers in this production? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u158	Thank you for asking. Of course, this is a very important question. And it is in the package of privatization laws, both in the program and in the law that will be considered after that, that the government has proposed such mechanisms, which increase the responsibility of these new owners who have acquired ownership of enterprises in the process of privatization, and put in place fairly strict sanctions and mechanisms and access of privatization bodies to these enterprises, to verify the conditions and contracts that have been made in the process of privatization, and to apply sanctions when that investor or buyer is found to be unkind and will not comply with these conditions. As for those who are already privatized, well, the State Property Fund, the government is working on it. And within our capabilities, we're going to be dealing with these issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u159	Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u160	Dear Anatoly Arkadyevich, I have deep respect for you as a professional, but, yes, put my hand on your heart, say, well, the government is now, in a sense, sitting on a drug privatisation needle. Well, let's model a situation like this with you, fantastically, absolutely impossible that the Timoshenko Government will be in two years and in three years, and this drug will be over in a year, there will be no more businesses. So you probably have to think about how to make money without sitting on a drug needle without using a privatization drug. And perhaps the focus should be on the development of both programmes and the non-drug budget, the receipt of cheap privatization money, when the State is selling its best strategic national assets in order to burn them in the budget kiln, not to make them work for the future, but to earn money. His quietly needs to get off that needle, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u161	Dear Mikhailo Vasilovich, thank you. I also have great respect for you. I'd like to say for that matter. It's in this program that's being proposed. I noted in my report that, in fact, we had reached the last phase of privatization when important attractive objects remained on the one hand, and on the other hand, we remained objects that were not privatized at the time, and these two tasks were ours. It's just that it's suggested in the program to decide. With regard to the use of privatization funds, of course they should be used. Firstly, privatization should take place according to the development programmes of the sector and the economy as a whole. In the program, we tried to take into account the President's proposals that made this program. And this is what the program says will happen according to such programs based on a targeted approach. On the other hand, these documents allow some of the funds to be corrected.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u162	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u163	Development. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u164	Speak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u165	Therefore, in general, the adoption of such a programme will enable both the privatization process and the use of the funds that will come from privatization.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u166	Stepan Davemuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u167	Stepan Davemuk, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. In Ukraine over the past decade, there has been a huge amount of privatization experience, and the task of the new programme, I think, is to remove all the economically inefficient mechanisms, as well as those positions, the mechanisms that lead to a conflict-prone coalition. Do you think that such moments are clearly reflected in the new program and that such sources of conflict and economically ineffective mechanisms have been removed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u168	Thank you for asking. I just wanted to say that this programme is designed to increase the transparency and efficiency of the privatization process and to prevent issues that may arise later in the process. Therefore, special attention is given here to open ways of privatization without additional conditions that can. who had been in previous ones and who had raised criticism and doubts when there were doubts whether it had really been carried out transparently, or whether the one who received the enterprise actually offered the best conditions. So the main ways to privatize it are auctions, these are open price competitions, when someone who's given a higher price wins and agrees with the conditions that are written down. All of this, however, is happening openly, which will prevent, at least, future outbreaks, as all issues will be resolved in the process of preparing the enterprise for privatization and.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u169	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u170	the holding of the competition.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u171	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u172	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense. Surely this law is much better, since we have not had a law for many years. And I have a few questions that I want to understand for myself what they were all about in writing these rules. In particular, under article 31, on benefits for privatized workers. They are entitled to benefits -- 45 untaxed minimums. That is, the right to buy shares first. That's in the first part. In the fourth part, the price of these shares is already 50 percent of the nominal value. In this way it is possible to bypass the competition with this, very seriously, you can see the cost of hitting the object. The question is: Where, then, is the equality of citizens before the Constitution and the equality of all citizens of Ukraine? What caused such a price drop and such a departure from the general rule? Do you need it now?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u173	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u174	Thank you for asking. Obviously you're talking about a law that's going to be reported to the next. But I will answer that question. In fact, there is a positive sale of stock packages for employees, and it is precisely to take into account social features and to take into account the interests of those who work in the company. Of course, in the process of preparing for second reading, if this is reviewed by the Supreme Council, we are ready to work on it together. But the government felt that one of the important features of the privatization and legislation programme should be not only the favourable sale of the business but also the consideration of the interests of those who work in the enterprise. Again, I say, we're open to discussing these issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u175	Peter Gashuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u176	Please pass the word to Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u177	Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u178	Vladimir Yavorowski, BUT Dear reporter, I'm a little concerned about some of the optics of this law. Article 5 allows you to privatize sociocultural objects. We have a very painful question and we're going to look at it, it's in order of day, it's about so-called labor hostels. I've been to Kirovgrad recently, and literally hundreds of families are being thrown out of these terrible dormitories because of some manipulations, and the dormitories have been involved in a major complex. As you think, for the second reading, maybe we should actually clarify in this bill and give to those people, by the way, the unfortunate people who live in these mongrels, frankly, hand over these dormitories to them for privatization and forget, to close the question. How do you feel about this?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u179	Thank you for asking. Well, first of all, I want to say that in the privatization process, there's going to be a privatization commission that's going to be able to look at the specific conditions, make up a privatization plan, and the interests of all types, and including those who live in hostels, will be taken into account. Of course, what you said to give them to these people, I think this question is right and you can look at it in preparation for the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u180	Thank you. Anatoly Arkadyovich, please sit down. I would like to invite the head of the Economic Policy Committee, Alexander Mikolayovich Bondar, to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u181	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, distinguished members of the national parliament, is being considered by the State Privatization Program presented by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which is scheduled for 2008-2012. In very detail, the first deputy minister of the economy explained the content of the program. I want to stop at the question of her preparation and passing through the Supreme Council and try, if I can, to answer some of the concerns that have been addressed to this program and the purpose of its adoption. I want to say that the government has repeatedly been reminded that this programme, which is now in operation, was adopted in 2000 and is not relevant; it needs to be changed; it needs to be submitted by a new state privatization programme. The President issued an appropriate decree, which required the government to do so, and the Fund of the State of Ukraine and the Government prepared the text of a program that almost takes into account the position of the President’s decree, which was foreseen and entrusted to the government to take matters into account. I know that at the very meeting of the government, amendments were made by the President's Representative in the Cabinet of Ministers, who are also included. So I want to confirm that this program is fully in line with the President's decree and his wishes for the program. The other one. This program essentially introduces a new privatization mechanism, which is now being implemented by the government, which unfortunately was stopped in the privatisation of the Odessa Portion Plant, meaning that the main way to sell strategic objects is to identify an open auction competition. So talk about the need for a privatization programme for the government of Timoshenko to “determinate” property. As a professional, I can tell you that this is not real, because because of the auction, it is not possible to “take a bath”. There's the only definitive winner who paid more. In addition, the program cancelled the rules that allowed the winner to be identified in advance, as was done by the holdmain Foundation last year, according to a well-known competition on Lugansk Hemp and Komsomol Mining. When you read the terms of the contest, you could say who would win the competition in advance. Such a concept as an industrial investor and the qualified terms for buyers have been cancelled by the program, although under the insistence of the Secretary of the President, the standard of qualifications has remained in the sectoral programmes, but I think in the second reading, I will personally make an amendment to this rule so that there should be no qualifications. Therefore, there is no reason to accuse the government of preparing a “dereban” for specific buyers, I am responsible, as the expert tells you. The other one. The Committee on Economic Policy has twice considered the State Privatization Program. Twice, due to the fact that the Party of Regions did not appear at the committee meeting, although they repeatedly insisted on considering the program in the Supreme Council, there was no quorum and there were ten men instead of 11. Both times, all ten men voted in favour of supporting the program in the first reading and taking it to the hall. Under the Rules, after twice considering the program on the committee, since it was there for a month, the Secretariat of the Supreme Council, the Head of the Supreme Council, had the full right to take it to the Hall, which is what is being done today in the consideration of the program. Now, let's talk about the innovations that are on the program. I said that the main way to sell is to sell an open auction, which has already been demonstrated, unfortunately, the only time in Ukraine on the reselling of the “Criminal”. These Ukraine’s world society knows what this is and what it is that gives impetus to investment in Ukraine. I'm not saying that there's a lot of money coming into the budget, and now there's going to be criticism of how to use it, so I want to remind you that using privatization funds is a budget issue, not a state privatization programme. No national privatization programme defined where the expenditure would be spent, the direction in which the budget existed. So open auction sales are, first of all, our image of Ukraine for the world economic community, if we can do that and a privatization drug needle, you know, Mikhailo Vasilovich, you can't say that when you have 9 billion in the budget coming from privatization this year, Semenyuk Foundation counted 200 million, you're talking about some kind of a privatization needle. It's not a privatization needle anymore, and it's a complete blockade on any social benefits from the government, and you know it. There is no needle, there is a complete suspension of privatization for today in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention. Ready to answer your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u182	Colleagues, 10 minutes. Let's write it down, questions, answers. Mikhailo Kosov, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u183	Mikhailo Kosov, “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko”, “Reforms and Orders” faction. Alexander Mikolaiovich, the most I enjoyed in your report is a very specific indication that the proposed draft law is in line with the wishes of the President and is in line with the wishes of the government, and is fully in line with the principles from which the Supreme Council Committee approached this important issue. I hope that, with such a shared view, we will not only resolve this principle of legislation but also resolve the issue of the State Property Fund in general and that your faction will actively support us in this. Now one more and the last. You said in the end that the distribution of funds that come from privatization is a matter of budget, not law. I'd like you to.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u184	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u185	Because you know how many speculations were around where they were divided, let's say the costs of reprivatisation, or the re-privatisation of the "Cruvoristals". So you can develop these principles of cost-sharing for the restoration of production and so on, whether they go into the budget at all, and they're floating around in all the articles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u186	Thank you for asking. I'll try to keep it down in a minute. First. To discuss where to spend the money from privatization when 200 million came instead of 9 billion immorally at all. Because there is nothing to share today, nothing to do with privatization, and there will be no soon-to-be, because no big competition in Ukraine has been announced. That's the first one. The other one. If the privatisation costs come from the reselling of the “Criminals”, the Supreme Council will gather, as then, and decide where to direct these funds. Let's get them. But now we're sharing what's not. And the last. The state privatization programme, adopted on first reading or second reading, does not stop or open the privatization process. He's going, today, just being blocked by today's leadership of the Ukrainian Holding Fund, that's all. So I would like to call on the Party of Regions to be constructive, to accept the program in the first reading, and to make my remarks in the second reading, because C is no relation to continuing, or not stopping privatization. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u187	Peter Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u188	May I have a word with Behaviz?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u189	Valerius Beales.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u190	Valerius Beales, Communist faction. Dear Alexander Mikolaiovich, there is one question. In his latest interviews, our President, and we believe him, claims that the economy can only be effective if there is a government sector in its structure, which is 20-21 percent. According to experts, we sold 78 percent of our country's total property, so what do you have to sell next?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u191	I understood the question. I gave Victor Andryovich Yushchenka actual information at the meeting from the Ministry of Ukraine about the distribution of property in Ukraine. And I did the same thing to your Marmazov and Tkachenko representatives, and they can show you this diagram. Not 21 percent remained state property. This information was unobjectively provided by Semenyuk. In addition, 23 percent are in municipal property, which is not private, and all equity companies, including 100 percent of government property, are privately owned. So objective information today is 48 percent of the privatized property that includes property that has never been state property. In addition, I want to say that this 48 percent of the private sector produces 85 percent of the net income in Ukraine. This indicator is very interesting in terms of whether privatization is needed and which economy is more efficient. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u192	Anatoly Matvienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u193	Ukrainian Republican Party "The Council", "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" Block. Alexander Mikolaiovich, I want to support you in saying that privatization is a goal, and the way to solve three at least problems is to transfer ownership into effective hands. Second, it's going to get the maximum amount in the process of privatizing the funds and third, it's going to be efficient to use them. I'm not asking you the first question, question number two, in the face of a serious financial crisis, or taking into account the privatisation programme for today's price drop, including the individual objects that we privatize and how we take this into account. Second question. Although we share the budget, tell me, as an expert, how many other nations use food costs, in what proportion, and in what proportion to re-investment, to create new jobs, to support the state's investment policy? And are we at least responding to these proportions? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u194	Thank you for asking. I want to say it again. The state privatization program doesn't determine where the funds are going to go, it's a budget function, and so if the privatisation costs come up with more than what's in the budget, we're going to go together and we're going to put them on a per cent investment basis. I believe that the cost of privatization should go where the budget and the needs of the economy and the population so far require, and there should be a compromise between eating and investing. But once again, at a time when privatization is halted and no more than a year of reselling of the “Criminal” has actually been sold. Sharing funds and determining where they are to be directed simply is not necessary. First, we need to show at least one sale, orient ourselves on what demand for our objects, and then discuss these subjects. Today, there is no decline in the real estate market and the sale of government property, since the sale itself does not take place.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u195	Vladimir Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u196	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense". The great Alexander Mikolaiovich, really this law, which provides, at least, for us to see some state strategy in the process of privatization, but there is a sense that, first of all, they're privatized to non-profit-making, not profitable enterprises, namely high-profit enterprises that make some income into the income part of the budget, contributions. At the same time, there is a lack of an effective policy of the State to strengthen the management of state-owned enterprises or those where the public share is greater. For example, have I been to the Kahov power plant recently??, a high-tech innovation enterprise, but there are a lot of complaints about state policy about helping businesses that strengthen Ukraine and have a state share of high assets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u197	I've already partly answered that question when I said what part of the private sector in the economy of the state produces what part of the net income. This tells us that our nation today can not only be regarded as an effective owner but in general harm our national property, because it is going to be a complete rip-off and bring our state-owned enterprises to bankruptcy. I want to assure you that if Odessa's booty factory and Shuttleman will not be sold in the near future, they will be declared bankrupt in the next year and committed to a penny. This is our management and our level of corruption that happens at state-owned enterprises. Because this is the case, there is only one way to deal with it – we need to get these objects into private hands immediately and quickly, because the private owner will not steal his property. And that's why this program doesn't provide for a slow sale of everything and everything. To execute the budget, it was enough to sell either Odessa, or Uctelek, this year and stop at it. It provides mechanisms through which it can openly, openly, be privatized in Ukraine where it will not be.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u198	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u199	buy an object, and transparent competition will be opened.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u200	Vladimir Ivanenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u201	Please pass the word Pisarenko Valery Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u202	Valerius Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u203	I wanted such a question, perhaps, so that you could continue my opinion. We've all been waiting a long time for the State Privatization Program to come to the House of Parliament, because it was a prerequisite that our opponents and our comrades had both imposed on us to continue the privatisation reforms, to update the leadership in the area of privatization. And in addition, we all understand that for this year the budget that we've approved with you is one line where 9 billion should come from privatization. So let's look at what the consequences will be if today's privatization programme is not approved in general for the country and for the years to come. I want to remind you that since 2002, we have been privatizing without a legislative settlement, without a privatization programme available for these years. So I think you can continue my sense of where I am and tell us what kind of problems we're going to have if we don't approve the privatization programme today.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u204	I have already said that the approval or non-approval of the program is completely unrelated to the privatization process, whether it occurs or not. It's simply a process that requires opposition, the President, the factions of Parliament as to the ways and modalities of privatization to the government that are set out in this program. And if those who demand it do not vote will talk about people’s approach, not professionally, but politically. I'm sure BUT and our Ukraine will vote in favour of this program because it is, and I'd like very much, my report directed at the faction of Lithuania and the Party of the Regions to think and support this program, because it allows them to take their proposals into account in the second reading. I'm not talking to the Communists, they never voted in Parliament for the state program. It's their position, I respect it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u205	Thank you, please sit down. Dear colleagues, please sign up. First we're recording from the factions, please. We continue to record the performances of the Ukrainian National Deputies. Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions, please speak from the faction. Mikhaylo Chechtov on the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u206	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, distinguished members of the people, let us look at and assess the editorialization of the privatization programme, not from the position of the coalition, not from the position of the opposition, but from the position of the State. So if you look from the State's point of view, you can make the following comment: well, the first point is that the goals of privatization, which were in the early 1990s, in the mid-1990s and now, are diametrically opposite. Yes, in the early 1990s and mid-1990s, as the main goal of privatization, when privatization was seen as a means of transforming the command and administration system into a market economy, as privatization was seen as a driving force for market reforms, and through it we were given education and expansion of the market segment in the economy, while quantitative parameters were placed at the top of the agenda — as much as possible to privatize facilities, expand the market economy segment to create a critical mass of market reforms and make market reforms irreversible. But today, beyond the 2008 window, today we are a market economy country, and today these targets are not being sold as much as possible, and today privatization needs to be seen as a way of treating enterprises. A sick person goes to the hospital, gets diagnosed, takes medications, and is treated. He's got a financial condition, so he needs a cure, too. Medicine is finance. No money has to be given to the State, to release the enterprise for free bread: let it take the investor and treat it with its medicine, its financial resources. That is to say, it is absolutely right when it comes to loss-making enterprises, bankrupt enterprises. But the question is, If a person is healthy, why should he go to the pharmacy to buy medicine and treat a healthy person? If the public enterprise works cost-effectively, if it is competitive, if it is well looked at, why sell it? This may not be in the national interest. Another question. If we are beginning to sell strategic national assets that are at the heart of the country's economic and national security, then perhaps the same money should work for the future, and we should not burn them in a budget furnace, twisting them into a future inflationary spiral. Let's move on. In order to properly determine the fate of the enterprise, it may be necessary to consider the enterprise in the context of the industry's development strategy, taking into account trends in the world market. It's only then that we make a decision. There's nothing to say about that. Finally, the last. We are a unique country. In no country in the world will you hear applause when the best strategic national assets go under the control of foreigners. There are special public institutions that monitor and decide on this. We are trying to sell strategic national assets to foreigners. Let's give up the land, it's just air. Who are we going to be in this country? In our opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u207	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u208	send for root processing. In fact, in the President's message there was a hard one that had not been heard from Parliament's rostrum, there was a very harsh assessment, a strong criticism of today's philosophy of the document, or a motive for criticism by the President, that it was not in accordance with the national interests of Ukraine. The programme should be sent for root processing and for consideration in Parliament under the first reading procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u209	Thank you, Mikhail Vasilovich. Oleg Zarubinski. ‘Block of Lithuania’.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u210	Oleg Zarubinski. ‘Block of Lithuania’. Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues, I would like to begin with my small speech with a quote. “The national wealth of Ukraine is the land, its nadra, air space, water and other natural resources within the territory of Ukraine, the natural resources of the continental shelf and the exclusive economic zone”, and here attention is paid to “the basic means of production in industry, construction, agriculture, transport, communications, housing, buildings and buildings, financial resources, scientific achievements created by the efforts of the people of Ukraine, is the property of the people of Ukraine”. That's what the Ukrainian Property Act says. The problem is that we have 1.5 decades, even more, we're privatizing everything and everything. We've even developed a company of professional privatizers, which obviously all of their efforts are to sell everything that's moving, and it's moving very little. I'd like to say that today there's a totally wrong idea, it's provoked, it's supported, it's pedaling about what the state can't be an effective manager. A lie, a lie, indeed, this management will be unprofessional if it is appointed by high - ranking owners on the basis and principles of personal devotion, rejection and party affiliation. When there are cases, and they are, when start-ups are strategically important, including today, who offer us to privatize, stand professionals, stand professionals, stand patriots real, not flames, loyal people, businesses work, give a lot of income, enable the budget to develop. And one more moment, and I don't get it, I'd like professional privatizers to explain it to me. Maybe we should do some analysis, and what happened to the privatized businesses in Ukraine for over a year and a half, maybe someone will give us an answer and report for the fraudulent voucher privatization that took place in Ukraine in the 1990s, which deprived us of property, legal property? Is it possible that ideologists today impose similar schemes on us? Thus, the honorable, caring host thinks of the chicken that carries the “golden eggs” and does everything to make this chicken live longer, helps her to bear more eggs, and the one who wants to sell everything and everything sells this chicken to others, and it begins to carry the “golden eggs” for others. But for this they will get 1-2 “golden eggs”. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u211	Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u212	Stepan Davemuk, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues, ladies and gentlemen! Privatization is a characteristic process not only for the economies of transition, but also for the economies of developed countries. Privatizes at this stage for about 30 to 40 years, both Germany and France and England and Japan. That's tens of billions of dollars. So if we have the issue of banning privatization, it is in the eyes of the world professional society that it is perceived as savagery, as an attempt to ban an organically present-day economic process. You can't do that. Therefore, no doubt, the approval of the privatization programme by our Supreme Council is a positive and positive event. If, in the early years of privatization, when it comes to mass privatization, the programmes set out the privatization stages, the quantitative characteristics, now it sets up an exclusive process, regulates privatisation procedures, and in recent years, the procedures that have led to corruption, which have been a source of corruption, have been eliminated, and this is an important positive feature of the programme. But it still needs to be done in more detail in the second reading, because there are, however, moments that can lead to certain colleges. Let's say privatization of underdevelopment. We sell underdevelopments at auction, and then we sell land under this underdevelopment at auction. There is a contradiction, a conflict between the owner of the superstructure and the owner of the land. This needs to be removed. This program is multivariate. This is a positive moment. Transparency and competitiveness. These are just the moments that can create a normal, normal process of privatization. And this is important to both the President and the government and the Supreme Council. And that's why our faction will vote in favour, and we call for everyone to vote in favour of this program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u213	Thank you. John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u214	John Rabbit, Ukrainian People's Party, faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Ladies and gentlemen, the goal of privatization is twofold. The first is to find an effective owner, and the second is to have the funds to use them effectively. Well, I think we're not doing so well for the first reason. We've privatized a lot of objects. But virtually never before has the Supreme Council devoted itself to this issue, either to a separate meeting or to a government day, where we can consider and how privatized objects are being used today, whether they are being used effectively today, are indeed being used or not. So I think we need some kind of government day to figure out and consider this. The second question is, this is a question of responsibility. If we take the general part of this program, it says that, again, the main goal of privatization is to increase the socio-economic efficiency of production. But when we take Article 51, this article discusses who is in control of the course of the program. I think there's a lot of these controlling people here: both the president and the Cabinet of Ministers, the State Property Fund. It seems to me that the State Property Fund is the main one who executes the program, not the one who controls it. I'd like to distinguish these two concepts. Now we've asked a question about what's going to happen to this social sphere. I was actually in Chercas on Friday, and I was approached by a group of people who complained, and there are such cases in Kiev that they are being evicted from dormitories because these hostels are being privatized. I think that by the time we read the second reading, we should do the same thing, and we should bring it into line, because there is already legislation that obliges the social sphere to transfer to the local authorities, and this social sphere should serve the people who live. The question of using funds. Again, whether you're going to let them go for a meal, or you're going to start a new innovative production. Because for new technologies, we're going to enter the 21st century of information, and we can't just raise that kind of money. So in order not to break this chain, we have these costs to accumulate and use to actually introduce new high-tech, new productions. So, again, these questions need to be reflected in legislation. As far as the whole is concerned. I think it's very good that there's such a program. This is better than the privatization process by hand. These are the rules of the game. And that's why I would invite you today to vote in the first reading for this program, because there's nothing more scary than playing without rules. Then there is corruption, then there are shadow schemes, then there are privatization objects that are strategically important for our economy, for our economy.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u215	Eugene Marmazov. Please turn on the Marmazov microphone from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u216	Five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u217	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u218	Dear colleagues! I would like to refer to our position, the factions of Communists on this issue. We have been privatizing for 15 years. De jure is carried out under the slogan “social and economic efficiency”, and de facto, it is practically State property that is sold from the hammer. At the same time chaotically, with ripples to close the budget deficit. What is the result of this 15-year-old activity? To date, we have 48.5 per cent private property, 23.5 persons and 24. During all the years of privatization, the budget received 42 billion grivens of them 24 for the sale of Krivoroztali. So we actually sold 50 per cent of our economy for 5.3 billion euros. What did we get out of this? We have the basic funds up to the pen, they're already up to 70 to 80 percent. Of course, a new privatization programme is needed, but it is reasonable. What are we going to see again, this is called the "New Privatization Programme for Five Years", and what's new here? I'll tell you, if I read carefully, that's all that's been rewritten since the old privatization with these same flaws. Three new developments have emerged: that privatization needs to be completed, incomprehensible, true. And that high-lying sites that had previously been banned were being privatized. And we've got new stuff that the socioscult can be sold, everything else is blurry. I'm going to give an example of where the privatization money is going. That privatization money is directed towards meeting the needs of society. What is it? And this is the fulfillment of these populist promises in the elections. Therefore, I will say that what we are offered a privatization programme there is not even a competition with one buyer and says so today. It even provides for the sale of shares to enterprises that are prohibited from privatization, i.e. hidden privatization. We therefore believe that, firstly, it is necessary to define in a step-by-step, what is five years of privatization, what will be the features of privatization, what sectors, where we will stop, where State property will remain, which will protect Ukraine's national interests. In addition, it must be our principled position, and the programme should make it clear that the money from privatization should go to.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u219	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u220	If the money went to invest in the economy, the other would be an approach to privatization, then no relation to the hammer. We therefore believe that this document should be seriously refined and put to a vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u221	Presentations by Ukrainian National Deputies, Valentin Matthew Mikola Kravchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u222	Cowchenko, the Communist faction. Dear electoral comrades, colleagues, I would like to say that the Communist faction will not vote in favour of this privatization programme. This is due primarily to the fact that we do not want to participate in the destitution that is taking place today and all 17 years of our independence when common folk property is stolen from our pockets. Today, it has been said that 42 billion just came in, and it has already been sold out for 140-150 properties. That is why we do not want to participate, and we do not want to benefit the Government today, that privatization has become a means of filling the budget. Yesterday, I was surprised that a representative of the Government had told the Contingent Council yesterday that if they did not vote, nine billion from the privatization of the budget would not come. So they've already solved the problem of going to dinner. It's impossible to do that. I am threatened by what the co-rapporteur said in his statement, he explained the return that the Odessa Portal Plant is, indeed, as Zarubinski's colleague, the “golden egg”, said, which has already been laid today. Now, Odessa's porter needs to be sold only for one reason that corruption today is such that it has to be protected from corruption and sold quickly, otherwise we'll have nothing there at all. You know what cynicism we've already come up with. That is, we do not want to participate in the fact that public property is plentiful. I want to say, in addition to my fellow Hare, that we have never seen it before. We have received 24 billion from the privatisation of the Criovorostali. Today, there are very interesting processes, and I have asked how an effective owner deals with the environment and deals with the plant. But we can't go in there because it's officially forbidden for any government authorities to appear in the factory. Thus, distinguished colleagues, I take pride in the country that has created the folk-economy complex that we sell and sell, we cannot sell until now and every year.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u223	Alexander Lavrinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u224	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! The question raised for consideration is already positive because it is being considered. I think you've pointed out that our faction has insisted that the country must be governed by law to take steps aimed at changing the form of ownership, changing the structure of the Ukrainian economy and regulating the use of public finances. So we are absolutely positive that this issue is now included in the agenda and that it will be considered and we may get principles that will continue to sell state property in Ukraine and that there will also be approaches in this program that will determine the directions that will take into account how the Ukrainian economy will continue to develop as its structure changes. But there are so many elements that are not regulated and where there has been no attempt to regulate them. In particular, what occurred today in both reports regarding the existence of an effective owner. I've been trying hard to find new mechanisms, new standards that have emerged in this program that can be treated as non-guaranteed, then at least contribute to the emergence of an effective owner, which will reflect both income and tax, and compulsory payments, and the loss of revenue from the state-owned enterprises or state-owned assets, which will reflect on social infrastructure, how this will affect the innovative development of the country, where new technologies will emerge, where Ukrainian production will be more competitive, taking into account that we have already become part of the open space by entering into the World Trade Organization, but I have not found it there. Alexander Mikolaiovich said that even today it is immoral to ask how to look at the costs that potentially come from privatization issues. I think this is where the dimensional opposite position should be. Of course, public finances are spent exclusively through the State Budget Act, but both income and expenditure are formed on the basis of valid laws of Ukraine, primarily where defined, the law determines the costs of which sources can be spent in the state. And I think we should have a separate law that regulates the spending of the fund that comes from privatization in Ukraine. This needs to be settled and this can enable the program to become an effective tool.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u225	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u226	By restructuring the Ukrainian economy and enhancing its effectiveness and competitiveness in the world. Only after that will we be able to support ourselves.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u227	Yuri Haydayav.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u228	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters, what we have received from privatization, the ideology from which we started, will all be rich. And who was lying in this room from the very beginning when they said, "Everybody will get GAZ-24." No G.O.S.-24 has been received. That's the first one. Second. That the country lost its way. We have practically lost the core funds with you, up to 70 to 80 per cent of the value of the core funds, we have practically lost those modern technologies that could make us competitive and, above all, fill the internal market. We naturally turned, I mean, those who were privatizing, turned the country into a commodity surplus, and it's already obvious to all that the workers, the highly skilled labour force, have made a cheap labour force for the West and the economic change through restructuring have not happened. What the worker lost as a result, that is, the one who is the source of power and the holder of sovereignty. He lost effective property, which brought him income in the budget and social programmes, of course, and those who now possessed this property refused to implement all social programmes through privatization for enrichment, with a view to enriching the growing shadow economy, and today 50 to 60 per cent of the economy is in the shadows, corruption in power, buying all those who privatized today, not workers buying power, but buying those who owned it. Organized crime has increased and increased precisely on the basis of this privatization, raiding, unemployment and low wages. As a result, privatization has led to the destruction in Ukraine of our country's development prospects by so-called adopters, because they have also destroyed scientific and productive complexes that have brought together science and production that have formed a public order. scientific and other personnel and what has given the prospect of our country's development. What should we do? First. We must admit that our economy has been seriously damaged, the economic base of independence has been undermined, and privatization has been criminal. It is therefore necessary to stop in this process, to identify public interests and, above all, those that will enable us to restore the economic potential of the country, to return to the state: coal, energy, KPC, construction, chemistry; and to preserve, as in European countries, property for the benefit of our people. Therefore, I would like to emphasize once again, the analysis of privatization gives us the basis, the faction of communists, that the current programme cannot be voted on in any way, that is to say, we must stop privatization, review the main areas and define the interests of the State, only so that we can preserve the economic base of the country, only so that we protect our people.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u229	Vladimir Landik. Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u230	Dear friends, let us take a closer look again at the position of interest in this programme, rather than in the position of plurality and minority. I repeat, we are a unique country, and in no country in the world will you hear the applause when the best strategic national assets go abroad. In the United States, Germany, Finland, special public institutions have been established in Western countries, which decide to provide foreign nationals with strategic facilities that are at the heart of the country's national economic security or not. If no decision is taken by this institution, the decision shall be taken at the President's level. It's in Russia. We want to give the aliens the best strategic facilities now, then give the land away. Now, let's see what's going on in the West, or we're taking all the bad stuff out of there -- prostitution, drug abuse. We're taking America. America, California, the richest oil reserves. So they're not what they don't allow foreigners to develop, they don't give their own. They've entered Iraq. You think they needed Hussein in Iraq? For 300 years Hussain dreamed of the Americans in Iraq! If there wasn't oil, they'd never go in there! So little that they went in there, they dragged us there to protect our national interests in Iraq! This is how you have to protect national interests! Take an example from the Americans. Now, about what was said. What about nine billion holes in the budget? This requires changes in the budget, making new changes to the budget, where there will be no nine billion, income from the sale of privatization. We need to learn to make money! I'm taking an example. Last year there was a government of Janukovic, and he was also tempted to lower a few objects from the hammer, earn a few billion, give before the elections in order to get two or three extra percentages. But the Government of Yanukovic, on the basis of public interest, failed to sell it at the expense of its political situation, at the expense of its rating, but thinking of the country as a human being. That is why, I think, the distinctive feature of the Government of Yanuković and Timoshenko in one – the Government of Yanukovitch can make money, and the Government of Timoshenko can spend but spends for nothing. The Party of the Regions therefore fully supports the position of the President, which sets out the message. He wouldn't let the president read it from this rostrum. [[B in m in s a l in]] It has been published, and it is hard to privatize, given a rigorous critical assessment and is diagonally written that the programme is not in accordance with national interests; it is to the detriment of the country, to the detriment of the people. We propose not to adopt this programme, radically recast it and only then introduce it into the Hall if the main philosophy of this programme is indeed to protect the national interests of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u231	Sergei Gordienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u232	Sergei Gordienko, Communist Party of Ukraine Honorable Colleagues and Honorable Voters! Only a great nation and a great nation together for many generations could acquire the kind of wealth that they privatize, or more specifically, they had been looting for 17 years and could not plunder it from the farthest village to Kiev. I'd like to tell you that privatization is the basis of some ridiculous mechanism. All the voters in Ukraine have heard about the golden eggs for the budget here and about what they gave and could give huge enterprises for the economic potential and the power of our country itself, how they were privatized, where they shared these funds and had any profit or profit from it. I'd also like to pay attention to our distinguished voters and fellow MPs that privatization has an incomprehensible logic of things. Let's look at this: there's government property and there's utility property. And when I, as the head of the district council, on behalf of the district council and the territorial community, ask for a transfer to utility property, to the territorial community of the Orzhin district of Orzhin County of the Orzhinsk Thorfo-owned enterprise, which is owned by the state and which is left with only a name, I am told by these offices that the company is linked to a list of objects that are not privatized. That's why. “Crioristal”, Odessa port, “Turboat” can be privatized, and a sign from the Orgin Torfoupe enterprise in our country cannot be privatized. I don't understand the logic of things. Next. We're talking about what people are talking about -- privatization of unfinished construction and social spheres. These are cultural buildings, hospitals and so on. The Mangellian House of Culture of the Globin District of Poltava, worth 9 million, is now being illegally privatized for 100,000. Today, those who live in houses in the village of Slobko Zoldonyzski district do not transfer them to municipal property but drive them out of their homes and give them no opportunity. Can we vote to support the idea of privatization under such conditions?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u233	Dear colleagues, the time for discussion of the bill is over. Reporter, the co-reporter doesn't insist on a word? Not outside. Oh, please, Alexander Bondar. I ask very briefly that we complete the voting procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u234	I'm literally one minute, honourable deputies. I tried to translate this discussion into a professional conversation calmly, but the emotions of the two Chechtov want, require some explanations from me. I repeat, acceptance of whether the non-admission of this program is halting or not allowing privatization away. But the difference is that the current current privatization program allows the Fund to sell objects as it was sold “Cruvoristal” for the first time. The adoption of this program prohibits anyone from selling objects in this way and allows only one way of selling them that was made on the reselling of “Crimsonstali”. This is the principle of the variance of the existing and proposed program. I would like the MPs, all who will vote now, to consider the process of privatization they are in favour of. And everything else is emotion and playing public. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u235	Thank you. Mikhail Vasilovich. Was it Chechtov's last name? [[B in m in s a l in]] I didn't hear the name Chechetov. There was no last name, well, Chechetov, a replica, one minute. If Chechetov said so.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u236	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, distinguished colleagues, I would like to say this in response to the statement by Aleksandr Nikolaevich. That is why we insist that there is no dissipation. Until a normal programme is adopted, the Moratorium Act will be adopted so that no one can sell in Kabmin, or Kabmin will soon be in his home. Only when the Cabinet of Ministers develops a privatization programme that is in the interest of national interests will the moratorium be collected and privatized, based indeed on legislation that is in the interests of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-03-m0.u237	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the last State Privatization Program was adopted in 2002. And we're all working on a privatization program that's completely out of date. The second paragraph, as regards the set of laws, was correctly done by the Government when it introduced two bills: the State Privatisation Programme and the Amendments to the Law on Privatisation of State Property. But there is another bill that we should ask the government to bring to Parliament -- a change in the list of objects that are not subject to privatization. Regrettably, this list of objects has left legal persons who no longer exist, who have been privatized on the basis of different schemes, totally covered, and we have to date counted them as state property. The third document, therefore, necessarily needs to be changed to a list of objects that are not privatized. Such changes — colleagues, attention! – may be introduced in the second reading of the bill. We can move away from this model, and this list of objects can be added to the State Privatization Program. Third, if we do not now vote in favour of the law in the first reading, Parliament will not be able to take responsibility for state property. Because the adoption of the bill in the first reading allows the Ukrainian Parliament to further define the fate and strategy of privatization. Therefore, blocking adoption in the first reading means blocking in general the strategy of privatization, ideology and privatization policies. And thirdly, I'm going to the coalition: honourable colleagues, I'm asking everyone to vote in favour of this bill in the first reading. Explain why. You are well reminded of last week’s sessionary session when it came to putting the 2233 bill of privatization first in order of the day. Only after a very difficult negotiation has we now reached a temporary agreement that if we adopt this law in the first reading and continue to work on it in the committee, then 2233 is removed from the agenda. I worry that Parliament will continue to work. I appeal to you, responsiblely, colleagues, to respond now to the voting procedure in the first reading. Next. I'm calling on the Supreme Council Committee on Economic Policy. Unfortunately, we don't have now, I'm going to continue until 15 minutes before the vote, we don't have a committee decision. If God gives, and we vote in favour of this law, it takes a working group to get the committee to sit down, then a comparative table to be a normal clear document that provides the privatization and use of funds, is also a key element, and a list of objects by 2012. So, dear fellows, pay attention! I am voting on the adoption on the basis, colleagues, of the draft Ukrainian Law on the State Privatisation Programme for 2008-2012. Bill 2330 registration number. I declare a vote on Bill 2330. [[14:01:32]] For 227 I would like to thank everyone for their very productive work solely for the interests of the State. Dear colleagues, the morning plenary meeting of the Supreme Council is closed.
