ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national MPs! Please register. [[10:01:32]] Registered – 387 Repeat your registration, and individual national deputies have not been able to place their cards. Wait a minute, one more time. You see, the salary appeal yesterday helped a lot. Ready, colleagues? Please repeat your registration. [[10:02:25]] There were 431 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. It's a very positive signal, don't give God, let's start working. Dear colleagues, at 11 o'clock we'll all meet after the Conciliation Council. I'm going to start today with 16 numbers, and Ukraine eventually became a full member of the World Trade Organization. [[Applause]] And I would like to point out that, in accordance with article 9 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Protocol, which was ratified by the Ukrainian Parliament and as an international agreement, which is made binding on the Supreme Council of Ukraine, is mandatory for implementation. In other words, all the rates and all the obligations provided for in the Protocol should enter into force. At 11 o'clock, dear colleagues, I hope the faction leaders will be in this session room as well. Until 11 o'clock.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u2	I told you yesterday we'd start working and you didn't believe me. And let's go home on our own, he said. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to take your place. Dear colleagues, after the long - term weekly blockade of the Ukrainian Parliament, I would like to report on the decisions that are being proposed for your consideration today. First of all, with regard to the schedule of today’s meeting. Let's start with a statement of MPs. After that, he spoke from the factions. Then, in accordance with the Rules, the conclusion of the review of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. There was a proposal to interrupt this consideration, but since it did not support the leaders of the MP factions, we have to finish it. That's going to be 15-20 minutes. After that, colleagues – inclusion in the agenda and consideration of draft legislation: number 2292 – is the Ukrainian Law on the Regulation of the Implementation of Certain Socially Important Foods and 2291 – establishing a tariff quota for imports into Ukraine for 2008; and the third bill is Bill 2351, which is already included in the daily agenda on the customs tariff of Ukraine. I would like to point out that these three bills were scheduled for this week and approved by the Conciliation Council, so they do not need to be reconfirmed by the Conciliation Council, but only require a vote to be included in the agenda. There is the will of all factions -- almost all factions -- I'll say this -- to vote for inclusion in the agenda and to consider these three bills. After that, it's the inclusion in the order of the drafts on the SOT. These are two laws: the special tax regime for agricultural producers and the promotion of the development of the APC, number 1342 and 2469; and their consideration along with bills 2297 and 2298. [[on fish and other living resources]] [[on veterinary medicine]] Now it's about the State Property Fund. There are four out of five factions requiring consideration of the resignation of the Head of the State Property Fund after considering the approval of the State Privatization Program and the amendment and additions to the Ukrainian State Budget Act. In doing so, one faction, more precisely, excuse me, not one faction, but three factions, expressed a demand for a vote or a change in voting methods — by hand. In other words, unfortunately, it was not possible to agree on the adoption of the privatisation package and the change in the management of the Property Fund. And it's likely that we're not even going to get to that question because we just don't have enough time for it physically for today. In view of that, I think that all the battalions of the holding fund, after privatization and budgeting, will move on to the next plenary week. I've announced to you the will of the faction leaders that we have managed to agree on our own. Since this does not give rise to any objection right now, I will follow the proper procedure. First, I'm going to read the questions, then I'm going to talk, then I'm going to look at the law, and then I'm going to look at the inclusion and consideration of all the three bills that were scheduled for this plenary week. A request was received from the Ukrainian National Deputies: Igora Kaletnik to the President of Ukraine on the release of the head of the Herson district administration, Boris Silenkov, for acts incompatible with the status of the civil servant, for the admission of substantial labour violations and for the improper control of the actions of the subordinates, which resulted in numerous cases of illegal spending of budgetary resources on a particularly large scale. The Grynevetsky Group to the President of Ukraine for the payment of air navigation services by the United States of America for aircraft that cross the airspace of Ukraine; Igora Kaletnik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, acting as head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Heads and Chief Auditor of Ukraine, Prosecutor-General of Ukraine, on the release of the Head of the Herson District Administration, Boris Silenkov, for acts incompatible with the status of the State official, for the admission of substantial labour violations and for the improper control of the activities of the subordinates, which resulted in numerous illegal spending of budgetary resources in particularly large amounts; Victor Slauti to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the cancellation of debt obligations to Ukraine's government budget for agricultural enterprises affected by natural disasters in 2007; Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the emergence of an extraordinary situation with the provision of anti-tuberculosis drugs; Igor Sharov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to ensure that the constitutional rights of citizens are respected for the protection of personal data and confidential information; Mikoli Kravchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the change to the 2008 government budget for Ukraine regarding the definition of basic standards for payment for the use of mining gears; Mikoli Soloshenka to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development and Construction of Ukraine, on the inclusion of the left-hand pipeline of the city of Dnipropetrovsk in the 2008 list of objects financed by subsidies from the national budget of Ukraine by the local gas pipeline budget and the gasification of the population; Alexander Omelchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the immediate cessation of the destruction of the Conca Zaspa reserve; Groups of National Deputies: Tolub, Demenenko and others, only five National Deputies, to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, regarding the failure to take appropriate action on the facts set out in the parliamentary statements on the intention of unlawfully acquiring the property of the State Enterprise, the Izmurd Pansionate; Anatolia Matvienka to the head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine, on the verification of violations of legislation in the change of ownership of the entire property complex of the Zujew power plant in the Donetsk region, leading the enterprise to bankruptcy and its sale; Valery Pisarenko to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine regarding the improper examination of the parliamentary request for information, the conduct of official investigation and the issuance of documents; Victor Slauti to the Minister of Transport of Ukraine regarding a possible technological and economic catastrophe that threatens the security of the city of Kharkiv, one and a half million; Vladimir Yavorowski, head of the State Committee on Land Resources for the establishment of a commission to verify gross violations of the rules of law by the City Council of Kirovograd and builder in the construction of a commercial complex under the windows of residential buildings in the city of Kirovograd; Vladimir Yavorowski to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine regarding the inactivity of the State Executive Service of the Chief Justice Office in Kiev, who has been evading for more than two years the execution of a decision on the abolition of a cottage built on the self-absorbed lake area of the Darnicki district of Kiev, thereby severely violating the constitutional rights of a large number of kyans to rest; Mikola Komara to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine on the release of an orphan child from the pay for teaching at a state institution. Mikoli Komara to the Minister of Environmental Protection of Ukraine on the violation by the Ministry of Environmental Protection of Ukraine of article 16 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy. Mikoli Soloshenka to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine on the allocation of funds for the construction of the boiler and vocational and technical school number 48 of the city of Novomokowsk Dnipropetrovsk district. Mikoli Shershun to the Minister of Environmental Protection of Ukraine for the award of subsidies for the installation of a Ternopil garbage dump with the aim of preventing a possible environmental disaster. Mikoli Shershun to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine on dissatisfaction with the parliamentary request regarding the baseless refusal of the Weselka sanatorium of the Ternopil region to contract with the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine on the rehabilitation of children affected by the Chernobyl disaster. Oleg Zarubinsky to the Minister of Transport and Liaison of Ukraine for the restoration of the operation of the Turbow train station of the Lipovets region of the Winnitsk Region, unmotivated by Ukraine's stopped state administration of the railway transport “Urzliznica”. Ruslan Lukyanczuk to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the improper examination of the parliamentary appeal concerning the complaint of the abuse of an expert in the scientific research and criminal science centre at the head office of the Ministry of Interior of Ukraine in the Kyiv region of Dmitr Zvijak. Jury Crook to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine regarding the solution to the problem surrounding Odessa City Student Clinic No. 21. Andrija Pavlovski to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the privatization of the dormitory number one of the closed stock company “Investment plant of the welding equipment of the institution of welding of the name Eugenia Patton” and the protection of housing rights for residents. Vladimir Litvina to the Attorney General of Ukraine for his dissatisfaction with the content of his reply to the parliamentary appeal regarding events related to the blocking of law enforcement officials in February of this year’s Uzgorodské citadel house and the search and removal of documents there. Alexander Golub to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the invocation of the responsibility of officials of the All-Ukrainian Education Society. Taras Shevchenk and the private company Martin according to the facts revealed by the General Audit Authority. Aleksandra Omelchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the inappropriate reaction of the Kyiv prosecutor to violations of legislation concerning the payment of 100 percent of allowances by Kyiv’s urban head, Leonid Czernovetsk. Ruslan Lukyanczuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the improper review by the Attorney General of Ukraine and the Prosecutor’s Office of the city of Kyiv of parliamentary appeals against the citizens of Igor Nikolayenko and Galina Rajevsky about the falsification of a criminal case against them. Group of National Deputies: Sharov, Karmazin and others, only six national deputies, to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the non-delaying of the examination of abuses in financial and economic activities of the higher educational institution by the former Rector of the National University of Kiev, Taras Shevchenk Volodymyr Skopenko. Andrija Pavlovsky to the head of Shevchenkov’s District State Administration of Kiev regarding the appeal of the Kyiv City Center to work with women to protect his legitimate interests. We have two questions from Igor Kaletnik and Sergei Grinevetsky to the President of Ukraine. I would like to vote in favour of Igor Kaletnik's request to the President of Ukraine. Attention, Your Honor, one third of the vote is put to the vote in favour of the request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[11:35:34]] For 210 Now I have to ask the procedure to refer Igor Kaletnik's request to the President of Ukraine. This decision requires 226 votes. Please vote. [[11:36:00]] For 264 Request directed. Sergey Grynevetsky to the President of Ukraine. I'm betting on the vote on support for the request by Sergey Greenewecki. I've already read it, colleagues. The request was read at the outset. We need to listen to what the chairman says. [[11:36:23]] For 287 Supported. There was a question about the people's deputies for what. Once again, I would like to say that this is about listening to what is said. Sergey Greenewecki asked the President of Ukraine about the payment of air navigation services by the United States of America for aircraft crossing the airspace of Ukraine. This was already declared at the beginning of the meeting. I'm betting on the vote on the question of sending a request to the President of Ukraine. [[11:37:05]] For 317 Decision taken. The relevant two requests are addressed to the President of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the factions. Donny, the faction of "Our Ukraine People's Self-Defense." Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u3	Viacheslav Kirilenko "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense". Dear colleagues, honourable voters, the beginning of today's plenary session and the issues that are scheduled for consideration once again confirm the correctness of the position of "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" that, starting on Tuesday, blocking our coalition partners from the "Julia Timoshenko" House of Parliament was groundless and unnecessary. All the questions that our colleagues insisted on during the day were in order on Monday evening. And now, instead of looking at Tuesday, on Wednesday, on Thursday, they'll be looking at everyone now. The country and the coalition won, we don't know. At the same time, we will work in the mode that is offered by colleagues of any faction to work and make decisions. Because Parliament must be a productive body, in which case it should be spent on the state budget of Ukraine. We're going to vote today on a conditional anti-inflation package made by members of the national MPs. Conditionally inflationary, because we are convinced that the list of measures needed to overcome inflation by these bills will not be exhausted far and wide. Maybe it's the beginning of this work, maybe it's a few bills that solve the issue in some particular sector, but it's not, unfortunately, a complex approach to overcoming inflationary processes that unfortunately take place in the country. In particular, I would like to say, back to blocking the message of the President of Ukraine, which had little place on Tuesday in this planetary hall, that this kind of action of our partners we regard as a conscious and unfriendly step towards the head of state and coalition partners. We are convinced that this step had nothing to do with it, because all the questions that seem to have been insisted upon by colleagues were and are in order of the day. Today our faction, like yesterday and yesterday, is ready to vote for them. At the same time, we are convinced that it is still necessary to refrain from putting into order the day - to - day issues that disengage the session halls. It seems to me that the constitutional discussion that is taking place is not officially in the country, because there are many projects, but there is no formal project that needs to be translated into a constructive, professional and professional river basin. Changes to the Constitution are not a bargaining chip to achieve modern interests. So we think that this topic needs to be removed from the agenda of the Ukrainian Parliament at all, and we need to focus on economics, the budget, local self-government, the Tax Code and the problems of a simple person's life, who, regardless of who she voted for, wants peace, stability and confidence in tomorrow. I am convinced that, despite the internal contradictions, the democratic coalition can do so, it is able to carry out exactly the tasks that people expect it to do. In this regard, we are convinced that a genuine package of anti-inflationary measures should be considered by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine at an extraordinary, special session, inviting deputies from all factions, economic specialists, to offer the country a real anti-inflation plan. And in that sense, I'm calling on our coalition partners to support a plan to resolve the internal-coalition crisis, which, at the last government meeting, was proposed by the vice-premier of the "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" bloc, by John Vasjunik. This plan foresees changes to the budget, this plan provides for a special anti-inflationary meeting, this plan foresees a normalization of relations both in the coalition and the normalization of the political situation around the executive branch. We are convinced that all those working in the government and those who are not in the government should devote all the following days to the work of the Supreme Council session with a simple and clear question of economic uplifting. If we do not move away, more precisely those who practice politics, development for our country may not. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u4	Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, Head, honourable voters, we will not go down to the image, someone has grown up to do so, we will not go down to that. The very important thing that was said in my colleague's speech was that we heard, we stood in the project for this week, in the work plan for this week, and in the last few weeks, these bills that we insisted on, and our partners clearly supported them, we will see and see today. If that's true, if that's true, I'll go out to this rostrum and apologize on behalf of all the colleagues of my 155 national deputies who are present in this room, if they are voted as we agreed, both in the first and second readings. They're small, but the government is asking them to support them, and I'm responsible in front of the entire room, and I'm saying to the electorate, my respectable colleagues, let's take down the responsibility for inflation, the government is asking for it to be translated, let's translate. When we vote on three laws, let's start, let's take responsibility for combating prices, for what's going on in the consumer market today. Second thing I want to say. Dear colleagues, dear partners! Parliamentary elections took place, they held party lists for the second time, and some political structure, for the first time, formed a coalition and assumed responsibility. At the State Property Fund, which today with the stumbling block, why today, I'm talking to my partners, why is the political power that has lost the election leading the most important public body today? Nine billion from privatization should come to the budget. The question is not even in money, the question in principle, in approaches and the question is that this money is already prescribed by law, where it should go. They have to go to regions, to local self-government, to capital investment, to solve pressing social problems in places, to the Euro-2012 – the prestige of Ukraine, on many social issues. And that's what the law says, we can't direct any other money there. That's one problem. And the second problem is in fact. Why political power, which is not even in Parliament today, is the head of the most important government body, but is the answer to another political power that has no attitude to it today because of the blocked action. Next question. Inflation in everyone's mouth. Dear friends, it is proposed that the law allow the authorities to regulate commercial allowances. Please tell me, today you have a school of calls, we have purchase prices for vegetables 5 bracelets, 14 bracelets across the supermarket. Three times! Not 70 percent of the trade surplus, but three times. Please tell me whether or not to do this and who should do it. If earlier, a few years ago, 15 copies of bread was offered to the government of Yanukovic, the next day Kuchma released five governors and everything was quickly settled. Today in government, the seventh floor and below – again! The governors don't touch him, not the throne! Then who should? But let's at least give the law to the lady. Or milk. The agrarians in the hall know that one bracelet of 30 copies is a purchase price, and look at the supermarkets at 6.50, five times. But in the end, can we do it or not? Will we merely observe and rejoice on this subject? Can you do that? I'm talking to people, they're against these actions, they're against this action, they're against this policy, or they're against what we're proposing. Question three. Dear colleagues, we are silent about the monetary component of inflation. In a year, oil prices have doubled, and experts predict a doubling of this price. We are a country of import that is deeply attached to the dollar, perhaps one of the few countries that is fully attached does nothing in this regard. Is it expensive or is it cheaper? And the trends continue to be negative. Guilty is government. Oil products are precious. But in the end, let's figure it out. Next question. I fully agree with Arsenius Petrovich that it is not just an economic element in this matter, but it is. There's an institutional crisis. If translated into normal language, there are two structures in the executive branch of power, and there must be one that bears full responsibility. So let's really, I support those colleagues in this room who urgently require a change in this part of the Constitution. But in the end, the president's form of government, then the president and the government are in charge. Parliamentary, both in Europe and then Prime Minister. We have authority over one another, responsibility from another. This is not normal when a country develops, not because of power, but despite. Clearly, then, these questions are urgent today and need to be resolved. Otherwise, our policy, it's not politics, it's erzac politics, when there's no systemicity, no predictability, it's just a reflective reaction to the challenges of time.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u6	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u7	And we're ready. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u8	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have 12 to 12.30 breaks, which I propose not to announce. Is there any objection to not declaring any interruptions? I don't think we're gonna put this to a vote. Is there no objection? Nobody. So they voted unanimously. Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u9	Dear colleagues, you and I, on the one hand, have to be happy, and on the other hand, wept bitterly. Happy that you and I are witnesses and creators of a unique historical experience. As far as I know, the fact that we haven't experienced anything like it in our Ukrainian country is a fact. But as an education historian, I can also confirm that I do not remember any world example if the coalition were against the coalition, if the political forces that formed power were to take action against their own authority. This experience will probably be of great value to future generations, it will need to be studied, it will need to be analyzed and hanged in a frame, according to Anatoly Sergiyovich. On the other hand, we really have to cry, we have to cry, because this is where we come out, we talk, we're agitating, we're doing pear action, and at the same time, without thinking about the simple truth, every one of us, especially the politicians, should understand if you're starting a business, first of all, think not about how to start it, but, first of all, think about what to do. Look, our colleagues at BUT are right, maybe even accusing us that we don't want you to adopt social emergency bills, on the one hand, we can agree with that. But today I asked my colleagues at the faction heads’ meeting: “Please tell me, what have you won? Because if you wanted to look at these laws, we'd forgotten about them a long time ago. Today we are only able to reach them.” And nothing has changed, as it were, all the things we started from but could finish on Tuesday, we have come to this conclusion only on Friday and will, as it were, consider today. Maybe. So, dear colleagues, I really understand that the person who goes to the rostrum, the person who especially runs to the microphone, is very eager to say something special to him, and he may not even always say what he thinks. Well, that's what we have, unfortunately, a situation. Another moment, since we haven't worked with you long enough, I'd like to point out that we've recently celebrated Victory Day with you, these people deserve it very much. I don't know how impressed you are, but I don't think anyone of you who has participated in the celebration of Victory Day in Kiev can conclude that yes, I'm sorry, at such a low level as has been observed this year, our capital didn't know that. If earlier, however it may be, but all the way through, the veterans' columns, we could see the crying where we greeted those who gave us life. So today, I'm sorry, it's just the running boards of those who promise us when life improves. For instead of greeting the veterans either the honestest, or the wisest, or the most talented, or the strongest mayor and his mural team. This, of course, does not beautify what we are about, what we are about, what we are talking about. Anti-inflationary moments. Here many of my colleagues have spoken, perhaps we will discuss customs issues with you today. Well, please tell me, and let the people hear how bananas work for inflation? Or what does chocolate have to do with inflation? Because our colleague, he's here in the hall, I don't see anything, which, he put zero bets on importing bananas and so on and so forth. By these zero quotas and bets, of course, stand far, not zero, but zeros, but in front of quite a lot of zeros and in front of a one or two, or a two, or a three, at the end of the "U. e.", "U. e". So let's actually think about the state and get out of what we want, what we want to do. And, Arsenius Petrovich, the honourable representatives of the coalition, please tell us how much longer do you have to ask to abide by the Constitution? How many more times do we have to speak out of the rostrum and say, let's all meet the constitutional requirement that the parliamentary mandate be incompatible with its functioning in the executive branch? It's been more than six months, who are we laughing at? Why are we doing this? And accordingly, it's going to be a level, on the other hand, and it's going to be a level of trust. And finally. I see that it's all going to be that we're all going to agree soon to accept the draft constitutional changes.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u10	The faction of the Party of the Regions, Mikola Azarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u11	Statement by factions of parties of the regions. Respectable people's deputies, respected compatriots! The country is approaching chaos and anarchy. It is not only the socio-economic crises but also the ongoing conflicts between the President and the Prime Minister, the inability of the ruling coalition. Yesterday, they did not promise, but guaranteed in the coffeehouses that they would create a unique democratic coalition, provide effective and fair power, and are now in the true form. On a daily and daily basis, they increase destructive processes through their lashes and adventures. And these processes can soon become irreversible. Why are prices rising? There's a lot to talk about here. Because there is an absolute drop in production, such as beef - 14 per cent, pork - 49.1, think about this figure, salt oil - 13.6, gasoline - 25.4, diesel fuel - 35.2, oil - 41 per cent, and so on. In five months of the work, the Government of Timoshenko has not only failed to control the socio-economic processes but has also finally spread to problems. The ruling coalition has not resolved any of the vital issues facing the country. They have not yet determined whether to fight for power in Kiev, whether to deal with economic problems. The unique team has already resisted the projected maximum of inflation for the entire year 2008 and has moved far forward. Nearly 40 per cent of food travels, and the costs are the lion's share of the family budget. That is, a shocking price blow has affected those with low and middle incomes. In fact, the policy of the current Government is the judgement of the material well-being of most Ukrainian citizens. Inflation generated by the adventurous policy depreciates the income and savings of people, both in coins and in foreign currency, and the Government's attempts to limit the lending of the economy and citizens make it impossible to correct the situation. Construction industries, investment industries, in particular housing construction, were the most affected, mainly through credit resources. What will the Government of Timoshenko respond to those who have invested in the construction of housing? And now it's time to get the apartments for an indefinite period of time. There are many references to global trends. But prices in Ukraine are growing much faster than they are in Europe. Nothing has been done to address the financing of the agro-industry complex and, to date, crops have been planted by 25 per cent less and sugar beet has been planted by the Timoshenko Government in 2008. But everyone knows that the prospect of a good crop in 2008 was established in 2007, when the winters were sown by 25 per cent more than in 2006. It is significant that both vegetables and fruits, both Ukraine and the countries of Europe, are obtained from one supplier. So why did our prices go up, five to ten times higher than in the EU? For example, our oil products have increased by 50.5 per cent, on average in Europe by about 10 per cent. I mean, we traveled more than 10 times. The webs of Ukrainian power on global trends in life travel, the hard legacy of last year are frankly cynical, play a role in a smoke screen that is sought to conceal the helplessness and non-professionalism of the Cabinet of Ministers. Negative socio-economic trends have been exacerbated by the decline in the rate of real income growth of citizens. The shameful practice of delaying wages and pensions has returned to us. The economy and people have been further hit by the loss of credit and foreign currency savings. Should we consider that, against the backdrop of galloping inflation, the average monthly wage of education, health, social assistance in March of this year is lower than in December of last year? Once again, the question of how to protect people who were quickly given thousands of bracelets from depreciating their employment savings, how to live on their wages, was how to avoid inflation. These famous thousands have already surpassed the number of times since the bracelets were strengthened. [[& Tiles]] More thoughtless and illiterate decisions of the Government and.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u12	Let me finish. Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u13	and the destruction of the well-being of millions of families will be inevitable. Artificially slowing down money traffic, restricting credit, traveling credit leads to a freeze in economic activity and a real decline in the standard of living. In terms of funding for budget programmes, it should be noted that 25 per cent of the budget programmes did not begin at all, 72 per cent were lagging far behind. Contrary to persistent demands of the opposition, the authorities have cynically refused to change destructive policies, the Government has not revised the macroeconomic indicators for 2008, has not increased the subsistence minimum, minimum wages and pensions, nor is it intended to bring the essential social benefits.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u14	Nikolai Janović, we have to finish. Mikolaj Janovich! I'm sorry, but that's it. You've had more than a minute. Thank you. Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin is waiting. Vladimir Litwin, please. ‘Block of Lithuania’.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u15	Dear Head! Dear colleagues! If we take the official reason that the Supreme Council of Ukraine did not work during this week, it is called the "non-admission of a package of anti-inflationary laws". But it is evident that wickedness is political wickedness. You have to tell me what's behind this. This is followed by a bitter political struggle. That's true. Maybe she's setting someone on fire, but you have to tell the truth. The reason is that the resource that was accumulated in Soviet times was finally exhausted. The second is that we have a crisis of statehood, because today politicians do not know how to further establish the country. And finally, we have a tragic failure in the staffing of state-owned construction. We must talk today about the fact that the authorities have exerted themselves in the struggle for authority and in the fight against each other. We should talk about the fact that the Ukrainian authorities today act as a funeral team of a nation with a proud name for Ukraine. We should talk about the fact that today the Ukrainian authorities are engrossed in the search for enemies, traitors, pests, reminding them of the ancient 30s of the twentieth century, which are so hot, so fiercely condemned. We need to talk about the fact that today we have a social degradation and a primitive economy, especially through privatization and the way it was done. We didn't get an effective owner, we didn't get competition, we didn't get a result. We've got a monopoly, we've got financial oligarchy groups, which are now fiercely fighting for power and testimony, to the great regret of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Supreme Council of Ukraine, in opposition between the President and the Prime Minister of Ukraine, was put on a stretch. And I am convinced that the Supreme Council of Ukraine should speak its weighty, responsible, consolidating word. And now, honourable colleagues, regarding the so-called package of anti-crisis laws. I would like the journalists, the cameras to show that this can be made out of a law that is proposed for adoption in the first reading and in general. Can anyone understand what's being proposed here? Obviously, no one understands. Now it is relative to, say, importing meat into Ukraine. Yeah, if that's what it takes, you have to do it. But it's supposed to be a government bill, it shouldn't be a bill of MPs. It should be made clear where the meat will be imported, what quality, who will act on behalf of the State as the seller of the meat, and at what price. You want to force the Supreme Council of Ukraine to serve someone else's interests again today. Enough cane sugar. Clearly, we need to talk about the needs and interests of the Ukrainian people. So, dear colleagues, about all those plans to come out of the crisis that you've been talking about, look at the plan that our faction is proposing, not inside, you're figuring out the relationship. Because if we even look today at these laws, which I'm sure will do more harm than good, but let's go through this road, there's going to be another blockade of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and there's going to be new demands tomorrow. That's why we think we should hold a special meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine with the participation of the President, the entire composition of the government, the heads of the local authorities, and say so. I said, "The President first." And to say the state of the country, to tell the truth, not for any political power, but for the country. The second is to make clear what really anti-crisis measures are needed. First of all, it's budget changes, first of all, it's the adoption of laws on wage increases, it's the share of wages in the cost of the product that you don't want to do, you don't want to make an hourly wage, and then we're going to go on a normal path. And secondly, let's make it possible for the coalition to confirm the coalition's presence. If not, say that you will not continue to torment the Ukrainian people. Otherwise, people should tell everyone, all the authorities, “Go away! ”
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, if you'll allow me a few words as Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I have already said, and once again, Ukraine is deteriorating politically and economically both inside and outside. And what is happening today for quite a long time is nothing more than a theater of absurdity. The country is falling apart exclusively by the hands of the authorities. And no one else does. [[Applause]] The point is that it is now being preserved only by one reason, thanks to the wisdom of the Ukrainians. [[Applause]] Either you and I will show that we are able to share, and the left, and the right side of the room, to take responsibility for the fate of the country, or here, in this room, other people will be sitting in the shortest terms. That's probably what's going to happen. The second question about the initiatives, I think it would be reasonable, and yesterday this issue was discussed, including, and I was suggested, to hold a joint meeting. Let's put three branches of government on any site -- the President's office, the Minister's office, the Supreme Council -- where there would be three branches of power, where the President of Ukraine would be required, where there would be faction leaders to figure out what the main directions of the State for 2008, which is an institutional and economic issue, to write a short step-by-step plan of action and to implement it. And to allow for the completion of those declared things that were during the electoral campaign, to enable the coalition to demonstrate its effectiveness and effectiveness, and only then will we ask. Colleagues, I announce very briefly, in accordance with article 60 of the Provisional Rules, and in accordance with the minutes of the parliamentary factions of the Party of the Regions in the Supreme Council of 6 February 2008 and 7 April 2008, information: the first deputy head of the Party of the Party of the Regions has been elected the National Deputy of Ukraine, Efraemov Aleksandra Sergiyovich, deputy head of the faction elected as the People's Deputy of Ukraine, Kinakh Anatolia Kirilovich, deputy head of the faction instead of Bogatir Rajis Vasilivna and Rybak Volodymira Vasilovich has been elected as the National Deputys of Mironek Mikhail Ivanovic and Tikhov Viktor Mikolaajovich. Colleagues, let's move on to the issues of the announced agenda. Ukraine Act on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, conclusion of the debate. I invite you to the rostrum of Matvienko Anatoly Sergiyovich. Please quickly, Anatoly Sergiyovich, move on to other questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u17	Thank you, Arseny Petrovich. Dear colleagues, Arsenija Petrovich, I am asking you to help me with an agreement, as it has already been, to conclude the discussion of the matter, the Cabinet of Ministers Act. As far as I can remember, we stopped at 332th Amendment. I would ask you, Arsenija Petrovich, to ask if anyone would like to comment on an amendment, if not. As a result of its rejection, it would be possible to move as we did in the first part, right up to the 332th amendment to this bill. If you don't mind, Arsenius Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u18	Dear Anatoly Sergiyovich, I have such a request. We've only got a few of those amendments left. I suggest you do the same work as you did last time. 333th amendment, we're done. So it takes off, it takes off, it takes off, in the same order that we've been looking at the bill to get through it quickly.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u19	Please call it an amendment. I remember.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u20	Anatoly Sergiyovich, you name it, and I, with your permission, put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u21	Okay. Zarubinski's 334th amendment is taken into account in a slightly different edition. Is there no objection? None. 335th partially counted. None. 336th counted. 337 down, Lavrinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u22	Anatoly Sergiyovich! Please, the microphone of Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u23	Thank you. Martinyuk, Communist faction. Dear Arsenija Petrovich and Anatoly Sergiyovich! I have great respect for you, but I have to ask questions. Last time we interrupted, unfortunately too much, the consideration of this bill because there was no report by the committee. Because the committee reporter had some health problems. Now I see a reporter from the committee in the session room. Wouldn't that then be an argument that he was not the one who was appointed by the committee, and you and I will then be on the regulatory committee dealing with the situation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u24	Thank you. Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I want to read to you that it was at the request of Mr. Klukkowski's committee that I was discussing how to complete the consideration of this problem. And since Mr. Klukkowski was at the time, indeed, sick, it was decided that I should report to the conclusion of the discussion. There is no other solution. Therefore, Mr. Klukkowski does not object to this procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u25	The committee's decision is. Adam Ivanovich, here it is, please, I have it too. That's why we have everything under the Rules. Please continue, Anatoly Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u26	The 337th Laurinovich amendment was rejected. The 338th Zarubinski is dismissed, there is no insistence. Thank you. Steckova, 139, I don't think so. Zarubinsky, 340. Well, I'd like to go back to the procedure, Mr. Oleg Zarubinsky, as you stated, only on condition. Please, if you can give Zarubinski a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u27	To the Zarubinese word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u28	Dear Anatoly Sergiyovich, I repeat my opinion or position as expressed when over 300 amendments were considered. With about 40 amendments, more than 20 of my amendments are fully accounted for. Since the age of ten, I have been asked to consider the decision of the committee to be one that satisfies me as a subject of the law of the legislative initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u29	Thank you. 341, Pisarenko-refused. 342, Lavrinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u30	The scribe doesn't insist? Don't insist. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u31	Steckov, 343-counted in part. 344, Logwinko-calculated. 345, Lavrinovich, overruled. 346, Stack's down. 347, Boiler-refused, no insistence. Lavrinovich, 348-counted partially. 349, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, 350, Boiler-refused, no objection. 351 minus, Mathvienne, there's no objection. 352-no objection. Steckov, 353 minus, there's no objection. 354, Boiler-refused, no objection. 355 Stacks down, no objections. 357, Jobist-refused, no objection. 358 down, Lavrinovich, there's no objection. 359, Upper and Petrenko-counted with editorial details, there's no objection. 360, Zarubin-agreement. 361, Lavrinovic-refused, no objection. 362, Triduk accounted for. Klukkowski, 363-refused, there's no objection, Robotec. 364, Workman rejected, no objection. 365, Lavrinovich, rejected, no objection. Pisarenko, 366 – rejected, no objection. Trajduk, 367 and Klukkowski are accounted for. 368, Workman rejected, no objection. 369, Trajduk is included, and Klukkowski. 370, Robot is dismissed, no objection. Klukkowski, 371 counts. 372, Pisarenko is rejected, no objection. 373 - rejected, Robot, no objection. 374, Lavrinovich – rejected, no objection. 375, Thriduk, accounted for. 376, Bondar is denied, no objection. Bodnar, I'm sorry, there's no objection. 377, Lavrinovich – rejected, no objection. 378, Lavrinović - partially counted, no objection. 379, Lavrinovich – rejected, no objection. 380 is not denied. 381, Lavrinovich – rejected, no objection. 382 – I don't mind. 383, Lavrinovich – rejected, no objection. 384, my amendment is rejected, I don't deny it. 385, Lavrinovich – rejected, no objection. 386, Lavrinovich – rejected, no objection. 387, Klukkowski, Triduk is included. 388, Lavrinovich – rejected, no objection. 389, I don't deny it. 390, Stetsky -- rejected, no objection. 391, Lavrinovich - rejected, no objection. 392, Simonenko -- rejected, no objection. So we've been through all the adjustments, and I'd just like to go to my colleagues right now and to you, Arsenius Petrovich. The committee has considered our consideration of this bill in the Supreme Council and is submitting two requests to your address for consideration by the Supreme Council, Arsenija Petrovich. The address relates to article 46, the second part of this article, where we voted with you about it, we did not vote more faithfully than not to limit the number of deputy ministers formed by the Cabinet of Ministers. Regrettably, this rule was not voted out and the old editorial remained, and the old edition of this article tells us that there should be one first and three deputy ministers. In view of the fact that the MPs could not make their amendments in connection with this voted norm, it is proposed that, since we did not have a very good job at the time, the atmosphere was set up, is proposed by deputies Stojk, Žebrivski and Karmazin, once again, to put this article to the 46th vote in an editorial proposed by the committee, i.e. not to limit the number of deputy ministers of the Cabinet of Ministers. If this is not voted out and we don't get the required number of votes again, then the Stoyko deputies, more loyally, were the Robber, the Tuck and the Kendzior, and this is Deputy Stoyko, the Žebrovsky and the Carmazin, proposing to supplement our bill with a final position so that only the newly formed Cabinet of Ministers, which we will be with you to form the next, would have this norm, which limits clearly the number of substitutes. And since the government has been formed today and we have in some cases five, even in some ministries six deputies, so that this law does not affect the current Cabinet of Ministers. So obviously, Arseni Petrovich, it would be logical to propose first to go back to the 46th article and vote, in which the committee proposes not to limit the number of deputies. In the event of a negative vote, vote on a supplement that is given to all deputies in the first and second versions in the course of their registration. Please, Arseny Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u32	Dear colleagues, I'm generalizing Anatoly Sergiyovich's proposal. Offer one. We are voting for the return to vote in favour of Amendment No. 313 to Article 46 of the "Pro Kabmin" Act of Ukraine. If this decision is supported, then we vote on the amendment. If this decision is not supported, or is not voted on, then there is a proposal that, at the end of the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers, the Act should be amended, stating that the act of article 46 of the Law, namely the limitation of the number of corresponding substitutes, should be extended exclusively to the new composition of the Cabinet of Ministers, and that it should not be distributed to the current one. There is a regulatory dilemma that predicts that any changes to the second reading are made to the committee. So we have to vote ad hoc first, and then we have to vote on the final position. Is this considered by the committee? Then it's taken off if the committee considers it. Because all I have is the signatures of the people's deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u33	Arsenius Petrovich, I apologize, I forgot to inform you that the committee had considered these two amendments and the committee had supported that logic.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u34	I didn't have that information.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u35	That's exactly the logic you're proposing right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u36	Okay. Colleagues, then be careful, colleagues. I am voting on the question of the return to the vote on the consideration and support of Amendment No. 313 concerning the amendment to Article 46 of the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers. Please vote. [[12:21:24]] For 237 Now, colleagues. Once again, there will be no objection. This is about supporting the amendment of the Klukkowski People's Deputy, did I get it right, Yuri Bogdanovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u37	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u38	This includes the repeal of article 46 of the relevant law on the limitation of the number of first substitutes and substitute ministers. You heard me. If we vote "yes" to 226, that means that the Cabinet of Ministers alone sets the number of First Deputys and Deputy Ministers. Understand? I'm betting on the vote in support of the People's Deputy of Klukkowski. [[12:22:21]] For 238. Thus, the amendment is counted. Question taken. Are there other issues that need to be considered, comrades?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u39	Another amendment does not make sense to vote because it is exhausted by this vote. All the amendments have been tabled and voted, and the law can be laid down as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u40	Colleagues, we have completed the procedure for reviewing the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. All the amendments urged by the national MPs were voted on. Those who did not vote will not accordingly be counted against the committee’s decision. I mean, according to the procedure and in accordance with article 118 of the Rules and Proposals, which have been tabled very carefully, I put to the vote in the second reading and in general the Law of Ukraine, Registration No. 1312, on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Colleagues, attention, announcing a second reading voting procedure and the Kabmen Act as a whole. Please vote. [[12:23:42]] For 245 Decision taken. Please show by factions. Region Party – 0, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko” – 155, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” – 71, Communists – 0, Block of Lithuania – 19. Colleagues, political document accepted. Now let's move on to economics. Dear colleagues, I'll bet on the vote. Attention! - the question of the inclusion in the agenda and the adoption of a decision on bills: 2292 is a draft law on the regulation of the implementation of certain socio-significant foods and 2291, with alternative 2291-1, establishing a tariff quota for imports into Ukraine for 2008; the third law is 2351 already included in the agenda. Thus, two laws on inclusion and review are 2292 and 2291. Please vote. [[12:25:02]] For 384 This, Ivan Grigorovich, is the answer to the fact that the guarantees that are given are the responsibility of the people's deputies and the Head as well! I said I'd turn it on! Now, colleagues, I'm announcing a bill of 2292 on the draft law on regulating the implementation of individual social-significant foods. Sigal Eugene Yakovich. What do you want? Well, it's already too late, Ivan Grigorovich. 2292. Sigal. There'll be a colleague in the hall. Then, according to the Rules, if there is no reporter and the committee has not identified a suitable reporter, then I will bet on 2351. There'll be a reporter, we'll bring him back. Please log in for two minutes. Grigorovich Lilia.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u41	Lilia Grigorovich, “Our Ukraine”. Dear friends, the vote in the hall clearly demonstrated what was said on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, and this morning, Friday. Everyone's ready to vote. I'm just calling on my friends in the BUT coalition not to break the anti-inflation programme today and urgently call for a colleague to report the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u42	Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u43	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, please give the floor to the Ukrainian national deputy Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u44	Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u45	Thank you, Jaroslav Mikhailovich. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues and Arseni Petrovich! Only the Supreme Council can postpone the consideration of the matter and go to the point that there is no reporter, agree to consider it later. If there's no report, if the committee, you say, has not identified another reporter, we have no right to consider this bill with you. And even though he's in a taxi or a helicopter or a plane, that's his problem. He's supposed to be in the session room. So unfortunately, unfortunately, too much regret and guilt for the authors of this bill, which they have been rolling all week, for the whole society and for the Supreme Council, we cannot consider this bill today, in accordance with the provisional regulations. Unless we vote off the hook.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u46	Demyanchuk, Communist faction
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u47	Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u48	Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u49	Thank you, Victoria. Dear colleagues, I ask you again. Today, when we spoke at the faction heads meeting, we came to the conclusion that, in fact, looking for a way out of the situation we were in, we agreed to act solely on a temporary basis. Because there were plenty and lots of suggestions today. So I don't see the tragedy, I stress again, I don't see the tragedy. There won't be a reporter, maybe we'll take a walk. I'm going to see if that's the case from hockey, because it lists when, what, and how. I think we can take it. But at any rate, it must be the decision of the session room to make it necessary for 226 votes to be taken. And that's not a procedural decision, by the way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u50	Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u51	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Please pass the word to Kirilenko Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u52	Ivan Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u53	Dear colleagues, I ask everyone to calm down. We have a reporter ready for the committee head, Natalia Královska. And Sigal is on the road now. It's literally a few minutes. We always had a chance to change the law, then we could look at it. If you'll allow the Royal and the Committee, please. We don't have any problems. Let's not make a big deal out of this. It's not an event. The Queen may now be in the rostrum to report. Arsenius Petrovich, or they have moved, Sigal enters in two minutes, no problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u54	Dear friends, I'm sorry, but I don't see a problem. You know, we're starting. We can't see an elephant behind the fly. So there's no big deal. I was informed that national MP Sigal was coming. He's here. See, you were so worried. Eugene Yakovic, you've got the Parliament behind you for a week, and you're not coming. On the rostrum, please. Announcing question 2292.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u55	Dear friends, we have a very important law, this law is very important. That's the point. We all feel and see prices rising from trade, how people today are unable to buy food, buy food as a matter of priority. What's the question? Who's to blame? And how can it be adjusted? The question is very simple. The thing is, there are three sides to the market today. The first is the manufacturer, the producer of food products that are of social importance today. There's trade: shops, networks, private structures, and there are people who buy goods. And what is happening today? Why Are Prices Growing? Who's to blame? What can be done? The question is that a producer who manufactures products has to sell them and can only sell them for trade. And in trade, unfortunately, prices don't go up by 10, but they go up by 20, by 30, by 50 percent. So today, trade, in fact, has a monopoly, and it places prices on what it wants, what it thinks. In addition, there are their types of bonuses for joining the network, for shelves, for advertising, and for other services. Moreover, the trade accounts last for, say, three days, not three days, but three months. And all of this leads to prices rising, and people are unable to buy these goods. What have we done with this law? We made this law: first, we have defined in the history of Ukraine a list of goods that are socially significant, we have clearly approved this list. What is it? First of all, it's flour, bread, grains, a burgundy group for vegetables and certain kinds of meat. This is the social package that everyone needs today to live normally. There is neither vodka nor tobacco nor delicacies. Next. The price may be no more than 15 percent, regardless of how many buyers or resellings there are. Next. If trade violates these rules, it will be fined in large fines, and these fines will be applied to the local budget. Next. Any contracts between trade and the seller of goods are prohibited – the manufacturer, where there is sponsorship aid, the need for advertising, marketing and so on. And if these agreements are discovered, once again the amount double of these contracts will go to the local budget. And the next. For more than three days, once again, fines will be removed from trading. And the main thing. We today have, unfortunately, fewer areas of trade in our country than in the whole world. Thus, the law proposes that trade should be able to develop, to place the area under siege in the first place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u56	5 minutes - questions, answers. Katerina Vashuk, “Block of Lithuania”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u57	Mr. Seagal, I fully agree with your argument, but I'd like to hear more clearly. You know exactly what extra wages supermarkets require to put agrarian products there. You know them. I wanted Ukraine to know. I wanted the national MPs to know that this was not just an allowance, and this was required of a simple supplier of produce, from the farmer who made it, from the carnivorous carnivores who processed and gave what additional wages needed to be paid just for the implementation of the so-called hard - grown, produced product that goes to people on food. Ukraine needs to know the heroes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u58	Thank you very much for your question and I will answer it. Today, if you weigh about two pounds [kg] of cattle or pork, say 20 bracelets, it costs almost 40 bracelets online, that is, a meatcombinate manufacturer today sells pork for 20 ounces [20 kg] and trade for 40. What does that mean? 20 percent is the price, then the bonuses. What is a bonus? For example, they sold 10 tons of meat. Yeah? Give me every pound of 2 rubles. Or two bracelets of that bonus. Yeah? It's extortion, it's a hidden form of bribes, we'll take it that way. Next. He wants a shelf. Next. Some kind of ad service. Next, let's say, "Metro-mail." You want that meat to be sold in Metro, pay for Metro Mail, right? And Metropochta is about as much, not less than one pound. And so it turns out that the price today is almost twice as high. That's it. So who's to blame? A peasant who produces food and cannot break into shops.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u59	Arjovitin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u60	Please pass to Lupini.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u61	Xenia Leapina.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u62	Dear colleague, I'd like to hear from you, unfortunately, what we didn't see in the explanatory note. I understand that the bill is aimed at countering inflation. What percentage do you plan to reduce inflation in a year because of the measures you are proposing?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u63	I guarantee you, and I swear to you, no less than 5 percent. 50.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u64	Bondik, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u65	Dear Eugene Yakovitch, unfortunately, you were as surprised as I was in the report on the review of this law, so I don't see the findings of the Science and Experimental Authority. So please, as a reporter, what are the legal regulators of this socio-economic relationship? What did they say about overcoming inflation and producing meat? I know you represent a meat producer in Ukraine, so I think it's very convenient for you to answer that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u66	The point is that this law, first of all, protects the interests of buyers, second of all, of manufacturers. Secondly, this law does not allow pricing to be made more than 15 percent in total. Today, these prices reach almost a hundred percent of the same meat in some cases.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u67	Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u68	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. I will support this law, Your Honor Eugene Yakovich, but I will ask the National Deputies to delete article five and delete paragraph two of the Final Provisions, where you define, in fact, you are amending the Earth Code. And in the third paragraph of the Final Order, I'm going to ask you to add, except for the Cabinet of Ministers, the Antimonopoly Committee and its organs, because they can and should fight for monopolies. How do you respond to these suggestions? By the way, this is going to have to remove paragraph 2 of the Final Position. I am also paying attention to the Scientific and Experimental Authority, which says that this is another subject of regulation, as in Article 5, “Sales preparation of meat”. She'll kill a peasant who's not in those rooms, he just doesn't have any training facilities. He cut that cattle in the yard. And you wrote to him: pre-sale preparation. Therefore, Article 5 needs to be done.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u69	Please, thank you very much for yours. the question, but I want to answer what is to be done in preparation for the meat. This is when a carcase, or half a carcase, enters the store and is cut to pieces. It may be, but on one condition this store has special permits, has sanitary equipment in a room where hygiene, cleanliness, and not cut in a basement. 'Cause what am I gonna say? You read this item carefully, it says clearly that you can do cuts, piles, semi-factories, parchments, anything, but on one condition that this store has special rooms. That's the first question. And the second question about paragraph 2 of the Final Position. I reiterate that today in our country, unfortunately, the area of trade for thousands of Ukrainians is much lower than in Poland, they are twice as low as in Poland. And we know very well how in cities and villages today to get land under a store building and what bribes it is, if you'll excuse me. That's why we'd like to.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u70	Thank you. Time's up. Alexander Tachchenka is not here, I see, so he can't, yes, the author alone, but if Alexander Tachchenko insisted. Thank you, please sit down. Please, I'd like to invite the head of the Natal Juryovn Committee to the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u71	Honourable National Deputies, the Committee on Industrial Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship at its meeting on 16 April 2008, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on the Regulation of the Implementation of Certain Socially Important Foods, submitted by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Sigal and Tkachenko. The main purpose of adopting the bill is to define specific and legal principles aimed at regulating the implementation of certain socially significant food products, ensuring effective price control and pricing. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations supports the bill and proposes to adopt it as a basis. I would like to stress a number of key points that have been taken into account by the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship in its consideration of the bill. First of all, the bill deals with an evil topic affecting the interests of most Ukrainian citizens. And today, when inflation eats a large proportion of the income of the people provided by the Cabinet of Ministers, and since price increases are now most marked in the food segment, and they affect people with low incomes, we understand that this affects most of the citizens of our country. And this problem creates social tension and cannot be left alone. The Government has developed an anti-inflation policy programme, including price regulation in the implementation of socially significant food products. And this bill is an integral part of the legislative process. I would like to point out that the social part has always been a significant part of the policy of the Ukrainian Government. And we have always said that the market economy must be socially oriented. Of course, the situation today is not what it was ten years ago. But according to statistics, about 30 per cent of our citizens live below the poverty line. Therefore, there is no need to forget the socially oriented economy and the need to support the low-security sectors of the population. It is clear that one of the main sources of inflation distortions today is the over-increasing of trade network intermediaries and structures. After all, the holiday prices of manufacturers are sometimes different from those of today’s shopping malls. Parliament also has a share of its responsibility for this situation, because, as the source and regulator of the legislative field, we have made it possible today when the superiors receive intermediaries but suffer people. We often talk about the need to protect producers, but inflation is not only for commercial enterprises, not only for people, but also for producers. The price of raw materials is rising today, the price of fuel, oil and lubricants is rising, the price of equipment is rising, and the inflation ring is rising again. And we have to admit that the price of the goods that lie on the counters of the shop must be the main component of the price of the goods from the manufacturer. And why does today's lion's share of income come to the middlemen, and as a result, people suffer the most. Now it has become fashionable to talk about the social responsibility of business. But in practice, there is nothing for the social responsibility of business. We know that the leading networks of countries have recently signed an agreement with the Cabinet of Ministers, which called for them to make concessions and reduce trade allowances. But more than in the words of trade networks have really done nothing. And the food on the nets didn't work out. It is not clear, by the way, why the Anti-Monopoly Committee, which is scrupulously observing the situation today, is taking absolutely no action. Seven-eight trading networks have, in principle, monopolized the market in Ukraine. And today, the allowance signed with the Cabinet of Ministers is not being implemented by any network. In addition to the 15-30 per cent allowance, additional fees for marketing activities are added to the network. Therefore, the Committee on Industrial, Regulatory Policy and Enterprise believes that the sooner the bill is passed, the sooner our people really feel the decline in food prices in the store. And we propose to adopt this bill as a basis. The bill was unanimously supported by all members of the committee. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u72	I beg you, three minutes of question-answer. Wolitz, the Communist faction. Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u73	I want to pass on the word to Bezu.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u74	Martinyuk, Martinyuk's word, comrades.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u75	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear Natalia Yuriovna! I'm willing to sign under each of your words that you've talked about, you've made a perfectly reasoned report, and you've proved the need to adopt this bill. But I have two pretty basic questions. First. Please tell me if the committee has considered that it prevents the Cabinet of Ministers from acting in accordance with those laws, they have the right to set up any allowances and regulate these issues. And there is an appropriate decision even by the Constitutional Court. So you don't have to wait for the law in Kabmin is that right. And the second. Tell me, please, you are a man of knowledge in these matters. Or after such supplements, we may be able to remove bread from stores, butter, milk, cream, and so forth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u76	I'm sure after these supplements, we'll have an increased range of bread and butter and everything else in stores. Because today, producers who cannot reach shops are particularly affected today, because today the manufacturer is lowering the price and working on a cost-effective basis, while the trading networks are getting the goods equalized and give the maximum allowance, thus discrediting the producer who is standing with a long hand in the shops, and making a mockery of consumers who are several times more expensive than the producer. Therefore, in this case, we are confident that the quantity of goods presented in the store will only be increased. And the equality of producers in front of networks, it is now necessary to have a post-Soviet swamp to reach supermarkets and to ensure that the products produced directly by manufacturers are represented. To achieve the signing of direct contracts. And if you read the treaties that you have, it doesn't fit any healthy meaning when you're chosen.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u77	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u78	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. Unfortunately, you're right, but all of these supermarket owners, and so on, they're going into a lot of very structures today, including government, and they've come up with the idea of bringing all these oligarchs, billionaires. I'm calling now to be heard by representatives of the government, because now there's a Minneconomy in there that included them. Now, according to the bill, I propose that article 5 be deleted, because this is the subject of a completely different law, a law called the safety and quality of food. Article 2 of the final clauses exclude and add to the third paragraph of the Antimonopoly Committee. The author does not deny whether in this way you would be willing to ask questions about the adoption of this bill as a whole. And I'm sure we'd change the situation in the country, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u79	Yuri Alexandrovich, I would like to comment on article 2 of this bill and, of course, this rule is not exactly the subject of this bill, but the problem identified today is indeed very relevant. Because you and I see that where shops used to be, casinos today, entertainment clubs today, they do anything, because the market for trading networks has been monopolized in the country. 7-8 network owners now own the maximum market for product representation. That is why we believe that, in identifying this measure in this law, plus amending the Earth Code, what needs to be done, this will further strengthen and justify the bill. Because today there is a need for support for the development of small social stores that have simply been destroyed in our country in recent years. And we understand that all the local councils today, of course, will be more advantageous for them to present this place than to present a place for the store. As far as meat preparation is concerned, yes, that is more so.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u80	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u81	On the safety and quality of food, but there is also a European norm, and in all European countries this is very strictly regulated by the amendment, and we will also prepare and introduce into the safety and quality of food.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u82	Thank you, Natalia Yuriovna. You've reported so much that you've almost convinced me to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u83	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u84	Sit down, Natalia Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u85	Can I have a word?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u86	Please, another word from Natalia Yuriovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u87	We also propose, as a people's MP, to introduce this bill and to adopt it as a whole so that it can act as quickly as possible. And if the Chamber does not object, put the matter to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u88	Thank you. Presentations from MPs and national MPs. Please sign up quickly, colleagues. Alexander Pecklusenko, faction of the Party of the Regions, from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u89	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! There is not a single person in this room today who does not care about the subject of space price increases. And, of course, the subject of speculation and speculation is of serious importance. And we support the issue of combating speculation and speculation. But it must be remembered that there are 11 million people working in trade today in the country. You can love trade, you can hate it, but you can't count on it. Tell me, dear colleagues who have passed this law. We, a European country seeking to join the European Union, in which country does the European Union have such a law? First. Second. When you said you had to set a 15 per cent price, you asked today about the trade, where eleven million people work, what costs. On average, 17-23 per cent. You're the one who's doing business. You'll get that there'll be valuables in stores, there'll be your law, but there won't be any goods. This law paralyzes trade! We will not participate in this act. You'll get whether this law won't work or the whole country will see empty shelves again.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u90	Prokopchuk, Timoshenko Street. Yuri Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u91	Dear fellow national MPs, distinguished TV setters, radio listeners! This law, which was laid out in detail by our colleagues and explained by national deputies Sigal Eugene, Natalia Juryovna Královska, is exclusively and very necessary. This law awaits the entire Ukrainian people. When we're all here mentally arguing about what we want to give people, yeah, believe me, it's one of those anti-inflation laws that needs to be passed. So I propose to stop the discussion and make it so clear, and to adopt the law in the first and second readings and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u92	Xenia Leapina.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u93	Dear colleagues, we are also concerned about the situation that has taken place today with inflation in the country and is very concerned that inflation is primarily reflected in the poor population and because food prices are rising. Yet we certainly support this bill. Yet, I would like to express our warnings. First warning. We haven't seen real economic calculations. What exactly are we counting on as a result, how much inflation are we going to be able to implement at the expense of such a bill? I think it should be counted, because otherwise after six months we'll go back to this, we'll break this law, and we won't know if it worked or if it didn't work effectively and why it didn't work effectively. The second question that arises. We've been talking for a long time here about this limit on the marginal allowance, but I'll remind you, today there's a law on prices and pricing and the Cabinet's decision to settle the commodity price for these goods, because the Cabinet's decision can make a list of the goods for which the prices are regulated. So the main purpose of this law is not even to define this list. The main purpose of this law is to determine the sanctions as and in what order we can stop if the regulated price is broken and it's actually here, but it's prescribed in a way that we can't agree with. That's why I'm making an amendment now, which, if it's adopted, will allow me to vote on this law as a whole. I propose to withdraw the wording that the size of the fines or proceeds that exceeds the fixed allowance in an undeniable order is tightened, because this is the norm that just leads to corruption, tomorrow the controller will come, count unknowablely what, draw and the entrepreneur will not even be able to prove that he's law-abiding and did everything right. Therefore, I propose that the word “irresistible” should be deleted and edited by the State Tax Administration, and the reconciliation, the amount to be collected, should be carried out in accordance with the order set out to reconcile the amount of tax liabilities set out in the Law on the order of payment of taxpayers' obligations to the budget and to the State trust funds. That way, we'll just give a procedure to prove that you're law-abiding. With these amendments, I think we could take it as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u94	Last performance by Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u95	Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs! Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. I have a few questions, maybe they're rhetorical, and maybe we'll be able to answer them someday. And when we're looking at an anti-inflation package, I think we have a lot of economists here, everyone understands that inflation is a systemic phenomenon that is a product of both subjective and objective factors, both internal and external. And apparently inflation must be regulated and overcome by not individual bills that are not very interconnected with each other, but rather by the way of systemic legislative work. So I hope that the government will give a package, a system, a comprehensive package of anti-inflation measures, because that's what the economy requires. The second question. I wonder why such an important question is and why it is really important. I'll tell you about this right now, our proposal and I of the Lithuanian Block are being initiated, produced by a single MP, not by the government. We thought it was supposed to be a government bill. The Lithuanian bloc will vote in the first reading for the bill. We think it would be desirable, Arseny Petrovich, that tomorrow, no big deal, tomorrow, a working day for a committee of profile. And he prepared and considered the amendments that we, in particular, want to make to the article of the third and the article of the fifth bill, and on Tuesday we will proceed to consider the bill in a second reading. This is an important moment, and we think it should be. The Lithuanian "Block of Lithuania" will vote in favour of the bill today in the first reading. And then, how are we supposed to work on the schedule? But I want to use it, and I still have one minute ten seconds to ask that question. Why is it only about food? And that's absolutely right. Why is it not the question that almost a half a dollar is worth of gasoline on our cars? Who's going to do this? What's with the extras? Is it not the lobbying of importers of light products? Oil products? Why are our domestic oil factories half loaded? Maybe someone doesn't just have an attitude toward them and wants to lobby importers? And why is what's happening at the gas station happening right now? To what extent will the price of gasoline be increased for the common people, on fire? It seems to me that, once again, there are not individual MPs, and the government should present in a package of anti-inflationary measures and its perception of the problem. The position “Block of Lithuania” is defined. That's what we're going to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, I don't think anyone has any objection to us considering the bills before the second. Because the “Variance” is still to be talked into. We need to consider Bills Three. No objections? There's no MP, it's very important. Colleagues, he's still speaking from the national MPs. And we will proceed to the voting procedure. Gordien. The Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u97	Please pass the word Bezu Valerija Ananiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u98	Behizu, please, Valery Ananiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u99	Thank you, Arseny Petrovich. I'm only one line at large. Based on what colleagues have said today, we all need to be accepted into the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. It became clear that the state had to intervene seriously in some economic processes, including the liberal economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u100	Kamchatno Valerius, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko. ” He's stoned. Microphone's on. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u101	Kamchatny, “Block of Timoshenko”, Kharkiv region. Many of my colleagues have recently held dozens of meetings with the people of Kiev in the electoral campaign. I was at another meeting yesterday, and I explained to the residents of the Darnicki district the essence of the law that we are adopting today. I want to tell you and confirm the full support of the people we are proposing. That's the first one. It's different. Today, some of my colleagues gave me reasons to predict a certain sabotage, for one of these warnings from a fellow opposition has already been sounded today. And today, such sabotage, an example of such sabotage that could happen in the implementation of this law, is that it mentioned the possibility of the Cabinet of Ministers actually settling these prices. But we have full sabotage on the part of those who directly have to implement and control these things, these are local government administrations. Today, it is not even possible for Kabin to call himself to ask how price issues are controlled, how consumer market issues are controlled. So what can we talk about? So today, in support of the adoption of this law, I would like to remind you of the responsibility for its implementation for those who will do so and for their possible criminal responsibility in the event that the requirements of this law are not met. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u102	Adam Martinyuk from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u103	Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I'm very sorry to have a co-reporter from the Natalia Sergiyovna Committee. Jury, in answer to my questions, I regret that I may have asked two questions, for she gave me a rather detailed answer to one question, and I wanted to hear more answers to the second question. What are we talking about? You recall that the Head of the Supreme Council once read us a decision by the Constitutional Court and a reference to a special law that already gave us the right and gave yesterday and before yesterday the right of the Cabinet of Ministers to regulate these prices. So we don't have to wait for any law, because it's good if we adopt the law today in general, even though I'm going to say a few words about it. And the President has 15 days to sign. And the Supreme Council's equipment is also appropriate. You have to go through the procedure and so on and so forth. So I have a logical question: Why is it that the Cabinet of Ministers, with all the legitimate grounds plus the clarification of the Constitutional Court, does not do so anymore, and waiting will be unknown, waiting for how long. And once again, and I emphasize, our faction absolutely supports the idea that there should be no speculation. This is beyond a doubt. But I'm afraid of something else: we seem to care about our manufacturer. But would it not be that the manufacturer who made his product would stay with his product? Because whoever doesn't want to, who doesn't get the prize, won't take it, because there's nowhere to go. What, then, should a peasant do? Drinking milk, throwing away or burying meat? And so on and so forth. Hence, it may be necessary to impose sanctions on those who do not want to buy before the second reading, and it would be wise to give the State the right to purchase, for it is clear that a certain sabotage will occur. So the State Reserve can take on such a function, let the state take on this product and implement not more than 15 percent, because there may be enough and quite a disaster. And here, unfortunately, we can come with you, if we don't organize this case, to get to the point where we're going to bring bread from Turkey. And those who have the means to do so will do all they can to make the Sabbath. So I propose that I take a measure of responsibility not only to take them away from the second reading, but also to place them under such conditions or to take the responsibility of the State to realize what has been done by our manufacturer, otherwise it will be quite a disaster.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u104	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u105	Yuri Carmazin. Dear friends, I would like to support this law and I would like to draw your attention to the fact that inflation needs to be tackled in several ways. The first method is, now that we're using, the limit. And the second is about saturation of the market and creating conditions for the peasant. Let's see what's going on today. Why did the peasants rebel in Santa? Why did they hold their assembly, which they called “the landless and the wealthy peasants”? And because they're screaming, they're already down. They bought milk on their bracelets 90, and now they're on their bracelet 30. This is because the prices in the universities per liter of this milk diluted with water are already 6 grevens or 6.50 based on the fatness of the oil they added there. I'm speaking in a direct sense of that word. So what are we doing? Why can't we hear them? They're destroying it, they're knowingly doing it. And that's why this law is designed to support manufacturers. To make it. I also wondered why the government didn't use it. What about the government’s determination today? If the governors do not listen and appear, who will perform? So there must be the power of the law, there must be the power of power, and everyone must feel that there is power. We have to take care of the saturation of the market at the same time and ensure that speculation stops. I propose to delete Article 5 from this law because it refers entirely to the subject matter of regulation of another law, “On the safety and quality of food”, although necessary, and it needs to be amended. I'm proposing from this law that we don't go into the Code of Earth, throw away part of the second Order of the End: they're very important, but we have to get out of there. And I propose in the third paragraph to add the Final Positions after the words “the Cabinet of Ministers” – “and the Antimonopoly Committee”. And our colleague Zarubinski asked the right question about gasoline, about fuel, about diesel. The question is that we're lobbying these factories that we don't want to invest in today, like a dog in blue: they've grabbed factories -- and they don't want to take credit to do technical resupply. And today you're being given the form of a campaign: vacations, solstices, another campaign -- and fuel that doesn't meet any world standards and that's at a price today, one and a half times higher than in the United States. That is why this law must be adopted today, both in two readings: in the first and in the second. With the amendments we said. A country can't wait.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u106	The speeches of the people’s deputies were concluded. Please, Sigal. And, Natalia Yuriovna, you are. According to the Rules, the last word, and more specifically, the final word.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u107	Dear colleagues, I am very grateful for your performances. I fully agree with Mr. Carmazin’s comments, but we are now drafting a law on the quality of meat and meat products. And we will certainly write these points there. There may also be a point in the Codex earth to make changes. And the fact that we have to join another antitrust committee here is also, of course, true. I also agree with Kseniya Lapina’s comments that perhaps today it is not possible to take this money into account in an unconditional way, but rather that there should be some facts to appeal under the current legislation. But that's what I want to say. I want everyone to understand that today we're not talking about vodka, we're talking about cognac, we're talking about chocolate, we're talking about dry, we're talking about orphan sausages, we're talking about other delicacies. We're talking about what? The first is flour, bread, grains, pasta, and meat, and a group of bordellos: potatoes, beetroot, carrots. In commercial networks, these products account for not more than 10-15 percent of their sales volume. So if we're forced to do this now, we're going to demand trade to keep the limits of this law, the loss of trade is going to be low, but people are going to be able to buy the food they need every day at affordable prices. And this law is also important. By this law, we curb inflation and enable our poor people to buy goods of primary necessity every day. I ask you very much to support him in the first and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u108	Natala Juryovna Kraljevska, please. Are you going to be out of town, Natalie Yurievna, or out of the rostrum? It's better from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u109	Dear Adam Ivanovich, first of all, I want to answer, thank God, I've been given extra time to ask your question. And I want to report that government, fixed and regulated prices and tariffs are being set by the Ukrainian authorities. So what prevents us today from adopting this bill in the Supreme Council? It does not prevent the project from modifying, supplementing the list of goods to the Cabinet of Ministers. Therefore, the list of social and significant products, which is also approved today in the bill, can be further amended by the Cabinet of Ministers. Unfortunately, however, the Cabinet's mandate is not sufficient today because at the level of local authorities its initiatives are also blocked by the bill's decrees. The Cabinet of Ministers' orders at prices are not being implemented today at the level of local authorities. We therefore insist that this should be adopted at the legislative level and that we request the entire room, in the light of the amendments made by Laupina and Carmazin, to adopt a bill today as a whole. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u110	Colleagues, let's move on to the voting procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, a few things I'd like to tell you. First, the committee made a proposal, a corresponding draft decision on voting as a basis only in the first reading. But there are proposals for Ukrainian national deputies to vote in a second reading. So I say this: let's put the first reading now, if there's no hard reaction to the second reading, then it's proposed to vote it out in the second reading. At the same time, before voting on the second reading, we need to discuss clearly all the amendments that went under the transcript, since then we will not find out the editorial substance. If it happens that we don't vote in the second reading, then I'm going to go to everyone, including the opposition, so that the 111th Rules will shorten the terms of consideration as envisaged, and make all the amendments quickly so that we can look at it in the second reading on Tuesday. At the same time, comrades, which I have to ask you right now: that we then make a procedural decision to review the reduced procedure of the two other laws so that we can adopt them today if not in the second and in general, at least in the first. There'll be no objection, I suppose? It won't. Colleagues, I'm voting on the passing order on the basis of Bill No. 2292. Order 2292-P. Colleagues, please vote for the basis. [[13:15:44]] For 272 So in the first reading, Bill No. 2292 was adopted. Now, about the second reading, which position after the second reading: Are we following the second reading amendments and voting for the second reading, or are we doing the shorter procedure? Let's do the second reading, what's the position? Then talk about adjustments, what adjustments? Please turn the microphone on. Lappina.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u111	I would ask in the second paragraph, where the second paragraph says that the entire amount of the trade allowance and so forth in the text is bound by the State Tax Administration. The word “uncertain” should be deleted. Instead, add a sentence that the reconciliation of the obligation is carried out in the order provided for in the Ukrainian Tax Obligations Act “On the order of payment of the taxpayers' obligations to the budget and to the State trust funds”. And I'm asking you to do the same thing in paragraph four. It's where the speech goes. No, I'm sorry, it's number three. Where it comes to the fact that the proceeds, the last paragraph, are obtained by other contracts than the standard contracts and so on, are the same as the text. Excluding the “irresistible” and adding “obligations harmonize” and.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u112	Right. Natalia Jurijovno, comment, please. Turn on the microphone from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u113	Xenia Mikhaylovna is absolutely right in this regard. And we fully support these amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u114	And so, Xenia Mikhailno, we remove the word “free” from two articles. Yeah? And what do we include? A reference to the law? I mean, once again, I want to emphasize that it's under the stenogram. Just like you dictated. Natalia Juryovno, do you mind?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u115	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u116	You don't mind. What else is the amendment, colleagues? Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u117	Yuri Carmazin. I have proposed and proposed that article five be deleted, since that is the norm of another law. That's the first one. The other one. In the end, the second paragraph is deleted because it is the norm of the Earth Code. And the third ending point after the words “Minister's Office” is added to the words “Antimonopoly Committee” as well. Because that's where we're talking about monopolies in the wholesale market. That's why it's motivation. I've already talked about her. The author was in agreement with these three suggestions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u118	Yuri Anatolievich, the only one with regard to the Antimonopoly Committee. We are well aware that today nothing prevents the Antimonopoly Committee from working or allowing seven networks to be monopolized in Ukraine. But when the anti-monopoly committee starts drafting laws today, we understand that this will only complicate the procedure, because it will happen that both the Antimonopoly Committee and the Cabinet of Ministers can develop the forms of the treaty. And we fully support monitoring.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u119	Comrades, who else has the correction? [[B in m in s a l in]] . Well, please, two more deputies. Colleagues, order in tank armies, because tomorrow they'll say that the national MPs had a corresponding amendment, not counted, wrong law. I don't know my last name. I'm sorry. I can't see that far. Baranov. Please turn on the microphone. ‘Block of Lithuania’.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u120	Arsenius Petrovich, I am very grateful for our desire to influence pricing, but I do not understand exactly what this law will have to do with the market economy in which we are trying to work. That's the first question. That is, are we not afraid that once we adopt this law, we will lose our jobs and leave the people involved in wholesale trade? I therefore believe that this law must be considered, but still in the committees to discuss it, so that we do not squander, cause no sorrow for the inhabitants of our country.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u121	Thank you. Guys, are there any more repairs? Alexander Paklusenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u122	Alexander Pecklusenko, faction of the regions. Dear colleagues, I understand the desire of all of us to curb speculation, to curb the galloping rise in prices. And we're here with you guys in solidarity. But you can't do it the other way around. This law against civilized trade, all 17 years ago, our predecessors made it possible to create civilized trade. We're about to hit and everything's going to go dark. How will you control the prize? You're just risking, risking the country's well-being, don't do that. After all, if you want to adopt this anti-market, anti-Ukrainian law, you minimize your own losses. Please do not regulate the price, regulate the profitability this may limit the excess. But don't in any way make a loser civilized.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u123	Dear colleagues! No more corrections, comrades! There are no amendments, so I'm going first, about the special procedure of consideration, which is the transition to second reading. Then I put two amendments to the vote, then I put it to the vote as a whole, you heard. So now I'm looking at a special procedure for reviewing the bill, a deviation, which is to go to the second reading of the bill. Did everyone hear that? Vote. [[13:22:22]] For 226 Decision taken. Colleagues! I now put to the vote the amendment of National Deputy Kseniya Lapina. I would like to say that the amendment is expressed under the transcript and can only be edited. The substance of the correction doesn't change, it doesn't need to be repeated, I understand, everyone has heard. And so, taking into account the amendment of Kseniya Lapina to the relevant bill. [[13:23:03]] For 227 The correct amendment is counted. Now I'm putting to the vote the amendment of Yuri Carmazin, only the editorial can be the amendment, it's not fundamentally changing. Colleagues! I'll bet the vote on an appropriate amendment. [[13:23:28]] For 226 Correction counted. Colleagues! We've made all the decisions in accordance with the Rules, we've made the deviations, we've taken the ad hoc, we've made all the amendments, there's no other amendment of the people's deputies, that's all that's provided for by law. Now I'm voting on the bill in the second reading and in general, although I don't want to say my position on this bill. Let's vote. [[13:24:09]] For 251 The law in question has been passed. Oh, my God! The main thing is that we don't get to regulate refrigerators and TVs. Let's move on. Dear colleagues, two bills are under consideration: 2291 with an alternate, and 2351. There's a short cut, there's no objection. I am putting to the vote the issue of considering these two bills in short motion. [[13:24:56]] For 225 Decision taken. Because this is a procedural decision, comrades, 150. So it's all right. Let's do it again, Eugene Yakovitch Sigal. Eugene Yakovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u124	Dear colleagues, first of all, I am very grateful for the support of the past law. Now there's another subject, what's its point, what's the point of Law 2291-1. The thing is, today, two components are happening in our country, first of all, people get more income, more money, and that money allows more food and, first of all, meat. So people who haven't eaten in years who haven't been able to eat in the last two years, today have a real opportunity to buy something, buy something. But there is a second problem. Regrettably, the meat that is produced today by our businesses and singles is not enough. We clearly see a fall in the production of meat from cattle. It is not the first to go down, and the decline in livestock production is the same throughout the world. Pig production is also falling. One that rises is the increase in the production of bird meat. But today it's really negative in the meat balance somewhere between 250 and 300,000 tons a year. This negative has been similar in recent years. But in recent years, how has this meat deficit been covered? There were, in fact, three schemes. The first scheme was frequent black smuggling when meat was transported through Ukraine to Moldova, but it was unloaded in Ukraine for certain bribes.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u125	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u126	The second scheme was that. So - called meat was transported to Ukraine for processing and was about to leave, but it did not leave. And the third scheme is free zones. Today these three schemes do not work. What are we asking? We ask one thing to allow this year to bring with zero duties into Ukraine the meat of a large cattle, only carcases, or half carcases. The same pork is carcases, or half-carcases, the same bird meat is carcases and pans of megawatts. In sum, according to this Law, it is 250 tons per year. Next. The VAT that will be obtained when this meat is cleared will be directed directly to the producers of the like product. The meat can be imported either directly from meat producers, producers, or from the State Reserve. Please support in the first reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u127	Thank you, please sit down. It's a simplified procedure, it doesn't provide questions and answers. I invite the committee head to the rostrum for an appropriate report. Terjehohin Sergey Anatoliyovich, he's not here, so we have the right decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u128	Honourable National Deputies, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Tax and Customs Policy at its meeting on April 15, 2008, reviewed the draft law establishing a 2008 tariff quota for imports into Ukraine of certain types of meat, registration No. 2291, submitted by the national deputies of Sigal, Tkachenko. This draft law on the establishment of a global tariff quota for imports of certain meat species in 2008, registration No. 2291, submitted by national deputies Terrokhin and Sigal. The main purpose of these bills is to fill Ukraine’s internal market with meat and meat by creating conditions for importing meat in connection with its deficit. In the process of discussing these bills at a committee meeting, the National Deputies made a number of comments on both bills. In particular, it was determined that the legislative initiative should be aimed, not at lowering meat prices, but at stabilizing them, since national producers otherwise suffer. In addition, the proposal to allocate quotas only between enterprises with their own processing capacity or their own production is contrary to the law on external economic activity, which guarantees operators to adhere to the principle of legal equality and nondiscrimination. Regarding tariff quotas, they were also warned because today the deficit is 212 thousand tons of meat from the Ministry of Economics to ensure the balance of the meat market is sufficient to import by the end of the year of the tariff quota of 250,000 tons. As a result of the tough discussion, the following proposals were made: to set a maximum tariff quota of 250,000 tonnes per market area; to set import duty rates at the level of the consolidated proposal set out in the protocol for Ukraine's entry into the WTO of 10 and 15 per cent; to set rules that group leave prices should not be lower on average than the static wholesale prices for the implementation of the relevant goods by national producers; to exclude tariff quota allocation only between processors and manufacturers with their own processing capacity; and to leave.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u129	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u130	Imported within the tariff quota cannot contain genetically modified organisms within the meaning of the Ukrainian Food Quality and Safety Act. In the course of the committee's vote, none of the bill's adopted a sufficient number of votes to support the first reading. Therefore, it is suggested that a decision be made on these bills by voting in the session room. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u131	Thank you. Please, colleagues. So the committee rejected the bill and did not support it. I see. Please write two in, two in, and no. Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u132	Dear colleagues, the question is not new, it has been imported by Ukraine for five years, it has never been accepted by law, openly speaking, smuggled, and you know it, because of free economic zones or priority areas. That's the first one. The government is making an offer to do it legally and honestly. The other one. Dear colleagues, they bring in an absolute majority of the world's countries just like we do, making decisions at the legislative level, setting quotas and transparent, honest, what order and so forth, and so on and so forth. As a reminder, veterinary medicine, which is the strictest controlling body in this regard, is headed by a representative of the Party of the Regions. And thank you, control it so it doesn't seem like it. Question three. They're bringing Russia today, without any restrictions, and Belarus is bringing from us a combo carma, a grain. The countries of the Baltic Sea carry the shrapnel, and they bring the oil. Without noise, without politicization, people come to work. We're kind of coming to the fight. Dear colleagues, 250,000 tons. Although experts from the Party of the Regions have calculated that 500,000 tons should be imported. 250, if it affects inflation. In terms of price stability, it will affect the only product that today causes inflation — meat. It was correctly said to colleague Kruglov, to stabilize, at the expense of saturation. Where did the deficit come from? In three years, the social benefits doubled, and the food market did not work as smoothly as a printing press. We're spending 60 percent of what we ate in the '90s. So the people went to the consumer market. That's where the price comes from. Let's help people. We're going to meet people. And one last question. The manufacturer, remember, colleagues, the producer sows grain in September, receives crops in August, and sells it later. What is the result? She's sown for real money, she's getting papers. The manufacturer doesn't lose in this respect, but the consumer does, because he gets it every month. Let's support it in both first and second readings. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u133	Paul Zebravsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u134	Dear friends, not responding to a problem in the country’s meat market would be the wrong and absolutely right decision of the Cabinet of Ministers on the issue of, say, reducing the production deficit in the Ukraine market. However, there are actually two proposals for this bill. First. If 350,000 tons is missing, we have literally 7 months left. So the quota can't exceed 25,000 tons a month. Then it won't be too much production. The second question. It's not exactly manual, the distribution is going to be per. quotas. As a result, the proposal to paragraph 7: The tariff quota is distributed to the economy by selling on an open auction individual lotes the size of which is set by the Cabinet. I think it's going to be the right thing to do, and no one, it's going to be the transparency that we said in shaping our policy and our coalition. Well, there's a third question. Dear friends, I am convinced that we must urgently prepare for the changes to the Budget Act, because such imports do not eliminate our own manufacturer. As a result, we urgently need to reduce subsidies for plant products other than flax and sugar beet and increase subsidies for animal production. For the animal industry. It's essentially twice, three times as big as the veal, or the top, and about twice as big as the pork. Then we will not think for years about how to accept quotas or not, who to give lots to, and who not to give them. And it's not just going to be a seven-minute position, because now we're going to fight with you as a result. Today, we do not provide for this law, and what we will do next, how we eliminate the shortage of meat products in the market in the coming years. And so far, the coalition and the government have a clear mandate, including a protocol mandate for the Cabinet of Ministers to develop a new grant scheme.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u135	Jaroslav Suhi, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u136	Dear colleagues, I understand very well, like the members of the Party of Regions, the adoption of these and other strange bills -- the question is solved. You will surely vote for them because you swore to each other somewhere in the rooms during the negotiations. Think about the consequences of adopting these bills. Eugene Sigal, a colleague of mine, said: “People are getting a lot of money and they want to eat a lot of meat, but... What is it? Is Meat Missing? No, the price is high. Is that how much money is needed, or is there not enough meat or meat? What happened? It's a battle against inflation, unless it's an inflationary process they're fighting in this way, bringing ice cream, deep-frozen ink out of the country. I have two questions. Please tell me, why did the price of meat go up from Lugansk to Uzhgorod, that we have 11,000 working in the trade of total dirt? Why Did It Grow? But because the solar system has grown, the electricity has grown! Tell me, please, what VAT will now be left on someone who sells other people’s meat, and why do we not want to leave these taxes to our agricultural producer? Why are we skinning him? Why are we out of it right now, stressing the prices on energy, driving the prices on cars, on machines, on processing? Is that the answer? Naked! The bare administration, the impeccable administration in price policy is talking about one thing: the low professional level of today's government and what you've been looking for and looking for who's to blame. The guilty merchants, the poor, and the Supreme Council. These bills are ineffective. They don't have anything to do with the fight against inflation, it's just a primitive pianist.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u137	Gordon, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u138	Please pass the word to Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u139	Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u140	Dear colleagues, on the calendar of May 16th. And I am glad that no one today beats the fanfare that we have become WTO members. Please read the bill. What's written here? “To the day of accession to the World Trade Organization.” and two dots. We're already in the World Trade Organization. What do we accept? Next. Please tell me, who will define these shops and half-carries that will buy meat? Everyone or Sigal? Don't forget, $250,000. Ton! And the towers that can transform this meat into a million. What do you mean? If anyone has these, they'll give one to another, won't they? I have a legitimate question: dear, why don't you buy through the state structure -- through the State Reserve, which could control and have the right to control? Third, third. We just passed a bill on the trade bonus with you on the clock. So please tell me, will 15 percent just be a meat supplement, or will it be a full program? In full because you buy, at most, 14.5 bracelets of meat. Maximum! Beef is a maximum of 7 and 8 dollars, and you will sell 50 and 60 dollars. So where's the 15 percent? So all you have to do is make it through the State Reserve. All you have to do is set the cost of the profitability of 15 percent that we're talking about, clearly determine who's going to buy it so there's no speculation, because clearly, each of you, of us. We've fought for these supplies before, it's purely speculative. laws. And most importantly, all the revenue they're going to get is going to go to the state budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u141	Sigal. Did you want a replica? National MP Sigal, you asked for a line. Please. And there was a line, you said his name.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u142	Dear colleagues, can I explain? Meat has been imported to Ukraine for at least 10 years, and all these 10 years. And all these years, it's just been a smuggling scheme. Now we want to make this process legal. First. It's different. Today there are prices to the world, and we want to bring in normal, quality meat at world prices. I'm stressing again, it'll be carcases and half-carcases. There will be no obscenity, and the control will be complete and rigid. However, Mr. Kirilenko was right when he said that the country’s veterinary service today is headed by representatives of the Party of the Regions and no one is changing it. Next. We've just passed the law on prices and allowances. This law defines 15 percent. So if we drive 250,000 tons of meat, I agree with Mr. Zebrowski's amendment, let's make it 25 a month, but we'll take this meat today with a zero bet, the price on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u143	Let me finish. You won't? You won't, okay. Let me finish. Finish up, please finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u144	Once again, the situation is difficult in the country today. Let's, as people who think heads and are responsible for something, take some measure, and take off this tension. Today, meat is not enough. This will allow you to bring in civilized, transparent meat at normal prices. And today in trade, if we adopt this law, the price of meat will not be on. And the price of pork will not be higher than 20 bracelets, no. It is a normal law, and it is the law that is used by countries around the world. I'd like us to vote in favour of Law 2291-1.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u145	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Comrades, yes. The committee doesn't support me, so I don't have a decision to support the committee. But there is a proposal for national MPs. Let's follow standard procedure. First of all, I don't want to express my position as a member of the coalition under these laws. All right, I'd better keep my mouth shut. So I have this proposal: 22,291 I put to the vote in the first reading. Like, 91 first, then one. Comrades, why not? Well, don't run Parliament, everybody! I'm betting on a bill of 2291 on acceptance as a basis. [[13:45:32]] For-9 The decision is not taken. Now I'm putting a bill of 2291-1 on acceptance as a basis under the Rules. [[13:45:55]] For 225 The decision to take a stand as a basis is not taken. And if I ask you, comrades, listen carefully, for the first time again? [[B in m in s a l in]] Didn't anyone make it? And I didn't make it to the MP. Well, yes, so they say that, then, the return to the question of voting as a basis. Tell me you haven't made it. Catherinechuck didn't make it, yeah. Please return to the vote on the adoption of the bill as a basis. [[1:46:42]] For 224 Comrades, the decision is not made. Fellows, can you be absolutely honest with me now? Colleagues, I'm telling you. Even if we were to adopt this law, it works until it enters the WTO. Today we joined the WTO, so I don’t understand what we accepted. But I put the vote twice. There's no claim? All of it. [[B in m in s a l in]] I understand that. What are your claims to me? Dear colleague Sigal, I voted twice. What else has to be done? I voted twice myself. [[B in m in s a l in]] From the procedure? Please log in.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u146	You're gonna screw it up. Please log in with the procedure. Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u147	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. I understand why our colleagues want to step out of the procedure, because now they're going to rape the Head of the Supreme Council, go back against the Rules again before the vote is one moment. The second moment, I don't know if it's true, but those who are already pregnant can give me the answer, but if I'm not mistaken, the meat has already been imported. And today we wanted to sanctify the smuggling by our actions. So let's, dear fellows, come on, dear fellows, let's pay attention to these issues. The question is, we've gone to the request of BUT, we've kept it together, we've almost kept it, although this is a matter of far-off procedure, we've returned to the vote, we don't have the required number of votes. And once again, today, on May 16, no law can be passed by you and you have no right to violate international laws. So let's finish our fruitful session on this.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u148	Comrades, we can vote another decision with you in accordance with the Rules – this is a re-reading of the first reading. It's a rule. It's open and it's right. If I were to read it again now, I'd like to re-read it. Come on, let the people's deputies express themselves quickly. Babenko Valeriy Borisovich, BUT
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u149	Please pass the word to Sergio Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u150	Sergey Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u151	Dear colleagues, just to correct the mistake that the authors were preparing in the first reading, and an amendment was made with the “1” badge, if you notice, does not contain the norm for joining the World Trade Organization. That is why we propose to go back to voting on the bill with the “1” badge. Moreover, if Adam Martinyuk claims that such meat has already been imported into the customs territory of Ukraine, it has already undergone all appropriate customs procedures, and this can only apply to the new importation of meat. Therefore, we insist that it be re-elected with the “1” badge, which does not contain the norm applicable to the accession of the World Trade Organization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u152	Mikola Komar, Party of Regions. Jaroslav Suhi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u153	Dear colleagues, I think the coalition is very democratic, it has the right, they have the majority, to vote as they think. They're going to be responsible, after all. I insist that these bills, this and the previous ones, have nothing to do with the fight against inflation. Instead of fighting inflation, we get stagnation in agricultural production, necessarily, the sad social consequences in Ukraine’s village, and galloping inflation after a short period of time. Perhaps you feel that you are cheap meat that dogs do not eat, and you will somehow break through the presidential election. You're very wrong. It's not a fight against inflation, it's a primitive filthy pianist. And do not involve us, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in your games primitive that you promised each other there. Let us help our Ukrainian village rather than the hilly meat producers.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u154	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u155	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like you to think, what's interesting today in the state to keep smuggling going? So I'll tell you what, it's going on. Do You Know Owners? Do you not know what area they were in? Do you know who those free economic zones belonged to? I'll answer for the donuts, just a second. I'm telling some people. So, your honor, I'm saying, let's forget about free economic zones. We will keep in mind the interests of society. Why did Russia drive as much as it takes cheap meat, which is of quality, I emphasize when it is not necessary? And we need to get a cheap one. Obligation to be quality. And make sure that it gets to people. And create conditions for your own manufacturer.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u156	All right, colleagues, we're done. Efraem's Alexander, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u157	Dear colleagues, I would like to be tactful, especially in evaluating some other political forces or factors. I would like to point out that today the Party of the Regions is very considerate in its decision-making, especially with regard to the fate of the State. And if anyone's trying to make any hints, I'm going to let myself know that we're not voting for the decision you're making today. So you're looking for a problem inside. Take a look at what is done to your eyes, and see the sorghums that you have above all, and do not look into other things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u158	Colleagues, I'm asking everyone, let's not have any political speculation, I emphasize. Because it's not going to be an economic debate, it's going to be political speculation. To avoid these things, I ask you to re-read Bill 2291-1. Colleagues, for re-reading. Do you hear that? Please vote. We're in favour of getting back to the vote, for the first time again. [[B in m in s a l in]] Comrades, we vote first again. [[13:54:09]] To 223. Come on, what is it? [[B in m in s a l in]] . All of it. Colleagues, I've done everything I can to get this bill to last. Let's move on to the next bill. Do we cross or not? Do we have time to consider? Colleagues! What is the position of the people's deputies with regard to the next bill on customs tariffs? Do we continue to consider? Let's see. Report to 2351, please. As chairman, I will continue for 15 minutes. If we don't make it, we'll be looking at it next week. Please proceed with the Martinyuk procedure. And write down who's two minutes out of the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u159	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear Arsenija Petrovich, I want to clarify to myself and certainly to my colleagues the procedure under which we are considering this bill. If it's short, let's not make people laugh. 600 pages of text, an extremely important economic bill, is extremely important. That's the government's income, that's what the state lives for. We want to consider, if so, we want to consider a simplified procedure. Two minutes to report is a laugh for the chicken. If we look at it, we have to look at the whole procedure, let's look at the clock. Whatever the case, we don't have enough time to consider this bill. I think we should thank each other today and successfully conclude the morning session.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u160	Laško, Katerinczuk, Javorowski And Zarubinsky Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u161	Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Adam Ivanovich! Don't worry, you're just out of the rostrum, telling people how you're doing about people's interests. You don't want to work the second hour of the day. Did you get a ticket? Are you going somewhere to rest? Let's vote and see, you have a co-author in that bill that was previously discussed by your colleague, why don't you support it? You go to the microphones and you tell me how you make sure there's no inflation, there's no headaches in the room, you don't vote. Let the people know what you're really doing.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u162	Catherinechuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u163	MP Mikola Catherinechuk, faction "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense", European Party of Ukraine. Dear Arseny Petrovich! I insist that we continue the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, because this is a very important issue. I'm also surprised that the 1060 bill on two tours of the election of the city's head in Kiev to today's number has not been accepted. Your task is to create an active system for cleaning up the crew of the Chernevski Marauders from Kiev. And do it, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u164	Yavorowski and Oleg Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u165	Vladimir Yavorowski, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. Dear Arseny Petrovich! And the honourable electorate, I address the electorate. The month of the Supreme Council did not work, we are discussing issues that were conflicting instead of looking at them and moving on, Arsenija Petrovich, put to the vote to continue the working day. I don't understand where the esteemed comrade Martinyuk is going. Put him to the vote. Continue for half an hour and solve these problems, we insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u166	Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u167	Oleg Zarubinsky, Block of Lithuania. Dear colleagues! There is no limit to the truth of cynicism, the work of the Supreme Council was blocked from Tuesday to Friday, and another ten minutes are required. Cynicism is total cynicism. As for the reduced procedure or the actual procedure. You know, Arseny Petrovich, I'd like to address you, you stand up for parliamentaryism, I think all MPs should do it. There can be no legislative work on the background, no 600 pages can be considered over a period of two minutes. They expect us to make good decisions, or they expect us to put up the pieces and tell us that we did something, we have to stop doing things like this.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u168	Adam Martinyuk, a replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u169	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. I've got two minutes of talking, but I'll be able to answer to the dignitaries for one. Unlike you, I'm not in any hurry, that's the first. Secondly, please listen to what they're saying, I've just-just talked about clarifying, after all, 600 pages of text that we're going to look at with the procedure. And it wasn't that I was in a hurry, it was that I suggested, not that I was in a hurry, but that I was looking at the whole procedure. But if you scream that zero bets on bananas, chocolate and so forth, and so on, it's a rescue of the state, then I definitely can't agree with you. Because zero banana bets are your pockets, because zero chocolate bets are your firm and so on and so forth. So let's just be specific and listen to what other colleagues are saying. Once again, unlike you, I'm not rushing to the end of the gap, you're in a hurry, because you have a burning ground under your feet.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u170	Comrades, the following is suggested on this optimistic note. To vote in favour of the continuation of the parliamentary session, but we are considering the full procedure of the customs tariff. I mean, once again, before the completion of the 2351 full-procedure review of the bill, the continuation of Parliament's work. Please. [[14:00:31]] For 227 Decision taken. I'm asking you to come to the rostrum, 2351, Maksuta Anatoly Arkadyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u171	Your Honour, Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! The draft Ukrainian Customs Tariff Act, which has been introduced for your consideration, has been drafted for the purpose of implementing the Ukrainian National Legislation, International Agreements, i.e. bringing import duties on goods into line with the 2008 tariff schedule, which is an integral part of the protocol for Ukraine's entry into the World Trade Organization adopted at the WTO General Council meeting and approved by the Supreme Council on 10 April of this year. So, this is exactly the bill that we're bringing national legislation to the level of tariff rates that are already foreseen by the WTO entry protocol and that have already been ratified by the Supreme Council. The bill provides for the introduction of valid import duty rates to a level of 2.4,000 goods under categories consisting of 21.1 per cent of the total customs tariff nomenclature of Ukraine and from. - 64 cargo groups. The bill provides for a review of a series of import duty rates, both for food and for industrial goods. In particular, food products touch 1.2 thousand goods under categories of food, accounting for 48 percent of the food value of the customs tariff. Overall, the average import duty rate for food products in this group will decrease from 13.79 to 9.11 percent. I would like to point out that, in some places, food products have been effectively banned and settled, especially on meat, which has been discussed and settled today, will be able to reduce the volume of smuggling and to ensure the legal introduction of food products into Ukraine. Regarding industrial goods, the bill provides for a review of import duty rates by 1.2 thousand subcategories of goods, accounting for 13.5 percent of the nomenclature of industrial goods. The average import duty rate for industrial goods is 4.43 per cent, which is 0.54 per cent below the established consolidated position, that is, industry already today, is actually living and working under the terms of the world trade organization. The decline in tariff rates will have positive effects on the increase in the domestic market for so - called investment imports and will contribute to the development of the internal market in these areas. The loss of the State budget, the possible loss of the bill to reduce import duty rates on industrial goods, will be offset by an expansion of the tax base, which is due to both a certain increase in import volumes and a partial change in the geographical structure of imports associated with a possible decrease in import volumes from individual countries where the free trade regime is in place. The bill also proposes to empower the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to adjust import duty rates for a limited period of time in the event of a shortage of goods on the internal market of Ukraine, which will allow for a rapid response to changes in the environment, both in the internal and external markets, to protect the internal market of the national producer and consumer. I would like to point out that this way of regulating customs rates is currently in place in many countries, such as the Russian Federation, Kazakhstan, Turkmenistan, the Republic of Azerbaijan, in countries that are EU members. The final decision to amend the customs tariff shall be taken by the Council of Ministers of the EU. A similar order exists in most countries, such as China, Turkey, and a number of others. In general, the adoption of this law will promote further liberalisation of foreign trade and the progressive harmonization of Ukrainian legislation with the norms and principles of the World Trade Organization. The implementation of the bill will have a positive impact on the establishment of transparent relations in external economic activities, ensuring consumer market stability and the price situation in it, and unsanctioned imports will enter legal flows, which, in turn, will add to the public budget's revenues, increasing the competitiveness of domestic producers. At the conclusion of my report, I would like to stress once again that by adopting this law we are enacting national legislation, namely, the Customs Tariff Act, because of changes to this law, in accordance with the level of tariff rates already set out in the protocol signed by Ukraine and the World Trade Organisation, which has already been ratified by the Supreme Council. Therefore, honourable national deputies, today, on the day we welcomed the country with its entry into the WTO, it would be right to support this bill and thus to take another step towards, on the way to the full realization of those commitments that have been actually supported and voted by the Supreme Council. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u172	Colleagues, five minutes of question-answer, please. Of course, I'll tell you, in this room with this number of national deputies to consider the Customs Tariff Act, this picture has to be photographed and shown to the whole state. Let's write it down on the question-answer. Vladimir Yavorowski. I'm sorry, this.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u173	Vladimir Yavorowski, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear reporter, I don't actually have a question, because I understand that the law is purely technological, at least for me, we would have voted on the whole ideology a long time ago. I would very much like you to explain to the people who are listening to us today because there has been information about what is really going on in the bill, which is probably about two, two and a half kilograms, really a very large document. But for me personally, it's a complete list, a formal list of goods that are called. Because of this, this volume, this does not mean that each of the national MPs needs to learn it by heart and only then vote. Explain how a professional would like Ukraine to hear what is being said in this case in this bill?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u174	Thank you for asking. The honourable people's deputies, in fact, with this bill, can be said to be of a technical nature. And it actually brings decisions to national legislation. So these issues were discussed in part at the time of ratification of the protocol. In addition, this bill, all of these 600 pages, they worked very closely, in detail, on the relevant profiling committee with the participation of both members of the committee and all those who wish. And to the essence of this bill, to bets, no comment has been made on the exact change in these positions. So the MPs who wanted to study, they learned, they got their judgment out, and so, and I hope that the position of the committee in this part is going to coincide with the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u175	Gordine, the Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u176	Please pass the word to Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u177	Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u178	Thank you, thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Say two things, please. On what basis and on what basis does the Cabinet of Ministers propose that we violate legislation? First. Where is it seen that we would allow the Cabinet of Ministers, not the higher legislature, but the Cabinet of Ministers, to change these standards if necessary? So we adopt the law and we give the legislative branch of power to the Cabinet of Ministers. It's something of a know-how world merit. And the second. It is well known that all drafts that have the same meaning can only be introduced on January 1st of the following year. We want to give Kabmin the rights I'm talking about today, and secondly, we want to introduce this customs tariff tomorrow.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u179	Thank you, Your Honor Adam Ivanovich for asking. On the first question. The Cabinet of Ministers offers a rational way of settling matters when necessary when there is a need for a prompt change in rates. Of course, the Supreme Council can make the decision that it deems necessary. But in our view, customs is not just a tax, it's a specific way of regulating external trade. And so the government's ability to regulate it will have a positive impact on both the internal market and the state of our trade relations. As for the second question. With regard to the issue of the entry into force of the law. Here are two questions that I would like to highlight. First. That it does have to do with the ratification and entry into force of the protocol of the WTO. And that's why we have to bring it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u180	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u181	When we actually assume these obligations and fulfill them, we strengthen the process of bringing them into line with domestic legislation. In addition, in Ukraine's history there have been examples, there have been precedents where significant changes in customs tariffs have been made in the middle of the year, and this has not reflected, well, catastrophically or substantially negative overall in the financial situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u182	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u183	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. Mr. Deputy Minister, I read this bill carefully. And unlike those who claimed that there were 600 pages, I tell you, I'm telling you, the Governing Council, that there are 267 pages, and I say to those who shouted: read the law, study the material part! This and Mineconomy also applies because the second point in the final positions, it is the first to give the Cabinet of Ministers the right to change the rate of import in the event of a deficit does not correspond to the current legislation and does not correspond to the Constitution. This paragraph has to be deleted, then the law can be voted on. The sooner we vote, the sooner we will meet our WTO requirements. That's the first one. And the second. Our law, you know, comes before it's published. But as for the customs tariff, it's still written there from the beginning.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u184	Yes, the question-answers are over. Anatoly Arkadyovich, sit down. Teryohin, please. Please sit down, Anatoly Arkadyovich. What Is the Answer? A. He'll answer later. [[B in m in s a l in]] Anatoly Arkadyovich, give an answer. Can you give me an answer, please? Let's do it now. Turn on Anatoly Arkadyovich's microphone from the government's boat, let him answer, and let Kruglov apologize.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u185	Thank you for asking. As for the entry into force of the Law, I have already answered this question, and once again, I would like to point out that the main factor is that it leads to the norms that are foreseen by Ukraine's introduction to the WTO. With regard to the right of the Cabinet of Ministers to make changes. This is the position of the government. In the government's view, this would solve a lot of issues, including the bill that we discussed before, that would raise a number of issues. But finally, the final decision for the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u186	Thank you. I'm asking a colleague of the Circles.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u187	Dear colleagues, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Tax and Customs Policy at its meeting on May 13, 2008, reviewed the draft Law on Amendments to the Law on Taxation and Customs. Ukraine’s Customs Tariff on the admission of import duty rates to the level determined by the Ukrainian Tariff Schedule and the entry into WTO for 2008. Registration number 2351 in exchange and MP bill 2351-1. The National Deputies of Ukraine made comments on the content of Act 2351. I'd like my colleague Carmazin to hear that answer. Yes, paragraph 1 proposes that the Cabinet of Ministers be given the right to adjust the rates of import duty if there is a shortage of goods in the internal market of Ukraine. However, the introduction of such a standard is a direct violation of article 92 of the Constitution, which provides that taxes and congregations are established exclusively by the Supreme Council and thus cannot be delegated to other branches of authority. Our working group, reporting on the entry into SOTA, paragraph 117, once again reported that the Ukrainian Customs Tariff Act defines the legal principles of tariff regulation and authorizes tariff changes to the exclusive competence of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We talked about this at the S.O.T. Working Group meeting. With regard to paragraph 2 of the Final Provisions, Bill 2351, which proposes the date of entry into force on the day of entry into force of the WTO, was noted that, in accordance with article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on the Tax System, amendments and additions to Ukraine's laws on the granting of benefits, changes in taxes and in the congregations, the mechanism for paying them is being implemented. Ukraine's tax laws no later than 6 months before the start of the new fiscal year and have been effective since the beginning of the new financial year. In the course of the vote, the government's bill did not get enough votes to support the first reading. Instead, the Ukrainian National Deputies expressed their support for the parliamentary draft of Law 2351-1, which is 99 per cent in line with the government's, but which corresponds to the consolidated proposal of Bill 2351, which is different in terms of increase or decrease, and also differs in the Final Positions and determines the date of entry into force of the Act of 1 January 2009, except for import duty rates for commodity groups 0124, which take effect as of the date of accession of Ukraine to the World Trade Organization, excluding commodity supply for milk and dairy products and wine production. [[UCTZED code 0401-0406]] [[UCTZED code 2204-2206]] In view of the above, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of Bill 2351 as a basis and generally as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u188	Three minutes of question-answer. Oleg Lazko, BUT.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u189	Please give the word to Vasadé.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u190	Tariel Vasadze.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u191	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished Nikolai Petrovich! I would like you to know the figure: what losses will the country's budget receive from the fact that we are bringing everything into line immediately?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u192	The economy had three different figures, but the latest figure was $274 million. And if we go into action since the 16th, figuratively, 16 May of this year, we're going to lose $274 million -- that's budget revenue. Well, we understand that this figure is too low.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u193	Alexander Burjak, BUT. There's no Burjak. Sobolen Sergey, BUT.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u194	I'd like to confirm the position that you just announced: that the position of the committee is to support Bill Tyre One, except, more faithfully, with additions, proposals concerning dairy products, products that apply.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u195	And a winepress.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u196	So you think this option is possible for a vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u197	It's normal, it's a normal option and it's going to solve the problem first with the product group that comes in immediately. And on the other hand, it won't let, as we say, our livestock and wine industry fall, because there we are today in front of the harvest, practically, in the autumn. If we don't protect them now, they're just gonna be uncomfortable picking them up.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u198	Dry Jaroslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u199	Thank you. Dear Mikola Petrovich, the question is, it is clear that Bill 2351, without number one, is certainly leading to the moaning of production. I want to confirm that there's going to be budget losses all over the machine building complex. So I'd just like for the transcript because you said quickly, the committee supports, for the transcript, the committee supports what number of the bill? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u200	2351-1.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u201	Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u202	Yuri Carmazin. I will also support the “tier one”, but I strongly insist that we cannot and should not import any meat products offered here, bologna, parchment, halffart, one-quarter chicken, or anything else. Do you know when they make quarters? When what needs to be thrown is cut in half across the West, then cut into a quarter to transport to Ukraine. And the parchment is made from there. Thus, only these items: 0201, 0202, or large - horned meat, or pork, or lamb, or hens, but not food, not coproducts. Otherwise, we're going to dump the country here with all the genetically modified and all the other things that we absolutely, Ukrainians don't need. We still live for 11 years less than the average European.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u203	Thank you for asking. But I would like to recommend to my colleague, who is very good with every bill, that we have already, in fact, approved all of these positions in addition to the protocol that we approved by the Act of Accession to the WTO. And that's why today. That's what we say when we take our head off, they don't cry anymore.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u204	Thank you. Dear colleagues, it seems to me that we have a view of the bill that has gone completely into propaganda. There's absolutely no room. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, the hall's empty. [[B in m in s a l in]] Six hundred pages of text, because it's 238 to the first, and it's 600 to the second. It's empty, you know? Well, what is the position of faction leaders on this issue? [[B in m in s a l in]] Ivan Grigorovitch, don't keep your mouth shut, because when you come to me, you speak. Turn on the microphone. We're transparent politicians. Microphone to Kirylenkovi Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u205	Dear Arseny Petrovich! Dear Arseny Petrovich, colleagues! We see the situation. We are very sorry that a number of colleagues from “Our Ukraine” have taken the cards at all. Of course, it's today. There's no media, but I'm telling the truth.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u206	They're always, we're live.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u207	No card. Now put to the vote, and we understand what will happen to the coalition and what the right side will do. I'm being honest, Arsenius Petrovich. Really, you don't have to turn into a farce, you don't have to. We have to move on Tuesday. To discuss the issue, postpone the vote on Tuesday. We're very sorry our colleagues let us down like this.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u208	Please, Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u209	Viacheslav Kirilenko, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". I would like to reiterate my frustration at the fact that Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, and part of Friday were irrevocably lost to pass the laws needed by countries to curb inflation. Second, all the deputies' cards from "Our Ukraine" are in place. Thirdly, if BUTT asks us to postpone consideration of this issue, we will agree with the coalition partners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u210	Tariel Vasadze, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u211	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues! Tell me how to be importers, industrialists, when Customs has already signed a new rate order, despite the fact that the law has not yet been considered in Parliament and has not been adopted, but has already gone to the border? What's up?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u212	Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u213	Thank you. Martinyuk, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I took this word to prove to the screamers that, unlike them, the Communist faction is working. Although it is clear that a bill related to the World Trade Organization cannot be supported as a follow - up. The other one. In fact, they shouted out that the bill should be adopted, and now you're saying you don't have to adopt the bill. I mean, I feel like you're going to go block the rostrum so that this bill doesn't vote today. Third. Well, would you please explain to me a person who knows a little bit about where it is that the Cabinet of Ministers, who in fact has the advantage and the obligation to make these changes, has introduced a bill, and the head of the committee, which of the same Cabinet of Ministers, is putting his bill at the top? Please explain to me the government and the opposition, where do we see it, in what world practice? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u214	Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u215	Vladimir Yavorowski. They remembered, they mentioned. You always mean me when you say something, so. I want to explain this, Adam Ivanovich. I want to explain that, indeed, the Cabinet of Ministers passed their bill, but it had some inaccuracies, some machinities, it was a work process. After that, a representative of our block, taking into account certain other details, introduced it. What's going on here? I don't know what's going on here. And the second. To avoid, I belong to those who try to preserve the coalition. But I want to say that Olesia Sparrow took a dozen cards and came out. Váchaslav, I want to say this. Check it out, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u216	I checked. There's no card from BUTO, one thing and six, it looks like it's our Ukraine, so it's all parallel. Either six or five. [[B in m in s a l in]] Comrades, I'm not local. I mean, once again, there are no cards in both the BJU and our Ukraine. Colleagues, stop. So it's one more time. The position expressed by the faction leaders regarding the faction and the people who are here, because unfortunately, we can be counted on our fingers. Adam Ivanovich, don't provoke me, please. You don't need professional provocations. Take it easy. [[B in m in s a l in]] So it's one more time. Colleagues, there are several options for events. Option one. We conclude our consideration of the bill, discussion, vote. Option two. We're not finishing the discussion on this bill because 600 pages nobody understands what it says. To that end, I have to put this question to a vote. Who wants to make a statement? Chechchev wants to make a statement. Please, Chechtov microphone. If you insert the card, Michael Vasilovich, then there's a chance to turn on the microphone. [[B in m in s a l in]] Everything? You don't want it anymore? You don't want to. Catherine Timofievna Vashchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u217	Dear colleagues, the bill is really important, and I would like my colleagues to understand what the Customs Policy Committee was doing when it introduced another bill. In fact, he confirmed the same positions as the government, except for a few moments. One moment. It's for the goods of the group 1-24 repairs and some other agricultural products to introduce customs tariffs from January 1st, 2009. The other one. We tried to ensure that all customs tariffs and contracts signed in the negotiations were consistent, so that there was no variation. That's all the change. That is why this bill is totally tolerant and.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u218	Ivan Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u219	Dear colleagues! I want to fully support what Catherine Timofievna Vashchuk, of the profile committee, has said, is the deputy head of the committee. Both the government and the MPs are completely correlated in all positions. But in the process of discussion within the committee, representatives of all factions, representatives of the branches, the committee went a step in agreement with the government, allowing itself to protect certain areas, give them a small half-year adaptation period, that's a positive thing. Of course, the government can't say that, because the strict requirements since the entry on May 16 are May 16th, but for many it will be a shock. That's why we're taking over, and Parliament is taking over some of the areas that the committee's branches are made up of, listen, the committee of all factions has been defined that way. So the government is usually silent in this respect, but we are protecting some of the national sectors by the end of the year, that's all. There's nothing, there's no alternative, there's nothing.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u220	Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u221	Dear colleagues! Jaroslav Suhi, Party of Regions. As long as we, thank God, have no mandatory mandate yet, I'm telling you that I stayed in the session room to vote in favour of Bill 2351-1, I'll explain why. I don't understand what you're doing here, so you're voting, so you're not voting, you're like ma'am, I want to, I don't want to. You can figure out what's going on in there. Bill 2351-1 corresponds to Ukrainian legislation and allows us not to argue with the World Trade Organization and minimize the budget losses that can be incurred when we limit all these things in half a year. So I'm going to support this bill, for example, and I'm going to ask you to discuss it, and I'm going to ask you to put it to a vote, so what's the problem?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u222	Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko asks from the rostrum. We've already turned into a rally, colleagues. Let's give Kirilenko the microphone, and we'll continue to be on schedule without a rally.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u223	Dear colleagues, we are finally coming to the truth. The truth is, today is the 16th, we've already entered today, if we're going to do what we agreed to protect together, let's do it out loud. All things considered, if there is a good arrangement, be supportive. Arsenius Petrovich, put down the rating vote, let's try it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u224	Now we're going to finish the question. Comrades, the only thing I'd like to mention to you is my colleagues, very attention. Today, the Cabinet of Ministers publishes new import duties, in line with Ukraine’s commitments to join the WTO. Today, from 24.00 in Ukraine, all new rates are in place, according to a protocol signed and ratified by the Supreme Council, that is, for help. Except where there's a fork, that's another story. I'm telling you again, go to the website of Mineconomy and the Maintenance Service. Let's move on, continue to discuss the law by procedure, all of it. Presentations from faction leaders. Factions and deputies, please. We still have 15 minutes to go. Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u225	Dear colleagues, I beg you, believe me, I am absolutely not getting angry, and I will not get angry with the fact that in the middle of the coalition there are some different points of view, that's all stupid, that's all past. I want to remind you, especially my colleagues, with whom I've been here for the tenth year, once in this session hall and you and I are witnesses when, by covering up the WTO requirements, certain political forces have been trying to protect the interests of certain financially industrial structures. Just remember my speech here, in this session room, when the head of the Supreme Council turned off the microphone and the Communist brothers gave me the megaphone. Remember, we stood with you for not allowing a zero bet on taking out the sunflower. If we let that happen, we wouldn't have a whole oil sector anymore. Thus, either import is openly promoted, or some pathological hatred, toward their domestic manufacturer. Why did I go to the rostrum? I seriously and frankly say that I will support Bill 2351-1 because it removes two extremely sharp questions. Imagine an industrial enterprise that contracted loans, raw materials, and a supply contract. Within the budget year, new rules of the game are introduced. There's no such thing in the world! Yes, of course, new prices, new percentages, they are, they will, we will sign them, we have agreed with them, but they should enter into force as of 1 January 2009. One more thing. You're my respectable colleagues from the Democratic Coalition, I'm sorry. No one's going to let you have a customs adventure, your government. Adjust custom tariffs manually? Thank you! We're running out of price vachanals and bare administration, someone else in the government will be. And how do you know how they're going to manipulate these customs tariffs and what could happen. There are laws, let's go according to legislation. I was surprised by the deputy minister, which is the technical nature of the bill, which is for bringing the Ukrainian legislation into line when a customs tariff is proposed to be translated into manual regulation. And who's going to determine if it's a deficit, is it a deficit? That's right, isn't it? There's legislation, there's a Constitution, and we went very painfully together to understand the World Trade Organization. Remember the fourth call, remember how difficult it was. We understand that Ukraine cannot be outside the globalization of their processes. But all of this should not be contrary to the national economic interests of Ukraine. I call for the support of Bill 2351-1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u226	Adam Martinyuk from the scene.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u227	Thank you, please pass the word to your colleague Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u228	Comrade Timoshenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u229	Dear colleagues, honourable radio listeners, if it's just a formality for someone to adopt today's law just to get them to vote, I'd like to say that the price and this law is at least one and a half billion dollars of government budget loss. We have to say this in principle, that the more demeaning customs tariffs none of the 152 countries that are now in the World Trade Organization accepted Ukraine. Even our Polish neighbors have accepted them, and I have a very painful question about the agricultural sector -- 35 percent. Romania, I would like to say, 68 percent of the total European Union, 21.3 percent. Such a demeaning average import duty rate for food products, which is 13.4 percent for Ukraine, has not been accepted by any 152 countries. I would just like to tell you the queue where the bill of Ukraine provides for a further reduction in the current rate of import duty by just one position on the village, sugar-meat production. The reduction in the import duty on this product has already been effected since January 1, 2008, according to Ukrainian law. And its further decline under the bill makes Ukraine's internal market the most vulnerable among the countries of Europe. This will undo all efforts to stabilize the situation in the beet-sugar complex and lead to its complete elimination. It is estimated that imports of sugar into Ukraine only in terms of tariff quotas – 260 thousand tonnes – will result in the closure of another 20-22 sugar plants of medium capacity, the withdrawal of a total of 113 thousand hectares of soybeans, the reduction in the production of sugar beet yields of more than two million tonnes, the failure to budget more than 700 million dollars, the release of some 83,000 workers and social tensions in stormy areas and the demping of sugar and losses to domestic producers, more than 1 billion gravel losses of motivation for growing and processing sugar beetroot. Here's the price of the question, and this is what we're looking at today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u230	Corge, Timoshenko Street. Vasadze Tariel Shaković, from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u231	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues! Indeed, the process is irreversible, and Ukraine has been adopted in the WTO. We have argued a lot, and we have discussed these issues a lot, as if it were right for our country to gain at least some preference when entering the WTO. Unfortunately, however, our negotiators, who defended Ukraine's economy, were unable to prove and argue that, as any normal country, the example of Russia, the same China, Turkey and many other countries, had received a transitional period since the date of the signing of the treaty. But that didn't happen. Well, let's not be left behind at all: we cannot break the budget year; we need at least these changes in the individual, key industries of the economy, companies and enterprises to do so as of 1 January 2009. This is normal because the country's budget has already been established, company budgets have been established, and contracts have been concluded. Well, the representative of the Ministry of Economics said wrong: the loss only from the car industry of imports, not domestic producers, of more than $500 million. Well, let's not do evil to our country's final economy. That's why I'm asking you to support Law 2351-1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u232	Soboljev Sergei, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u233	Dear colleagues, the question is, in my opinion, quite simple. Or there are other customs rates that are already agreed upon and that are actually, let's be clear, for a whole range of sectors and individual enterprises, they're not going to be able to survive this transition period. And I think everyone understands that. I don't want to call the factions, but the position of those factions that seem to be opposed to the imposition of an urgent customs tariff is now going to show all the voting. Those who vote in favour of the committee's proposal and the bill in the paper directly with the one badge will be accepted now, this will actually mean, apart from the two positions that have been announced by the representative of the Kruglo committee, which in fact, in the event of the country's non-vote, is currently falling into the norms that will apply to each of our companies. So now there's going to be a moment of truth. Voting is, in fact, a decisive one. All those who believe that this transitional period is needed will vote in favour. Then let those who vote go to the labour force and explain why it happened. So our faction supports this vote and then proposes to print a roll-call vote in the media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u234	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u235	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the interesting decision given to us today: 2351/p1. I looked at all the groups of goods, and I read the bill of government, and the bill of the national deputy Teryochina, and the decree made by the national deputy Davidenko. Thus, the decree of the People’s Deputy Davidenk states that 2351-1 plus the rates of duty for goods under the categories listed, remain at 01.01.2008, which were. And that means that it's still behind everything that we haven't been allowed to import at least 10 percent of the customs value all the time, but at least one and a half euros per kilogram, that's about the food group. And quite right now, our colleague Tariel Vasadze said that the damage to the car industry was only two billion and a half. Plus, Teryochina's bill explicitly states “Financial and Economic Grounds”. He writes that coming into the budget from the payment of import duties can decrease by $270 million, multiply by five, and receive another $1 billion, 350 million. And plus those two and a half, and that four billion. I'm asking the government today, please tell me, and we're ready to respond adequately, from where and how we're introducing the State Budget Act, but we haven't prepared them. They need to be done now and we need to think about where it's going to be. So given the socio-economic consequences that may come, I agree with the colleagues who are now speaking, they've been campaigning for the adoption of Law 2351-1 plus in the drafting of the decree given by the People's Deputy Davidenko, who is all in his hands. It's going to be in the interests of Ukrainian society, let's accept it, I understand that the government can't directly say something to WTO, because it wasn't this government that signed and was a negotiator. Sadly, 12 governments changed during the course of their conduct in the interests of Ukraine. So let's accept and I'm asking for all the factions that are today, who care about the fate of the Ukrainian people, support this bill, but it's the people's MP Davidenko's. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-16-m0.u236	Thank you. Reporter, the co-reporter doesn't insist on performing? No, it's not. Thank God. Colleagues, it's very important that I ask you now. We don't have the necessary number of deputies in the hall. You can hear, there's no room, there's no room. On Maidan, don't shout, please. So in order for this bill not to fail, and this is now an important thing, because this is a Soviet bill, the following is proposed, what I've talked to all the faction leaders, very carefully, in principle, all the factions agree to the first reading. I ask everyone to vote in favour of the first reading and immediately in the same order for the shortened procedure for the second reading. So in two days, the committee will be working and we will accept it on Tuesday in the second reading. Have you heard, comrades? I ask everyone, first reading from 111 to the Rules, the shortened procedure for the second reading. Now, I'm sorry, I'm going to put in Rule 2351 first, you understand, and after 2351-1, you offered to support the first reading, did you hear? So I'm putting 2351 to the vote right now, first-reading support. [[14:49:25]] For two. That's the thing. Not accepted. Comrades, now I'm putting 2351-1 on the ground and shortening the terms of the bill to be submitted to the second reading according to 111 of the Rules. Did everyone hear that? Everyone heard. Please vote, first reading 2351-1. [[14:49:59]] For 237 Thank God! Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the first reading accepted, I am addressing the Committee of Teryochin, which is not available, to quickly gather and discuss the preparation of the bill for a second reading in accordance with the Rules. Ladies and gentlemen, the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is happily closed.
