ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u1	Good morning, dear colleagues, I ask you to register. [[10:01:51]] Registered -439 There were 439 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is publicized. Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to inform you that we have a calendar plan that is approved. [[Applause]] That we have a calendar plan that is approved by the Ukrainian National Deputies, and in accordance with article 38 of the Ukrainian Law "For the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine" today will be "an hour of questions to the government". And now I would like to welcome the members of the government into the government's bed. Julia Volodymyrna, welcome, and all members of the Cabinet of Ministers. [[Applause]] The other one. According to article 25 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, there is a time to announce parliamentary requests. I'll call them quick. A request was received from the Ukrainian National Deputies: Alexander Omelchenka to the President of Ukraine on the acceleration of extradition to Ukraine of the head figure in the Volkonski Elita Center case, in parentheses, [[Chess]] Vladimir Kozak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for violating the requirements of Ukraine's "On the Status of Ukrainian People's Deputy" and "On the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine"; Alexander Dove to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to prevent the government of Yulia Timoshenko from obtaining diplomas by students; John Stoyk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Chief of State Service of Ukraine on the pressure and persecution of the head of the Ternopil district administration of Jury Chizmar and the deputy head of the Ternopil district administration of Fedor Shevchuk in relation to the Chief of Health Directorate of the Ternopil region of Vladimir Kuril; Igora Kaletnik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the unsatisfactory performance of service duties as the first deputy head of the State Border Service of Ukraine as Director of the Department of State Border Protection, Paul Šišolini; Mikhail Papiev to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on gross violations of the requirements of current legislation regarding the manner in which public budget funds are used by public organizations of persons with disabilities who have the status of all-Ukrainian; Alexander Kemenyash to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to take urgent action to address the privatisation problem of the Russian-Polish State Enterprise; Andrija Pavlovski to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the social protection of the residents of the hostel located in Kiev on the street of Chestjakowska, 4; Vladimir Lithuania to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine regarding the dissatisfaction with the content of the response of the Ministry of Finance to a parliamentary appeal on the need to take account of the changes to the 2008 Act on the State Budget and to amend certain legislative acts of Ukraine, the collective appeal of the First-Major Regional Union of Military Pensioners of the Mikolai Region; Vladimir Lithuania to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine regarding the dissatisfaction with the response of the Ministry of Finance to the parliamentary appeal for the completion of the reconstruction of the maternity ward of Novograd-Volini District Interregional Medical Union of the Žitomir Region in preparing legislative proposals for amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2008 and amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine; Mikoli Shershun to the Deputy Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the inclusion of the long-term in the 2008 State Budget list, with the provision of funds to complete the construction of the Culture Building in the village of Zlazně Kostopil Region of the Plain region; Mikoli Shershun to the finance minister of Ukraine for the completion of the construction of a district cancer dispenser in the city of Raven; Jury Crook to the Minister of Health of Ukraine regarding the failure of officials of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine to resolve the problem surrounding Odessa City Student Hospital No. 21; Valery Bondik to the executive responsibility of the head of the Ukrainian Security Service for gross violation by officials of the Ukrainian Security Service and for bringing them to justice; Viacheslav Kirilenko to the Kiev city head of the Delhi District in Kiev of the State Administration for the violation of the child’s housing rights, deprived of parental care; Valery Calchenk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the need to speed up criminal investigations; Andrija Pavlovski to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the annulment of the decision of the Kyiv City Council on land tenure under the construction of the housing complex at the address of the Klovski Vistula, 14-18; Igor Kaletnik to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, on the use of a forged document concerning the acquisition of higher education by the Director of the Dnipropetrov Economic Technician Viktor Karpov; Vladimir Bondarenko to the Prosecutor-General of Ukraine, acting as Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the violation of the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine to take unlawful decisions by officials of the Kiev City Council and its executive body, Head of the President's Secretariat on the illegal actions of the Kyiv City Public Administration leading to the destruction of the city's general plan and the destruction of prospects for the development of the city; Vladimir Bondarenko to the Attorney-General of Ukraine, acting as Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Head of the Secretariat of Ukraine, Head of the Interim Investigations Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the violation of the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine by officials of the Kiev City Council and its executive body on the illegal actions of the Kyiv City Administration and the Kyiv City Council, which restrict the rights of veterans, disabled persons and children; Mikoli Tomenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal actions of members of the Block of Leonid Czernovecki, the Kyiv City Council, in relation to the limited-liability society of the Seivo Bookstore; Andrew School for the Head of the State Tax Administration of Ukraine for the Protection of Foreign Investor Rights in Ukraine of the Private Frutika Shareholder Society; and Sergia Soboljeva to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, head of the Kyiv Regional Election Commission on the illegal collection of information on teaching staff of the city of Kiev by the Kyiv City State Administration. I would like to point out that, when we consider the questions to the President of Ukraine, we must first vote on the request by name and then on 226 votes for the request. So Alexander Omelchenko asked the President of Ukraine to accelerate the extradition to Ukraine of the head figure in the Volkonski Elita Center case, in parentheses, [[Chess]] I'm voting on support for the request. Dear colleagues, I am voting in favour of the request. [[10:08:52]] For 345. Decision taken. I now put to the vote the question of sending this request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[10:09:14]] For 395 Decision taken. The request is addressed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the President of Ukraine. In accordance with article 38 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers, I declare the beginning of the “hour of questions to the Government of Ukraine”. The next order of action is proposed: a statement by the Prime Minister of Ukraine in 20 minutes, questions-answers, then at the request of our fellow members of the national deputies, questions-answers to members of the Cabinet of Ministers and then discussions. If there are any other suggestions in the process of addressing this issue, I am willing to support them if they are made. I invite Prime Minister Timoshenko Julius Volodymyrovna of Ukraine. Please, Julia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u2	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! I thank you for allowing me an hour to communicate with the people's deputies and to talk about the current issues that the Ukrainian government is working with today. First of all, I'd like to start with the key ones. At the beginning of the work, the government has set itself the main task -- we have to move from the current work, from the decision-making process to the implementation and implementation of strategic reforms that enable order in the country in each sector. And that is why today we devote more time to the work of the government to determine the five priorities of each ministry’s work. Then, after each priority, at a government meeting, we adopt the concept of reform. The next step is, once the concept is approved, we develop and adopt all necessary normative acts at a government meeting. To date, we can say that there are five key areas in which we have approved strategies, and we have approved concepts and bills that have been passed on to Parliament. And we believe that the goal of our government is only to demonstrate to society how we need to set order in every field in every sector of our lives. And I want to ask the Supreme Council to have those 63 government projects that have been submitted to Parliament today, so that they can be considered as quickly as possible, and this will enable the government to implement the strategic changes that have been made in our country. In addition, I may once again inform you that there has been a programme of government activity in Parliament for several months, which also determines the direction of our joint cooperation: Parliament and government. And I would ask that all the comments and suggestions that are in factions and committees be taken into account during the process, and we are very pleased as a government to support all the proposals made by national deputies, committees and factions. I am convinced that if we adopt the Government's Action Programme with comments and proposals to Parliament as soon as possible, we will be able to really improve our work together. And now I would like to report to you that everything that the government is doing today is based on the rapid economic growth that virtually all industries are demonstrating today. And it's nice to see that after the systematic decline in gross domestic product growth over the last year, from the beginning of the past to the end, we see a systemic decline. Now we've changed these trends and since the beginning of the year we've seen a gradual, gradual increase in both the first and second months and the third months of this year. I also want to let you know that the added value of the Vale has made a substantial increase in the first quarter of our economy in virtually all sectors. This also applies to agriculture, which has rapidly reduced its pace in the past year, and this refers to both the manufacturing industry and the manufacturing industry, where we have a major increase, and we can actually talk about every sector right now. If industrial production started from an increase to a corresponding period in January 5.7 percent, now we have 7.8. They say that industry is really getting on its feet. Light industry. We started from the increase to the corresponding period in January 3.1 percent, now we have 5.7 percent. Food products, wood processing, chemical and oil production, and construction materials. And by the way, I want to pay attention, in principle, it's a great indicator, because building materials are growing when there's a great basis for building growth. We have 8.1 percent to 21.8 percent increase in the first quarter only. I would like to pay particular attention to machine building. I think that Ukraine is just after machine-building, and this is the final product of the entire production chain, and today it's practically setting European records. Today we have 29.8 percent increase in the first month to the previous period, and for the third month of the quarter we have 33.3 percent. This tells of what Ukraine is doing and starting to enter the market with its machine-building products. Agriculture. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, if we compare funding from the government budget for the 2008 and 2007 agri-industrial development programmes, we have invested 53.3 percent more on agricultural production than in the previous budget. And now there's going to be a dynamic payment to the agrarian sector of the money that is budgeted, and we expect that the crop in Ukraine, if the Lord and the weather help, we'll have a record. We're going to have over 40 million tons of grain collection, this is the forecast that the Ministry of Agriculture has today. And I'm convinced that we can even override that. I want to remind you that last year this was 26. Coal production. I'd like to stop your attention here. We actually had static in some of the objects, in some of the carbon - capture industries, a radical fall. Today, compared to the last quarter of the previous year, we increased coal production by almost 800,000 tons. In addition, quality was greatly improved. This tells us that our Ministry of Coal Industry is now working, not on machining, but on raising production. In addition, we have prepared and approved, at a government meeting, a coal reform programme that will bring about every pool of powerful investors and where we will take into account everything that has not been taken into account today: the protection of miners, their decent wage at the level of average wage in the same sectors in other countries of Europe. And we're going to make that investment in coal production is definitely going to be incomparably larger than in all previous periods. We will be gathering key mine representatives in the near future to discuss the concept of reform and give them a vision and knowledge of how we are moving in that direction. I would also like to point out a fairly rapid increase in freight traffic. I mean, this is, I mean, the rise in all of the transport systems. If by the end of the year we had an increase of 2.9 percent, today we have almost 10 percent at the end of the first quarter. We cleaned up all the lobbyist tax rates in the Crucify System, when, for example, the whole country was carrying cargo at the same price, and some of the favorite companies were carrying these cargo sometimes three times cheaper. It is clear that profits did not go well for the “district”. And we got the Crucifixion, virtually like NAK Naftogaz on the verge of bankruptcy. Today, the “district” and its finances are completely balanced. We have today an increase in the revenue of the Crossroads in order, and we are convinced that, on the basis of such an increase in the revenue of the Crossroads, we can make reforms and upgrades of the moving warehouse, as well as other good steps that relate to the reconstruction and modernization of all the core funds that work on the Crossroads. And now I want to say a few words about childish economics. Once again, as in 2005, we have set economic detinization as a key task for those central executive authorities that can do it, the result is already seen. First of all, you know that all of the profits that had to be taxed were in the state almost in the shadow realm. Tax burdens on businesses in the fields were close to zero. In the first quarter of the year, we increased our income by almost 60 percent. And I can tell you that this is an average rate, and for example, in the last month, almost twice that increase, and the sum total in the first quarter, that's almost 60 percent. But even more significant achievements are in revenue from the added value tax -- 81 percent of the increase. And when you ask, where do we get resources for social issues and problems, the answer is very simple: first is economic growth, which is going at a fast pace, and second is economic detinction, which has already brought more than 15 billion dollars into the budget, compared to the previous year's corresponding period. And that's the result for Ukraine that's absolutely record. With regard to the program “Contrabanda – Stop!” I know that many people don't like this program, and I know that they work very hard against this program. But the results of today are impressive: the revenue to the budget from all taxes collected on customs today is already estimated in the quarter, although there has certainly been no such revenue in January, but the sum of the quarter's revenues have doubled. And that's also an absolute plus, because today we see what an import and export balance actually looks like. And when some analysts ask us questions today, and why the trade balance on the border changes so badly, I can give you the answer: Ukraine never really knew the volume of its imports, because it was almost 80 percent shadow or gray. We haven't finished this job yet. I think if we get this job done, the budget will get tens of times the budget revenue. But we have to be prepared to have an increased volume of imports, not because Ukraine becomes an import-dependent state, but because we're just showing the real state of things at the border. And exports are declining, because we now estimate that up to 30 percent of the exports in the country were made on a fictitious basis. Notice, in all fictitious exports, there's tax compensation for the added value, and that's billions. Today these processes are stopped and, of course, if you see indicators, there's going to be a decrease in exports, an increase in imports, but this is the legalization of real goods on the border. I would also like to draw your attention to tax compensation for the added value for entrepreneurs and exporters. In January-March 2007, 4 billion 100 million were damaged, January-March 2008 being compensated to exporters for 7 billion 600 million. You can see that the rate is increased radically almost, almost twice. And the main thing is that we are doing a deep reform today to pay off the value added tax to exporters, we're going to go to the electronic form of checking all VAT accounting chains without checking directly with the company exporters, and we're going to figure out where is the actual value added tax that needs to be returned and where is the fiction. And for today, we have all the projections that after a month-by-a-half we have the entire VAT compensation regime being converted into automated mode, and it's not going to depend on officials, it's going to depend only on the deadline for filing documents and on automated verification, I'd say, a so-called non-contact check. I think we're going to get through this. And now, given the achievements we have in the economy, I'd like to say about the rise in real population income. The real income of the population, I'd like to emphasize, is minus the inflation rate that we have today. If in the last year in the last quarter we had 12.8 percent of the population's real income increase, today we have 23.4. And that tells us that economic growth and childishness have given us the opportunity to increase the income of families so radically. Real wages have been increased today, up by 15.5 percent to the corresponding period of the previous year. Minimum wage is 31.3 percent. Minimum unemployment benefit for insured persons is 32 percent. The average pension was increased from December to January, by 27 per cent in the previous year, and from December to December of the previous year by 37 per cent. I'd like to stop at the reform we're doing in the pension system. We took yet another major step towards ending the balance in pension payments. And we've done these calculations that are based on the average wage of people and on the actual internship that they had. And today very few pensioners in the country have the same pension. This suggests that justice in the pension system is returning. Yeah, one person's pension is up by maybe 10 bucks, the other guy's up by 500 bucks, but all that depends solely on their work and their average earnings. Since October 1st, there will be another step towards pension reform, for order-making, a substantial increase in pensions at the same time and, at the same time, the continuation of diversification. Differentiation of pension according to internship and salary. I can tell you that since April 1, the government has taken another important step. You and I had a million and three hundred and ninety thousand pensioners who had a pension below the standard of living. We had pensioners who got 100 or 200 dollars of pension. We had pensioners who were far beyond the minimum standard of living. Since April 1, we have taken another step for a million, three hundred and ninety thousand pensioners, where the pension was less viable, and we have made them a pension at a minimum of living. And that tells us that for the first time in our country today, there is no pensioner who gets less living. Now, for the promotion of scholarships to students in vocational schools and students. There's been a radical increase, and I can say that the students at the gym have plus 94 bracelets, the students at the first and second levels -- plus 267 bracelets, and today their scholarship is 400 bracelets. Students in the third and fourth levels of accreditation received plus 370 bracelets and today have 530 bracelets. The next is an increase in the salaries of military service personnel. There's an absolutely radical rise. Sometimes three times, sometimes more than three times. And to date, this is certainly the money that all military officials in the service have received. And I'd like to address the Supreme Council now with a request. We have now passed two bills to Parliament, these bills improve the working conditions of contractors who serve in the army on a contractual basis. First. We give them a substantial increase in their salary, up to 1200 dollars. Today, the salary is about 800 dollars. Secondly, the person who goes to term service, if the laws that are now being passed in Parliament, for two years, is entitled to receive a right from this service without examination and to enter the higher education institutions free of charge. I'd like you to look at these two bills: one to improve the status of contracts with military personnel, and the other to change the budget that relates to this issue. The next question concerns payment of minimum payments under the War Children Act. We have partially complied with this law, and we have compared all children of war to those involved in the war. This means that virtually every child of war, who, in fact, has a legislative basis for it, received an additional pension allowance. Well, I'm proud to say that, as our team has promised, we have fulfilled our promise to help with the birth of a child: the first child, 12,240, the second child, 25,000, and the third child, 50,000. I think it was our obligation to the families to make sure that they have the opportunity to give birth to Ukrainians in peace. [[Applause]] Childhood support has increased by 82 percent, and today we really have the substantial support that many families receive in order to raise their children. And we will continue on this path, giving all kinds of support to families that have children, including minors. Now with regard to the increase in the minimum pension for the disabled. The minimum pensionable invalids are tripled. In 2007, they got 370 dollars, today they're going to get 1,034 bracelets, and they're already getting it from March 1st. Staff salaries for budget workers have been increased by 26-27 percent to a real rate, i.e. inflation adjustment. And one more question. You remember how many vows there were, how many unbeliefs there were, how much sabotage there was about our bailout. And I want to remind you again that our team has made a commitment for two years to return the savings to the people. We've taken the first step, and today we have 4 million. 700,000. Our citizens received thousands of dollars in savings. [[Applause]] This process continues. Today, there is no queue, no nuisance, as was the case at the beginning. Sometimes we're watching a sabotage of individual district directors who either hand out vouchers to people that they have to get in 2009 or they do things like that when instead of thousands of dollars, people get 960, 930. We've arranged for this to happen. For thousands of dollars, everyone gets what they want this year, the way they register and the way they come and get it. In addition, as a result of the abuses that have been committed by individual bailiffs, we have up to a thousand sums of those who have not received will now receive this additional payment in size, there in different ways, between 10 and 60 dollars. And I would ask that now, if citizens hear me, I want you, if you don't get a thousand dollars in total, to have the opportunity to go and get that amount of money. And I would also like to point out that in order for the return of savings to continue at the same pace, we need, including, successfully and without any shadow component, a privatization that is accepted by the Supreme Council, which is accepted by the government and by the Fawn of Holding. And I'd like to point out right now that in the holding fund today, it's not just sabotage, but it's a criminal group that's unfortunately being held in power. And I want to go to the President right now, but I want to cancel my decree that stopped him from changing the leadership of the Holding Fund and left socialist Simonenko there. What's her name? Semenyuk. Semenyuk, I'm sorry, Semenyuk. And they made it possible for the government to continue conducting honest, transparent privatization. Dear friends, I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that the government has simply taken radical steps in order to order our dramas. I just want to inform you that there was no law in Ukraine that existed in nature such as the Production Distribution Act. If the whole world has long held to its national interests, no more than 30 percent of the oil or gas extracted is given to investors, and another volume in all countries is bought by states at their own expense, in Ukraine, a unique country, there is no condition at all. The priceless, stateless, practically non-performing embezzlement – this has become the norm of previous periods. Today we have adopted an order whereby, firstly, the state, if and when it involves investors for the development of useful fossils, especially oil and gas, is solely based on the Product Distribution Act, that is, part of the product, the investor, part of the state, and in a sufficiently serious amount, and secondly, no licence will be issued without a transparent auction. To date, this has appeared exclusively on a corrupt lobbyist basis. Today, more than 180 licenses are practically illegally issued, and we will continue to engage powerful investors to bring honest and transparent rules into the mining sector, especially oil, natural gas, and gas condensate. I can give you another terrible example that I would like to ask the Supreme Council to make a separate report. You know, we have shelves that have unprecedentedly large reserves of oil and gas. This is practically an area that can bring real energy independence and self-sufficiency to Ukraine. Today, when all the states of the world that have shelves, in square centimeters, are issuing shelves to investors and making deals on 200 pages, where they prescribe all the interests of the state, write down all the absolute elements of the order and regulations of production, Ukraine has given this entire national treasure to one company, and when the holdingfinguituring found out that it was a company, it was found that it was registered to four students from 20 to 22 years of age in offshore areas. I want to tell you, not bad rich future wives for someone. And that kind of thing is they're just limiting it to global crime. Because Ukraine has been deprived of oil and gas for hundreds of years. And I ask Parliament to hear this position separately and to make a separate decision with the government, because I believe that Ukraine's national interest concerns today all the deputies who represent every Ukrainian citizen in the East and the West. [[Applause]] And in conclusion, I would also like to inform you that we are very difficult, with tremendous obstacles and opposition, to take the path of returning Ukrainian interests to the gas market. We were given NAK Naftogaz by a technical bankruptcy, without an internal market, without any contracts, and with a price for gas that was cut off at the cost of transit. With our buildings, gas, 25 years at a price far below the market with 25 years of built transit at a price, even below the lowest transit in the world. And so we did everything we could in three months. We took all the middlemen out of the internal market. We have given NAC Naftogazu the sole supplier of natural gas to Ukrainian consumers. We've taken down "KrukGazEnergo" and thank God, because this corruption has been revealed by the KRW, when hundreds of millions of dollars were counted into companies that don't exist in nature when they were purchased for billions of dollars of equipment, if only for the oil and gas industry that was produced in the early 1960s, and which already looks like a metal scrapper, they were bought as new equipment. The same level of abuse as in the Naftogazi NAK, in the Cruise Station, I think the world just didn't know, even in the underdeveloped countries. Today we're handing all these materials over to the Attorney General's Office. And we'd like to see a reaction to that, and we'd like to understand, is there a force structure in our country or not? Are they capable of fighting, or are they simply ineffective today? [[Applause]] . We have adopted a completely balanced financial balance of NAK Naftogazu today, and this means that, starting in 2008, NAKU has not threatened any technical bankruptcy. We NAK on the edge just pulled it out of this situation and put it on its feet. And more, I am convinced, because the democratic team will be in power for quite some time, no one will give the national interest of Ukraine either for bribes or for political support or for office. [[Applause]] Short. I can tell you that the government did the impossible in three months. Just let him work and that's all.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u3	Thank you, Julia Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u4	Our Ukraine could come up. It's a joke, it's a joke.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u5	Please have a seat, comrades. Please sit down.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u6	What about the answers to your questions?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u7	I'll be right there. Dear colleagues, emotions are very good. Let's move on to work, especially if these emotions are positive. According to article 38, paragraph 3, Ukrainian national deputies and factions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine have the right to ask questions. So I'm using a direct rule of law, and now it's recorded on a faction question. This will be followed by a recording, or give immediately to the national deputies. So it's from factions and national MPs. Please sign up. The first will be the first five of the factions. First statement from the faction, question from the faction of the “Block of Lithuania” of Baran’s colleague. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u8	Dear Julia Vladimirovna! Baranov Valeri Alekseevich, "Block of Lithuania". I would like to ask you to help solve the next problem. In the autumn of last year, there was a major disaster in Berdjansk involving a sea storm. And that government has gone, you are in power today, unfortunately, that people have not been fully compensated. I'd like to ask you, all the documents are in Minfin to complete assistance to those who have suffered. And second moment. For several years we have tried to obtain public property from an airport that does not work to organize flights to a city resort. But the Ministry of Transport has suspended Kabmin's decision and this year the planes will not fly to Berdjansk again. I would very much ask you to transfer it to utility property, or by the Government to restore it, and to organize flights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u9	With regard to submergment in Berdjansk, I would like to ask the Minister of Finance to take up this parliamentary assignment now. And I think we're going to solve this question without a doubt. The other one. Airports are a separate issue. We got all the airport management in a state where there were no orders, no regulations, no prescribed procedures like the state and the investors, the state and private property working together in the airport economy. I don't think there's been that much chaos in any country. We have a part of the airports that are communal, looted, stopped, where there are no flights at all. Secondly, there are states that have long since been completely illegal, shadow structures, landing strips are being destroyed, it is not clear who is completely responsible for control functions, security functions. All of this was in a system of chaos. The government accepted the concept of handling all airports in Ukraine. We've studied the whole world.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u10	Please finish the dates.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u11	And we did a model where the airport -- this is practically the whole country -- is owned by the state. All the functions related to safety, control functions, weather, air and landing lanes are a state; anything else, an investor is involved on a completely open auction basis to build commercial buildings: terminals, generators and so on. We have now integrated this into the Air Code, which is passed to the Supreme Council, and the adoption of the Air Code will organize all actions related to the airports of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u12	Vladimir Filenko, a question from the faction of "The Yulia Tymoshenko".
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u13	I ask you to give the word to my colleague Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u14	Vladimir Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u15	Dear Mrs. Timoshenko! I think we Ukrainians are ungrateful and forgetful. We have completely forgotten that today is a hundred days from the work of a shadow government, and even a shadow economy is somehow not celebrating this day. I have a question to ask you that you are most vulnerable to the work of a shadow government in these hundred days, what suggestions have been made for you? The second question to you is this. In those hundred days you got 621 jobs from the President, that's when Janukovic got 88, that's when you got 260 jobs from Baloga, when Yanukovic got a pitifully small number, in all, 143. Are you able to read it and do it? And last but not least, how many wells have been transferred recently by the government of Yanuković into the hands of private structures?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u16	I'll start with a shadow government. I want to welcome the creation of a shadow government in Ukraine, and I think it's not a shadow government, it's an opposition government, because it's a huge step towards democracy in Ukraine. And I dream that as soon as possible, either on the basis of changes and additions to the Constitution, or on the basis of a separate law, we will adopt a law or amendments to the Constitution to grant the broadest rights of opposition. I dream that the opposition not only begins to make decisions by the opposition government, but that it will begin to have the opportunity, based on the Court of Auditors, to verify every financial flow, every decision of the government. And if something is wrong, not just from the rostrum to say, but to investigate and go to court, and to bring to justice, including, and criminally, those officials who violate the laws. And I believe we're going to give the opposition these rights quickly enough, because our team is democratically open to any of them.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u17	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u18	And if we even have people on a democratic team who will follow double standards in the dishonest management of financial resources, opposition will help us. I really rely on opposition as an effective tool today.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u19	Soloshenko Mikola's question from the faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u20	Please pass it on to Deputy Bevanko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u21	Please give the floor to Deputy Bebezenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u22	Bevanko, Party of Regions, head of the Subcommittee on Land Relations. Dear Julia Volodymyrna, the 2008 Budget Act, amends land legislation to suspend the lease of all state and municipal property, including agricultural land, when it is necessary to start working in the spring. Local budgets do not include land rentals. The committee had dozens, hundreds of questions on the subject. How does the government plan to get out of this situation? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u23	I would like to divide the agricultural and non-agricultural lands now. Agricultural land. Our entire parliamentary team has prolonged a moratorium on the sale of agricultural land until all the laws that regulate this process are passed. As far as agricultural land is concerned. Today, one of the priorities of the government has been to set order for use, i.e. by preserving the quality of agricultural land, and we will pass on to Parliament in two or three weeks any changes to laws that establish real control and real responsibility for improper use of agricultural land. Next. This is the relationship between the owner of the rations and the tenant. I can tell you that the owners of the pies today simply don't get any rent for the land they're giving away. At a time when the world pays the owners of agricultural land to the deposit rate of banks. Because it's the same business as any.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u24	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u25	Can we not interrupt if we can? So the point is that we want our agricultural land owners to receive at least a year's deposit rate on bank loans, because it's a global practice. And the last thing I'd like to say is that this is an order from non-agricultural land. The government didn't stop anything. We're the only ones who've really stopped -- we've stopped widespread corruption in dealing with non-agricultural land, when the land was passed over and it seemed rented sometimes thousands of times below market value, and the local budgets weren't completely filled. We've introduced a procedure, if the community decides to rent or sell non-agricultural land to owners, it's only done at a transparent auction in 3-4 months, not 3-4 years with bribes that go beyond market value. And today we're starting to get tens of times more revenue from the local budget funds. But you know what's happened in the last few days is a real P.P., which is an extraordinary situation. By decree, the president has halted the order that allows for transparent and honest renting or selling non-agricultural land through auctions. And for today, there's a risk that all this corruption is going to happen again. And that's why we're working today to take into account the president's observations and proposals, and we've taken them into account yesterday in full and to accept this order, which allows the country today to get tens of times more money into development funds, and to stop once and for all corruption and abuse, including, of investors. I'm sure it's the right way. And yesterday, by decree of the government, we stopped the dissipation of Ukrainian forests because the forests were distributed by tens of hectares, and sometimes by hundreds of hectares, as was the decision we had called off. Today we think that everything that happens to the forest is destruction, absolutely, of our country's ecology. And that's why we stopped it and we're going to continue to adopt the law that regulates it with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u26	Yuri Carmazin. Questions from the faction “Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u27	Yuri Karmazin Party of Protectors of Our Ukraine. Dear Julia Volodymyr, most of you know, the Party of Fatherland Defenders supports you and the faction supports you. But right now you were answering questions on the ground. I would like very much, just as a lawyer, because when the State Budget Act was passed, I asked this question that auctions on the ground should be regulated by law. And here's the very right president. Let us adopt this law as soon as possible. Just urgent. That's the first one. The other one. The land of agricultural land should be stopped. The Lord gave them no limit. We need to work in this direction and re-propose the law, and there has to be a common vision. And the third little question. I personally, as party leader, have addressed you about the two governors who have broken the whole deal, namely the Chernigian and Mikolai oblasts, and have asked the government about the responsibility for the facts that have been cited by the people in their numerous appeals.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u28	Well, first of all, the auction order. I want you and I to read the 128 articles of the Earth Code, where this right is clearly given to the government. Order is established by the government. The government had established order, and this order was being followed throughout the country. And this brought additional revenue to the local budgets. They're not looking for good. There are no questions that the Parliament wants to see as yet law. But there has to be a order that stops corruption from happening, not in five years, when we figure out some concepts that preserve one's interests. So I think, given the president's amendments that were written yesterday by the representative of the Schlapak government, and we've taken into account all of his proposals, that's exactly what we're going to accept with these proposals on Wednesday, and that means that there will be no more corruption with the land. There will be roads, schools, hospitals, and everything else about community life.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u29	Question by the faction Communist Party of Ukraine, Peter Cibenko
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u30	Wait a minute. The governors are still asking questions. You know that under the Constitution, the governors are appointed and photographed by the President for filing the Prime Minister, for filing the government. This is about what is being done today without a government being submitted, and all of this is being done absolutely, in my opinion, in an unconstructive way with regard to government based. And that's why today there are people who come under the task of "eat" and who are actually ruining all of the country's total economic policy. [[Applause]] At the insistence of the deputies, I will make a proposal to the government for their release.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u31	Question by the faction Communist Party of Ukraine, Peter DiBenko
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u32	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, I am glad that the people of Ukraine have heard the kind painting that the Prime Minister painted and compared to his real life, but that's not what I'm talking about. Since May 1st, the provisions of the State Budget Act on elimination for most of the most disadvantaged categories of the population of the social welfare system have entered into force. None of the previous governments that had not led him had the courage to do so. You did so by going to elections under the terms of increasing social protection, restoring justice. When you became Prime Minister, you did the exact opposite of destroying the social benefits system. Now, two questions. Question one. When will the government eventually change the state budget for Ukraine? First. And the second. Please tell me when you were real: When you were elected to make a promise to people or today when you did the exact opposite? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u33	Well, I think it's easy to answer that question. The only challenge facing Ukraine today is to overcome the inflation left to us as an inheritance. [[B in m in s a l in]] I made a commitment to end this disgraceful phenomenon in five or six months, and I said it publicly. Inflation as light does not go out, it is necessary to deal with all the consequences that have been associated with both certain policies that have led to this and with certain problems in the monetary sector. Today, we are gradually implementing what we promised, and in five or six months, I am convinced that Ukraine will forget what inflation was like, as it was in 2005, when our government received record high inflation rates since 2004 from the predecessors, and by mid-year we stopped all processes and really stopped everything that was related to such a negative phenomenon. That's the first one. The second is related to social benefits. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that all the previous governments in each budget law have suspended the operation of those laws that were not funded in the budget and which were actually unable to finance because they are one-second budget. In addition, every time the Constitutional Court, if you remember, has abolished such components of the budget. And that's why I think that the government, the Supreme Council, along with the unions, together with all the social funds, needs to sit down, honestly invent all the benefits, say what the state can do today and what it can not do, come out with a consolidated absolute decision and finally stop this bad tradition, when, in order to accept a balanced budget, every government has to stop something for a year. But I would like to point out that our government has not stopped anything that has not been halted by previous governments. And I think next year we're going to have a balance between social legislation and budget. This is our job to ensure that the next budget no longer has such components. But in parallel with this, we have implemented the Children of War Act in that part that relates to pensions payments, we have increased pensions and wages, we have started to pay back savings and we have completed it, we have increased pensions, scholarships and everything that's involved, we have done all the programs for children and a lot of things for the disabled and we will do more. And that's why I think the social policy of our government is, as always, the strongest in recent years.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u34	Now, questions from Ukrainian national deputies. Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u35	As far as the budget is concerned. One more question.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u36	Julia Volodymyrna!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u37	I'd like to ask you a question, an answer to a budget question. Dear friends, how can a government work without an approved Programme of Action? Please give us a technical assignment, and then we'll put it in the money. The government's agenda is the next step in the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u38	Please, Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u39	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear Julia Volodymyrna, I will ask only one question, but it is extremely relevant to millions of Ukrainian citizens this month, in April. So according to the Constitution of Ukraine, the principles of education are defined exclusively, please leave me. Step aside, please! They are defined exclusively by the laws of Ukraine. No changes have been made to the laws on the introduction of the system of so-called independent external testing! Moreover, all reform is based on legislation, which is essentially a disregard for the Basic Law of Ukraine. The two laws, which no one has repealed, “On higher education” and “On general secondary education”, are being directly violated. In addition, the Constitution provides that all legal acts do not have a retroactive effect in time, and this applies to those who graduated from school before 2008. You don't care if you need a hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u40	Let me finish because it's an incomprehensible question.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u41	Thank you. Don't you think it's time for the graduates to choose the introduction system: either it's testing, or, if they want, it's induction exams. Otherwise, all laws and the Constitution are violated. That's absolutely true, Julia Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u42	I absolutely agree with you that this system still needs to be carefully worked out. You're right, it can't work flawlessly right now, including the language question. Because when the government was approached by the leadership of the six districts and the Autonomous Republic of Crimea in order to give a lie to the time, within two years, in order to adapt all Aboriginals to the Ukrainian language, the Ministry of Education and Government considered these proposals, and we really took a step here to make it comfortable for future students. But I'd like to stop at what the goal is before such an external test, despite all the negatives that now accompany it. One is that the goal is that the people, the students who graduate from high school, who want to go to the schools, are the next to pass the exams not twice, but to pass the exams once. The second goal is that when they pass the exams, their level of knowledge is absolutely accurate and that it does not tend to occur. This is an external test that exists throughout the world. This means that a real assessment of knowledge will be made. And the second is that all the corruption that happens when you go to higher education institutions, when you do this external testing, just by the ratings and the proms that you get, you take students to colleges without exams, and that means that it allows you to go to colleges just to those who have the knowledge, not to those who have only the money. But there's a lot of underwork there today. And I would like to have a working group -- together, the Supreme Council and the government -- that we should work out all the necessary laws as quickly as possible and that we should make the external testing system suitable for students and that would really allow children who have knowledge to study in higher education institutions. I would now like to form a Ministry of Education task so that they can literally start discussions tomorrow with factions about the creation of such a working group, as well as with the committee of profile.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u43	Sergey Koshin, faction of Yulia Timoshenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u44	Please pass the word to Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u45	Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u46	Julia Volodymyrna, I am convinced that there are two serious systemic problems, systemic problems associated with the organization of power in Ukraine, for the optimum work of the government. The first problem is that there's a two-in-command at the central level, and every day we're looking at an awkward situation here, I'd say, for the coalition, when there's not a draft, undebated bill from the President, there's 60 votes. And an even more serious problem is that district district administrations are now operating outside the government. I was in the regions on many occasions and was surprised to see that district administrations blocked, for example, scholarship payments. I remember when Yushchenko was Prime Minister and the President’s Administration was gathering letters of governors to take down the Prime Minister, so it seems that today this practice of Kuchma, Medvedchuk, is returning. How do you see a system of organization of responsible executive power, where the government, together with the President and with the Parliament, and the local authorities, worked in the interests of the people?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u47	This is a task, Mikola Volodymyrovich, you put. But I think that the parliamentary team, in principle, has all the tasks at hand. I think there are a number of valid, fundamental reasons why politics is so debilitating today. This applies both to coalition, to opposition, and to government, and to all the components of absolute power. I think there's a few reasons. The first reason is the President's 2010 election. And that's the factor that destabilizes politicians today, politicians try instead of working constructively for the state, destroying each other. Politicians are now preparing for presidential elections instead of preparing and making real ones in Ukraine. And this conflict now goes beyond common sense. And the second thing is. With the adoption of changes and additions to the Constitution, the full distribution of functions between branches of government in Ukraine is balanced, especially between the Presidential branch of power and the executive branch of authority. Today, unfortunately, we have such a unique fact when we have not two but three governments: this is a government, this is the National Security and Defence Council, and this is the President's Secretariat. When virtually all executive functions today have two, or three, dimensional tasks that exclude each other. And that is the basis and basis of some misunderstandings that are in power today. I believe that today, by strengthening the democratic coalition, we need to approach you urgently -- with all of us, with all of us in Parliament -- to make meaningful, completely coherent changes and additions to the Constitution. If we don't do this to you, the authorities will get sick, and it doesn't matter who will be in this power, who will be in opposition. The same thing happened when there was a broad coalition, the same thing is happening today. We need to build up courage, create a temporary special constitutional commission in the Supreme Council, bring together the visions of all factions and give the country, finally, on the basis of new balanced, harmonious changes to the Constitution, stability, peace, cooperation and effective development. If we don't do this, we're going to think that this Parliament has failed to perform its function.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u48	Nestor Schuffritch gives the word to Alexander Ephraim. Alexander Efraemov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u49	Thank you, Arseny Petrovich. Dear Julia Vladimirovn, a while ago, Yushchenka, as President, applied for your presidency, and this is where the House voted for it. And today, answering some questions. The Prime Minister, yes. [[Applause]] And today, when you answer some questions, in a destructive way, you're making it clear that you're disrespecting Yushchenko, I don't think that's entirely correct. But I have another question. Some time ago, 12 border guards died in our country. Power. This is a state-level tragedy, the power had to declare mourning. That's why I wanted us to correct the mistake of power and to honor the memory of the minutes of silence that we lost.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u50	Please have a seat, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u51	I'm convinced that our government, which, by the way, doesn't have such a constitutional right or a normative right to declare mourning, I think the government will do anything to get the support of families and to do whatever it takes to make families feel that the state is still around at such a tragic moment. The other one. As far as the President is concerned. I have deep respect for the President, and I want to remind you that so many times and in completely different contexts, I have personally supported the President, strengthened his authority, and our entire team will never deviate from the configuration of the democratic coalition. But today I think there's no secret that the branches of power are working hard enough today. I didn't say a word today about the President being disrespectful, or with all the hints. I'm talking about the facts that accompany the life of the government today, and these facts apply to all politics. Because it doesn't matter who, where he is in power or opposition. If the basic conditions of the Constitution today are so deplorable to politics, it doesn't matter who will be President, or Prime Minister. And so all the words I said, I was critical of that system of power that allows it to be used that way. And my respect and my support has always been with the President and the democratic team.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u52	Lilia Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u53	Lilia Grigorovich, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. Dear Julia Volodymyrna! For the first time in 16.5 years, a democratic coalition has emerged on Ukraine's political map, and clearly, our success is not a renegade implementation of the coalition agreement, it's a canon ambush. In view of this, I agree with what you said that this coalition, this government is the most social and I want to inform you that on the same day that we elected our government, the coalition deputies, passed a law on mandatory public health insurance, because the slogan of our coalition is the "Ukrainian Breakout for People" and not for politicians, including those who lobby huge private insurance companies. They have fields to work with, but our law is designed to protect all 47 citizens, millions of citizens, because we are at the threshold of a demographic crisis. I ask you to support me in the first reading. And the second is that today it's damaging to the full-blooded work of the State. It's fishy.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u54	Please. We just have a few more questions, and we're taking time from our fellow national deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u55	With regard to insurance and compulsory health insurance, I'm not just standing in these positions as Prime Minister, the whole government is working today to get real insurance to work. Today, a working group has been formed that includes all the participants in this process today. And I would like now, considering that you have a bill, to invite you personally to this working group, because in order for the document to be born balanced, in order for the government and parliament to do one conscious thing in this reform, you must do it together on the basis of the design of the concept and then the bill. So I can't say right now that we're ready to vote on the first reading because our team, the government team, would like to go along with the parliamentary team and you as the author, just to understand what the concept is, to agree on, because on the first reading, it's the concept and then to introduce a coherent bill that we understand equally. And I'm inviting you to do this job because there's an expanded council going on right now on the subject of health insurance. I would like to see them present at this meeting.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u56	Kravchenko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u57	Thank you. Julia Vladimirovna, and yet, you know, I have to compliment you. Not saying a word about the unfolding inflation, but 17.8 per cent today, about the prices of unrestrained in the market, not saying what benefits are taken from people at any cost, not saying a word about the volume and rate of growth of production, you've ruined your applause with a pompous performance, and Carmazin still stands, he can't even sit down. You didn't say anything about the Kabmin closure for the opposition. I ask the question of such a plan. You promised to pass the Overlords Act, there is no law. And the second question. You were therefore asked by the faction manager and answered by the Deputy Minister. Tell me, will this practice be broken in the long run or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u58	I'm back on the spot. Item number one. The government made a commitment to report in five to six months on the completion of the country’s inflation processes. And we're talking in a specific position, in every food product, in every indicator that's accompanying this process. Second of all, it's about the benefits. Once again, I invite all of us together to create a working group and work on the benefits that we leave behind, that we finance and that is impossible to finance today. All key benefits will be funded, all key social expenses will be incurred. Now, about the question on the top. I think that the decisions we've made today are absolutely ensuring the state's position in the drama system. As far as a special law is concerned, if it has not yet been given, then we are working on it. And if we have a common interest in this right now, and now there's a minister of ecology and environmentalism here, so that you can also be part of this working group on the drafting of these bills. And as for the fact that the question of faction leaders is being answered by deputy ministers, it's unacceptable, I completely accept that observation, absolutely. And I'm addressing now, Peter Mikolaiovich, I'm here, I'm now going to the Cabinet of Ministers secretariat, so in no case has there ever been a case where the leader of the faction's leadership is responsible for someone below the post of prime minister. Well, it's just a wrong relationship. We're going to change this tradition bad.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u59	Dear colleagues, the time for discussion is over.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u60	I want to say one last question about Carmazine. I beg you not to sit down.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u61	Dear colleagues, dear Julia Volodymyrna! We thank you. Allow me to address the Prime Minister and the Cabinet of Ministers with several requests. First. The Ukrainian Supreme Council will necessarily consider the Government’s Action Programme as a political document.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u62	And 63 laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u63	We ask that the National Programme for Social and Economic Development and changes to the State Budget Act be brought before the Supreme Council, and we will consider them at the same time, in one plenary day. And I think that the letter I got from you the other day indicates that you're practically ready to make changes to the State Budget and you're ready to send them by the end of this month. The letter that came yesterday. The second is that Julia Volodymyrna, the whole Parliament, when we present the bills, we would ask that the first person come to this presentation. I mean, a minister as a member of the Cabinet of Ministers. Similarly, if you invite us to a government meeting, we will be delighted to come to the warehouse you invite. And the third question about the answers is that we are grateful for your response so that the responses to the people's deputies and factions' leaders are in line with the People's Deputies Act. As for today, fellow believers, the first dam on the part of the government seems better than on the part of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u64	I want to thank the Supreme Council for today's work together. And I want to ask the Supreme Council to make not one hour a week with the government, but, for example, two hours a week, twice a week. Because it's so good to see you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u65	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to sit down. The next question is also very important. Whether he is present or not, let the government determine whether he will be present. I think there are already issues in the government that are being announced, including by parliamentarians. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to take your seats. We have 40 minutes to work on a very important issue. In accordance with article 51 of the Ukrainian National Bank Act. National Bank reporting to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. At the request of the Ukrainian National Deputies, a decision was taken to listen to information from the National Bank of Ukraine about the state of the country's monetary and credit market as required by article 51, paragraph 5, of the Ukrainian National Bank Act. In view of this, the next order of consideration is proposed. A speech by the head of the National Bank in 15 minutes. 10 minutes of question-answer. Then the speech by the chairman of the Azarov committee and the five minutes of discussion, and that concludes it. Is that the order of the day? Roger that. Vladimir Seminovich Stelmah is head of the National Bank. Please come to the rostrum of Parliament. Vladimir Semenović, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u66	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! Monetary policy, in a pragmatic sense, is nothing more than the actions of the National Bank of Ukraine, which is the central bank of the State of making its monetary, so to speak, actions that should support, support the macroeconomic indicators of Ukraine's development, the state. It is built according to current legislation based on government-approved indicators – the level of economic development, the level of inflation, the current balance of other indicators. But the law provides that, in carrying out monetary policy, the National Bank must adhere to the constitutional requirement, that is, the basic function of the National Bank is to ensure the stability of the national monetary unit. And the law says that it supports the government's policy until it contradicts the very performance of this basic function. If we're talking about the state of monetary policy, I have to say that it's been implemented, we're going to talk, we're going to talk, we're going to talk positively. I'll give you some indicators. The 2007 monetary base accounted for 20 per cent of GDP, which was 3 per cent per year; the money weight, 56 per cent of GDP, was 7 per cent; the deposits accounted for 40 per cent of GDP, which was 6 per cent of GDP growth, and credits to the economy accounted for 60 per cent of GDP, which was 15 per cent increase. In this year, in 2007, you know that real GDP grew by 7.3 percent at the planned 6.8 percent, and unemployment fell from 2.8 percent, registered unemployment fell from 2.8 percent to 2.3 percent. I mean, as you can see, there's been a whole year of positive trends, including monetary policy. But in the fourth quarter, especially last year, there's been an enormously negative growth in inflation. You know what 16.6 percent of inflation has done in the last year, including in the last four months of the last year, is about 10 percent. This became a requirement for the National Bank to change its approach to monetary policy, and we made a number of arrangements to ensure that the money that the National Bank issues does not stimulate new inflation. And in the first quarter, so to speak, we fixed the fact that, first of all, we tied up the money of commercial banks by increasing the mandatory reserves, that is to say, we didn't let those of us go into the economy and intensively develop further inflation. Secondly, we're our monetary base, which is the main indicator and the source of the economy's money, we've kept it going, and we've got a 3.1 percent monetary base down on April 1st. This is saying that there's about 20 billion. We kept the money from filling up. Why did we do that? Because in the fourth quarter of last year, the biggest increase in income was in the economy and because of the fact that the level of economic indicators, or real GDP for this year, is projected to be even lower than that of last year, we concluded that the money that is actually in the economy is enough to sustain this economic growth. And so so that we don't push money into the economy again, we did this deterrence. But along with the findings of the first quarter, the inflation rate in Ukraine has become dangerous. You know, the sum of the first quarter, the inflation rate was 9.7 at the first projection rate of 9.6, so all of these possibilities, the annual inflation potential, were exhausted. What is our estimate of this? The main assessment of this, well, can be considered in this way, the model of economic development, if you take it, so to speak, really systematically analyze it, you get that fiscal policy is a reflective policy. There's inflation, there's deflation, there's reflation. Reflation means intensive stimulus by the internal demand budget. Well, actually, this is where Julia Volodymyrna spoke and showed how, so to speak, the increase in all these payments, the social payments and so on, they're confirmed. And if, for example, in the first quarter, the first quarter of last year before the first quarter of 2006, budget expenditure had risen 15.5 percent, then the first quarter of 2008 to the first quarter of 2007 was 45 percent. This shows tremendous intensity, the intensity of budget spending, and they certainly have created, but the economy, the economy, the economy, the economy, against, the commodity supply and the services did not give the same rate as they did, for example, the population expenditure and income. People's income in general, in addition to budget spending, has increased by 47 percent, and you realize that this is the dissonance that caused the inflationary explosion. So that's why I said that those measures, the ones that we started doing in four blocks last year, they stayed in power and kept going. In general, I'd like to say, following that, you really should look at the economic model, because if there's information about the development of industrial production in the first quarter. And here's the question that, on the one hand, the reflection, on the other hand, there's already a predictor of stagflation, that is, with the intense increase in inflation, we have the rate of growth in industrial production, and if this trend is confirmed, then the overlap of these two negative factors, so to speak, can lead to extremely serious negative consequences as a whole in economic growth in ours. So, of course, we have this kind of policy to prevent these stagfing processes from increasing in the economy. One of the segments of monetary policy is monetary policy. And in this context, I wanted to say, well, if we took, for example, how the money was spent in the economy last year, at the end of the year, then, in principle, in order to maintain the stability of the exchange rate we had to buy the currency from the market, well, this currency was mostly exporters, and therefore it was filled with the national currency. We bought four billion currencies, gave 20 billion national currency. And in this context, I repeat that we believe that the money that was made last year is sufficient for the economic development of this period. I'd also like to say this trend. Which, in principle, if those indicators are now, they don't give a reason for, let's say, an optimistic conclusion to our economic growth. What's the plan? Because, for example, real GDP is projected at 6.8 percent, while we reached 7.3 last year. This high rate of population income growth, that is, domestic demand development, is much ahead of supply and services. And so the threat of demand inflation -- it's not coming off, and it's getting worse because you can't see how from the point of view of supply it's going to be this threat, so to speak, it's going to fail or it's going to go down. And if, really, that's how it's going to go, it's going to make things worse again. Once again, the law requires, I repeat, that we will support the government's policy until it contradicts the basic function. So this is, well, preserving the stability of the national currency, which means, for the common people, it means that the purchasing power of money is preserved. That's the money that we have today so we can buy as much goods as we did last year, it's ideal. Well, as long as we don't make it. That's why the National Bank will keep its monetary policy in check. This means that if, in fact, there's a signal that there's going to be an economic growth with a decline in inflation, so we call it, potential, then we're going to support this policy. Thank you for your attention. And if we don't, we're going to work at zero.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u67	Thank you, Vladimir Semenovich. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to sign up for a question. Please, the faction of the Party of the Regions, Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u68	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Semenovich, the current practice of so - called compensation for lost savings: (a) without determining the amount that Ukraine can borrow from the internal debt; (b) without funding, creating jobs in the Savings institutions is a mere pianist and economic proponent of solving the problem. The only bill that the Ukrainian national MPs remember, unfortunately, was not introduced into the session hall, was your bill, a bill prepared by experts at the National Bank of Ukraine, which is clearly reasoned, without loss to the economy, and for people to determine how and by what time, clearly understood the scheme for the return of lost savings, without harm to the economy and without moral trauma to the people standing in the queue. Please tell Reverend Vladimir Semenovich whether Nazbank is planning to submit this bill to the session hall again with the Savings Department or with the training committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u69	Thank you. Jaroslav Mikhailovich, the project was developed, made available by the National Bank when we had the right to legislative initiative. As you know, with constitutional changes, we've been denied that right, and that's why we work through MPs, either through the government, or through the President. And we made our proposals. But where they go, frankly, we don't know later. Then they are, so to speak, the same thing, and so again. Of course, if we are asked to get involved in this matter, we will be involved. But the process has already gone, and so, you know, the budget provides for these payments. You're approving the budget, so you support it. By the way, just like inflation, the one run by the National Bank. With the budget, it is sanctified. We think of it as a normative inflation, and we're all substantiating our actions under all of these, so to speak, approved indicators. I just want to say one thing that there are estimates that pay when.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u70	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u71	For children, for others, wages are raised. That's the savings payment, it's about four percent increasing inflation.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u72	Schlemko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u73	Dmitry Šlemko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Please give the floor to the national deputy of Sivolski Mikolovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u74	Mikola Sivuliski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u75	Dear Volodymyr Semenovich, your statement said that inflation in the first quarter had collapsed because the government had increased costs, including social costs, by 45 percent. I want to remind you that the budget expenditure is within revenue, and there was no impact on the money supply. Because it's the deficit that affects the budget. We put up a deficit-free budget in the first quarter, with a surplus of 1.2. So the reduction in the money base that you called 1.3 percent is this 1.2 tenths of a billion. That's a note. Now the question is essentially. How can you evaluate the government's actions as a person responsible for the money issue through the redemption of the currency, when at the end of the year, for example, in 2006, without any need for external borrowing, since all the expenditures were covered by the current income, they take the loans provided for in the law on the loan budget and these loans are dead during the year.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u76	The government's actions should be assessed by what they took and what they've deadened this money, it's not a matter of the National Bank. You got it. I said, the National Bank takes this into account, and when it says, I'm sorry, if, for example, we needed money, and we didn't need money, extra emissions, and so on and so forth. So we would certainly say that this is, if you'll excuse me, an issue, we won't give you the money. But then the government, he sees it, he borrows it, but he doesn't spend it, and he doesn't transfer it to the show. So they were in the National Bank, in the National Bank's reserves. [[From the hall.]] [[Unheard]] .
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u77	Yeah, yeah. And we, by the way, made extra money for them, and this year they started to be used, they became useful to this government, and it was these two years of money that were involved, and this year they're being used, including, to pay the savings people. I want to do it again.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u78	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u79	It was defiant that the National Bank was making reserves to pay for the savings. He didn't give a penny of reserves, it's really that government involved back in 2006, they were lying there. And this one uses, does the right thing, does the right thing. Now once again, Mikola Ivanovich, I am confident that the extremely intense impact of budget spending, traitor, has caused more inflation. Wait a minute, you don't need to talk. And I'll tell you even more, what I told you 45, and now look at another indicator I'm going to tell you. The recovery was 3 billion in the first quarter, and the expenditure was increased against the plan, and the expenditure was about 7 billion against the planned, and again this is the question of inflation. So I'm sorry, there's a lot of numbers I won't argue with here, if I have to, we can show that question.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u80	Yuri Karmazin, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u81	Yuri Carmazin. Party of Protectors of the Homeland, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. Dear Vladimir Semenovich, do I have such a question to you that it prevents the National Bank from finally becoming a free currency? That's the first question. Second, I think inflation has contributed to and stimulated the attachment of bracelets to the dollar, and it has a strong attachment. In my opinion, this practice needs to be stopped and joint arrangements between the government, among the National Bank, among other financial institutions, including the Holding Foundation, the Antimonopoly Committee, all others, joint action. Including, not for the broad publicity that needs to be used to stop inflation, first. And secondly, the processes that threaten national security, that's the country's dollarization, that's a long time ago, that's a threat to national security, and now more than that, when in the world of dollars, you know, you fell down, and we're holding onto it and pulling it out on our own.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u82	Thank you. An extremely important question is that strengthening the national currency means lowering domestic prices. That's true, because we depend heavily on energy carriers and others, as it were, we're going to say, investment goods, where it needs to be strengthened and it's, we're going to say, economically confirmed. But I would like to contact the deputies. In order to go to the full currency conversion, you are associated with the electorate, I would ask you to convince those who choose you and those with whom you meet not to keep dollars of any kind, not in pocket, not in deposits. First, give it up, just take the national currency. When we have only a national currency in our economic turnover, it will be a serious step in strengthening our national currency, reducing prices and converting. If you don't mind, Arseny Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u83	Yes, yes, please, Vladimir Semenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u84	So we're told that, you know, the balance of the current account is negative, and that's why the question of strengthening the national currency is not relevant, and it's even harmful. So I have figures from 2001 to 2007, and they're being brought here by about 20 countries. And here, as you can see, in all countries, the current account is negative, but inflation is a definite figure, and even so on, within 5 percent. All of which, if our neighbors are both on the right and on the left, and even our CIS brothers, even Belarus, have reduced inflation from 61 percent to 8.4 percent, this is a negative balance. So the question of strengthening the rate and the balance of the current account, it's not connected, because dollars go exactly the same way as others, so let's say that investments come in here and they come in if we need the currency and they're questions. So the question of what you're saying might be in the near future. But. But.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u85	Thank you, Vladimir Semenovich. Sergey Ljowczyn.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u86	Thank you, Arseny Petrovich. Dear Vladimir Semenovich, first of all, I want to thank you for such a meaningful presentation where you gave a clear assessment of the causes of inflation this year, particularly everyone knows that we already have 9.7 percent in the first quarter, which is actually projected and budgeted for the annual inflation rate. And if you look at dry figures, you have to say that Ukrainian citizens should know that the overall food prices have risen by 14.9 percent, including 10 percent bread, 17 percent meat, 26 percent oil, 32 percent fruit, 32 percent sugar, 9 percent. Services: water-supplying, 7.5 per cent; health care, 6.5 per cent; transport, 9.1 per cent. So we see that the so-called inflationary measures of our government have no positive impact on slowing down inflation. And today, we have heard from the Prime Minister general phrases and promises that someday the government will overcome inflation. In this regard, Vladimir Semenović. What if.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u87	Let me finish the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u88	Thank you, Arseny Petrovich. When are we finally going to see the government and the National Bank of Ukraine's anti-inflation programme, we're going to be able to get to know it, and finally have an understanding when, after all, will the inflation process slow down? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u89	Thank you. It's a very important question, too. Well, I've already said that what, so to speak, inflation, really, it is also the external factors of inflation, especially food. But there are some insiders. That's one thing. Now anti-inflation measures. We really, they're designed, these anti-inflationary measures. And they're going to talk about both the National Bank and the government. They're on the Ministry of Economics' website, as far as I'm concerned, right? It's on the Ministry of Economics' website. I must be honest with you that we are not thrilled by what the government has presented. What? That's what the ministries can't see. We have one question, the problem of inflation, it's a question of supply. And it's the ministries of agrarian politics, industrial politics, and others, which, so to speak, the policy of providing goods and services for this money, so to speak, how high the rate of growth in the population, the incomes, you can't see. That's the question there. And we're consulting with the government, having a conversation. I know that the government is now developing a detailed economic and social development plan, both fiscal and other positions. And I think it will soon be brought to your attention. And then we're going to see how these are all agreed upon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u90	Easy asking questions. Shall we? Let's do it. Come on. Vladimir Semenovich answered the last question.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u91	Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Please, Arsenija Petrovich, pass the word to Polunie's colleague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u92	Please, Poluniev Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u93	Dear Vladimir Semenovich, I am also grateful for the report you gave on the activities of the National Bank of Ukraine and the role that the National Bank plays in, in particular, anti-inflation policy. I have two questions for you. Question one. Do you not think that it is now seriously necessary to reform the activities of the National Bank of Ukraine as an independent body, an independent institution primarily to ensure macroeconomic stability through inflationary rhythms, through clear macroeconomic forecasts. And the second. Don't you think that the co-existence of two key functions today, namely, the implementation of monetary and exchange rate policies and bank supervision, is a certain conflict.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u94	Please, Vladimir Semenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u95	Thank you. I'd like to say the following. Well, I guess everybody knows the target is the word English, which is the goal. A goal that is being asked to achieve. So if inflation, that's the price level, that's the level of inflation that. Then let's take a look at you. Is there any targeting in Ukraine? Here's what the currency fund and others tell us, so let's do it, let's do it. I'm saying that in Ukraine, compared to other countries, the highest level, we're going to say this, the attitude towards the function of the central bank, including the targeting of inflation. First. The Constitution has written down the main function of the National Bank, this is, I'm sorry, ensuring the stability of the money, the national monetary unit, this is a fundamental issue. And the enemy number one is stability inflation. So, of course, all the fibers of the soul, the National Bank is struggling to have inflation suppressed not only suppressed, but not only developed within it, and so that the budget continues to be approved, and as far as possible below. Now the target. Please tell me, if the government is developing a budget, it's defined by the budget, it's determined by the level of inflation, and then these figures are passed to Parliament, and Parliament is covering it. Isn't this about targeting inflation? I'd like them to look at our laws first and see how these issues are being handled. It goes on to say, “The government’s independence. ” But I've been reading to you, the law can read that the National Bank supports the economic policy of the government until it contradicts the performance of its core function. All right, question. And we're saying that if the actions of the government, God forbid, cause inflation and so on, we're not going to ask any questions to support such actions. That's it. There's everything in the law. So reforming the National Bank from this point of view, which function, I didn't see anymore. There's one question, we're going to say that the law remains, there's one thing that, for example, the head of the National Bank may depend on the whims of the president, of a loving president, there's no question. That's the question. If this institution is independent, I'm sorry, there shouldn't be any, so to speak. And secondly, I think that the law is perfectly, so to speak, meeting the requirements. And once again, it's better than the central banks laws in other countries. Now, about the supervisory functions. You know, that's the question. Indeed, if monetary policy were to be pursued, it might be possible that this function of supervision of banks would be removed from the National Bank. But the thing is that banks are, so to speak, they're putting money into the organization that's going through them, and so on. So this function is extremely important for the stability of the national currency, and at this point we don't see the need to separate it. The second issue is the question of both human resources and the second question, and the negative trends are increasing, given that non-bank financial institutions also have the ability to actively engage and issue loans, and so on, that goes beyond the control of the National Bank, and so these issues pass. So we think that at this point it's still a question that can stay, although we need to build up this frame. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u96	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Semenovich. I'm asking you to sit down. On behalf of Parliament, let me thank you for the meaningful report. [[Applause]] I'm sorry, my dear colleagues, that a report by the head of the National Bank of Ukraine contains only one-quarter of Ukraine's national deputies. What's going on, like, twice a year, is this report. If we take other parliaments and congresses, when the head of the Federal Reserve System is speaking, the entire assembly is fully filled, and in fact this is a certain event not only for Parliament but also for the State as a whole. And we're like, we're asked, we're asked, we don't know what they're going to ask. Please, Mikola Janovich Azarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u97	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! What I'd like to say. The first, one minute literally, is that the Janukovich Government has indeed carried out external loans and has never converted them. It was calculated, the Government, by its external obligations only. And only the current Government has made use of these currencies. That's an obvious fact for all of us. Second. That's an interesting nonsense I heard today. The negative balance of trade in Ukraine appears to be related to fictitious exports and allegedly to the fact that imports were not reflected. This is, of course, a unique discovery that we have heard today. I wonder what assholes are paying us for fake exports that are totally real dollars that come into our accounts. It is also interesting that the main increase in negative imports is due, above all, to the increase in the cost of gas, the oil we import, which accounts for about 40 per cent of imports, as well as to the sharp increase in imports of popular consumption goods. Now to the topic of today's very important meeting. I am deeply grateful to Vladimir Semenović, who, in a calm manner, in general, answered almost all the questions. I would just like to clarify a few literal positions that we considered on the Committee on Finance and Banking in early February, when it was clear for the first time that very threatening factors had emerged. Well, first of all, Vladimir Semenović made it quite clear that budget payments had increased by 45 per cent. What was the situation? The Government had an obligation to look at production, at the proposal, because all budget payments went to market. So here's the deal. Most recent data from Goskomstat for the first quarter of 2008. Beef and veal production decreased by 22.6 per cent, pork by 60.7 per cent, meat, and co-products by 32 per cent. Then we wonder why the price of meat suddenly grew sharply. There's no other way. Let's get some gas, get some gas. Same parameters. Quarter to quarter. Motor gasoline, minus 31.4 percent, decreased by a third. The diesel fuel is 47 percent, half. Mazute is 47 per cent. And then we wonder what it's like to have an average price of two bracelets for gasoline. It's not surprising. That is why we held parliamentary hearings in early February, the National Bank and the Government participated. We have asked that an anti-inflation programme be developed, which should not only include monetary inflation control techniques, which, by the way, the National Bank has succeeded and should now begin to criticize, because there is a serious decline in output and GDP growth. And it is not desirable for us to fight inflation to fall. I'll say a few words about that below. What are the main factors and what are the main risks we have identified as the priorities that our Government, the National Bank, must face? It's very little said, it's kind of coming down behind the parentheses, that unfortunately our banking system has already made a significant contribution to inflation. [[I'm running out of time.]] We're talking very carefully about the banking system. However, it cannot be said that the amount of credit granted to the population has doubled: from 78 billion to 155 billion, and if that were the case, Vladimir Semenović, through the increase in population deposits, could be welcomed. However, it was not only that the increase in deposits had ceased but had decreased significantly. And mostly. Well, it's enough to say that if the banking system used to provide almost 100 per cent of lending through deposits, now it's only 63 per cent.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u98	I continue to hold a meeting of the Supreme Council until the matter is closed. Mikola Volodymyrovich, I'd like to round you up.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u99	Thank you. Now it's only 63 percent. And the question is, where's the other 37 percent? And that's what it turns out to be. Shouldn't we get the money back? Where does this consumer credit go? This is for imports only, because we see that our own industry does not provide us with goods. One more moment, Vladimir Semenović, I would like to pay attention. Monetary inflation suppression practices have already led to real cuts in bank accounts. In January, February, the cash base fell by 5 per cent, and bank corset balances decreased by 20 per cent in January-March, to 15.5 billion. We haven't even heard these numbers in years. The free liquidity of the banking system has decreased by almost 30 per cent, to 6.6 billion. It is clear that inflation and Vladimir Semenović recognize it is not monetary, but because it is so, it means that inflation must be tackled in largely non-monetary ways. And here is the main thing, and today we too have heard an interesting, interesting observation from the Government that there will be no budget until there is a programme. An interesting issue, the budget, which was adopted, was only adopted for two months. Provided that it is adjusted and submitted to the Supreme Council on 1 March. How can this budget work if more than one budget indicator, based on budget calculations, no longer works? The Government should therefore submit a budget to Parliament immediately. And a budget with a reasonable deficit of not more than one per cent is the most effective measure by the Government to combat inflation. Now, the next moment, dear colleagues, I have not been able to speak when the time of the Government has passed, but I would like to say, at last, raise the level of electricity bills for housing and utilities. You don't do these things. The level of calculation has fallen to an unacceptable one. Public consumption needs to be optimized. This will be reflected in a balanced budget. Well, finally, the last thing I would like to say is, of course, Vladimir Semenović stopped at this, it's a exchange policy. Of course, you shouldn't talk about it loudly right now, make any predictions. But what is happening in the world is what is happening in the world economy must certainly be our weak enough transition economy to keep an eye on, and we must give up populism, dear comrades. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u100	Thank you, Your Honor, Mikolo Janovich. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to conclude this discussion. One, a few comments. What, is there a desire to speak from factions? Sign up for the factions. But we're done, we've only got 12 minutes left. How do five factions perform for three minutes? Is there an arithmetic? Five to three to fifteen, plus three to eighteen. What are we doing? Then I propose a one-minute performance from the factions. Please sign up. Alexander Efraemov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Out of the way, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u101	Arsenius Petrovich, please pass the word to Levocchin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u102	Sergey Ljowczyn, please. From the place, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u103	Thank you, Arsenia Petrovich. It is generally known that Ukrainian inflation has two components. The first is imported inflation, the second is internal inflation. It's all clear with the imported stuff. As far as internal inflation is concerned. We think it's caused by that political crisis that was made last year. And it was created by those who are now in power and who are sitting in today's government, in fact, to come to the same power. The other one. As we heard today from Vladimir Seminovich Stelmacha, social benefits made by the government were essentially added to the internal component of inflation. And given what the NBA is responding to from the monetary component of the fight against inflation. It's important to understand that there's a second element that the government is responsible for. It's a budget component. Arseny Petrovich! I remember well how you promised that by April 1 or March 1st, a real budget project would be in place to address more than just the pressing social issues that lie ahead.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u104	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u105	Thank you. And the second. What he will decide, in particular, is an important issue of inflation targeting. This is a budgetary issue and the government has to focus on it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u106	Mikola Sivuliski, please, from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u107	Dear colleagues! I was ashamed to hear the words of inflation in the guilty government, which increased social pay by one and a half times. Dear colleagues! We've forgotten that you and I are already living in the world space and that we have world prices for all things except one: labor. That's how much we're going to keep our people on such low wages. I want to pay attention to the following. It doesn't raise social benefits to inflation, because inflation is born in the manufacturing sector, and it's born there, and it's just extrapolated to the consumer market. As a result, Nazbank, who is responsible for this area, was removed. Unlike other countries, Nazbank has the right to a monetary settlement. How long will we term the situation when our currency is attached dead to a currency that is constantly falling? And the same is true of the risks that exist in the world’s currency markets. It's time to change politics, and that's what we can do, and we have to do it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u108	Stanislaw Arzewityn, from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u109	Dear Arseny Petrovich! I'd like to find out for the future what we're listening to at all, the question of monetary policy or the question of the state of the monetary and credit market, because you announced one thing, Vladimir Semenović said something else, too, Mikola Janović said something. So I really wanted you to make it clear in the daytime that we're listening, to politics or to the state of the market. Now essentially. I would like to say a few words of appreciation for the activities of the National Bank at the convention of the bankers themselves. And despite the fact that the National Bank conducted a very harsh policy last year in relation to the banking system, it is largely accepted by bankers because they understand that economic stability in the country is more important than any corporate interest in the banking sector. As for our faction, we're concerned about those threatening trends in the external financial markets, we're worried about the trends we have in our Ukrainian market. In this regard, we call on the National Bank to develop appropriate mechanisms for unforeseeable cases. We too are concerned about what exists today.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u110	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u111	Uncontrolled increase in external corporate debt. Next, what worries us is that most of the loans are spent on consumer credit. We're concerned about the lack of monetary policy, and we're also concerned that anti-inflationary measures have no emphasis on putting ahead of growth in productivity on wage growth. We are concerned that the program also lacks incentives for direct foreign investment, not for foreign direct investment, but for the harsh adjustment of the volume of foreign financial investment. We are also concerned about the faction's lack of a clear anti-inflationary common position between the National Bank and the government today, as well as the lack of a memorandum between the government and the Cabinet of Ministers in part of achieving price stability to ensure sustained economic growth.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u112	All of it. Thank you. Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to make some clarifications. Mikola Janović provided information on the decline in the volume of deposits. Mikola Janović, I've been watching all the monetary aggregates, deposits are growing, 0.2% are growing, so deposits aren't falling. The second is about the role and issue of the National Bank in curbing inflationary processes. Today’s inflation processes are in no way related to the operation of the National Bank. What's more, today the National Bank is running a very reasonable monetary policy, part of the actual absence of such a channel as emission money through a ransom in gold currency reserves. Look at the statistics on gold reserves. So today the question is that inflation is linked to the activities of the National Bank cannot stand in the order of the day at all. I'm telling you this as a member of the National Bank of Ukraine Council. The second question, in general, about the topic raised in this room, about the reform of the National Bank. It's desirable that we don't let anyone slip into the National Bank system with their dirty hands. It is fully independent under the Constitution and under the National Bank Act, governed solely by the National Bank Authority and the National Bank Board. And the discussion about what let's separate something from it, let's divide it, is no more than a chair to create. The system of banking supervision should be in the central bank system and here, I think we're going to express a common position, Vladimir Semenovich, and Parliament, which is what's essential is banking supervision, strict banking regulation, implementation, monitoring of the Basel principles of banking supervision, that's what depends on you today, that's our money that's stored in the banking system of Ukraine. Well, for reasons of inflation. It is very clear that these are global risks, starting with energy, ending with the incredible volatility of basic exchange rates, including the food crisis, and these are the internal factors that must exist, starting with excessive social pressures, administrative regulations and expectations that are generated in society. We hope that the government, together with the central bank, will follow the path of inflation and will follow the path of inflation deterrence, which is, in principle, a threat to the Ukrainian economy today. But this is the period that needs to be lived, and everything will depend on the effectiveness of government and monetary power. We wish them success, and thank you, Vladimir Semenovich, for the subject report. I'm calling it a break.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u113	Ukraine. I'd like to ask if I could get a message to the towers so that the national MPs can come in. Let's just wait a minute and let our fellow national MPs enter the hall. It is likely that emotions are shared after the talks of the Prime Minister and the Head of the National Bank. Colleagues, I'd like to ask you to concentrate. Because we need to put two bills into the agenda. Colleagues, I repeat, please concentrate on putting two bills into the agenda. The first one is in the order of the day 2223, a draft of the Ukrainian Act amending certain laws of Ukraine (as regards the change in the system of assembly of troops (force) with a special composition). Dear colleagues, we include in the order of the day 2223. Please vote. [[12:44:59]] For 251 Decision taken. Comrades, the second bill is 2335. Draft Act approving the decision of the President of Ukraine to admit the forces of other states to Ukraine in 2008 to participate in multinational military training. Dear colleagues, we vote. [[12:45:35]] For 309 We manifest the personal will of the people’s deputies, but this too will pass, dear friends. Dear colleagues, I suggest we move quickly to a reduced procedure. I propose a review of Bills 2223 and 2335 by a reduced procedure. Please vote. Voting, voting. [[12:46:15.]] For 238. Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Let's start with 2335. Draft Act approving the decision of the President of Ukraine to admit the forces of other states to Ukraine in 2008. Reported by U.S. Defence Minister Yuri Ivanovich. Please, Yuri Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u114	Reverend Arsenija Petrovich, distinguished national deputies! For consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a draft Ukrainian law on approval of the decision of the President of Ukraine to admit troops of other states to Ukraine in 2008 for participation in multinational military training. Ukraine and its armed forces are taking an active part in international peace-making activities, contributing to the increasing authority of our nation in the international arena. Multinational training is designed to increase the military and professional training of Ukrainian military personnel in order to acquire the skills they need to carry out peacekeeping tasks. In 2008, nine trainings were planned with the participation of the Armed Forces, not in the territory of other nations, and 11 multinational trainings in the territory of Ukraine for both Ukrainian and foreign countries. First class, attention, April 22. There will be two-way Ukrainian-Russian training of the military forces from the air defence forces of Ukraine's Armed Forces and the military-air forces of the Russian Federation. This year we will train for the first time with the Armed Forces of Belarus and Romania. Secondly, we agreed that there would be complications in the training and training. Training is provided with all our neighbors. And it can be said that multinational military training is geared towards the practical implementation of those tasks that you have set up with the National Development Program of the Ukrainian Armed Forces for the period 2006-2011. Ukrainian companies will be given a good opportunity to offer, in fact, their services and supplies to representatives of the armed forces of other nations. Secondly, it is also important that the cost of participating countries, they will participate at their own expense, but they invest in civilian objects, roads, travel.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u115	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u116	Military storage sites and communications facilities Therefore, there is no need for additional expenditures from the Ukrainian budget. Dear Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, please support the bill as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u117	Thank you, Yuri Ivanovich. Please sit down. The co-report invites the head of the National Security and Defence Committee of Ukraine, Grishenko Anatoly Stepanovich. Please, Anatoly Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u118	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues! The committee considered the bill, suggested that it be supported in the first reading and, in general, voted in favour of it unanimously by all members of the committee. There were no ones who held back. Just two words. What I'm saying is that an army that doesn't fight has a tendency to turn into a paper structure, and military training is the only way to test and improve the level of combat training. This year, 11 military trainings cover both the neighbouring countries -- Romania, Slovakia, Poland, Moldova, Belarus, Russia and other partners -- Lithuania, Belgium, the United States, Germany and so on. We invite all countries, including SND countries, to these military trainings. Please support, on behalf of the Committee, its adoption in the first reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u119	Thank you, Anatoly Stepanovich. Two - "for", two - "against". Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Out of place, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u120	Thank you. Dear Arsenius Petrovich, my fellow dignitaries, I think this is a draft law that is very technicalally suited to possible problems, potential problems with its vote. See how well everything is set here: here with Russia and Belarus and with the United States of America, with Romania and even, especially, washes, the Slovak Republic – “Slovaks for Peace!” I don't think there's any reason to deny it, because training for the Ukrainian Armed Forces is an extremely important form of their activities, that our military has no way of building generals and doing a variety of civilian work, namely improving their combat skills, their combat readiness. That's why it seems to us that the "Block of Lithuania" seems to be an absolutely correct right bill that needs to be supported. We'll all vote for him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u121	Thank you. Valentin Matviev. From the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u122	Thank you. Dear colleagues, first of all, there is a question of what caused this haste in the consideration of this problem today in the Supreme Council, that today at 9:30 a.m., a committee meeting was called on an urgent basis, by the way, which I am a member of, and I am not invited to. The other one. What does the President propose? I have calculated that the total number of armed forces of other states to be admitted to Ukraine this year is 2,940 military personnel. Of these, 1,850 are soldiers of the United States. At the same time, there are not many arrivals this July, but a military contingent of 1,000 military personnel, 15 ships, 2 submarines, and so forth. I am the one who wants our voters to know who and how they will participate in these teachings. This is how the armed forces of other nations are constantly taking over the war zones of our country, Ukraine. And the last. The President's statement notes, and this has also been noted in his statement and by the Minister of Defense, that the financial costs for training and training will be provided at the expense of the Ministry of Defence. I ask Yuri Ivanovich, and what if the Ministry of Defence's budget request for this year is only 60 percent satisfied and other serious problems cannot be met. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u123	Thank you. Dear colleagues, are there any desires to speak to those members of the factions that. None. "Our Ukraine" has not been recorded, so the Rules predict who is speaking. Kenzier. Turn on Kendzior's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u124	Jaroslav Kenzior, National Movement of Ukraine, faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. I'd like to remind you that I've probably been paying no attention to the honorable benefit of Matthew, that it's a haste, because it's April 22nd that first education is in the Ukrainian-Russian language, so today we need to make this decision. That's because if you fail, Mr. Matthew, learning Ukrainian-Russian, Moscow will never forgive you. And then, today, we have to make that decision. The army, when it doesn't have training with various military contingents, just becomes this, you know, theoretical unit that's completely unsuitable in case of any serious military trials. And then, as Ukrainian national deputies, we have to take care of the Ukrainian army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u125	Last word. The faction of the Party of the Regions, Kuzmuk, please. Didn't you log in? You didn't perform? Then the last word.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u126	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues! International learning is an effective form and way of international cooperation, as well as training troops and forces. Ukraine has a 13-year experience in such training. What this has given Ukraine: we have developed a view of the development and modernization of new weapons and military technology, and we have developed a new perspective on the modernization of the system of training for troops and forces. I want to say that the number of participants in the course depends on the subject of learning. All 11 lessons in peacekeeping. They go through different ranges, so that's the optimal number. I'm asking the people's deputies to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u127	WHO REQUIRES THE BUILDING? Vote? Vote. Thank you. Respectable national MPs, attitudes, attitudes. [[B in m in s a l in]] Was there a last name? It was called Kravchenko twice, right. Give me Carvchenko's line. And I'm going to give you, Yuri Anatolyevich, talk to me now and I'll give you Yuri Anatolyevich, half a second, now. Please, Karwchenko's replica, Matthew's, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u128	I, thank you, Arseny Petrovich. I'm actually pleased that the NUNS charity that once stole grandchildren in the Soviet army is now so concerned that they took part in the Russian Federation Armed Forces' studies, but I want to say to voters that this is what they say about our approaches. In fact, in all of this, four Russian Federation planes are going to be accepted by the students, and we don't have to fool the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u129	Dear colleagues, I am voting in the first reading and in general bill 2335 on the approval of the President of Ukraine's decision to admit the forces of other states to Ukraine in 2008 to participate in multinational military training. Vote. [[12:58:55]] For 363 Dear colleagues, I see that we are forming a new coalition called the Ukrainian Parliament that we are able to unite. Please show by factions. Next, the next question of order of the day 2223. Yuri Ivanovich Yehanurov, please to the rostrum. It's also a short-term procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u130	Dear Arsenia Petrovich, distinguished national deputies! You will be mindful of the draft Ukrainian Act amending certain laws of Ukraine that provide for appropriate amendments to Ukraine’s laws on ratification of an optional protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child and on military duty and military service. What are we talking about? First. Allow entry into military service under contract to citizens with basic secondary education. Establish a term of military service for two years for citizens who chose military service by contract instead of military service. Third. The possibility of enlisting military service under the contract of military officers serving at least three months in the military service, which is now six months. Four. Allowing members of the military service to contract military service for a shorter term, provided that the total term of its term and military service is three or five years under contract. These changes are aimed at ensuring the implementation of the tasks of the Ukrainian Armed Forces on a professional basis and to expand the ranks of citizens who may be admitted to military service by contract to the Ukrainian Armed Forces and other military formations. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to adopt this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u131	Thank you, Yuri Ivanovich. Please, Anatoly Stepanovich Grizenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u132	Dear Arsenia Petrovich, fellows of honor! I want to answer to my colleague Matthew in two minutes. I just checked with the head of the secretariat. In fact, you were not notified. I've been assigned to conduct a service investigation. A person who has not done so will receive a corresponding draw. I'm sorry. I didn't know you weren't notified. The other one. With regard to this law. The committee considered it. He's just offering to accept it, but please note, only on the first reading. Committee members support the government's intentions to interest our young people in contract service. But in preparing for the second reading, our committee insists that the following three circumstances be taken into account. First. Under no circumstances should the threshold or level of education be reduced. We cannot agree that nine - year - olds go to the 11th class of modern technology. The other one. We advocate that the terms of the contract be the same for everyone, not two years for those who have given up the term, but three years for everyone else. Three years for military positions. Five years for sergeants and seniors. And the third. For our committee, the financial and economic justification figures given by Minfin were not convincing enough. Therefore, our committee commits itself to second reading with the Ministry of Defence, Minfin, and all interested members to work on the project. It is recommended that we accept it today only in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u133	Thank you, Anatoly Stepanovich. Two – ‘for’, two – ‘again’. He's stoned.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u134	Leaky, “Blok Timoshenko”. Please give the floor to Ivan Grigorovitch Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u135	Dear colleagues! Dear Arseny Petrovich! The faction will support the unanimous adoption of this bill, this is our strategic line, the strategic goal of the government, I think it's the strategic goal of all of our politics, to get closer to the civilized parameters of building the modern army. Contractors are the main element of the modern military. So we agree with what the committee head said, that we should work on the second reading, taking into account the comments that have been made. But this bill clearly needs to support and move our troops towards the civilized construction and defence of the country, and raising the educational level, and raising the level of security of our state. Because of the contract, it is a strategic solution to this end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u136	Oleg Novikov, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u137	Dear colleagues! “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense.” Deputy Novikov, Zitomirščina. We support this bill in the first reading, and we ask our colleagues to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u138	Baburin. The Communist faction. Matthew's word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u139	Thank you. First of all, I want to say that the Communist faction will support the bill. But I would like to pay attention, in addition to what the chairman of the committee said in his statement, at the time that the bill is proposed so that citizens of the age of conscription can choose a contract service instead of a term of military service for two years, which has already been discussed. But at the same time, we have to remember that the financial retention of military service personnel in such positions is five to six times lower. The question arises, fellow believers, and where do we get the money again to solve this very urgent problem? And this would require the Cabinet of Ministers, along with the Ministry of Defense, to address this issue with a clear answer to the second reading. Thank you. We will support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u140	Mikhailo Chechetov, “Parties of the Regions” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u141	Please hand over Kuzmuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u142	Dear Arseniy Petrovich, your esteemed colleagues, this bill can be supported, but only by the form, well, not by the content of the government. First, we agree that the threshold should be reduced to 18 years of age. Secondly, we can't agree on an alternative service that gives you a choice or a year to serve or for money, two. This creates a negative phenomenon in the army itself and in the fleet. We only offer a contract for three and five years. Next. We're proposing the time of preparation and the time of service before the contract is concluded from 3 to 6 months, and also until the second reading, we need to start with a very careful financial and economic justification. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u143	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose we move on to the question of voting on this issue. The committee proposes that the bill be adopted as a basis, and there were no other proposals. In view of this, I am voting on the adoption as the basis of the draft Ukrainian Act amending certain laws of Ukraine, registration number 2223. I declare a vote. Please vote. [[13:07:57]] For 406 The main thing is not to be a 451, a colleague, or a colleague. may be varied. Dear colleagues, I propose today's final bill to consider and complete the military day. And I'd like us to finish this military day, finish our military day, not finish our plenary day. So I propose that we now consider Bill 0961 in our second reading, as reported by Anatoly Stepanovich Grizenko. And the second reading is still shorter, and there is no shorter reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u144	Dear Arseny Petrovich! Dear colleague! This document was prepared in the previous government and is now coming out for second reading. No comments were received during the preparatory phase for the second reading. The essence of this bill is in two words. The problem was that both the cadets and the officers were not rarely in the consumer mood. For example, an officer is trained for six years at the military medical academy, he is qualified as a surgeon or a dentist, and he is immediately released. Or the student got a degree and writes that he doesn't want to serve in the army. These are damage to the state at the expense of others. So it's a perfectly logical proposition. If it is freed for lack of discipline or unwillingness to serve, it is not a matter of respectable experiences, family or health. Let the person pay the cost of learning in a manner determined by the Cabinet. All members of the committee unanimously voted in favour. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u145	Anatoly Stepanovich, thank you. Please sit down. Dear colleagues, there's a comparative table before you. Compared to the compare table, all offers are included. I don't put any amendments to the vote. I put to the vote in the second reading and in general Bill No. 0961 amending article 25 of the Ukrainian Law on Military Duty and Military Service. Please vote. [[13:10:27]] For 390 The indicators are falling, but the intensity is not. The bill was adopted as a whole. Dear colleagues, before we move on to the various, I would like, Your Honor Yuri Ivanovich and the distinguished national deputies, to address you as Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and I hope that this position will be shared by colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies. I have just read a report by which the head of the General Staff of the Russian Federation, the General, the name of his Balujowski, said that military action would be taken to Ukraine, I stress, military action, if Ukraine continues to move on its way to NATO membership. Such a statement is somewhat different from the previous diplomatic and political rhetoric, which cannot help but cause concern in the Ukrainian side. In view of this, Your Honor Yuri Ivanovich, I ask you and ask you to give a proper response to the Ukrainian side along with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on this matter. And I think it should be a reference, including to the government of Ukraine. If there has been a diplomatic rhetoric before, today, when the rhetoric involves the military, it cannot help but bother us today as parliamentarians. We're all going to perform now. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to sign up. Yuri Ivanovich, did you want to thank him? Please. Alexander Sergiyovich, I'll give it to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u146	Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, the Armed Forces of Ukraine, I thank you very much for voting today. The two laws you passed today and one law in the first reading are evidence that the Ukrainian Parliament, regardless of which political views are patriotic, are people who support our armed forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u147	Thank you, Yuri Ivanovich. I was, frankly, even willing to suggest that you vote on this. I have this desire. But I do, but I need him, I can dictate his text, and I think it would be right if we voted for the Cabinet of Ministers, for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and for the Minister of Defense, it was a protocol decision, not a reference. React in the right way. Please. To the President? Then, I'll give you my word, colleagues, don't shout, please. I'll give you my word, Alexander Sergiyovich. The provocation is against the Ukrainian state, the honourable Alexander Sergiyovich. This is a provocation. And such provocations will not pass to anyone. Any action against national statehood and sovereignty cannot go beyond the control of Parliament. [[Applause]] I'll give you my word. Please, half a minute. I'm asking you to write down five minutes. Now we're going to switch to "Variance" on this issue. Čerpiki Oleg Zenović, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u148	Philenko, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u149	Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u150	Dear colleagues, I am absolutely convinced that Parliament is an institution that must be alert to the national interests of Ukraine and must be taught to warn the military of the military's interests, soldiers, not to play politics. I think that, of course, both the President and the government should respond to such statements because we and a nation that cannot afford to have a right when they hit the left cheek. We must have dignity, respect for the country, and respect for ourselves. So our faction thinks that we should react like the Ukrainian Parliament, and that the government and the President should respond to such actions when not politicians anymore, but the military allow themselves to speak in such a tone with a European country called Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u151	Valentin Matviev.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u152	I'd like to give you my word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u153	The word of Gordian, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u154	Dear citizens of Ukraine, Mr. Arsenija Petrovich, you have just heard from the session hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which is the country's highest legislative body, and you as one of the officials of the highest Ukraine's information, which I think is completely unverified. So give me an answer and give all the citizens of Ukraine what official information you're using, whether you're using the web releases that are being provoked today, completely unverified information. On the basis of this, I propose that a mandate be given to study information in a calm manner and in order to prepare a document that could be responded to by the Parliament of Ukraine. The other is provocation.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u155	Mikhailo Orota.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u156	Dear colleagues, the ancients said that the poor mayor always preferred a fine war. The question is very serious, and we, as a well - thought - out body of legislative authority, should take it seriously. Let's define this in the profile committees, let's look at it on the conciliatory board, and then, if it's a really serious factor, let's look at it on Tuesday at the session. And what I'm saying is that no statement makes any sense if it's not backed up by the political unity, the economic power of the country, because we have statements not only from the Russian Federation, we have very unpleasant statements from the leading representatives of NATO, the European Union. They say the goats are jumping to the top of the tree. Let us not be an aging tree but, together, be conscious about making informed decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u157	Vladimir Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u158	Vladimir Karpuk. Please pass the word to Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u159	He gives the word Viacheslav Kirilenko. From the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u160	Viacheslav Kirilenko, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense". Colleagues, our faction is concerned about the message that is being circulated by the official Russian news agency, not by any private channels. Genstaba, director of the Russian Federation’s Armed Forces, George Balovyowski, stated: “Of course, Russia will act to ensure its interests near state borders. It will not only be military action, it will be of a different nature," he said, and still others. Absolutely unkind experiences at the address of Ukraine. Given that President Putin's first statement was not only refuted, but confirmed by the second statement made by Russian Foreign Minister Lavrov, and the third statement was already made by the Russian military department, Head of Genstab, General of the Army. Thus, we have a tendency to put territorial claims in practice, as well as a threat to the address of Ukraine by the Russian Federation. So, colleagues, let's not look at the parties we have, but we will now vote in favour of addressing the President, the Prime Minister and the Defence Minister to find out what the issue is and defend ourselves.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u161	Thank you. Mironenko Mikhailo Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u162	Please hand over Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u163	Who? Alexander Sergiyovich Ephraim’s word.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u164	Dear colleagues, both from the coalition and from the opposition, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the wisdom of politics and the public figure is not to fuel situations, but to find adequate answers in time to the situations that arise. I understand that if there is no argument, they try to silence the enemy or try not to tell him. Well, what's really going on if you've been keeping a close eye on the situation in the Russian Federation. Two weeks ago, it was reported that a general named today had applied for leave and had applied for leave because of any disagreements he had. Therefore, without having an official seat on the official organ of the Russian Federation, I stress that we are today provoking the highest legislative body of the State to take a decision. And what you're saying, Arsenius Petrovich, I can only tolerate your lack of experience and your unprofessionalism. Otherwise, I can't get to the point.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u165	Alexander Sergiyovich, if you work not only as the head of the Lugansk region but as the minister of foreign affairs, you will be able to make such assessments. And three times is actually a member of the Cabinet of Ministers. That's right, in a word. [[Applause]] Stone Valérie.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u166	Please give the word to Philenc Vladimir Philipovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u167	It wasn't from the faction, it was from the national MPs. To whom is the word? Philenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u168	Vladimir Filenko, "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko", Kharkivščina. Well, I'm sorry that I was sent out as captain of the armed forces two years ago, because you see it as a situation. That's the first one. The other one. I think that these actions of individual unbalanced Russian politicians and top-level generals convince us in one way that we need to take seven steps towards NATO because there will be trouble. And in that sense, I'm the unbalanced one, well, not to use non-parliamentary expressions that I think about them, I want to thank them, I'm sure they'll just consolidate the Ukrainian nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u169	Thank you. Dear colleagues, time for discussion is over. I'll give you that option. In order not to be blamed for what you know, it wasn't information, it was refuted and it wasn't saying it at all, and it wasn't him at all, and in diplomatic practice such things happen, we can, without voting to the Minister of Defense and the Minister of Foreign Affairs, now, after a statement on the rostrum, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules, read in the form in which it was read. In that case, if we have an official diplomatic note from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, clearly. With the sealing, confirming that these words in the word correspond to those distributed by the information agency, we will put this question to the Conciliation Council on Monday and vote first on Tuesday. If there's a diplomatic note. Now, without a vote, in accordance with article 25 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I am announcing a call to the Minister of Defence and Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine: first, to confirm the words that have been circulated by the information agencies, the Chief of General Staff of the Russian Federation Armed Forces; and second, to provide appropriate confirmation in accordance with these words; third, to prepare an appropriate response by the Ukrainian side. Let's sign up for the performance. There is no need for the government, there are two ministers responsible. Colleagues, re-write it again. The entry for “Variable” please. “Victane”, “Victane”. Stojko, “Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense”. [[B in m in s a l in]] What happened? What are you yelling at? But I don't do computer systems. What's he going to do, say, change the computer system? Is this the third time I've rewrote? Okay. Let's rewrote it for the third time. Stojko will be the first to perform, that's all. But let's re-record the performance, let's do it. Why do you scream on Friday, which is a miracle to you that you lack there, huh? Well, that's what a colleague says. Something hasn't been recorded. Come on, Comrade Stojko, let's keep signing up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u170	Thank you. Dear Arsenius Petrovich, honourable fellow MPs, distinguished radio listeners, indeed, this message that has just been delivered in this room about the performances of the head of the Genstab of the Russian Federation may have concerned not only us deputies, but also all Ukrainians. And so, I'd like to say that it's probably not from the simplest point of view today that it's already been said by the head of Genstab. Because we'll remind ourselves, or recall what Mr. Putin said, he was talking about missiles that would be targeted at Ukraine. Later, as Lavrov spoke, he spoke of the fact that Ukraine was not a state and that we would not allow it to join NATO. There were further territorial claims that Ukraine was not a state at all and so forth. So today I'm addressing all the MPs regardless of the color of the flags, the honourable colleagues, that's not Zatulin or Gerinowski or Rogozin, that's Genstab's words. And that's why we need to understand that these words can take action. And that's why I don't understand Michael the Orphan, who's talking about some bent tree, and we need to figure it out on the committees. We don't have to wait for any committees, we have to unite here today and not talk about NATO or NATO. We need to talk about Ukrainian national interest, about protecting our borders. Because a few years ago, who was in this room remembers the island of Tuzla. No one invited anyone here, but they stepped and dug, and some dams were built. Today they are talking about something else, the territorial integrity of our nation and the rockets. Thus, respected friends of the Ukrainians today are in real danger of our nation. And that's why I call on all the deputies, all the conscious Ukrainians to join in and finally what someone has said is that NATO is not supporting people today. I'm sure after that, not 50, but 70-90 percent of people will want to join NATO. So let us not be divided, but be united, for Ukraine today is indeed in danger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u171	Pottchuk, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko”. Colleagues, I could ask Parliament to work humanely for the last 30 minutes. The word of Pottachuku. Who Passes the Word? The word Prokopchuku. He's sitting there.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u172	National Deputy of Ukraine Yuri Prokopchuk, Ravenshina, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear colleagues, I certainly believe that the Russian Federation's individual generals are going to give the Russian Federation itself. That's very right. Still, they are unacceptable. I would also like to return to the messages that are being delivered by our media. In particular, yesterday on "1+1" there was widespread information in the news that 17 apartments distributed among deputies were proportional to the participation of all. I would like to state to Ukraine that the factions of the Yulia Timoshenko and Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense factions have not filed any applications for these apartments. They don't pretend. I propose that these apartments be passed on to the entire parliament on behalf of many children, disabled persons and black people. And please support this initiative. The next information, which was distributed, is about 60 million for free travel. I'll speak for myself here. I, the Ukrainian national deputy, Prokopchuk Yuri Volodymyrovich, voluntarily give up my free trip for the benefit of children with disabilities and blacks. And I think the whole Parliament will follow my example. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u173	Stanislaw Arzeviteen.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u174	Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! As advisor to the President and to the Secretary of the Council of Ukrainian Cossacks to the President of Ukraine, I am charged with sounding the decision of the Second All-Ukrainian Cossack Council, which took place at the end of March. Delegates to the great All - Ukrainian Council gathered from all the Ukrainian Cossack International organizations, as well as delegates from local Cossack organizations of the Republic of Crimea, all areas of Ukraine, Kiev, Sevastopol. The solution. First. Contact all Ukrainians who live in and outside Ukraine with a response to the merger of Ukrainian Cossacks around the only leader of the Cossack movement in Ukraine, President Yushchenk of Ukraine. The other one. In 2008, all Cossacks celebrate the 360th anniversary of the beginning of the Ukrainian National Liberation War in the middle of the 14th century, led by Bogdan Hmielnick. Third. To approve the draft Ukrainian Law on the Principles for the Restoration and Development of Ukrainian Cossacks, Cossack Organizations and Their Associations, which has been widely discussed in Cossack Organizations throughout Ukraine, and to request the President of Ukraine, the German of Ukraine, to submit it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Four. To the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Ukrainian national deputies for the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the Principles for the Reconstruction and Development of Ukrainian Cossacks, the Cossack Organization and Their Unification. Ask the Prime Minister of Ukraine to prepare a national programme for the development of Ukrainian Cossacks. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u175	Upstairs, Timoshenko Street, please. To a wooden word.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u176	Dear Mr. Head! Deputies! The decision of the Ternopil City Council of March 18th of this year to provide a land plot of 8.73 hectares of land, under the construction of a commercial entertainment complex with public catering facilities, services to the population and groups of multi-housing residential buildings on the street of Kyivska, the street of General Tarnavsky. This decision was taken in violation of the rules of the current Land Code, the 2008 State Budget Act of Ukraine, decisions taken by the City Council, which clearly state that leases and land secession are made exclusively on competitive grounds. Moreover, the deputies did not take into account a number of court decisions that prohibited the decision. As a result of this decision, without an auction, the city of Ternopol’s budget was under 50 million dollars. Regrettably, the deputy prosecutor of Ternopol Galin Bogdanovna Vasilishin, who took part in the session of the Ternopil City Council, did not prevent illegal decisions from being made, but, rather, urged the deputies to vote for him. Perhaps the deputy prosecutor of Ternopol city, Mrs. Vasilishin, forgot that the prosecutor’s office was overseeing the enforcement and proper application of the laws rather than contributing to their violation. Despite the fact that the State Property Fund in the area has conducted a competition among experts, for three months now the Public Prosecutor's Office has blocked the issue of conducting an expert assessment of the city's municipal property for privatization. As a result of the prosecutor’s position, the local budget loses tens of millions of dollars. I believe that the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine should examine in detail the legality of the decision taken, prevent similar decisions from being made in the future, and remove the Deputy Prosecutor of the city of Ternopol Vasilishin Galina Bogdanovna from office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u177	Thank you. Teeth.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u178	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues of the people's deputies, we worked in the districts last week and probably each of us stayed and stayed, brought with us an impression of what was going on in our country. The faction's decision is based behind the Crimean Peninsula and working for a week, and I want to tell you about some of the moments that I think I'm going to impress you. First. Lensky district, village of Lenskoe. During this winter, hundreds of students in the ovens burned 12 tons of grain, I emphasize grain. I was told by the teacher and the director that this grain was something unconstitutional, poisoned and so on. I'm allowing the possibility that this grain could be used could not have been used in any other way. But the very fact that hundreds of schoolchildren have burned the results of millions of people in their eyes is not a surprise, but a frank misunderstanding. Second moment. The town of Kerch. We are well aware of the disaster that this region has experienced and is experiencing today. However, in a meeting with the voters, the voters ask me the question: “Valentin Sergeyevich, and you know what kind of bomb was set up by Sovmin Crimea and the mountainous town of Kerchi for all of us and for future generations”, and explain that today the construction project in Kerchi, the largest cement combination in Ukraine, has gone through all stages of harmonization. I don't think there's any need to comment on such a fact, except by expressing my perplexity. It seems to me that in the Crimea of Sowmin, the chiefs of the city of Kerchi do not think at all that we will leave our future generations behind. Third, the last fact that Ukraine is talking about today is the town of Sevastopol. Three days ago, the town council of Sevastopol, headed by its President, Mr. Saratov, was handed over to two commercial firms for renting 19,000 hectares of conservation forest in the Balaklava region. The question is, what's going on in the country? This is, by the way, a region that is a square of the Party of the Regions. I don't want to talk about it specifically and focus, but it's a fact. When we are finally united in this room around our national interests. And when we finally start thinking about our future, future generations. I think what we're considering today is the bill on.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u179	Thank you. Viacheslav Kirilenko. Váchaslav Anatoliyovich? Jaroslav Kenzior.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u180	Dear Arsenia Petrovich, distinguished fellow national MPs! Dear voters! This information, which is now being published in the session hall, cannot be without concern for every informed citizen of the Ukrainian State. In recent times, with Ukraine's intention to join the U.S.F.H., NATO has caused a terrible, crazy, insane hysteria, both inside and outside the Ukrainian state. And this synchronism of Moscow's position and their agency in the session hall and outside the session hall tells of such a wide-ranging conspiracy of aggressors to destroy the Ukrainian state in order to keep it from being released from Moscow's new imperialism. Look, just in the last period, what have we been watching, as it were, from our strategic partner of the Russian Federation? It's a constant territorial claim, it's an unforgivable intervention in the internal affairs of Ukraine, it's a recommendation in what language we need to speak, how we need to appreciate the famine, how we need to evaluate our national-liberal competitions and so forth. The aggressiveness of Moscow and its fifth column in Ukraine is also evidenced by this fact. When the 17 years of our independence are still the eastern border of no meter, as it were, is not demarcated, not defined as a state border. Why? The Russian Federation, under all circumstances, avoids realizing, determining the state border. Because to this day she dreams that eventually Ukraine will take her final bear arms and Ukraine will become the western governor of the new Russian Empire. This Pharisaic part of the Supreme Council, which seems to care that Ukraine doesn't get into an aggressive bloc, is itself long ago in NATO. Look, they're already going to treat their precious health, and their precious knees are going to Nazi medicine, to Barcelona, to Germany. Their precious bellies are warmed on the beaches of the Nathites. They ride on the Nazi Mercedes BMW. They teach children in Nazi higher education institutions. They're buying real estate in the Nazi states. So this aggression on the part of Russia will force Europe, if NATO is wise, it must immediately accept Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u181	Sulkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u182	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, distinguished national deputies, respected Ukrainian peasants! Today, after hearing the Prime Minister on the parliamentary rostrum once again in his report with his populist slogans and so much lies, he fed the people of Ukraine and it was very sad, Sir Arsenija Petrovich, that you, as the Head of the Supreme Council today, did not give her any notice but only on the subject of Mr. Stelmacha, the banker of Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! To raise the subject of the village makes me feel pain and anxiety about the critical situation in Ukraine’s agri-industrial complex, which almost in the last three months has resulted in the inactivity of the government of Yulia Timoshenko. The government's lack of real work on reducing the losses and risks to the Ukrainian village as a result of its entry into WTO. You, as no one else, know this, Arsenia Petrovich, personally. The authoritarian approaches of today's government in the field of agrarian politics, whose decisions are taken without public discussion, economic justification, a significant increase in prices for all, without exception, of material and technical resources, are indignant at Ukrainian farmers and endanger the food security of the state. This year, Ukraine was the first to face the threat of the collapse of the State Food Programme. Because the General Fund of the State Budget does not provide such funding for almost the first time by the government of Yulia Timoshenko, and the funds provided by the special fund have questionable sources of income. We all know that very well. Beyond the attention of the government, there is another issue of food security — the loss of meat resources. Mass carnage is the largest in the world, and especially in the first quarter of 2008, from which Prime Minister Yulia Timoshenko was removed, and today has virtually forgotten these crisis phenomena. Meat production: the top is reduced to 30 percent in this quarter, the pig is reduced by 70 percent. Unlike the previous year, agrarian sector funding has only been partially launched since March of this year. So we urge the government of Yulia Timoshenko to call and hold a government meeting to resolve the pressing problems of the village, otherwise the village will become a more serious crisis.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u183	Rabbit, please, MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u184	Ivan Hare, faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2012 the final part of the European Football Championship will be held in Ukraine. It takes great attention to the authorities and the public to overcome existing problems and successfully conduct this extremely important sport forum for Ukraine. At the same time, we want to draw attention to an equally important problem: the need to preserve and develop infrastructure for mass physical education and sport, which is particularly relevant in view of the dire state of the nation's health and the vast number of homeless children. We are all witnessing an aggressive and illegal attack by a mercantile local government and business on the existing infrastructure of mass sport and physical culture. In virtually every city, the nations purposefully destroy stadiums, sports playgrounds, and green areas for the purpose of their construction, usually called prestigious dwellings. This dangerous phenomenon is particularly horrifying in Kiev, especially in the central areas of the capital. Yes, the “Radar” sports base, where there was a stadium, a gym, a gym and tennis courts, has recently been destroyed in the Kieve region. A stadium is being built on the street of the Friends of the Nations, 12, announced by the parking lot of the Arsenal Stadium. For several years, the public has been fighting for the preservation of the Pechersk Stadium on the street of Nemirovich-Danchenka, which belonged to or still belonged to the Kyiv National University of Technology and Design. Residents in the stadium of the buildings persist in resisting its destruction. The MPs and the Pecher Council, all the Kyiv authorities, the Football Federation, the Ministry of Family, Youth and Sports, the Ministry of Education and Science, the Supreme Council’s training committee. They know, but they are not taking any steps to save this sporting object. They know that every day, no school in this district has a normal sports and health base for children, but they do contribute to the destruction of this stadium. The Ministry of Education and Science, headed by Mr. Nikolayanek, has failed to sway the Rector of Mr. Volkov’s University in his heroic desire to destroy the stadium and deny the prospect of development. The government has set up green areas of the city to be destroyed. The Kyiv authorities want to take advantage of the football championship and build Truhan Island, the holy slopes of Dniper. They have already reached the Botanical Garden of the Grych National Academy of Sciences. Under the individual housing structure, the Kyiv authorities distributed the park’s security territory. Even the conservation status of the territory does not save this unique natural object. The Ukrainian People’s Party, a faction in general, requires the Kyiv authorities in places, prosecutors, and all law enforcement agencies to stop the destruction of stadiums, sports and children’s playgrounds, and green areas. Take measures against civil war, carry out complex state checks, and punish the guilty. I propose to consider this as a parliamentary request to the Cabinet of Ministers, the Attorney General's Office and the Kiev authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u185	Thank you. The sand.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u186	Thank you. Popescu, “Parties of the Regions” faction, Cherniewec region. The great Arsenia Petrovich! Masterful colleagues! I had to step out of this rostrum because I was unable to ask questions from the government. I would like to inform you that in the Montenegrin region, in March months, an alternative cross-cutting manual from the Integrated Course of “Library Literature” and “Extra-Literal Literature” was discussed at the Bukovinian Independent Research Centre. Experts in the field have prepared an appropriate manual, but unfortunately there was no funding available to fund it, despite the fact that article 119 of the Constitution of Ukraine provides that places of compact residence of national minorities and indigenous peoples are financed by government authorities. The funds were found and this handbook was published. But during the discussion, more specifically, after discussing this textbook, where the Romanian literature teachers, experts and so forth were, at the orders of the representatives of the Czerniewetsek State Department, as well as with the support of the Inspector of the Deep District, Ms. Mihai began to gather in the participants of this discussion a written explanation of why they were there, that they spoke there and so forth. I think that's an example of how we don't have to help national minorities. What is more, I would like to point out that these days, I have been urged by representatives of the Department of Education for Teachers and Directors of National Schools to make strong recommendations on the transfer of basic subjects to the language of instruction. We advocate teaching us the English language in its entirety for the best methodological textbooks, but not at the expense of our native language. Moreover, I point out that there is a violation of article 24 of the Constitution when children in Ukrainian schools study Ukrainian literature as a separate subject, and students in national schools are unable to study their own literature, as before, in Soviet times that are now critical. They are now being forced to study literature with a foreigner as an integrated course. And the last moment that I wanted to pay attention to. Now in Ukraine, there are experts from the Advisory Committee of the Framework Convention on the Protection of National Minorities, with whom when we meet, we say that we are OK. But when we are at home, in Ukraine, we should talk about what problems we have and not allow these problems to rise at European level. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u187	Grigorovich gives the word of Arjevetin. Grigorovich is, because I have her written statement, and I'll show it to you. And don't scream. Please. Chemical chemicals, please choose the words. Do you understand? Choose words. [[B in m in s a l in]] Chemical chemicals. This is a written statement by Lilia Grigorovich, here you go. Please, come in. Please sit down and calm down. And pick a rhetoric. Written statement by Grigorovich. It's not in Russian, it's in Ukrainian. Go with God, please. Come on, guys, we've got 10 minutes left. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u188	It's officially Lily Grigorovitch's signature. You don't mind. But please take your seat and don't interfere with Parliament's work. Please sit down.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u189	Please speak from the rostrum, and you will be given the word in accordance with the Rules on the basis of the written statement of the national deputy Grigorovitch. You can.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u190	Honourable deputies, Ukrainians, I wanted to raise an extremely important question today and, apparently, having felt the problem of this issue, the Communists went out to the rostrum, using both rhetoric and those words that are characteristic of their Asian essence and anti-Ukrainian essence, the words that they now use to the representatives of “Our Ukraine”. I wanted to raise the issue of the bill that the President of Ukraine proposed for consideration by the Supreme Council. This is a bill on the legal status of participants in the struggle for Ukraine's independence in the 20th-90s. To my profound conviction, this is one of the most important bills that the Supreme Council should adopt in the near future. In fact, this bill is about giving Ukraine the right status at the level of the highest legislative body for the independence of the twentieth century of various structures and organizations, these are Ukrainian military organizations, carpal nets, Ukrainian nationalist organizations and the Ukrainian rebel army. For us today, this is extremely important, and this question has already matured. I want to say that just recently, in March, we celebrated the anniversary of the battle in the red field, where, for the first time, the karpathic net fighters in Europe took up arms against Nazi Germany. I would like to stress that the Ukrainians first in Europe took an armed stand against Nazi Germany in the 39th year. At a time when the Communist summit signed the Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact, when the Communists and the Nazis shared Europe. Unless it is fair that representatives of the Communist Party today are in the highest legislative body in Ukraine. And these boys who fought against Nazism are still not recognized as fighters for the will of Ukraine. I would also like to mention an important aspect of historical justice regarding the Ukrainian rebel army. As members of the Supreme Council, we should feel responsible. We're sitting in a room over which is Trident, there's a blue and yellow flag. At the beginning of the plenary sessions we sing the Hymn "Not yet dead Ukraine". The only army in World War II that fought under those symbols was the Ukrainian rebel army. The boys with the trident on their elbows with the words "Die Ukraine" and the blue and yellow flag went to battle for Ukraine and died. Unless it is fair that they are today not recognized by the Ukrainian State, which actually has these symbols as their national symbols. I am convinced that the issue of the recognition of the UPA, the fighters for the will of Ukraine, is today an unhealed wound on the body of the Ukrainian state. And it is our highest and most important task as soon as possible in Parliament to resolve this issue. For until Ukraine recognizes the soldiers who fought for the will of Ukraine, it will not be full.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u191	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u192	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Honorable National Deputies, reverend Ukrainian people! I would like to point out that the brutal expressions that are now taking place in the Russian Federation against Ukraine have nothing to do with the Russian people. I would like to say that I am proud to offer to you, in the distant year 1996, the distinguished people's deputies, to all the Ukrainian people, to accept in the Constitution the seventh part, which is written: in the territory of Ukraine. Part seven of article 17, which states that foreign military bases are not allowed to be located in Ukraine. But then you and I went a little further. We went to the point where we made changes, and in the transitional positions of 14 articles we wrote that the use of existing military bases might be on lease terms defined in the international treaties of Ukraine. I'm addressing you, Arsenija Petrovich, let's listen to Parliament's report to the government on the implementation of the lease agreements. And you're going to see that there's no rent, there's no inventory of all the property that seems to be in three pieces. That's the first one. The other one. I want to go from this high rostrum to the President of Ukraine, to the head of the government of Yulia Timoshenko on the assessment of actions, but, more specifically, the inaction, and the improper activity of the heads of the governments of the Mikolai and Chernig regions. I'll tell you that terrible things have been written to me by people in the Mikolai district. For example, the pain of a wife, a daughter, and a son who says that after a college call, the government, where they tried to change the form of the property of the car, the business, the person couldn't stand it, the heart couldn't stand it, the person died. People are asked to call upon the governor to take him out of office. As members of the coalition, I do not trust the governor of the Mikolai region. I don't trust the Governor of the Chernigiv district of Homenk, because in this area, just about 240 hectares of land are published on a simple basis, information about the location of which there is no status. And there's a lot of such crimes. So all of this needs to be checked out completely. I, my dear friends, would like those events that are currently taking place regarding Ukraine to bring together the Ukrainian Parliament to show that there are strategic issues, national security issues for Ukraine. And to give you and me a quick look at the government's action programme, we've approved, then we've changed the budget, and we've foreseen the funds for our science, and we've foreseen the funds for our defense and security, so that no one threatens us, no one.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u193	Comrade Korge, please. Please, Ivan Grigorovitch Kirilenko, pass.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u194	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! Unlike Mr. Sulkowski's spokesman here, I'll be telling the truth. And I want to draw attention to the tragic absurdity of our energy dependence. It is a mistake to claim that some authorities have become accustomed to our people. The first false claim that the warmth in our homes and the success of our industry must depend on decisions made in Moscow regarding energy carriers. The second false statement to which we are statistically, and so in fact, we get used to the fact that coal mining on Ukrainian mines is necessarily linked to the death of miners. The third false statement that we have become accustomed to, accepting as truth that Ukraine has no oil and gas deposits. And the latter is wrong, and perhaps the most absurd statement that we are not paying any attention to, is that there is a lack of local energy sources in Ukraine. Last but not least, I want to give you just one striking example. In the Chernigiv region, the Irvatsk Torpobret factory is working on a pedestal of peat, which, for today’s power of the company, can provide the company for 150 years. The capacity of this plant fully ensures the needs of schools, medical facilities, utilities, other budgetary institutions, and a large proportion of the population in the Montenegrin and neighbouring areas. However, instead of a 17 - percent briquette of local production, a 55 - percent breech coal has been imported into the area for two years. Sometimes it feels like it's not coal, but it's terricones, unlike briquettes, it's coal that's barely burning. As a result, schoolchildren in the region of Montenegro in upper winter clothes, the Irvatsk Torphobic factory is barely breathing and is being brought into the process of adopting it, effectively blocking its production. At this point, I point out that we have virtually neglected the development of the energy sector of Ukraine's economy, and it is we who, first of all, should be the electorates of the people who should make an effort to lift our energy sector from the knee to provide the legislative and executive support for this promotion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u195	Andrew Schlell.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u196	Thank you very much, Arseny Petrovich. Deputies! Dear radio audiences, television audiences! I'd still like to draw attention to the statement made by the head of the Russian Genstab Balivowski. First of all, I'd like to remind you that he's a Ukrainian of Ukrainian origin, of Ukrainian origin, so that's why I think he had a radical and he had a veil. But that's not the point.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u197	From the Rabbit, from the Lviv region.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u198	From Rabbit, Lviv district. An Earthman can be said, so so can a statement. But this does not diminish the weight and negative effect of the statement itself. I want to remind you of a story not far from here. Russia was one of Ukraine’s main proponents for Ukraine’s rejection of the third nuclear potential in the world. They refused, I believe it is a very wise, balanced step, but it was an uncomplicated step for Ukraine and then the Budapest Treaty, where three subjects guaranteed Ukraine territorial integrity and integrity. One subject was the European Union, the United States, and Russia. And this guarantee of territorial integrity and inviolability is already putting in place for Ukraine in which territorial claims are already under way, reminding us of, except when we pursue independent foreign policy, Russia will initiate a diversion of Crimea. And others, the Balivijski has actually been quoted here several times, so he also said that the population of Ukraine clearly opposes NATO. This, I'm wondering, was Genstab doing sociological research in Ukraine or himself, when he visited Truscavetz and conducted surveys there. Where did he get this result on ambiguity? And I would, once again, of course, emphasize the weight, the level and intellectual ability, but nevertheless, the applicant, but nevertheless, does not diminish the firmness of the statement itself. So, of course, I'd like to call from this rostrum. In order for us to hear Tuesday's session here, Arseny Petrovich, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Minister of Defense, including. So we can get a qualified evaluation of what happened. Because you don't trust the media anymore. Ukrainian and international legislation provides that a fact violated in the media if it is criminal in nature serves as a violation of a criminal case on the grounds that a criminal case has been committed for a given fact. So I would like to see more confidence in the official Russian edition. But nevertheless, on the other hand, so that we get the official position of key ministers on this issue. It's what I'd like to do to be my deputy's address. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u199	Please, Stanislav Arjevitin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u200	A few days ago, a merger of Ukrainian bankers was completed. And as Head of the Council of the Association of Ukrainian Banks, I am charged with bringing to the deputies the proposals that need to be settled at the legislative level. First. Ask the National Bank of Ukraine and the Supreme Council of Ukraine for amendments to existing legislation in part: the first is the cancellation of the pension assembly from foreign currency purchase operations, the sale of foreign currency banks in Ukraine's currency markets. The second is to grant the National Bank of Ukraine the right to implement a moratorium on individual types of banking activities. Speed up the adoption of laws to protect creditors' rights. Support the committee's proposal to set up with the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Finance and Banking of an Advisory and Expert Body on Banking. Contact the National Bank of Ukraine with proposals to develop a programme to support banking institutions in situations of financial instability, which, inter alia, foresee simplified mechanisms to support bank liquidity in crisis situations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-11-m0.u201	Thank you, Your Honor. I declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Thank you.
