ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-06-m0.u1	Dear colleagues, we just held a meeting of faction leaders. I would like to inform you that there are several reasons why consideration of the personnel issue is delayed. First, the faction of the Party of the Regions is not ready to unlock the rostrum because there is no Valentina Seminouk. And secondly, there's no way to invite Valentine Semenyuk today. Third. It will be suggested that I consider this issue in the absence of Valentina Petrovna. Unfortunately, though, we did not come to an agreement, and we did not agree to unlock the rostrum. What is proposed? It's proposed on Tuesday the next nine o'clock -- the Conciliation Council meeting, because Monday is our weekend. To date, however, limit yourself to purely informative statements and queries. Dear colleagues, we need to start a plenary session first. Therefore, honourable national MPs, please register. And then I'll make it official. Let's register. [[10:10:53]] Registered -399 399 in the hall. Dear colleagues, the morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. You and I only go through one block -- reading information and reading queries. As for further work, I'll let you know at the very end. A request was received from the national deputies of Ukraine. Vladimir Lithuania to the President of Ukraine on political pressure from the leadership of the Luhansk District Administration for the family of Irina Pow. Valentina Landik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to review the decision of the Interministerial Commission of International Trade since February 4th of the current year. Victoria Demianchuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, acting as head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on dissatisfaction with the reply to a parliamentary appeal to the responsibility of officials of the State Customs Service, who are involved in criminal schemes for the import of vehicles in the Odessa region. Mr. Dmitra Kolesnikov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on amendments to the 2008 Act on the State Budget and amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine; Eugene Goodyak to the first vice-president of the Ukrainian Prime Minister for the delay in reinstatement of the post of head of the government of the open-ended shareholders' society, “The Ukrainian Zone Research and Project Institute for Civil Construction”, Shevelov, in accordance with the decision of the court. Igora Kaletnik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the Accounts Chamber of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of Ukraine, regarding the dissatisfaction with the reply of the Attorney General's Office, which did not give a proper legal assessment of the actions of officials of the Open Shareholders Association of Vinciaoblanergo, which caused damage to the state at 400 million dollars. Igora Kaletnik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, acting as Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Chief Audit and Audit Office, Head of the Ukrainian Court of Auditors, Prosecutor-General of Ukraine, on the abuse of office, violation of budgetary legislation and corruption by the head of the Kyivo-Svetoshin Regional Council of the Kyiv Region, Gregory Kosenka. Igora Šarov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on speeding up the preparation by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of the bill "To amend the Ukrainian law on the rehabilitation of victims of political repression in Ukraine" in order to strengthen the social protection of rehabilitated citizens and their families. Leonida Litvinova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on violations of legislation during the restructuring of the Institute of Oncology of the Academy of Medical Sciences of Ukraine. Mr. Derkac to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on addressing the problems of drinking water supply in a number of Dnipropetrov region settlements, which have been running out of water since the end of 2007. Mikoli Shershun to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine for Dissatisfaction with the question of completion of the construction of a district cancer dispenser in Raven. Oleg Zarubinsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the ratification of the agreement between Ukraine, between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on financial cooperation. Petra Pisarczuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the conduct of a state-owned health and environmental expertise on the territory of the Bibrian City Council of the Przemyslánsk Region of Lviv region on the threat to the environment as a result of the fire at the “Polysintez” subsidiary of the “Organica” Shareholder Society. The Group of Greenewecks to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the financing of the Odessa National Academy of Opera and Ballet; Jury Karmazin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the verification of the introduction of low-quality slot machines into Ukraine, which leads to large-scale fraud involving citizens, especially minors and young people, by taking urgent steps to set up an order in the field of the gaming business, such as accelerating the approval of mandatory certification of slot machines with a cash win from the relevant ministries and authorities. Jury Karmazin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Health of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Prosecutor-General of Ukraine for the verification of the Government's decision not to comply with the restrictions, release and distribution of TRAMADOL, the uncontrolled use of which leads to the drug addiction of tens of thousands of young people and brings hundreds of millions of dollars to drug advocates and threatens Ukraine's national security. Groups of National Deputies: Bachevoy, Korja and others, to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, regarding the necessary return to the State property of a private facility of unfinished construction located in the territory of the Donetsk District Clinical and Territorial Medical Union. Groups of National Deputies: Komara, Mankovsky and others – to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the loss of an agro-industry complex in Ukraine. [[five deputies]] Groups of National Deputies: Korja, Pierreya, Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Health of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of Ukraine, on the violation of legislation on vaccination against measles and rubella in Ukraine. [[only six national deputies]] Valerija Suškević to the Minister of Health of Ukraine for the introduction of an individual approach to vaccination in order to prevent serious complications of vaccination against infectious diseases. Vasila Petyovka to the Minister of Agriculture Policy of Ukraine, acting as Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Head of the Ukrainian Audit and Audit Office, Attorney General of Ukraine, on the verification of violations of Ukrainian legislation and abuses by officials of the Central Council of the All-Ukrainian Physical and Sports Society Colossus. Vladimir Polochalo, acting as head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine, for major violations of the organization’s collective management of rights in the assembly system and the remuneration of the authors of the phonographs. Vladimir Yavorowski to the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, regarding the failure to comply with Presidential Decree No. 39/2006 of 20 January 2006 on the ratification of the European Convention on the Compensation of Victims of Violent Crime and the introduction of Ukrainian legislation in accordance with its provisions. Vladimir Yavorowski to the Minister of Transport and Liaison of Ukraine for the verification of the abuse of duty as head of the Seaport of Sevastopol, which, contrary to current legislation, hinders the business activity of Ukrainian entrepreneurs. Igora Sharov to the head of the Ukrainian Presidential Secretariat for the enforcement of Presidential Decree No. 1088/2005 of 12 July 2005 on measures to strengthen the State support of former political prisoners, repressors and their public organizations in the preparation of the draft law on the increase in the corresponding percentage to the subsistence minimum of pensions for citizens who had suffered unjustified political repression and were later rehabilitated, as well as members of their families who had been forcibly displaced. Mikoli Kravchenka to the Minister for Environmental Protection of Ukraine, Head of the State Committee for Industrial Safety, Labour Protection and Mining, Prosecutor General of Ukraine on the violations of environmental legislation and legislation on the safety of the work of the Open Shareholder Association “Arcelor”, “Mitel”, Curve Rig and others. Mikoli Tomenko to the head of the Ukrainian Court of Auditors on the effectiveness of the use of State budget funds for the maintenance of State administration. Sergei Gordienka to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Prosecutor-General of Ukraine for the improper examination of the parliamentary appeal concerning violations of legislation in the alienation of property and rations of peasants in the village of Zarig of the Region of Poltav. In the process of which the local council was deprived. Sergei Gordienka to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for violating the legislation of the employees of the state executive service of the Globin district of Poltav region in the alienation of property, the object of the unfinished construction of a cultural building in the village of Mangelia. An improper consideration of the repeated appeals made by the local territorial community and the question raised by the MPs. Groups of National Deputies: Ukraine of Komar, Pavlenko and others – to the Minister of Health concerning vaccination in Ukraine. [[only five Ukrainian national deputies]] Vladislav Kaskov to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the inaction of the prosecutor's authorities with regard to the examination of a citizen of Igor Tyný about the fraudulent actions of individual officials during the alienation of the land in the territory of the Kyiv village council. Vladimir Bondarenko to the U.S. Attorney General's Office regarding the failure of the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine to respond to parliamentary appeals regarding the illegal use of Kiyivenergo, collected in Chinese, for the purchase and installation of 10 million dollars' worth of counters. Vladimir Karpuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of the violation of the terms of the lease agreement of the commercial and manufacturing base at the Street of Industry, 7 City of Nova Kahouka of the Hersonian Region as a tenant of the Open Shareholder Company “Hersonagrobud” and the elimination of violations of current legislation. Vladimir Pilpenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the examination of the facts relating to the receipt of a fictitious diploma on higher education by the Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine. Vladimir Sovkovic to the Attorney General of Ukraine for a criminal case involving the deputy head of the Boripil district government administration, Vadim Gordievsky, who illegally removed 47 hectares [47 ha] of land from the drawing. Irina Herashchenko to the Attorney General, head of the Mikolai District State Administration on violations of the principles of freedom of speech, the pressure of media representatives and interference in editorial policy of the newspaper “Victory” of the frat region of Mikolai region by the head of the Government Administration of the Bratsky region of the Mikolai region of Love Moscow, as well as preventing her from informing the population about the meeting with the Ukrainian people's deputies. Mikoli Shershun to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of the rights of a citizen of Galina Yacshin by investigators of the Ternopil District Attorney’s Office. Mikhail Orphany to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the improper investigation of a criminal case based on the fact that the U.S.S.O. is investigating the U.S.U.S.O. in the Zakarpatsky region. Alexander Donya to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the lack of response to a parliamentary appeal to attempt to capture unknown persons in military town No. 227 and to remove animals. [[That's right, animals.]] Alexia Donya told the Attorney General of Ukraine about the improper consideration of the parliamentary appeal for ignorance by the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the violation of the criminal case. The Odessa branch of the Institute of Marine Biology of the South Seas of the Kovalev National Academy of Sciences, which aims to harm the State, is under the responsibility of the General Prosecutor of Ukraine. Vladimir Sovkovic, head of the Regional Regional Government Administration of the Kyiv Region, on the failure to provide copies of orders relating to the allocation of land to private agriculture, other than the social sphere, in particular companies: the Ukrainian Environmental Fund 3000, the Milovid resource company, the small multi-profit joint venture KiMiKe, the Najs Foundation and others. Vladimir Lithuania to the Attorney General of Ukraine on political pressure from the leadership of the Luhansk district government administration for the family of Irina Popova. Andrija Pavlovski to the Kiev City Head for the violation of the rights of citizens through the placement and exploitation of a car stand and temporary pavilions at the address of the faculty of the Palladin Academy, 7 in the Svoszyn district of Kyiv. Mikoli Derkac to the head of the Dnipropetrov district council on the non-permission of the building of the district cardiological center in Dnipropetrovsk. Dear colleagues, there are requests to the President of Ukraine, a request by Vladimir Litvin. And I'm betting on the vote. Attention, colleagues! Attention! I am voting for the question of support for the request by Vladimir Litvin to the President of Ukraine for political pressure from the leadership of the Luhansk district government administration for the family of Irina Popova. Attention, we have a vote. [[10:21:45]] For-187 Decision taken. I now put to the vote the question of asking the President of Ukraine accordingly. This decision requires 226 votes. Attention, colleagues! Vote! [[10:22:11]] For 209 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, before closing, there's the latest information that I've just announced to the faction leaders, and I don't want to judge, but I'm going to start with that. There has been some betrayal in the coalition. Two statements were made this morning, these two national deputies of Ukraine, who were handed over to the Supreme Council. The first statement by the People's Deputy Ribakova is a member of the House of Yulia Timoshenko, where the People's Deputy Ribakov reports on its exit from the Coalition of Democratic Forces. And the second statement by National Deputy Booth Yuri Anatoliyovich is "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense", where he also reports an exit from the Coalition of Democratic Forces. All I'm saying is let these people get back together. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, I declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed.
