ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u1	Good evening. Let's register, dear fellows. [[16:03:44]] 437 National Deputies, according to the registration in the Parliamentary Hall. Ladies and gentlemen, I declare the evening session open. We continue to consider the issues of the day’s order. 3076-2, Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u2	Dear fellows, dear Head, distinguished voters! I think as we look at this sinister question, the temperature in the hall doesn't increase, and I think it's dropping, and we'll eventually come up with a joint decision. If it is expressed in a statement, I think that our statement, which I will now publish on behalf of the faction, may be the closest thing to the truth and the solution to this problem, which is also of no importance to Ukraine. Let me read this statement, and think about its contents and the meaning of the words that we put here. Proposal for a statement by the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the conflict in the Caucasus. “The Supreme Council of Ukraine is deeply concerned about the armed conflict between Russia and Georgia and its serious negative consequences for regional security in Europe and the world. The Supreme Council condemns the use of weapons by any party and all unilateral steps and the disproportionate use of force that contributes to the escalation of resistance. We're expressing a deep sum for the loss of life and the occurrence of a situation that has led to the suffering of the civilian population, the increase in the number of refugees, the destruction of socio-economic infrastructure, and the threat of a humanitarian disaster. The Supreme Council believes that respect for the principles of independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity, which are defined and recognized by international law and resolutions of the UN Security Council, and the common position of the European Union, as enshrined in the conclusions of the Council of the European Union on the situation in Georgia, should be the basis for a peaceful and lasting solution to this conflict. The Supreme Council calls for the unconditional implementation of all without exception of the constituents of the peace settlement plan agreed upon by the parties under the European Union. This is the plan signed by the presidents of Russia, Georgia and France. The Supreme Council urges the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to take all necessary measures to provide effective humanitarian assistance to all victims without discrimination. The Supreme Council expresses its support for Ukraine's more active and coordinated participation in today's and future peacekeeping and humanitarian efforts within the UN, the OSCE, as well as within the European Security and Defence Policy of the European Union. The Supreme Council considers it necessary to use all available legal instruments within the existing bilateral inter-State institutions of Ukraine and Russia to establish and regulate all procedures for the stay of the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation in Ukraine. The Supreme Council calls on all responsible political forces to refrain from using radical rhetoric and the temptation to translate regional security into an internal political plane.” Dear colleagues, a few comments to this statement. First. What does the faction ask the Supreme Council to take into account in our position? There is nothing more valuable than peace on our Ukrainian land. This is the first messenger. The other one. The position of the faction is pro-Ukrainian. That means national interests first of all. In all such conflicts, we must act in such a way that we do not in any way get our country involved in a foreign war and become a hostage to our people and our territory. We respect and appreciate the good neighbourly relations between Ukraine and Georgia, between Ukraine and Russia. Our national interest in our nation is the ever-increasing trade between our countries, cultural and regional ties. We must do everything we can to ensure that this conflict is settled as soon as possible. We're for strengthening our peacekeeping function. Our government acted and acted in strict compliance with the Constitution. And this has recognized the world’s partnership. A timely humanitarian aid and an evacuees contingent of Ukrainians were provided. We firmly reject baseless accusations of so - called treason. And I want to say this. At a time when the government had done everything it had to do to help Ukrainian citizens in the zone of military conflict and, at the same time, to eliminate the consequences of our tragedy, Ukrainian, in the western areas of Ukraine, it was at this time that there was a surge of unfounded accusations at the address of the Prime Minister of Ukraine. In fact, the harassment of Julia Tymoshenko’s personality began with baseless accusations of treason against national interests. And this abuse has, in fact, been going on since 2005, colleagues. Your grade, I'm talking to our partners, so far. And we're very concerned about that today. Today you were excited about the successful vote in the hall. Colleagues, on the whole question of principle for the state, 360-370 votes in the room. Do you really think it blows into a sail, and all you do is blow out your cheeks? Join us! The Supreme Council was united to get rid of the influence from the outside. [[Applause]] With regard to this problem that we are discussing, every time we see it, we appreciate it. Each one had missed through his heart and soul, and this was evident in the performances. And we appreciate that every heart and soul. I remembered, in particular, one thing that was most impressive: Russian and Georgian athletes held the Olympic Games on the second day of the war on the pedestals. It's not the people who started the war, it's not the people who want the fighting, it's the politicians who want the ratings! We didn't have a fight for our ratings?Oh, my God! Dear friends, if we don't get through our offer, please, the second decision that's registered, I'll be out of the way another time, we still need to have a shared view on this issue of all branches of government. We have the Ukrainian President, the Ukrainian Government, and Parliament is working not on the left bank of ivory, but also on Ukraine. We should unite around this tribulation, not the nations want wars, and I am convinced that the people who are listening to us now pray to God that the boys who are in this rostrum, do not give God, in any way, lead to what has to be experienced in the Caucasus. Don't bring, God, us. Peace is the most important thing we should appreciate. So a very balanced, tolerant, very cautious attitude and sensitive to what has happened, peace on earth, first and foremost. Dear colleagues, we can't make any decisions, let's create a joint temporary special commission that coordinates all branches of government and works on the only mechanism and the only approach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u3	Five minutes of question-answer. Oleg Gumenjuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u4	Humenjuk Oleg Ivanovich, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Please give the word to Ruslan Knyazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u5	Ruslan Knazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u6	Dear Ivan Grigorovich, please tell me, as I understand it, the position in the statement you're proposing is that Ukraine can't stand on either side of the conflict in any way. What is your attitude toward one of the factions of Parliament that has declared in a unilateral order the recognition of two self-proclaimed states after just a few, say, extremist organizations in the world have taken such an absolute step, I think, which brutally violates all the international legal arrangements of Ukraine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u7	Dear colleagues, thank you for asking. It doesn't apply to us. I'm going to answer what's going on with us. Yeah, you're absolutely right, we're not taking sides. We stand by the people who have suffered. And we think for 46 million of our people. Do not prove, God, that by our incompetent actions we may provoke something like this, do not prove it, Lord. But in our statement, if you've heard, we're in territorial integrity, we're in favour of resolving the conflict as proposed today by the civilized European Union. And this is signed by both the President of Russia and the President of Georgia. So we're on the side of the settlement in the most civilized way. As far as recognition or nonrecognition is concerned, it is the competence of the relevant authorities. I think it can only be after we find a common solution here in this room. I would very much expect it to be as we suggest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u8	Vitaly Zudnowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u9	I ask you to give the word to Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u10	Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u11	Vladimir Yavorowski, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear reporter, here, this room has an application from one, one MP wing that wants to acknowledge and support Russia in acknowledging the statehood of these republics. It is absolutely clear that this is an almost, almost insane decision that slaps the entire world of society that provokes the division and dispersion of Russia itself, and it is totally unacceptable, unacceptable. And I don't know who can vote for him. There are two draft decrees. Ours, from the Yulia Block of Timoshenko and from our allies, our allies, from the NS. I listened very carefully to Kirilenko’s application. I've been following our statement, butov. And it's very important to me that people think whether there's a difference or not. You see the difference between these two statements, don't you see? Because I'm personal.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u12	Dear Volodymyr Alexandrovich, our differences in claims, I've analyzed one another, is another. In “Our Ukraine” a party statement and we have a state statement. We're not taking sides with any of the conflicting sides. It's not our war. And we don't need to get involved in other people's wars. Because we're going to go very far. It is imperative that we strengthen our peacekeeping function. Why did you come to appease Sarkozy a few thousand miles away? And we're with the fraternal nations! This is our role, and we support those who have increased the peacekeeping function while preserving the territorial integrity of each country.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u13	Sergei Shevchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u14	Dear John Grigorovich, it's obvious that the draft statement you're representing is the most pro-European, because it clearly sets out the main priorities that both the Council of Europe and the European States have supported. It speaks of a settlement plan that really agrees with the President of Georgia and with the President of Russia and the President of the EU today. And indeed, this approach reflects the essence of Ukrainian foreign policy that is needed today. But there is a difference between the project proposed by the faction “Our Ukraine – the People’s Self-Defense”. The difference is that we don't mention the President's great efforts. How do you think it's necessary in Parliament's statement to make any hints about the exalted role of any person, or does Parliament have another function? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u15	If you've noticed, colleagues, we don't see anyone in our statement. We have tried not to make quilts on one side or the other in this statement and to give someone credit for making money on someone else’s blood. We're definitely against it. We think so. That the government in this regard acted most professionally. Humanitarian aid was immediately provided and our citizens were evacuated. And perhaps the most effective work was to be done in order to increase the peacekeeping function of Ukraine itself in this conflict. We offered our coalition colleagues who addressed us in writing, and we answered in writing. We offered to get together immediately last night, a joint working group to create and work out a single coalition statement. Unfortunately, we didn't get the answer, so we had to make our statement, which is more, we think, tolerant and more governmental, and we offer to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u16	Stanislaw Arzeviteen.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u17	Please hand over Zinovia Shkukkak.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u18	Zinov Skutak.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u19	Dear John Grigorovich, would you please explain how you feel about the fact that the Black Sea Fleet, based in Ukraine, was used unilaterally in this conflict? And the second question. You're calling for the settlement of the relationship issues, to normalize the presence of the Black Sea fleet in Ukraine. But as far as we know, in July, there was a decision by the Cabinet of Ministers before the conflict, which has already allowed the use of the Black Sea fleet in Ukraine to be normalized. Why this decision of the Cabinet of Ministers was not put into effect.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u20	Honorable colleagues, and in the Black Sea fleet, we have no statement, as far as I've been paying attention, of any kind. In our statement, I quote again: “The Supreme Council considers it necessary to use all available political instruments within the existing bilateral inter-State institutions of Ukraine to establish and regulate all procedures for the stay of the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation in Ukraine.” We declare it and ask for support. What does that mean? Yes, we have a great treaty, so-called, it's above Ukrainian legislation, because it's our interstate relations, interstate relations, we've ratified it. Let's look at all of the questions that have arisen in this respect. We've got it all figured out, we've got it all figured out? As events have shown, it may not be the case. This task force, this special commission that will be created, involving professionals who have the experience of diplomatic work, all of them, all of the legal, international institutions and experiences of international practice in this regard. Unfortunately, in recent years, she has experienced such experiences. Let's study this question. We suggest one thing: don't cut the opal. He's got it in his buttocks.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u21	Thank you. The next bill is 3082. Tarasjuk Boris Ivanovich. Boris Ivanovich, please come to the rostrum of Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u22	Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! In fact, we are now considering the issue on which our citizens, our society, and our authority depend on issues such as world order, the security of the state, the security of Ukraine. The act of aggression by Russia against the sovereign state of Georgia can only be compared to the effects of the terrorist attacks in the United States on September 11, 2001, when the concept of "security of the citizen", "security of the state" and "collective security" changed radically. The Russian side cynically, manipulating the terms “force to peace”, “humanitarian catastrophe”, “ethnic cleansing”, “genocide”, became engrossed in the territorial integrity of the sovereign state. The events in the Caucasus once again confirmed that the so - called peacemaking that Russia supposedly practiced was a cover - up. The events in Georgia also showed how much Russia is using information war to cover up the real causes and the course of this war because the facts are obvious. By providing armed support to the separatist regime and recognizing the independence of Abkhazia and South Ossetia, the Russian Federation has violated a number of international legal instruments, such as the UN Statute, the Helsinki Final Act of 75 and the Paris Charter of New Europe of 1990. She acted contrary to her obligation as a member of the United Nations and other international institutions. Having disregarded the basic purposes and principles of the UN Charter, in particular Article 2, paragraph 4, of the UN Statute, which I quote: “All UN members remain in their international relations against the threat of force or its application, both against territorial integrity or the political independence of any State and in any other way incompatible with the purposes of the United Nations”, is the end of the quote. In fact, Russia became engrossed in the sovereignty, territorial integrity, and political independence of the State of Georgia. The adoption of this decree, which I have proposed, testifies to the position of the Supreme Council regarding respect for international law, the UN Charter on which today’s world order is based. It should be a warning against ignoring the principles of international law, such as respect for territorial integrity. By assessing, the Supreme Council will express its view of its own security, its own territorial integrity, and its sovereignty. This question is fundamental to our nation. We are faced with the question of admitting the truth and saying things by our names, or being silent and kneeling before Russia. Sadly, there have been many instances in history where millions of people have been victims of wars with a silent agreement. I would like to point out that there is almost armed aggression on the border of the Ukrainian State, and this should unite all political forces. In this context, I am very surprised by the political forces from the opposition, who are trying to worship Russia in advance, in fact, by supporting its illegal, aggressive actions. In view of the assessment of the actions of the President and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, I would like to say that I support, like most Ukrainians, the results of yesterday’s survey, the actions of the president, the government and, in particular, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The draft decree that I have made is a well-balanced, well-founded international law and contains specific references to the international legal acts that the Russian Federation has violated in its actions. I would like to remind the distinguished national deputies that in due course the Supreme Council ratified the treaty of friendship, cooperation and mutual assistance with Georgia. In fact, it is the only treaty in which Ukraine has undertaken to provide assistance to Georgia in the event of a threat. And this is a treaty in which we have committed ourselves not to provide our territory for hostile action against Georgia. Thus, the Russian Black Sea fleet, which is based on the territory of Ukraine, has actually violated its obligations. In this regard, I consider both the President’s decrees and the decision of the Government to order the Russian Black Sea fleet. In view of the above, honourable national deputies, I propose to endorse the Supreme Council's statement to condemn the act of aggression by Russia against the sovereign state of Georgia. And our vote or non-voting will be a test of the loyalty we have given to the Ukrainian people, a test of how much we care about the protection of our interests, not that of a foreign state. During my break as the head of the interparliamentary group with Georgia, I convened a meeting of this parliamentary group. As a result of its meeting, the parliamentary group on interparliamentary relations with Georgia accepted a statement that I have the honour to read. Thus, the parliamentary group in relations with Georgia expresses its concern about the events taking place in the territory of the sovereign State of Georgia. The Russian Federation military forces carried out an act of aggression against the independent State of Georgia in connection with the “peacemaking mission” in the paws. Using military force contrary to its obligations under the UN Charter and international law, the Russian authorities speculate on the categories of coercion to peace, humanitarian catastrophe, ethnic cleansing and genocide, and use the terminology to justify the bombing of Georgian cities by the Russian air force. By providing armed support for the separatist regime of South Ossetia, Russia is entrenched in the sovereignty, territorial integrity, and political independence of another state. Particularly dangerous in this context is the recognition by the Russian Federation of Independence of South Ossetia and Abkhazia, which is equivalent to the territorial dismemberment of that State. The actions taken by the Russian Federation should be assessed as being in grave contravention of the basic purposes and principles of the UN Charter, such as article 2, paragraph 4, which I referred to. Further, the principle enshrined in the UN Charter was confirmed in the 1975 Helsinki Final Act in the Paris Charter of 1990, the standards of which are also in violation of Russia’s actions. The MP considers it unacceptable to use the Russian Black Sea fleet base in Sevastopol, which conflicts with bilateral agreements and regulations regarding the deployment of the Black Sea fleet in Ukraine and violates the rules and principles of international law. The parliamentary group in connection with Georgia expresses its regret at the loss of civilians who have been victims of armed aggression and at the compassion of all the people of Georgia. To be completed. The MP condemns the act of aggression by the Russian Federation against the sovereign state of Georgia and urges it to restore the status quo, to act in accordance with international law and to promote the mediation of the UN and the OSCE in resolving the conflict. The group supported yesterday's European Union summit on the situation in Georgia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u23	Five minutes -- questions-answers. Naydenov, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u24	Simonenko Petr Nikolaevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u25	Peter Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u26	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear reporter, I would like to ask you to comment on the statement made by President Hans-Gert Pottering at the European Union's extraordinary summit yesterday, which stated: “The President of Georgia made a serious mistake with regard to South Ossetia.” Please comment on this statement, based on what you have said here. We know your position. You were always against Ukrainian interests and against the people of Ukraine because it was important for you today to protect American interests. We know your position. But please comment on what the President of the European Parliament has just said, as I told you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u27	Because, Peter Mikolaiovich, you have actually captured me personally, I want to say that I am not, I am not one of those political forces that defend the interests of neighboring Russia in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as opposed to you. As for the comments made at the European Union summit, I would like to say that I can comment on the decision of the summit, i.e. all the Heads of State members of the European Union. In my opinion, and this is the opinion of the deputy group in connection with Georgia, the decision is positive because, unlike previous decisions, it refers to the need for respect for the territorial integrity, sovereignty and independence of Georgia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u28	Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u29	Thank you. Dear Boris Ivanovich, this morning all those people who are the product of the coalition were sitting on the government stand or the bed. They were given authority because it was thought that there were 226 people who were supported in the session hall. You are well aware that, unlike the principles of domestic politics that can be clearly counterversive in this room, the Supreme Council must carry out its constitutional duty and accept the principles of foreign policy. Foreign policy cannot but be consolidated, even though the views of those who give power — that is, in the coalition — are key questions. Please tell me, Your Honor Boris Ivanovich, there are four variants of your faction: Yours, Kostenka, colleague, I will not call your father, Arieva, Kirilenka. There are two variants of the application. What qualify as a statement from the NN-NS faction and as a coalition? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u30	Thank you. Objective circumstances, namely, that the Supreme Council had not worked and there was no way to reconcile all positions and projects, led to the creation of several different bills. I think it's a flaw, and I think it should not be just one faction of several bills, but there should be one consolidated bill from all over the Supreme Council that would be supported by all the factions that care for the interests of their state. Sadly, that did not happen. So we're dealing with several projects. I believe that the bill passed by Viacheslav Kirilenko, Yuri Kostenk, Ariev deserves support. In my opinion, I would support these bills, and I hope that the Supreme Council will support them.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u31	Demyanchuk, Communist faction
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u32	Please pass the word Samuel to Catherine Semenovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u33	Thank you. I want to ask you the following questions. Please tell me why you were excited by the self-determination of South Ossetia, Abkhazia. Why did you keep silent about Kosovo? First. Why should the Ukrainian people be deceived from the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, it is fair to say, who started shooting from the city system in Tskhenvala, who poured gasoline and fueled children and old people who were tank-driving living people, without thinking that this child had just begun to live, and an old man might have protected this country and this land for his whole life. I don't know what the so-called democratic coalition is counting on. “Our Ukraine” if it deceives people as much as you can cheat, Fascism occurs both in Georgia and in Ukraine and you do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u34	I think the content of your speech is the result of the information war that has been waged, led and led by the Russian Federation against Ukrainian citizens, filling our information space. As for Kosovo, you have obviously been misinformed, never did my position on Kosovo support for Kosovo's independence. Never, I repeat! And I want to tell you that unlike you Communists, I never lied. I would like to tell you that my negotiations with the UN Special Representative on Kosovo, with the leaders of the European Union, with the members of the European Union and NATO in all these negotiations, I have consistently defended the position that recognition of Kosovo's independence will be a mistake. I held such a position as Minister of Foreign Affairs, and the more I hold the position as an expert in international law. None of us are ever deceived.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u35	Thank you, Boris Ivanovich. I can't give you a replica because it wasn't called a last name. Did you call your last name, Boris Ivanovich? But you're crazy, you called it-- you didn't call it. For the sake of argument, give Petra Mikolaiovich a replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u36	Dear colleagues, we understand why the reporter refers to political power without giving any arguments about a particular matter, especially when he said that he was not lying to Catherine Semenovna Samuelk on the last question. But I understand, so let's say he couldn't say otherwise, because today the President himself, who is in charge of this coalition, is and, let's say, the spiritual mentor of this coalition, said that this is not a democratic coalition -- it's a coalition of poisoners and spies. So I understand who's lying and who's not lying. And I think, so to speak, the position reported here by Viktor Ivanovich has long been understood by everyone. Spy poisoners are a coalition headed by President Yushchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u37	Next bill 3083, Kilinkarov Spiridon Pavlovich. Colleagues, no one wants to give up separate bills? Because we've already knocked them over in ten.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u38	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! The Georgian-Ostic conflict is a typical pattern of ethnic conflict caused by nationalist reaction regimes at different times in history. Returning to the history of the conflict, Ossetia became part of the Russian Empire as a single governorate, without division to the north and south, in 1774. And after the collapse of the Russian Empire, in the 18th and 20th years, the people of South Ossetia were subjected to the first genocide by Georgia, independent of that time. At that time, thousands of southern Ossetians were destroyed or exiled to North Ossetia by Georgian troops, which virtually wiped out almost everything from the face of the earth, all the settlements of South Ossetia. With regard to the draft regulation proposed today by Parliament on the recognition of the sovereignty and independence of South Ossetia and Abkhazia, I would like to return to the question of the territorial integrity of Georgia. In no way does the decision to recognize the sovereignty of Abkhazia and South Ossetia, in any way, in any way, undermine Georgia's right to territorial integrity. Because in the late 1980s, Georgian national extremists who had launched a campaign to eliminate South Ossetia had been abolished and all legal acts that were the basis of autonomy had been abolished. In the 1990s, the Supreme Council of the Georgian SSR repealed all legislation adopted after 21 years, including, I stress, the inclusion of South Ossetia in the Georgian SSR. In this way, South Ossetia was placed outside Georgia's constitutional legal space. As far as Abkhazia is concerned. With regard to the Georgian-Abkhaz conflict. At the time of the collapse of the Soviet Union, the Republic of Abkhazia did not take part in the referendum on the recognition of the independence of the Republic of Georgia and decided to join the Soviet Union. Therefore, both Abkhazia and South Ossetia de jure and de facto are not the territory of Georgia. Next. Discreditation, threat to Ossetians. In 1989-1990, an armed aggression to destroy South Ossetia was carried out. At that time, Georgia's violent actions against South Ossetia from November 1989 to July 1992 resulted in the death of more than 3,000 civilians in the Georgian-Ossetian conflict zone. About 300 were captured. Over 100 Ossetian villages were burned. More than 40,000 people became refugees of Russia. Therefore, respectable people's deputies, as much as we would not talk about wanting to preserve their integrity, sovereignty or try to imitate the two peoples who have an age-old history of opposition, are unlikely to succeed. We must do everything in our power to bring peace to the Caucasus today. And I would like to speak separately to those who today support the Saakashvili regime and speak of the need to preserve the unity and integrity of the State. I believe that the unity and integrity of the State cannot be preserved under the fire of the City System. The unity and integrity of the State can be maintained only in the pursuit of a policy for the benefit of the people, provided that the views and positions of all political parties and all territorial units that form part of the State are taken into account. I therefore consider it necessary today to put to the vote the issue of the recognition of the sovereignty of South Ossetia and Abkhazia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u39	Please write down 5 minutes for questions and answers. Lilia Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u40	Lilia Grigorovich, “Our Ukraine”. I want to welcome your historical intelligence and say, if I go along with it, why didn't you say before these two associations, which, by the way, are being recognised by Europe after World War II, why you didn't call Chechnya, who also fought for the right to be a recognized republic. And so I have a question: “Do you really fight in your speech and want the good in Ukraine and the other creatures you are saving for, or do you fight for the rights of these creatures and for the national interests of Ukraine, or do you act as a hole in anti - Ukrainian interests?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u41	Thank you. I would like first of all to see Ukrainian policies draw the right conclusions from what happened in Georgia. If you're talking about Chechnya today, it might be a topic of a separate conversation and discussion of the processes that took place in Chechnya. The only thing I will say is that the Chechen people did not hold a referendum or declare their republic independent. With regard to these republics, there are legal acts that are international, including on the basis of which, to date, the de jure and de facto, neither South Ossetia nor Abkhazia are part of Georgia.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u42	Yuri Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u43	Thank you. Yuri Klukkowski. Will you let me ask you a question? Thank you. Yuri Klukkowski, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. I understand that you have studied very well the constitutional status of subjects of autonomy of the Russian Federation, but I have a strong suspicion that you are familiar with the Constitution of Ukraine. In your draft decrees, you propose that the Supreme Council recognize the independence of certain state entities. I would ask you to call from the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine the rule of the Constitution, which refers to the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to recognize the independence or sovereignty of other states. And if that is not the case, please tell us if you are keeping the oaths of the Ukrainian national deputy, which says: “Be obedient to the Constitution of Ukraine. ” And tell everyone the legal consequences of violating the oath of the Ukrainian national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u44	Thank you. Thank you for asking. If you have read the draft regulation very carefully, it states: “To propose to the President of Ukraine, in accordance with article 106, paragraph 4, of the Constitution, that the Republic of South Ossetia and the Republic of Abkhazia be recognized as independent and sovereign states immediately and that diplomatic relations be established with them”. Read the document before you speak and ask such questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u45	Stallo.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u46	John Stoyko, National Movement of Ukraine, faction “Our Ukraine. ” I refer to you as a supporter of the non-permanent Putina Medved regime. You're talking about Saakashvili, I'm talking to you as the person who supports this regime. You spoke historically about the war in the Caucasus. Yes, this war has been fought for centuries. Yes, it is. But Russia has never conquered or conquered the Caucasus, and you know it. But today I'm running an analogy with the 30s of the last century, when Adolf Hitler's regime began, which then became who, you know, also -- conquered Europe and became the Führer. Today Putin wants to do the same in post - Soviet space. It's a struggle for democracy and nothing else. That's why I have a question. Do you support the regime that Hitler was in in the 1930s, especially the Communists, or do you support the regime that Russia is trying to support today, to bleach Stalin and do everything you can to make him.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u47	Thank you. You know, the Soviet period, including Stalin's rule period, is characterized primarily by the policy that has been pursued on the national issue. And no one in this room can say that, during the Soviet period, national issues were caused by such conflicts. Because national worried idiots are all the time. [[B in m in s a l in]] Wait a minute. Nationally concerned idiots at the time were in jail and “those wanted by the police ” were hanging outside the police building. Today, some of the national concerned idiots are sitting in parliament, and those who are hanging on the board "seeking the militia" represent our country's business elite to date. It is therefore very easy for me to judge how long our country lived and where and when there was more order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u48	Vladimir Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u49	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u50	It's not about you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u51	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine". Dear reporter, that idol for many years that you have bowed down and bowed down to this time -- Friedrich Engels, analyzing Russia's captivating politics for many years, has concluded that it has always been carried out under peaceful slogans. And you're used to it. At the same time, in this statement you're writing about genocide in relation to the Ossetian people, at the same time it's a political force that, by voting against the adoption of the law on the recognition of famine by genocide against the Ukrainian people, now denies this genocide, where millions of Ukrainian people have died. So where's your conscience, where's your truth? And those statements you're making once again indicate that you're always in purely pro-Russian positions. You can't have other positions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u52	I've always held public positions. Whatever we're talking about, it's all about hunger. Because you don't have a future. You have lived and lived in the past and have dragged our country into the past instead of thinking about the future of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u53	Next bill. [[B in m in s a l in]] Olena Lukas – 3089.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u54	Honorable colleagues, distinguished audiences, ladies and gentlemen! Your view is on the draft regulation 3089 establishing a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to investigate the facts of the international transfer of arms, military supplies and dual-use and involvement of Ukrainian citizens in the armed conflict in South Ossetia and Abkhazia. We're proposing this ruling because it's impossible not to take into account the situation in South Ossetia as a result of the armed confrontation between the Russian Federation and Georgia military units. We consider it necessary for this commission to work, and we will find out how the arms were supplied, how many were provided, who received the money for these weapons, and whether Ukraine violated its international obligations during this armed conflict. We offer to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u55	Dear colleagues, five minutes of question-answer. John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u56	Ms. Olena, by August 8th, I had pointed out how there had been a violent attack on the Ukrainian government in the media, on the President's line that Ukraine was selling weapons to Georgia. I then concluded that the fifth column had received a signal from the Kremlin to conduct art preparation in Ukraine, preparation of public opinion for Russia’s invasion of Georgia. And I see that this fifth column has not calmed down to this day, and in this case it has passed this draft decree in order to break the Ukrainian power to weaken the Ukrainian state. Because you know perfectly well that the Ukrainian State sells arms under international law and sells them to States that have the right to acquire them. We've already had this analogy with the Rings, and as soon as this analogy is over, you know the same thing. So tell me, please, it's you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u57	Thank you for asking. I could imagine what signals and where you're getting from, but I want to answer you as a lawyer. From the media, through diplomatic channels about possible massive supply of offensive and defensive weapons to a dangerous country like Georgia. If you look at the charter of a state-owned company from export and import of military and special service products from Ukrespecexport, the company is planning its own manufacturing and economic activity, based on consumer demand for its products and services. The basis of the plans is contracts with customers, sellers. So I'd really like to know who the buyers were? Was it a free supply or a donation at all? Has Ukraine breached its international obligations in this regard? I don't blame anyone at this time, and I'm not saying anything, but within this committee, we will be able to find out and within the framework of parliamentary control to control what was provided, what was the amount.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u58	Matthew Anatoly.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u59	The Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, the “Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense” Block. Mrs. Olena, today we have heard a great deal of your initiatives and the faction you represent. And don't you think that all of your initiatives are being compiled under the absolute copier of Russia's positions? And doesn't it seem to you that you and I would have to think of Ukraine as our own state, because with our differences within us, obviously we can't trample our own state into a treaty to anyone? And if you are very much, my question is next. If you're very concerned, really, and I recognize your right to organize arms trade, then don't you think you should have brought this up, not in the context of today's conflict, but simply as a legislative initiative to create such a parliamentary group that would look at trade issues in general. And not to be sung today by those who really ignore the interests of neighboring states and Ukrainians. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u60	Thank you for asking. You know, they say that the most terrible lie is a distorted truth. I'm not a weapons specialist, and I'm not going to pee-pee. I just want to say that we and the deputies have the right to know whether Ukraine or its individual citizens have become parties to a military attack. It's very simple. Just ask where the budget is and whether we are the sponsors and donors of countries participating in the conflict. I don't understand why this great outrage is of interest to us.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u61	Taran.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u62	Victor Terrence, Timoshenko Street. Dear reporter, Russia is issuing passports to Ukrainian citizens in Crimea. In fact, it was a tested scenario in South Ossetia when the Ossetians were first issued Russian passports and then Russia declared protection of its citizens. So in the future, there could be the same scenario in Ukraine -- the issuing of Russian passports to Ukrainian citizens, and then the protection of so-called Russian citizens. In fact, history has known similar experiences. By the way, as far as Austria is concerned, Fascist Germany was acting, you know that. And so the question is, do you approve of your faction, or do you approve of Russia's actions, which are similar to those of Fascist Germany, the actions of Russia that violate the Constitution of Ukraine, because there is no dual citizenship in Ukraine. And do you and your faction, how many citizens, how many thousands of citizens have been issued Russian passports in violation of our Constitution?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u63	I believe that the information you have announced cannot be confirmed in any way. And I think you're a miserable person. You know why? Because you can't even imagine that there is a state that will protect its citizens, their security, and their lives. And if these citizens are harmed at night, it will protect them, because this citizen has the passport of this state. It's just hard for you to imagine, for 18 years, you've been demanding the independence and independence of Ukraine, that such states, which protect their citizens, exist. And in connection with this bill that no one in this country will protect you for the time being, you ask such questions. Please calm down. It's not about passports, it's not about yours, it's not about others, it's about the supply of weapons. This is the question we want to find out.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u64	The 3093 bill is next. Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich. Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u65	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, honourable colleagues, in reporting on our draft decision on our draft statement, I suggested that if none of the options discussed here in this room were to pass, we would suggest the creation of a temporary special commission, which should work together with all branches of government on a harmonized position. That is why I, Arsenius Petrovich, presented this decree in my only speech. Please consider this as a presentation of two draft regulations: the creation of a special commission and the support of our statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u66	Five minutes of question-answer. Is it? Ivan Grigorovich, ask questions, five minutes. Kaskov passes the word to Zvaric. Vladislav Kaskov is handing over the Welder, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u67	Dear John Grigorovich! In fact, since you've linked one project to a project that you reported earlier, I'm going to ask you a question about a project that you reported earlier. Frankly, I didn't think you could write so much on one page and not say anything, because in fact, your project is before that. So I want to hear the official position from two very simple questions. Does BUT consider the actions of the Russian Federation in Georgia to be an act of aggression? And the second. Are you not concerned about the use of the sovereign Ukrainian territory where the Russian Black Sea fleet is based as a platform for military aggression against the Ally of our State on GUAM? Specific questions are a specific answer, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u68	Roman Mikhailovich, knowing you as an extraordinary person who has great meaning for every coma and every coma, and that's right, I've already answered that question. So I won't go back to the answer. The position on the Black Sea fleet is clearly stated in the statement, and the aggressions are all recorded. Read, not on the page, but on two pages.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u69	Alexander Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u70	Dear reporter! Ivan Grigorovich! [[Here I am.]] Just now, our colleague Lukas offered to set up a commission to learn how weapons were sold. Is it possible to combine the work of two committees? That's the first part of the question. The second part of the question. There is now an American ship called Dallas in Sevastopol and two more ships are due to enter. You are a man close to the Prime Minister, to the political circles, give us an answer as to whether it is legitimate that a foreign ship, an American vessel present in the waters of our country’s military, would not have to ask permission from the Supreme Council of Ukraine, because we say about Georgia, they have already forgotten about the war, and we are still fighting for them there. And we're already threatened by America, and it's probably gone to intimidate Ukraine. Say, from your point of view, is that fair or not, that foreign ship in the waters of our country? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u71	Thank you for asking. Regarding the first half of your question, yes. You asked us to create a temporary commission of inquiry into the facts, whether or not there was a arms trade and, with what weapons, we made proposals, so we support the creation of such a commission. There are enough votes in the room, 150 votes in the order of the day, and you realize that this is a question that's going through and maybe let this committee work. Our commission, what we're proposing to create, it's probably going to be a much broader question, much broader, if it's a specific work, then there's a serious political, harmonious work, it's not going to be easy, you see what polar thoughts sound like, and we're going to have to find a common language to make the state look the only face, the only thought. So our position is to have two commissions. And about the visit. I think the Supreme Council is right to do this, and we've often done this, the only person competent to answer these questions, including the Constitution, and the laws, the Foreign Minister. We can invite him to the rostrum at any moment, explain the visit.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u72	Vladimir Karpuk. I'm asking Vladimir Karpuk. The Casque faction didn't take the right word, I ask you to leave the word for Vladislav Kaskov. Please give Kaskov his word.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u73	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Volodymyr, I know this is not a very good situation. But I'm sorry, it's my first time out of place, and I wouldn't take this opportunity if there wasn't such a pressing issue. Please tell me, Ivan Grigorovich, I understand that this discussion is ridiculous, because all political decisions have already been made. So first of all, I'm addressing our opponents from the Party of Regions. You, I understand that this is a rematch for you and you are enjoying this victory. You've brought part of the democratic camp into this process. But realize that sooner or later the price of this victory will be very high. Because those whose interests you now stand for, tomorrow your interests in the commercial sector will be taken away. And I am also addressing colleagues from the “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko”. Not to "Julia Tymoshenko" but to every deputy. Dear colleagues, take off your mind. Ukraine is already a party to the conflict. Because out of its territory, the Black Sea fleet carried out military activities. And that's why it's the war side.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u74	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u75	And we want it or we don't want it, it's our war and it's our question. And the question of the election of the President of Ukraine can be: whoever does not become president, and for him there will be no more countries if we continue to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u76	Please sit down. Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u77	It's a performance, colleagues, I understand, a lot of passions. Many extreme thoughts. There are many different thoughts. No one cared about the situation. Nobody. Dear colleagues, let's keep the temperature down. Believe me, every careless word is going to cost Ukraine a very expensive decision. We have a great deal of problems so that we can further raise the issue of other people’s problems. That's our pilot motivator. That's why we reject any charges. And what's in the 360 votes room is one, two, three, fourth question, and we're not going to count that this half of the room isn't a right, it's just a right. Let us look for common ground. Join us, let's have 450 votes. This will start the merger of the hall and Ukraine! All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u78	Bill 3094, Greenewsky Sergey Rafailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u79	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, distinguished TV setters, voters! The Lithuanian “Block of Lithuania” faction in the Supreme Council expresses high concerns about the worsening of the situation in Georgia around South Ossetia and Abkhazia. Today, there is some reason to draw first conclusions and from an objective point of view to the role of our nation in political processes in the Black Sea region. The situation has shown that the use of military force is unfortunately still one of the tools for the use of frozen conflicts in post - Soviet space with the aim of exacerbating the situation in the interests of other nations. The course of events in the Caucasus was, in some ways, predictable. In recent years, there has been increased militarization of the region. There is also a growing potential for conflict in the whole of the Black Sea region, which is becoming one of the main areas of confrontation between the West and the East, particularly for access to energy resources and their transport routes. The source of these conflicts is not just the external factor. For Ukraine, they are closely linked to the decline in the efficiency and influence of government power, its erosion. Under such conditions, external confrontation becomes one of the means of distracting social attention from internal problems. The poor economy and poverty of the population are causing an increase in extremism, including religious and ethnicism. This applies to virtually all the countries of the Black Sea. Directly for Ukraine, the conflict in the Caucasus also revealed a number of problems. Especially in a crisis situation, GUAM has demonstrated its complete helplessness, although the subject of the resolution of the frozen conflicts has been declared to be one of its main activities. Obviously, Ukrainian leadership did not have a scenario in the event of armed conflict, nor did it calculate all the risks that might arise in this situation. Hence the nervous response, the lack of an agreed position, and sometimes the eloquent silence of high officials. Signs and policies of double standards are given. The public has not yet heard Ukraine's attitude towards the Kosovo precedent and its vision in this context of the status of undeclared countries as Soviet space. Similarly, Ukraine’s foreign political authorities had a languishing reaction to Romanian President Troyan Basescu’s remarks, who in fact questioned Ukraine’s membership of the Danube. What should Ukraine conclude from the conflict in the Caucasus? First, we need a radical review of its foreign policy, including the Black Sea vector. It must be aimed at creating a comprehensive security system, taking into account the interests of all without exception the countries of the region, ensuring the territorial integrity of States and the integrity of their borders, protecting human rights, peaceful resolution of disputes and conflicts. We strongly condemn the practice of solving these problems with fire and blood. Under such conditions, we should abandon our orientation to just one center of strength, which has proved ineffective and has an equal relationship with all the states of the Black Sea. Not the last part of this should be the continued compliance and improvement of existing legislation that regulates this area, in particular the Act on the Fundamentals of National Security of Ukraine. Foreign policy must be based on refusal of forced entry into NATO and progressive steps towards an internationally recognized neutral status with real guarantees of independence and security of the state. Secondly, events in the Caucasus have once again reminded us that the guarantee of national security is primarily a combat force. So we need to radically change our attitude toward equipping them with modern warfare techniques and weapons. Today’s funding of the army, special services, and departments, despite all the statements made by high officials, does not meet the demands of time, nor does it meet the challenges facing the state today. Thirdly, the fundamental order within the country must finally be stated: the secure stability of power and society, in fact the fight against total corruption and poverty, the rejection of double standards in foreign policy should be accompanied by the rejection of double standards in internal politics, that is, the real establishment of the rule of law. In this area the faction of the Block of Lithuania prepared a draft decree, which is essentially based on the following: “The Supreme Council of Ukraine expresses its grave concern about the events in the Caucasus, which have led to the armed conflict, the deaths and suffering of civilians. We express deep sadness and compassion for families and families who have suffered severe losses. In accordance with the principles of humanism and international law, the Supreme Council of Ukraine strongly condemns attempts and practices to solve ethnic and territorial problems by violent means. Such actions should be clearly viewed as aggression and cannot be justified by any declared goals. Against the backdrop of the conflict between the two key principles of the United Nations — the right of the nation to self-determination and the integrity of the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the States — the demonstration of the politics of double standards the world faced the threat of getting involved in the next turn of the “cold war”. At the same time, Ukraine's position in its foreign administration and ministry has clearly taken place on one side of the conflict, which has led to internal and internal political tensions and has made the international position of the state vulnerable. The Supreme Council decides: First. Considering that they do not fit the national interests of Ukraine and therefore are unacceptable actions that clearly position Ukraine as a party to the conflict. The other one. It is urgent to hear at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine a report by the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine on the activities of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs during this conflict in the context of its national interests. Third. To entrust the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to ensure by 30 September 2008 the creation and organization of the work of the Interim Special Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to work on the principles of the neutral status of Ukraine and its practical implementation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u80	Five minutes of questions and answers. Anatoly Matvienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u81	Ukrainian Republican Party "The Council", "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" Block. Mr. Sergei, I know you as a pro-Ukrainian politician, more loyally, I knew, and I think that today's situation should manifest, including your position as a faction. The director of the BUT faction claimed that it was a foreign war. I think he's mixed up with the wedding. Obviously, a wedding may be foreign and a war may not be. Do you feel that there are other people’s wars? And if you don't think so, please tell me why in your position you and your faction, or how you feel about it, is Russia's aggression towards Georgia. And is it legitimate to recognize two republics today — South Ossetia and Abkhazia? And how do you view this event, why in your political position, projects say nothing about it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u82	Thank you, Anatoly Sergiyovich, for asking. I won't speak as I knew you and as who. But I can say that the faction of the Lithuanian Block is governed by article 8 of the Basics Act. on the foundations of national security. And article 8 speaks of the main orientations of national policy on national security. And as far as the external political dimension is concerned, I would like to remind everyone, first and foremost, of our television audiences, and in our statement we've focused on this. In the external political sphere, ensuring Ukraine's full participation in European and regional collective security systems, the acquisition of membership in the European Union and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, while preserving good neighbourly relations and strategic partnerships with the Russian Federation, other countries of the Commonwealth of Independent States, as well as other states of the world. We're law-abiding deputies, and in my speech, I've stressed it, or we're doing it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u83	Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u84	Chechatov, faction of Party regions. Sergei Rafailović, please tell us whether there is a difference between the barbarian fascist bombardment on 22 June of the peaceful villages and cities of Ukraine and between the barbaric artillery from all types of weapons by the Georgian regime of peaceful cities and the villages of South Ossetia. Is there a difference, or is there a sign of equality between these tragedies at different times? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u85	Thank you, Mikhail Vasilevich. Well, I'm not a judge, but judging by your question, if you're both suggesting barbaricism and other barbarism, there's probably something in common. But the question is another. Our main task, which we see as a faction, is to avoid provocations in foreign policy. And you know, you have to do everything you can to avoid social protest. If we can do that in this room. You know, when it comes to such an important issue for the state and there's no foreign minister, I'm not talking about other officials anymore, the question is, what are we keeping these colonels and generals here all day?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u86	They're miners. They're not colonels and generals. John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u87	Mr. Sergey Rafailovich, you propose to close your eyes on everything we see in the Caucasus, taking a neutral, balanced, wise position. There's something. is nothing more than an ostrich policy that reflects the principle of “my house from the land”. Calling things by their names, this position is the position of a peaceful aggressor who runs counter to Ukraine’s national interests. You propose neutral status for Ukraine. Please tell me who will give you that status today when there are Russian troops in our territory, as is consistent with Ukrainian legislation, where the stated goal is to join NATO. Is it a double standard policy, or is it just a service to Moscow's interests? I'd like to know because you're so scared you got the miners mixed up with the military. I remember, in the first parliament, we had a counter-admiral, which is this guy's song that the boss was dancing. Do You Remember? It's about the machine, the machine. I got a little confused.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u88	Thank you, Ivan Alexanderovich. First of all, I would like to point out that we are firmly opposed to a few people monopolizing foreign policy, officials. And I read you an article on the 8th, which says that we have either a full range of it, or a change in article 8, and it's going to be the outside political sphere of Ukraine. Change it up, you've got a coalition! Bring it in! You've got a coalition, put it in and change it. And then delete "with the preservation of good neighbourly relations". And if you are unable to do so, please change the government, please change the foreign policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u89	Thank you, Sergey Raphaelovich. Ladies and gentlemen, attention! Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko insists on the 3072 bill, which we do not have on the general list, does not apply. Peacocks. Draft decree on the state of the present relationship between Ukraine and the NATO North Atlantic Treaty Organization, 3072. He's asking to vote for inclusion in the agenda. I'm voting for 3072 in the agenda. He was not involved, Peter Mikolaiovich. I wasn't. I checked the transcript. [[17:19:21]] For-22. Not included in the agenda. Colleagues, this is how I announce the completion of the report. And now we've got factions from the factions and statements from the national MPs and we're moving on to the voting procedure. I'm asking you, colleagues, all to work very quickly and concentrated. We need to move on to mining. Let's take a look at the faction leaders' performances. We'll choose the order, we'll form the set. We're writing down faction leaders and national MPs. Please sign up for your statement. The faction of the Party of the Regions, who will be speaking? Other Godsisters. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u90	Dear fellow MPs, the distinguished Ukrainian community, today, on the first day of the new session of the Supreme Council, we are confident that we need to understand one thing and one thing -- for the first time in 17 years of independence of Ukraine, we are on the verge of losing the core value that we have in 17 years of independence, that is peace and peace both inside the country and outside. Ukraine is still the only post - Soviet country in which it has never been inside a country of civil conflict in 17 years and has not been involved in any international, military, conflict. Today's irresponsible position of the Head of State, the President of Ukraine and hidden, so you know, so as not to harm anyone and have all the dividends, the position of the Prime Minister, who spoke in fact about these events, has placed Ukraine in such a position when we can really be involved inside the country in the civil conflict between the West and the East from the outside. I have great respect for my colleague Kaskov, but today he has said words that no country parliamentarian can allow if he wants to keep peace inside the country. You said we were a party to a military conflict. It's a shame. And today, every single one of us, and every citizen of Ukraine, has to do everything we can to preserve the basics is peace. That's the main value. For businessmen, I can tell you, if we don't keep the peace, all your businesses will cost two cents. To the masters of this nation, I want to say, if we don't gather, we won't preserve peace, your children will hate you for what you've done. And that's why today any speculation about what Ukraine should be doing, either on Russia's side or on Georgia's side, is speculation with national interest. And that is why we demand that the Supreme Council today support the positions of the Party of Regions, where we refer to the entire world community for the launch of international multilateral negotiations on the launching of a new model of attitudes towards frozen conflicts. This is a problem that was discovered when Ukraine spoke shamefully about events in Kosovo. Kosovo has discovered Pandora's “sword” on frozen conflicts, and this is also the responsibility of those who have remained silent. Ukraine should not today defend any interest other than the national one -- Ukrainian. And that interest is peace within and outside the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u91	The Lithuanian Bloc faction, Oleg Zarubinsky. Who will act? Vladimir Litwin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u92	Dear colleagues! Here was one thesis: “Our house from the land. ” I mean, for some Ukrainians, it's something from the country. That's the first one. The other one. What was I going to say? So if you analyze the draft regulations that are proposed, they will show our Ukrainian indestructible dream -- find yourself a master and enjoy the illusion that this master will listen to us. Look at the draft decree: some want to like one side of the conflict, and others, well, they don't know how to kiss and like the other side of the conflict. Let's say what it takes for Ukraine. Let's call things our names that came into conflict the right of the nation to self-determination from the question of territorial integrity. If Ukraine understands the vulnerability of its position, Ukraine should take a firm stand against recognition of Kosovo from the very beginning. Ukraine, in the person of its leadership, spoke and adapted to the European Union. Notice how Ukraine appreciates international events? It always supports the EU's position on what is happening in the world and in Europe. We need to understand, my fellow countrymen, that Ukraine cannot demonstrate double standards. And you have to stop this devilish thing that's being seen that they're suddenly coming to us, telling us that they're supporting the territorial integrity of Ukraine. What are some of the problems involved? This fear of Ukraine speaking in foreign hands, we cannot allow that to happen completely. And now, dear colleagues, the Budapest Memorandum was signed, the nuclear nations acknowledged our guarantees, the political, economic, military, the problem of Tuzla was. Please tell me they've moved their fingers, absolutely not. Another problem. The Chernobyl nuclear station was shut down, the countries of the Great Seven promised Ukraine that they would take a number of steps, and they forgot. And you want to pray again, either on one side or the other. So I'd like you, my dear colleagues, to read carefully the ruling that we've proposed to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the situation around South Ossetia and Abkhazia, and we have to take a Ukrainian position, and that's how we're trying to please each other. Ukraine is usually going to be in this approach from the country, and we can't let that happen. Think about it, read it, and vote so that people will think about us and appreciate us, not outside of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u93	Communist faction, Peter Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u94	Respectable voters! Dear colleagues! The position of the Communist faction and the draft submitted for consideration by the Supreme Council is determined by the concern that we would like to convey to both the Chamber and Ukraine in connection with the Fascism of Ukrainian society. And we must today be aware of these problems, as they say, in order to understand that in the years of independence, including Ukraine, we are witnessing with you the beginning of the third transfer of the post-Soviet space. The first shift — when a large country was destroyed, carried out by the hands of nationalists and it was they who created these hot spots in the former territory of the Soviet Union of Independent States today. The second shift took place under the patronage of an American already directly in the midst of the colorful revolutions in the territory of an independent State, because the first phase of the coup by nationalists and the first shift gave the community, in fact, an awareness of the threat posed by nationalists. And the third shift under American control is the organization of inter-State wars in the territory of the former Soviet Union, which we are convinced of today. The threat of nationalists is therefore obvious today. Nationalism is today the environment that Americans and others support their State policies try to rely on. Does this concern NATO? NATO has actively contributed today to the militarization of Georgia and has thus brought representatives of the nationalist forces of Ukraine into this process too, and is now building on them here. Active support for aggression. Vice President Cheney, Condoleezza Rice, the presidents, like birds from one nest, landed in, say, Georgia to say again that there were few Ossetians killed, there had to be more. None of them condemned or stopped the aggression. On the contrary, they said you were doing the right thing, Misha, go ahead and kill the Ossetian. We must understand today that NATO is also a possible doctrine of a preventive nuclear strike, it is a crisis within the bloc, it is the aggression of the United States in Iraq, that is all understood for a long time. Dear colleagues, I would like us to understand today what is happening in Ukraine by looking around and entering the park here near the Supreme Council, once again worshiping those heroes who liberated Ukraine at the tomb of Vatutina. Here stands a monument to the Soviet Union hero who died protecting Ukraine from the hands of nationalists. He did not become a hero of Ukraine. The hero of Ukraine was his killer. In addition, President Yushchenko has granted him the hero of Ukraine. That's what the threat to Ukraine's future is today! Ukrainian heroes have become heroes of Ukraine. I think it's a disgrace to us. And today, we need to deal objectively with this problem, and accept the proposal that the Communist faction itself has offered to condemn aggression, to initiate a procedure of impeachment against
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u95	Mikhailo Kosov, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. “Julia Timoshenko’s Block”, Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u96	Dear colleagues, we have, of course, taken the traditional Ukrainian path. Our faction hoped that after our parliamentary vacations, we would be the right Ukrainian Parliament by singing to Himmn, and we would start to consider issues that would protect Ukrainian national interests. But it happened, as it goes in our parliament, that we decided in the morning to think and protect some Russian interests, someone American, and then think about Ukrainian. As an education historian, I will say that I have always been surprised by the Soviet term “brotherly state”. We have a life going on, only states change, and they're all fraternal. I don't think there's any fraternal states. There are States with which we work and fulfill treaty obligations. Because we have one side that has made one country a fraternal one and the other a fraternal one. I think we need to get out of these countries and not allow the territorial integrity of our country, our nation's national interests, to be put at the expense of these fraternal relations. So we talked today, we don't have to look at 10 resolutions, and we want everyone to listen, and so with a sense of humor, we have to look at this situation. We, as the Ukrainian Parliament, had to pass either one resolution or none. But it happened. So I propose today that we treat with respect the fact that we are eventually destined to go to one document and this document is not a coalition document, nor an opposition, but a document of the Ukrainian Parliament. So we're going to propose after no resolution has passed or statement, which is clearly obvious to everyone in this room, to vote in favour of creating a committee on one document. The third thesis. We always thought that the world revolved around Ukraine and I heard the tone of the performances here, and it seemed that the voice of the people who ruled the world stood here. Obviously we will not draw the attention of European society or Russia to the fact that we are so large. Obviously, we can only draw attention to the general principles that we recognize. Well, in our resolution, they're clearly fixed. There is a decision of the European Union of 12 September and there is a decision of the European Union of 1 September. And we have clearly stated that the general principles as the territorial integrity of the country, as the condemnation of military action, as the condemnation of aggression, are the principles that the world lives on. And Ukraine cannot live by other principles; it can only live by those principles. So I'm sad to say that we have a few days of discussion today, and I'm going to say that we don't have to think of anything in geopolitics at all, it's all made up. Once the genius poet Vasil Simonenko wrote in 1962: “Let America and Russia piss when I talk to you.” Let's talk to Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u97	Yuri Kostenko, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. Roman Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u98	I'm not going to be here telling you empty words about what we should be thinking about Ukraine, not thinking about other interests. Because if one of you thinks you need to think about other interests, then you don't belong in this room. Instead, I would also like us to understand where we are with you, when we are with you at the moment of history. If you think that we can do these things in Russia, Georgia, more loyally, look calmly and solely out of the political interest to respond to them, you are very much mistaken. If you think this conflict, that it's a Russian military invasion into Georgia, could be a mistake, that's not our problem, you're very wrong. If you can go to bed quietly today and look into the eyes of your children, your grandchildren, and not realize that there is a deadly threat to the very existence of what Simonenko called “Ukraine”, I feel very sorry for you, you have very iron nerves, or perhaps, gentlemen, you are actually lying to yourself, perhaps it is time to stop lying to yourself. Now let's call things our names. The fact remains that the Russian forces, the armed forces today exercise military occupation of Georgia. So in the decision we have to give a very simple answer to the banal question whether this Parliament can find courage in itself and call this act of the Russian Federation an act of military aggression. The faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" has such courage. Can we also look at calmly that our sovereign territory was being used as a platform for military military incursion into the territory of a sovereign state that is our ally in GUAM, and so I'm asking you a banal question, gentlemen, whether you're willing to accept that our territory has been used in this way. The faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" has the courage to say that we don't fit. Ladies and gentlemen, if you really love Ukraine, I'm asking you now whether you want to keep the sovereign.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u99	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u100	Are you prepared to maintain Ukraine’s territorial integrity and sovereignty? Because in order to answer that question, you must then say that Georgia must remain a territorially whole and sovereign independent state. Otherwise you have no right to call yourself Ukrainian.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u101	Thank you, Roman Mikhailovich. Alexander Stoyan, faction of the Party of the Regions. [[B in m in s a l in]] You don't have to whistle. We've already won the match between Dynamo and Spartacus, so you don't have to whistle. Colleagues, come on. Alexander Stoyan. Are you from the place or not? From the rostrum? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u102	Dear colleagues! Today, everyone, without exception, has made proposals about the event that we are discussing. Each of us had the opportunity to ask questions to the speakers. Moreover, a concentrated opinion was expressed by representatives of each faction. What's more, there are draft regulations in which we can determine, and I'm going to say right now that no ruling is going to be voted on. So I'm making an offer on behalf of the faction of the Party of the Regions: stop the discussion now and get to the vote. Look, we still have to solve the miners' issues today, and it's 18 o'clock. We need to solve the personnel issues today, because it's hard for one Mr. Yatsenuk to work. So I want you to put Mr. Yatsenuk to the vote on my proposal, and this is the idea of the faction of the Party of Regions: stop the discussion and get to the vote. And there we expressed our point of view to a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u103	I'm impressed, Mr. Stoyan, that you're so worried about me that I'm here alone. Dear colleagues, we have a proposal to stop the discussion of this issue and to move to a vote. Is this proposal supported, colleagues? Supported. [[B in m in s a l in]] I can vote, we vote in favour of the motion to stop the debate and move on to the voting procedure. Please vote. [[17:39:13]] For 341 Show by factions, by factions. Region Party - 173, "Club of Timoshenko" - 149, "Our Ukraine" - 1, Communists - 0, "Club of Lithuania" - 18. Colleagues, we stop talking, that's all. So respectable national MPs, attention, we actually have two questions. The first question is the statement itself, and the second question is the creation of the TSC. According to the statement, the situation was understood in which we voted first and would be Parliament's decision. By the TSC, the situation is exactly the same, we have two orders on a temporary special committee, so we will go solely according to regulatory requirements. We're voting everything in order to get a total of 226 votes, and there's 150 votes on the special committee, and that's what we're going to do. So that it doesn't happen that we have two TSCs. I'll call the authors' names. There's a request to sign up. Vladimir Mikhailovich wants to speak. So for three minutes, please sign in from the voting procedure. Vladimir Litwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u104	Dear colleagues, the point is, there are actually statements, and there are determinations. But statements are made by decrees. Except for us. The decision not only refers to a statement, but it contains three proposals. So we asked, taking this into account, not to join the statement, but to vote separately, but separate orders. We're talking about things that don't fit in with other issues that have been discussed and outlined in other applications.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u105	Victor Taran.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u106	To the leader of the Kirilenko faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u107	Ivan Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u108	Dear colleagues, I am addressing the chairman, Arsenija Petrovich, who is doing this, perhaps to discuss each issue in detail. And I'm going to the Hall: Honorable colleagues, obviously, we're going to vote, because we're going to have 10 more questions that we've agreed to consider today. So let's get to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u109	Scudar George, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u110	Give me the word of Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u111	Nestor Schuffrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u112	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I think we've given enough attention today to a question that certainly needs attention. I think if we count even the total time spent on this issue, perhaps our Georgian colleagues in their parliament have not paid as much attention to their problem as we do to the issue that is currently affecting European society. But I would like to point out that yesterday our colleagues in the European Union have made a decision that, frankly, is much softer than the suggestions offered by our individual colleagues. I suggest we immediately stop any discussion and proceed to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u113	Last one. The Communist faction, Andrew Naydjonov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u114	Please give the floor to Petra Nikolaevich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u115	Peter Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u116	Simonenko, the Communist faction. We propose to vote in the order of coming and presenting bills and statements as we have presented them here and discussed them. That's the first one. It's different. However, I would like to remind you, Arsenija Petrovich, that during the discussion on the inclusion of laws and draft regulations and statements concerning the situation in Georgia and the aggression of Georgia against South Ossetia, I have proposed 3072. And that's what the stenographer says. Then you voted 249 to include all the rulings. I mean, Arsenija Petrovich, you excluded me from the discussion on this particular issue of the ruling, draft Decree 3072. I'll take the transcript tomorrow, and I'm going to ask you to give me your word tomorrow in connection with what's been voted on, and I'm going to present this motion for a ruling.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u117	Viacheslav Kirilenko. Stanislaw Arzewittin passed on the word of Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u118	Viacheslav Kirilenko, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense". For us it is still not clear in the position of our colleagues in the coalition. The line from our project. It's a gun show. Arsenija Petrovich, I ask you to call the Party of Regions to order their support of the BUTU. And please return the 20 seconds they took. I motivate the position of our faction for the electorate. In our statement, we offer a simple and restrained thing. Armed speech by the Russian Federation against Georgia, as well as subsequent recognition by Russia of the independence of Abkhazia and South Ossetia, are recognized as an unconditional violation of key norms of international law. That's not something that colleagues from B.U.T. have said. Next up, the Black Sea fleet. We suggest that Parliament express its concern about the use of the Russian Black Sea fleet base in Sevastopol to perform tasks that are incompatible with the status of the fleet in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u119	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u120	That'll give me 20 seconds back. Calm down. Our colleagues from BUT also suggest that this topic be avoided, and in the last paragraph they ask “to establish and regulate all procedures for the stay of the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation in Ukraine”. Dear coalition colleagues, until it's too late, let's go ahead and vote for that draft statement that we've proposed in order to stand up to the coalition position. We urge you to do so because we have not been able to wait for you to meet for the coalition of democratic forces.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u121	Dear colleagues, we are moving on to the voting procedure. Thus, according to the provisional Rules, Parliament takes separate decisions, separate resolutions, separately stated. But a statement can be drawn up by a decree, i.e., in principle, there is no legal colossion. Once again, I remind you that draft regulations will be put in order for them to come. As soon as the first ruling is adopted, either it's about the application, whether it's about the application, or whether it's about the application, that's how we stop voting on other orders. The same is true of the Temporary Special Commissions. I bet on the vote, attention, the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine regulation, registration number 3053 “On the condemnation of military intervention by the Russian Federation in the territory of Georgia”, introduced by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Volodymyr Igorovich Ariyev. Vote. [[17:47:09]] For-65 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on a draft ruling. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please show by factions. I am voting on the draft Decree No. 3054 “On the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for Russian military aggression against Georgia”, introduced by Ukrainian National Deputy Kostenek Yuri Ivanovic. [[17:47:48]] For-66 The decision is not taken. I'll bet on the vote, pay attention! Please show by factions: Regional Party - 0; BUT - 3; "Our Ukraine" - 63; Communists - 0; "Julia Timoshenko Block" - 0. Attention! Colleagues, I am now putting to the vote a special order on the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry for the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This decree was passed by the Ukrainian national deputy Konovaluk No. 3059. The only thing Valérie Illich has just told me about the membership candidates is that you turn on the microphone, please, Konovaluku. I'll tell you what.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u122	Thank you, Arseny Petrovich. The submitted nomination from the "Block of Lithuania" faction is the national deputy of Greenewecki Sergey Rafailovich. That's it. And all the factions agreed and gave their representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u123	I mean. Once again from the Litwina Block?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u124	Sergey Rafailovich Greenewecki. I see. Now, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense." Kirilenko Viacheslav
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u125	Viacheslav Kirilenko "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". This is where the confusion came out. But Yuri Anatoliyovich's faction "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" did not submit and could not submit, we turned to the Supreme Council's apparatus yesterday morning I signed this letter to consider the introduction of the draft decree the name of this deputy – our former colleague's mistaken and such is the falsification of the faction's will. The faction didn't make any decisions, and we're not taking part in this committee's work asking Booth to remove from the draft decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u126	So the candidate for "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" is not on the committee. Next. Two candidatures from Yulia Tymoshenko's Block, here's a draft. Who's going to be from the Timoshenko Block? Ivan Kirilenko, please turn on the microphone. I don't use hearings. I use documents. I'm looking at a document called "The Yulia Tymoshenko Block," and you're looking at another act that's been filed for a replacement that hasn't passed and is not included. Let him say "BUT" under the transcript. Please, Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u127	Dear colleagues, we have made an offer to this commission and we support our nominations to work on this commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u128	I just got two names: Osika Sergey Grigorovich and Petruk Mikola Mikolayovich, right, BUT? So I'm saying it under the stenogram. And it is in the wording of this ruling, which was made by Valérie Illich in the first paragraph without an eighth paragraph, that I put to the vote number 3059 on the establishment of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please vote. None. None. That's what the stenographer says. [[17:51:14]] For 217 The question of the creation of the Temporary Commission was created. Please show by factions. Regions – 172, BUT – 0, “Our Ukraine” – 1, Communists – 27, “Block of Lithuania” – 17. Colleagues, next draft decree condemning Georgia's military aggression against the people of South Ossetia. Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich entered, registration number 3070. Vote. [[17:52:03]] For 196 The decision is not taken. Please show by factions. Next. Registration number 3076. Colleagues, Draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Russian-Georgian conflict by Vijacheslav Anatoliyovich Kirilenko. Please vote. [[17:52:39]] For-72 The decision is not taken. Please show by factions: Region Party – 0, "Club of Timoshenko" – 5, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" – 67, Communists – 0, "Club of Lithuania" – 0. Next. Draft decision 3076-1. Draft decree on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for events in South Ossetia and Abkhazia. National Deputy of Ukraine Lukash Olena Leonidivna Please vote. [[17:53:19]] For 201 The decision is not taken. Show by factions. Next. Draft Decision No. 3076-2 on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the conflict between Russia and Georgia. Imported by Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich. Vote. [[17:53:50]] For-167 The decision is not taken. Next. Draft decision No. 3082. tabled by Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk on the statement of the Supreme Council of Ukraine condemning the act of aggression by the Russian Federation against the sovereign state of Georgia. [[17:54:20]] Z-70. The decision is not taken. Draft Decree No. 3083 on the recognition of the independence of the Republic of South Ossetia and the Republic of Abkhazia, Kilinkarov Spiridon Pavlovich. [[17:54:47]] For-167 A useful vote for the international community. Please show by factions. Region Party - 140, BUT - 0, “Our Ukraine” - 0, Communists - 27, “Block of Lithuania” - 0. The next draft of Decree 3089, introduced by Olena Leonidna Lukash in connection with the TSK, was withdrawn in connection with the adoption of the previous one. The next draft of Decree No. 3093 by Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich is also not considered in connection with the adoption of the previous one. And the last. Draft decision on the position of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the situation around South Ossetia and Abkhazia. Greenewsky Sergey Rafailovich, number 3094. Vote. [[17:55:55]] For-22. The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, Sir John Grigorovich, I ask you very much. We've been working for nine months, and we're starting to tease each other. Well, it's written: the decision to form a temporary special commission. What difference does it make? 150. Well, we just made a decision, colleagues. So what's the discussion? We made a decision. Do you want to put her to the vote? There will be two TSCs on one question. Well, we accepted it. When I advertised, colleagues, when I voted, I explained to you that there was a vote for the creation of the TSC. If you want, we'll have two TSCs on one question, and as always no TSC will make a decision. Do you want to vote? It's illegal, colleagues! Martiniku's microphone. Martinyuk, then Vladimir Litwin, then John Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u129	Thank you. Martinuk is a faction of Communists. Dear colleagues, Arsenius Petrovich. I understand today is a tough day, and you must be a little tired. It's not about a temporary commission of inquiry that needs 150 signatures, but it's about a commission that's going to replace the committee. And it's not 150 votes, it's 226 votes, it's a little bit different. Therefore, put to the vote 226 votes.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u130	If you insist on voting on this decision, there are no questions, and it is all the more clear that this will now go in the context of overcoming the President's veto on the Ukrainian Law on Temporary Special Commissions, so we need to prepare ourselves for this law. Dear colleagues, I put to the vote Bill No. 3093, introduced by the national MP Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko, on the establishment of a temporary special commission to reconcile the actions of all branches of government. Vote. [[17:58:37]] For 169 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, so the only solution we've come up with is actually the formation of a TSC. Please show by factions. With regard to the agreed position in Georgian and Ossetian, and more precisely to the regional and virtually global conflict, Parliament did not agree for a very simple reason – because Parliament is very difficult to reflect the internal and Ukrainian position, and unfortunately, it is often very densely oriented towards external factors. So let's put that question away. We'll have a harmonized draft of the ruling ready, put it to the vote again. There will be no faction in this way that has already expressed its view of the conflict, in terms of international law. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the next question. As promised, this is the election of the first deputy and deputy head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. If there's any good for going to the miners, say, I'm offering to go to the miners first. Sailors? Let's get the miners then. 2708. I invite the Minister of Labour and Social Policy of Denis's Ludmila Leontovna. Please, Sophia Leontovna. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll tell you what. Before the vote. Colleagues, here's the deal. Consider Bill No. 2708 by summary procedure. Please vote in favour of this project. Wait a minute. Stop. Please, Alexander Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u131	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, I understand that we have voted on a point of order today and in order to settle matters, so it is a compelling request not to manipulate the hall, but to put it in the order that the Chamber has agreed and voted.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u132	Alexander Sergeyevich, you will excuse me, but you, Ivanov, will not understand. You're saying, "Let's ask the coal mine question." I say, "Let's do it." Now you say, "Let's go back to the intercessors." So you make a decision inside. I'll ask you again. I'm asking a question for a vote. What are we looking at? A Chateau question or intercessors? What are we looking at? I'm voting on the question of choosing deputies. Dial 226 votes. [[B in m in s a l in]] And the mine. If it doesn't, we're looking at miners right now. [[18:01:25]] For 345. Let us now consider the question of the election of the First Deputy and Deputy Head of the Supreme Council. They voted for it. Sophia Leontiyevna, I'm sorry. [[B in m in s a l in]] So we have. You don't listen to what I'm saying. I can't do this anymore. All of it. I can't do this anymore. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, I'll put it to the vote now. He won't, Viacheslav Anatolyevich. [[B in m in s a l in]] I won't. No, it's not. [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay. It requires a return to the question of whether the issue is still pending. Sailors or intercessors. Vote. [[18:02:41]] Z-62 Let's go. Honourable National Deputies of Ukraine, the election of the First Deputy One-hundredth Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is under consideration. The first thing I want to start with is from a protocol signed on December 14, 2007. The protocol is signed: Timoshenko Julia Volodymyrovna, Kirilenko Viácheslav Anatoliyovich, Simonenko Petr Mikolaiovich, Lithuania Vladimir Mikhailovich, and Azarov Mikola Janović. The protocol called for a decision to elect the first deputy and deputy under the signature of all five factions. I want them to give up this protocol in public. History, the papers don’t burn, and the manuscripts don’t burn, and I have a good memory. Come on, my dear friends, I ask you to speak to the factions. Let's sign up for factions. Was it? There was a need to talk about it. Roman Zvaric. Viacheslav Kirilenko. If anyone wants to get to know the protocol, that's him. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u133	Viacheslav Kirilenko, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense". That's how it gets in your way.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u134	Dear colleagues, please sit down. We will now come to a vote on this issue. Sit down, please. There are faction leaders who will now express their position, please do not take the time of Parliament's chairman. Viacheslav Kirilenko, please, from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u135	Viacheslav Kirilenko, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Here are the respectable miners on the left and in the center of the balcony. They've already split up, see? They don't want to vote on three bills. It takes 15 minutes. To let you go, they've been sitting all day. But every day they tell us how they love Donbas and miners. And they're fighting for positions now, who's going to be sitting on the right from Yatzenuk, the Party of Regions, and on the left, the Block of Timoshenko. And they can't spend 30 minutes of their time looking at three of your bills. We need jobs, we need portfolios to sit down. So draw conclusions for the future. And "Our Ukraine" and now insists, let's release the elderly, adopt the bills for their benefit, and then choose your chairs, your wallets and everything you want and change the coalition.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u136	Alexander Stoyan. Alexander Stoyan from the scene.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u137	Alexander Stoyan, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! A party of regions passed a bill concerning Georgia, the coalition passed eight laws, and they beat each other all day. And now they're hurting about miners. We'll take it all. Mr. Yatsenuk, I now propose to vote on the Portnova ruling, this is the agreed position of the Party of Regions and everyone else. It provides for the vote by hand for the candidates. This will take exactly five minutes. We're going to vote, we're going to help you really pick your deputies, because I see you're overheating and taking us to the wrong place, and it's going to work. And then we'll vote together for all the miners' issues. Don't worry about it! There is a big political game going on here, and we will not let Mr. Yatsenuk continue to have no substitutes. And yes, put Portnova to the vote and she'll solve all the questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u138	Communist faction, Peter Simonenko. Fellows, sit down. We'll look into it now. Don't worry!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u139	Simonenko, the Communist faction. I would like to reiterate once again that the Communist faction reaffirms the agreement contained in the protocol and suggests that the arrangements that were in place in determining the format of the Supreme Council leadership should be followed. With regard to issues related to coal industry and other sectoral problems. The Communist faction will support these bills, and we have no doubt about it. I would just like to ask my colleagues not to speculate on this subject, because before that I can give a lot of examples of how you buried the coal industry back in 1995, 1997, Our Ukraine, you just contributed to the denial of State subsidies to the coal industry. [[Then there were the drivers.]] Therefore, it is not necessary to speculate, but here today it is objective to consider all these problems and to make a decision. I reiterate that the Communist faction will vote in favour of those projects relating to the coal industry, other industries. Just as we confirm that the protocol records what was the subject of the agreement and requires that protocol.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u140	Valerius Pisarenko. Ivan Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u141	Dear colleagues, please calm down. We spent eight hours discussing a topic that did not produce any results in substance. The question remained where is the agreed position taken by the committees. That's why the mining issue, by a reduced procedure, really takes 10 to 15 minutes, no more, and gets 450 votes in the room. And the project that our colleague Portnow has proposed is to move away from the procedure, temporarily abandon the procedure, vote cards, it'll take five minutes and no more. Let's do this and start with other questions. Let's go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u142	Vladimir Litwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u143	Ladies and gentlemen, here's an interesting phrase: Party of regions and others. It's quite obvious that you've already shared everything, dear colleagues. Then why don't we vote? Let us immediately welcome the intercessors. Put them in the Presidium and let's share what's left. What is the next scenario in Ukraine? That's the first one. And the second. We've been standing here for a long time to make decisions for miners, not have to take care of them, let them live and work. And we had to make that decision for a long time and not wait for that day. Because they put the program under election and now they're saying how much they love miners. Let's make the right decision. And finally. Over the past year, direct investment outside Ukraine has made 300 million, with 6.2 million in 7 months this year, including 5.8 in Cyprus. Now let's vote to keep doing this work. It may be necessary to keep order complex in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u144	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to point out once again that on December 13, a Protocol was signed that required five signatures of factions. We only have a decree that has two signatures. This is Yulia Timoshenko and the Party of Regions. In accordance with the requirements of the provisional Rules, I will put to the vote all the rulings in the order of coming, as they went. First. With regard to the change in voting. There are two choices. The first option is dry and formal law. In accordance with the Rules, the election of the First Deputy and Deputy Head of the Supreme Council shall take place exclusively by secret ballot. A change in voting can take place only in one case where the possibility of such a change is foreseen or where the voting method is not defined by the requirements of the provisional Rules. We have a way of defining it, but I'm moving from legal to political. It's absolutely clear that either pulling this story for an hour or pulling it for 15 minutes doesn't make any sense. Therefore, we will now put to the vote the question of violating the requirements of the provisional Rules and establishing a special procedure for the election of the first Deputy and Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The proposed draft regulation provides for the election of the first deputy and alternate by a roll-call vote through the “Council” system. If I have no memory, this is the first time in the history of the Ukrainian Parliament that the first deputies are elected. Even if it was, it's not a big deal, it's a good experience. So, colleagues, I'm going to put the first question to the vote, but I'm telling you right now, it's not a question of changing voting -- 150. You have 380 votes, so I'm asking you to vote more than 226, so that there is no legal collegiate in relation to the Rules. You heard my position. So I'm going to put to the vote a draft Supreme Council ruling, which requires 226 because it's a decree to change the voting procedure of the People's Deputies of Portnow. She predicts that you should listen carefully. First of all, what does she predict? Which is chosen at the same time by a single list, i.e. all the decisions that were made previously and did not have a single list where there was no package: The first deputy and deputy, they don't take the vote you understand. And we have several. And the second. That this question is being considered without a discussion procedure. Good? Dear colleagues, I am voting for Decree No. 3084 “On the determination of the manner and manner of voting. I'm out of procedure. Let's take one or two minutes off the procedure. Please. By the way, I'm continuing to hold Parliament meetings because we voted that we were working until morning. He'll come around and let everyone go, I think. Dear colleagues! Jaroslav Dry Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u145	Dear Arseny Petrovich! I think it's completely clear, it's obvious, it's transparent, it's very democratic. Please, there is the will of the people's deputies, just put to the vote and don't take the time. We're so provocative that someone likes miners, suddenly they don't like them, they don't sleep well. We don't carry anything good, we vote on the election procedure for the First Deputy and Deputy, it'll take literally a few minutes. So I fully support the proposed path. We're voting on the draft decree, we're moving on to the vote, we're considering our bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u146	Valerius Kamchatny.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u147	The Stone Block of the Yulia Timoshenko, Kharkiv district. Let's not delay, let's vote, let's work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u148	Peter Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u149	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, faction leaders and you, Your Honor Arsenius Petrovich. You just asked the exact question as to what further fate of our joint protocol we signed. Now we have to answer, yes, we can vote this draft amendments to the Rules as an ad hoc procedure, but then again you have to answer whether we are considering whether or not under the draft proposal for the election of the first deputy, the deputy should stand for the signatures of all five faction leaders and a requirement that then brought us together when we signed this protocol. Please give me an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u150	Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u151	Dear colleagues, the Block of Lithuania does not refuse and will never refuse signatures under any agreement, if there is a protocol, if there is a treaty and our signature, then obviously we will never give up. But I would like to draw my colleagues' attention to the fact that not the technical staff are currently being chosen, that the Vice-Presidents of the Supreme Council are being elected, the High Representative and the only legislative body. And we'd be very interested, Arsenija Petrovich, and the honourable fellows, the documents on these people or whoever has changed the Rules should be the right documents, they're given, whether it's always been the case, I think we need to take more seriously those people who are going to sit on the right and the left hand of you. Please comply with the Rules, provide documents, tax returns, biographies for applicants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u152	Dear colleagues, I am now returning to the subject of political agreements. I have a difficult situation right now, you know why, because it's nothing to pull, it doesn't make sense to pull. It's absolutely clear that a day or two or an hour or three will solve this question because it's not a technical question of choosing substitutes, if someone today thinks that choosing substitutes is to improve the work of the Supreme Council, well you can tell people who aren't dedicated to the work of Parliament. So, the Parliament has been working for nine months, don't shout! Now the second one. What do we do with the determination? Did you sign and spit out and forget? And they abandoned their fellow national MPs. This is normal in Ukrainian politics. Lithuania was abandoned, Simonek and “Our Ukraine” were abandoned. Okay. It's so that it's under the transcript. Don't forget, God forbid. You know, history has everything to record. Then it all goes back to its circles. From, it's written. Now let's move on. So we vote, colleagues, for the ruling made by our colleague Portnov. Please vote. Change in voting. Please. [[18:18:11]] For 336 So please show by factions. Region Party - 174, Timoshenko Yulia Block - 151, NU-NS - 11, Communists - 0, "Litvina Block" - 0. Colleagues, according to the decree, the First Deputy and Deputy are chosen by a single list. We only have a list. This is a decree signed by Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic and John Grigorovich Kirilenko. Registration number 3098. The decree reads as follows. Choose First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, National Deputy Lavrinović, Alexander Volodymyrovic, as Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, National Deputy Tomenko Mikol Volodymyrovic. Colleagues, there is a proposal to put the bill to the vote. Vladimir Mikhailovich, turn on Lithuania's microphone. Ask for the word of Volodymyr Litwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u153	Dear colleagues, Arseny Petrovich! So notice that there's a regulation 2530-1 that's already registered, because the next order is number 3098, which introduces another candidate. Either this decision should be withdrawn, or it should be voted on first. At least let's stick to the basics. Because you're listening, and you're doing your job. And read the rules, and it says what documents should be presented. Or let the decree add that these documents are not needed in this case, that the right to power is in effect. That's it. So let's at least have some basic rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u154	Vladimir Mikhailovich, we can ask you a question. What decision do you propose to put to the vote? For which we shall not put except this which I have just called, none shall pass.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u155	The Rules require that the first decision be made, which is registered first and depending on the results of the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u156	Dear colleagues, I'm talking to you again. I repeat five times what is written in the decree. And it feels like they can't hear me. The 336 Ukrainian national deputies voted in favour of the decree solely and made by a single list. We only have one. We just don't have any of those orders, that's Lavrinovich and Tomenko. So the content of the discussion, I can put it in the Rules. The other one. When it comes to personal matters. I've given the command to multiply a person's affairs. They'll be here in a minute. These are our fellow national MPs, we all know them. John Kirilenko and then Peter Simonenko and then Alexander Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u157	Dear colleagues, let's calm down. Constitutional requirement First Deputy and Deputy Head of the Supreme Council. Next thesis. The Supreme Council is always right. This is determined by 226 votes, or a change in voting, or the election of the Supreme Council is always the right. Colleagues, we've agreed long ago that the First Deputy and we're in line for a deal. It's a matter of opposition. We're clear. There's a candidate, please. Our candidacy has been strangely defined for a long time. So please proceed to the vote as provided for in the Constitution immediately.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u158	Peter Simonenko and then Alexander Ephraim. Who else wants the factions?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u159	Simonenko is a faction of Communists. In this case, we also set a dangerous precedent for our work. Because it predicts, as the previous speakers have said, the position of power, not the position that is envisaged in terms of the legislative initiative for each of our national deputies by the same Constitution. What am I talking about? The Communist faction made a specific proposal for the First Deputy and we propose to consider Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk's candidacy. I think everyone understands today is a trained person, he has not worked as the first deputy for a year, and he held a very professional meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine when the Supreme Council was absent. But in this case, from the position of power, we're not allowed to put forward a candidate at all. It's impossible, and we can't just admit it, it's a dangerous precedent, Arsenija Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u160	Alexander Efraemov and we are finalizing the discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u161	Dear friends, I would like to recall the moment when we gathered the interim commission that worked on the organization of the work of the Supreme Council and on the choice of governing bodies, the document that Arsenija Petrovich is demonstrating to us today. Thus, during the work of the Commission, it was decided that the position of Speaker of Parliament would remain with “Our Ukraine”, and the coalition agreed that the position of First Vice-Speaker would remain with the Party of the Regions or, if it considered necessary, with representatives of the opposition, and that it was also agreed, and that the post of Deputy Speaker would remain with the State. Over the past six months, respected colleagues have come to me personally and asked one question: “Why don’t you apply? “ Today, with the agreement we have reached, I feel that we have no moral, no other right to accuse our colleagues of the violation. Today we are implementing all the agreements that were reached on the first day we met in the new composition of our Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u162	Dear colleagues, there are several suggestions. First. In order not to have a discussion that has been deprived of the right to legislative initiative, I think there will be no objection before the decision where the two candidates put four decisions to a vote, where there is one candidature. So we can save the process. No questions? I won't. And the second. I must read what all the leaders then signed: “The appointment of the first deputy and deputy head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine may be considered by the Supreme Council of Ukraine only if it is agreed and signed by all representatives of the deputy factions in the Supreme Council.” I'm just reading the document. Colleagues put to the vote 2382 is the draft Order by Kirilenko, Kožemakin, for election as Vice-President of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Tomenko Mikola Volodymirovich. Vote. [[6:25:05]] For-32 The decision is not taken. Show by factions. Regional Party – 0, BUT – 0, "Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense" – 32, Communists – 0, "Block of Lithuania" – 0. Next order. 2382-1. For election as Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the People's Deputy Maruschenko Volodymira Stanislavovic. [[6:25:44]] For-42 The decision is not taken. Next project Choose the First Deputy. First, colleagues. Attention! Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, National Deputy Lucian Catherine Eugenyevna [[18-26:19]] For-44 It didn't work, Catherine Eugenyevna. All right, next time. Next draft Decision 2350-1 on the election of the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the People's Deputy of Ukraine, Martinjuk Adam Ivanovich. [[18:26:54]] For-31 And the last draft of the Order -- I'm asking the Supreme Council apparatus to bring flowers. Not the wreaths, but the flowers are about the election of the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the People's Deputy of Ukraine, Lavrinović, and the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the People's Deputy Tomenko Mikol Volodymyrovich. Bill No. 3098. [[18:27:30.]] For 340. Dear colleagues, the decision is made. Please show by factions. [[Applause]] Region Party - 175, Timoshenko Yulia Block -153, Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense - 12, Communists - Block of Lithuania - 0. I ask Alexander Volodymyrovich and Mikola Volodymyrovich to take a seat at the presidency of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, the following issue of the agenda is discussed: Bill No. 2708, draft law on enhancing the prestige of mining. Report to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy of Denisova Ludmila Leontiyevna. Are you going to report? Reported by Prime Minister Timoshenko Yulia Volodymyrna of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u163	Good afternoon, dear friends. Good afternoon, everyone. I'm not really going to report the law because we agreed that we're going to report on the MP's law today, which is just being passed and worked together by all the MP factions worked by the government, and I'd like this bill to be reported by the head of the coal unions. But at the same time, I would like to thank all the miners who are sitting in the hall today. Here are the heroes of Ukraine, the heroes of socialism, here are people who may never have seen with their own eyes what is happening in Parliament. I want to welcome all of you to the miner's Day again. I want to wish you that Parliament will always find compromises and understandings in order to adopt the laws you need that improve your life. I want to apologize to you for not asking your question first. Unfortunately, politics. sometimes predominates pragmatic things. But at the same time, I think that all the deputies for these bills that you've been waiting for for decades will vote unanimously, with love in their heart for you, and will vote like that. [[Applause]] So you can actually get what you want from the authorities. So I will only say one thing: two bills, at the same time the Law on the prestige of mining work and changes to the budget that enable it to be implemented in real terms. In good time! Good luck! God forbid there's a miner's day in Parliament today.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u164	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to review these bills in a simplified manner. Is it accepted? I would like to put to the vote the issue of the 2708 short-term review of the bill. [[18:31:12]] For 347 Decision taken. Sophia Leontievna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u165	This bill has been drafted in favour of the MP's bill, which will be reported by Mr. Turmanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u166	Dear colleagues, this is becoming a parliamentary document. Would you mind if we didn't ask questions about expulsion? Let's formally put 2708 on exclusion from the agenda and move on to another bill. Please vote. [[18:32:07]] For 385 Consideration of Bill 3091, Turmanov Viktor Ivanovich. I ask you to vote in favour of the shorter procedure 3091. Please vote. [[18:32:31]] For 387 Victor Ivanovich, please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u167	Dear colleagues! Our miners who have been invited here today participate in the work of our Parliament. I would like to stress once again that this bill, which we will be considering with you today, should have been adopted two years ago. But this is our political instability, this is the dissolution of Parliament. A month and a half ago, we were reviewing the draft law. We failed him, too. I therefore appeal to all the Members of Parliament today that we today must adopt this bill with you not only on first reading but also as a law as a whole. His miners are waiting two years. And the situation in the coal industry with human capacity is now 53 per cent of coal miners, who are present, who are retired. And if the technology chain is 70 percent. In three years, no one will be getting coal. That is why we have taken such a decision and come to Parliament to consider today the law on the prestige of mining. What's he giving? It raises wages, taxes that were favourable to miners, and most importantly, the pension issue is resolved. I therefore ask everyone to vote on first reading today and as a law. And I've got a little bit of an adjustment. We just missed, Mikhail Yakovlevich knows. This is article 8 on pension features. We say here the minimum pension for miners: for 15 years, the miner is a man, and we are still trapped, for 7.5 years, women. We had women working underground. And today we have 18,000 women who are retired. Therefore, by the transcript, we are correcting the 8th article, where we write “15 years for a man” to work and “seven and a half years for women”. I would like this amendment to be adopted here in general and adopted by law. Thank you for your attention, I hope.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u168	Let me finish. Thank you. [[Applause]] Michaela Jakovitch Wolintz will report.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u169	Dear friends, brother-in-laws. In 17 years of independence, the State had no similar attempt to bring all the issues affecting the social life of miners, wages, pensions, organization of work, their security, and labour protection into one bill today. And we went for a few years, there were MPs, there were government bills. We were looking at the government two months ago, and it was better. But when the prime minister visited Lugansk during the miner’s day, she said: “I see that many questions have arisen today that have not been resolved. Deputies, unite all factions and work out this bill." So over the last three days, the bill has been finalized. And you can see that Thurmanov is now making another proposal. I support this proposal because women who worked underground at this time were brought to the surface and were unable to work on a certain amount of alcohol. And that's why women like that, not 18,000, but a thousand 800. And that's why I'm also suggesting that you take this proposal out of the vote. As far as this bill is concerned, I want to say that there's a 30 percent increase in wages right now for coal miners. Retirements are doubled, and miners will be able to take a piece of land and build housing, borrow loans, and obtain an apartment. There are also job protection, safety techniques, and the training of miners in higher educational institutions, public institutions, and utilities. Also, the training of miners whose parents worked underground for some time in a mine. Not only are coal miners concerned, but coal miners are also concerned with iron ore mining, marganese, zirconium, uranium ore, and color ore. And so it touches a very large circle of people. I now placed in that bed a list of people who signed in support of the government bill. But.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u170	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u171	Regarding the joint efforts of all factions and governments, this parliamentary bill has become better. Then I propose to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u172	Thank you. We write "for" two to two "against". "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense." Who's speaking from "Our Ukraine"? It's a faction performance. Klimenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u173	Dear colleagues! I want to welcome all the miners today with this extraordinary event. And I want to pay great respect, and thank those people's deputies, and our government, and especially our faction. Because I represent her today as a former colleague of yours, a mountaineer of a sublime battle in the Strelczynka Brigade. But from what we accept today, I don't think it's gonna be enough. Because we need to develop a plan today that will give each director of the mine independence. First of all, it's a question of coal prices. The second question is VAT. Let's think about the times when we still remember 95-96 years of Lugansk, the Donetsk region was shut off because we were then disconnected from the only energy system. And it was then that Ukrainian coal saved our energy. And I think that I'm sure that a powerful coal sector is a national interest, and everything else is its betrayal. Thank you to the miners!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u174	Eugenius Ivanovich Suslov, "Timoshenko Street".
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u175	I'd like a word with the Royal Natala.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u176	Natala Royal
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u177	Respectable miners! Dear colleagues! Today, in the first years of Ukraine's independence, we will be able to spend miner's Day in Parliament. And we must pay today all the debts that have been accumulated by the Ukrainian authorities to miners. Indeed, we must stand today before the choice when there are miners in front of us today and give their votes for them. We understand that today the adoption of this law will significantly improve the situation not only of the mining industry but also in a number of mining regions: Lugansk, Donetsk, Dnepropetrovsk, Kirovgrad, Volynsk, Lviv. We know that in recent years the independence of 640,000 miners has been reduced to their jobs and that in the last year alone, the number of workers by 8,000 underground workers has decreased. We must do our utmost to restore the prestige of mining work, to facilitate the working conditions of miners, to enhance security and to move to a decent, high, truly appropriate European level of wages. And these are just a few of the big steps that we need to take today. It's time to repay the social debt to the miners. The Yulia Timoshenko faction therefore fully supports the bill and proposes to be adopted on first reading and generally as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u178	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is a further proposal to proceed to the voting procedure for the bill. First of all, then. The Committee of the Supreme Council on the Fuel and Energy Complex of Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security proposes to adopt the bill as a whole. I don't think there's gonna be any objection, I'm going to put this question on the ground as a whole. Ladies and gentlemen of the Ukrainian People's Republic, on the Day of Mines, I visited the Red Cross, which is also a mining town, and guaranteed that Parliament would consider this issue. And it's very important that all the factions actually agreed to consider this issue. Last year, I visited the Guy's Shah, and experts know that this is a coal mine, which is hell on earth, and these mines are banned in Europe in general. Today we are obliged not only to adopt this bill, because this bill, this is only number one step, we must accept the entire package of legislation that is in the order of the day, namely financing, specific budgetary financing. I urge you all to vote in favour of this bill. Colleagues, I vote. For the second reading, I'll give you my word. I vote 3091 on the basis. Please vote. We're done with the words, we're done. [[18:42:35]] For 439 My colleagues, the glory of the miners. But it's, you know, Ukrainian. The law has not yet been passed, but thanks. We've got two more votes to take. So we vote in favour of changing the voting procedure and going to the second reading. Stretovich's word, okay. Please, Stretovich insists.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u179	Stretovic, Christian-Democratic Union “Our Ukraine”. Arsenius Petrovich, no one objects to the adoption of this law. But as a lawyer, I'm saying that we're ruining the law. These are changes to five laws. The package is called right, we all support it. But in the second reading, we need to legislate the Mining Code, introduce a law on pay, education, pension insurance, and state social insurance. We made a compilation, of all these laws we took away norms and we're developing a system of law. The students won't forgive us for that. We're the legislature. So I encourage you, by accepting it in the first reading, to prepare it in accordance with the legal technique and the standardization system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u180	Natalia Royal and Peter Simonenko. It's a second reading. It's a specific thing. Come on, let's talk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u181	We insist that the law be passed today as a whole. And all the necessary amendments that Stretovic has just said will be finalized when the law is fully operational. The Shachers did not spend all day today in the Supreme Council to wait until the next day for the miner, then to pass the law. We insist on the adoption of this law as a whole. Peter Simonenko and Hannah Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u182	Simonenko's Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I immediately state that I understand the conditions under which we make this decision that the Communist faction will vote. But I'm warning you right now, the miners are here. First. This is a populism law that will not be implemented. I'm telling you right now. Second. This is the law, this is not the law, and there you will see that the income tax rate has been changed. What will compensate local budgets? So there's a lot of questions. And here I speak again, to my fellow miners, I address. We will vote the Communist faction, but I warn you. This law will not be implemented, and the local budgets, the city-based enterprises that will be formed, will suffer even more. The faction will now vote in general, but I'm warning you when this is over.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u183	Hanna Hermann and the last word of colleague Turmanov as the author of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u184	Dear colleagues, first of all, we would like to thank the BUTU and the government for supporting the initiative of the Party of the Regions to adopt this bill. Let's stop talking. We believe that this law will be fulfilled. He will now be approved and he will be executed. And let's stop talking about what we're doing here. Thank you again for supporting the Party of the Regions initiative.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u185	Victor Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u186	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues. Let us put it to a vote, or we shall now agree and send this law. That's the first one. And the second. I would like us to vote now in general as the law and amendment that has been said on women for 7.5 years, which means that they have also been included with this amendment. Please let us vote in favour of the law on prestige. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u187	Victor Ivanovich, please don't turn off the Turmanov microphone. The specific text of the amendment is, or we're going to get lost in three pines. Silence, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u188	Arsenia Petrovich, article 8 “The peculiarity of privatization of pension insurance”. I read: “Minimum pension for miners who worked underground for at least 15 years and 7.5 years of women. [[for the men of the yachts]]
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u189	So in the eighth paragraph, we add after 15 years to who do we give 7.5 years of women?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u190	Women. And the rest goes according to the text.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u191	And then you follow the text. Comrades, have you heard? I'm only asking you one thing so that we don't go to second reading right now, because it's like dawn just to go to second reading, talk about the subject. You're sometimes insulted that I'm trying to make it happen faster, but that's the situation that on second reading, these miners are going to wait another six months. I ask you to vote for the second reading. Attention, the first vote on changes in voting and the second vote on second reading, and the second vote on second reading, and in general, taking into account the amendments to Turmanov. Let's go. Let's vote. First vote on changes in voting procedure and second-reading voting. [[18:48:36]] For 435 Next, fellows, I propose to add the amendment to Thurmanov's second reading, and to remove the issue that Stretovic raised, the last paragraph is to make changes to the relevant legislation. Understand? The one we're in in the final position. Is this approach taken? And that's how we settle these issues. Attention, colleagues, we vote, please vote in favour of the bill to increase the prestige of mining in general, taking into account my amendment and Turmanov. [[18:49:23]] For 446 Now you can applaud. Colleagues, after the vote, I ask you to sign up for the factions on the grounds of the vote. First Victor Fedorovich Janukovic. And then they're all on tape. One minute at a time.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u192	First of all, I would like to congratulate my friends and colleagues on the victory that we have won today with all the MPs. [[Applause]] And I want to thank my colleagues for their support for the truly flagman industry, the miners, as they used to say to the labour guard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u193	Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u194	Please pass the word to Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvina.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u195	Vladimir Litwin. Out of the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u196	Dear colleagues, you see, the coalition has broken down, and the Supreme Council has begun to work. That's the first one. [[Noise in the hall. Applause]] And the second thing I want to say. Imagine a milkmaid feeding a cow, moving away from it, dancing like you're dancing and cheering. The tractor will come off the tractor, applaud, see what he's got. Come on! This is the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! What do you want the miners to like so much? Yes, the management is changing 20 more times. Do not let them vote for you, for they know the price. What are you doing with the Supreme Council of Ukraine?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u197	Lilia Grigorovich, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense."
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u198	Please pass on the word Klimenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u199	Klimenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u200	It is a pleasure that we honor our miners with such warm applause in this room today. Many of our colleagues mentioned women who work in mines today. And I'd like to mention those women, and their 257,000 in the years of war, and after years of war, practically saved the state of Ukraine and the victory of the Great Homeland War. And today the miner's job is very dangerous, and today, it seems to me that we have to do everything we can to make this law work, and that in fact every person who goes to work today and writes a mine call to understand that the state and not just the state will take care of it today, but the owners who are keeping the miners today. Thank you, all of us.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u201	Ivan Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u202	Dear colleagues, dear miners, I have no right to speak the word because I want to pass it on to a man who wants to share fully with you the joy that is involved. I give the word to the Prime Minister of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u203	The Prime Minister's microphone is on.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u204	Dear friends, I did not expect a word of honesty. I just want to thank all the MPs for their unique unity, and I want to wish for 99 percent of the laws to be adopted that way. And I think today, really, these heroes of Ukraine, heroes of cooperation, they have united parliament, which they have failed to do, well, to many politicians. So I want to thank all the miners for bringing Parliament together by their presence.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u205	Dear miners, the right decision, the right decision, finally began to appreciate your work. They're going to start paying money, and you're going to vote, not the one who pays, you're going to vote, you're going to be the one who hurts and lives. 3088, colleagues, Natalia Juryovna Kraljevska. Draft law amending Ukraine's State Budget Act. But this is where the main committee, Mikola Ivanovich Derkach, has to report. That's why I'm changing. You, Natalia Yuriovna, will go second as an additional committee and first as Mikola Ivanovich Derkac. Please, Mikola Ivanovich. [[B in m in s a l in]] And as the author tells you, then there's the Ripper. Please, Natalia Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u206	The Committee's decision is with Arsenia Petrovich. Dear colleagues, respectable miners! I am sincere and our entire faction truly congratulates you today on your victory in Parliament. You didn't do well to spend that watch, this shift here among us deputies. But we are all also well aware of what we can say about prestige, but it is not possible to talk about the money that must sustain that prestige. We therefore propose today to consider adopting changes to the budget in order to increase the financing of the coal industry. We understand that the coal industry is one of the main industries that constitutes the stable economic development of our country. Both the steel industry and the chemical industry and the energy security of the country as a whole depend on the coal industry today. And despite all the problems that have accumulated in our country for ten years, the coal industry remains promising and is certainly a priority in our country. In a few words, I want to literally describe the state in which the coal industry was and was. Over the years of independence, the number of mines in our coal industry has decreased by 115. Over the years of independence, our numbers have decreased. capacity of 103 million tons. I've been talking about the last since 1991. In a few words, I want to describe the situation. The labour force has decreased by 640,000, and today only 230,000 remain in the coal industry. And we understand with you that unemployment in coal regions leads to a difficult social situation. And, of course, most importantly, today's mining tradition is being destroyed. Today, young people do not want to go to work as miners. And we understand that the adoption of the Mining Labour Authority Act and the budget today will help us to bring young people into the industry. We also want to say that total coal production has decreased by 60 million tons since 1991. And industries that have been closed have today created a major problem in those closed mining settlements where people today live on the brink of survival. We understand that the enterprises in the region that are working today are also in very deep depression. We also have a very big problem with the imbalance in coal prices and mining equipment. And it really needs to be taken seriously today. We are well aware that the total underfunding of the industry has been 30 billion bracelets since 2001. And the main problem in the industry today is its chronic underfunding. No industry today knows the problem of timely pay. And the miners only began to receive wages in the last few months, not afraid that they would be gone next month. Because only 15 per cent of funding in the industry was channelled to technical re-arms and capital construction. Thus, the industry has eaten its future, its tomorrow. As a result, of course, there was a decline in production. We can see that, in January-August 2008, coal production increased by 2 million tons compared to last year. Indeed, today it can be formally stated that the decline in coal production will be halted in 2008. Yes, 2008 saw an average wage increase of 30 per cent for miners. But we are well aware that this is not enough, that the wages of coal miners are several times lower in Ukraine than in European States and less than in Russia. And the worker, the miner, he must also feel that he is not a slave in underground plantations, from which all juices will be extracted, and that is the person to whom we are obliged to show and prove that we respect his work and are willing to actually invest today's budget in the development of the coal industry. We can note that, for the first time in recent years, the price of both coke and coal has increased to global levels, as well as the upward trend in the price of coal has been the highest in recent years. But we must also understand very well that the proposed draft law, amendments to the Ukrainian law, provides for an increase of 590, 569 million, 800,000 bracelets, which will focus primarily on wages and compensation for rising electricity prices, as well as compensation for interest on loans. It's the money the miners need today. We also provide government guarantees for mandatory government coal enterprises. Enterprises will be able to attract 3.1 billion loan bracelets to spend on technical refurbishment of new lavas to build new coal mining capacities. State coal mining enterprises will be able to acquire essential mining equipment. We need to understand that today we have a real opportunity to upgrade the core funds, introduce new capacities, and provide the miners with a guarantee for tomorrow. Today, there is a chance that the Government has been able to obtain additional money from the budget as a result of the detoxification of the economy, and through taxes, we can give the coal industry a chance to pay for mining cities. I appeal to all the deputies to keep our consciences clean today, and we need to give money to the miners and start paying off our debts. I request the adoption of a bill on first reading and generally as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u207	Colleagues, there are several options for events. Option one, let's follow the simplified procedure. Option two, we're going in full procedure. Would you like a reduced procedure? Then we won't ask Natalie Legal questions. I would like to put to the vote the issue of reviewing the bill with a reduced procedure. [[19:01:57]] For 370. That's the thing. Mikola Ivanovich Derkach, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u208	Dear Arseny Petrovich! Dear National Deputies! Dear miners! The Committee on Budget Issues had before it three bills to amend the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2008 and to amend some of Ukraine's legislative acts: support for an agro-industry complex, support for the coal sector, and approach to the third phase. The Committee on Budget Issues at its meeting on September 2, 2008, considered the draft Law “On Amendments to the Ukrainian National Budget Act 2008 and on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine by Ukrainian National Deputies: Royal, Turmanov, Volonec, Kojumjakin. Registration number 3088. The bill is designed to ensure the energy balance of Ukraine’s economy and the further development of the coal sector. The bill aims to increase the expenditure of the general budget for 2008 by 568 million dollars, including State support for coal companies to partially cover the cost of production costs of 468 million dollars. State support for coal, lignite, and peat mining enterprises, for construction of technical refurbishment and capital repair of mining equipment for 100 million dollars. To cover these additional expenses, it is proposed to increase the tax forecast for the added value of goods imported into Ukraine by 568 million dollars. Thus, the specified bill is balanced with regard to the budgetary indicators. According to an expert opinion by the Ministry of Finance, the bill for registration number 3088 is proposed for support. The conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration is missing. As a result of the consideration of the Committee on Budgetary Questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u209	Let's finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u210	recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a bill under registration number 3088 as a basis and generally as a law. Ladies and gentlemen, it should be noted that the committee has decided to consider a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2008 and amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts for registration number 3087 of the Vaszuk People's Deputies on the increase in budgetary costs to support the agri-industrial complex. On Wednesday, September 3, he will be considered on the Committee and submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u211	Thank you, Mikola Ivanovich. Please sit down. Two in, two in. "Block of Lithuania," Vadim Grivkowski. Vladimir Litwin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u212	Dear colleagues, it is obvious that we should support the adoption of this law in the first reading and as a law. But I would like to draw your attention to the last thing that the head of the budget committee said, namely, that tomorrow the committee should consider the issues that relate to the support of the people working in the village and I would ask, and, Arsenij Petrovich, your promise to be fulfilled, that on Thursday the Supreme Council would consider this question regardless of what the conclusions would be. I don't think there should be any role here that this bill has played, the main thing is to support people in the village as well as miners. And we hope that there will also be a demonstrated state approach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u213	Vladimir Mikhailovich, if I'm still here on Thursday, I'll make sure I keep all my promises as I did before. Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u214	Wolverine! Wolverine! Arseny! Arsenius, Volince!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u215	Voline, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u216	Yeah. Dear colleagues, given that we are now considering increasing the financing of the coal sector by the end of the year by 3 billion 667 million dollars and thus making up more than 10 billion dollars in total funding, this is record funding. But what I want to point out is that we're a little late to make a decision, because today coal mines are underfunded, we're short of complexes, we're short of combines, we're low on basic mining equipment by 70 percent. We're behind in salary. And so out of this amount, 468 million is allocated to increase the wages of miners. Another 100 million are projected to lose electricity, which is increasing in the second half of this year. In addition, 3.1 billion is allocated as a credit resource. They're 100 million to pay off the loans. And so through credit resources, there's, let's say, circulation costs so that miners can buy technology and stuff like that. And since we are late for this type of coal financing, I propose that we adopt the law today as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u217	Colleagues concluded the discussion. Comrade Turmanov please come from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u218	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues! I'm talking about the change in the coal budget. Taking advantage of the Prime Minister's presence here today, we have talked about this, Yulia Vladimirovna, Yulia Vladimirovna, we are changing the coal budget. But they missed one moment. We talked to you, you promised me. Let's take the 51st item off the budget, in the 51st item in the budget, where we set the rate of coal, the restructuring passes to local councils 3.1 tons. But that doesn't fit in any way. And we have a standard of 5.9. Therefore, I ask, please, and vote on the amendment of article 51 on coal. Instead of 3.1, miners of closing mines should receive 5.9.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u219	Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u220	Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Dear colleagues, today we have convened an extraordinary meeting of the Committee on Budgets, where we have considered making changes to the State Budget Act. Predicted the change. Three billion guarantees, i.e. state guarantees for government coal companies. In addition, 568 million are used to finance the sector, including wages. And we're proposing this bill as a whole. But, Your Honor Arsenija Petrovich, without the additions just received from Mr. Turmanov. Changes to the budget are extremely serious questions. And to look at them like this on the move, Vladimir Litwin said right there. About the peasants, about the village the bill lies, we haven't considered it today, because we haven't completely taken it up and made changes to the Budget Act and I think it's wrong. Minfin needs to analyze the implications for the local budgets for the State budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u221	Colleagues, there's an offer to finish the discussion. So first of all, it's about the adoption of the bill. It's the State Budget, it's not that we can make another vote. We will then completely balance the system of state finances. And that's why we need to rely solely on the decision of the budget committee that there is. Victor Ivanovich, I ask you to take such a position in order to accept any legislation at all. The other one. The committee proposes first and foremost. So, listen up, colleagues. What is proposed? To increase the financing of the Derbybudget sector by 568 million, of which 468 million are shared, is the implementation of the minimum wage, i.e. the increase in the minimum wage. The other one. 100 million interest rates on the use of credit resources. In the Explanatory Note, 100,000 bracelets were wrongly written. So I'm saying 100 million. And the third. 3 billion government guarantees, colleagues. Attention. Providing State guarantees for State coal - mining companies to resuscitate them at a level of 3.1 billion dollars. So I'm putting to the vote the issue of adopting Bill 3088 as a basis. Vote. [[19:11:54]] For 424 In the end, colleagues. [[Applause]] Now. On the move to consider the matter. Let's have a second reading of who wants to make a statement, please. Yuri Sergiyovich Serbin, and who else? And Alexandrovska. Sign up, three minutes, please. Sign up, colleagues, sign up. Kirilo Kulikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u222	I want to say from the factions, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense." We support these changes, but this morning we were not invited to the budget committee of all the representatives of the “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” faction. This is the first time. It's different. All of these state guarantees have to be controlled somehow, how they're going to buy this mine-explosion equipment, which is why they're going to go shopping. So I want to point out that we didn't invite members of our Ukraine, the People's Self-Defense, to discuss this issue on the budget committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u223	Eugene Volintz.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u224	Please pass the word to Alexandrovska Alla Alexandrolvna.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u225	Alla Alexandrovska.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u226	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Respected colleagues, respected miners, the Communist faction supports the proposal to increase wage funding, to provide another 100 million additional miners, but I am now addressing Julia Vladimirovna Timoshenko. Government guarantees for 3 billion 100 million dollars are fiction, that's the money that banks get, that's the money that miners have to earn and return these loans to the government with interest, and that's what they got. If we have this money in our budget, and according to the Government's proposal, I propose that 3 billion 100 million from the Communist faction should be sent to re-arms, not as a guarantee, but as direct funding has been cut off. That'll be fair, and then the miners won't have to pay the extra interest to the banks, and the banks won't make any money.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u227	Yuri Prokopchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u228	Please pass the word to the Serbian deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u229	Please, Yuri Sergiyovich Serbin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u230	Yuri Serbin, faction of Yulia Timoshenko. We certainly support this bill, all the more so that we have to evaluate the work of our government, because it's only through this work that we've got in the budget that we can give to miners. So we're going to be like a faction voting 'yes'. But I have a side offer. We went something wrong. We're going to cut out the budget and vote. This is a proposal, let's now vote for budget changes as a mining law, and tomorrow we'll have a budget committee. Let them actually work out these budget changes that are due. Well, just because of some misunderstanding, we've put down the budget changes at all. [[You know what the position is.]] So let's think about it tomorrow, or Thursday, not later at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u231	Wise. Victor Turmanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u232	Arsenius Petrovich, I want to say again. That my colleague with BUTT had said that he was not going to make an amendment. We've been asking this question for a long time. What's going on? 51 Budget line, which was adopted, for 2008. With regard to the mines of closed restructuring, they are then passed on to local councils and the carbon standard from 5.9 tonnes is replaced by 3.1. That's 3.1 from this budget. It's all right. It will have no impact on the income and expenditure of the budget. As for today's proposed budget changes, the faction of the regions will fully support both first reading and generally.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u233	Colleagues, that is, the next offer. We are now moving on to the voting procedure after the second reading. Any questions about state guarantees? If there is, several suggestions have been made to control them. We can add that the state guarantees are in line with the Supreme Council’s professional committees. So that we don't have to ask questions. You can? No problem. Dear colleagues! Attention! I would like to vote on the second reading of this bill. [[19:16:59]] For 422 Now, colleagues, we are voting in a second reading, taking into account the need to reconcile the order and conditions of the issue of guarantees with the professional committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We vote in the second reading and in general. Budgeted first, of course. [[19:17:28]] For 251 Decision taken. What was your correction? It's going to include Alexandrovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u234	Arsenius Petrovich, I have a very simple amendment to make people understand what this is all about: State guarantees - 3 billion 100 million, which means that there is real money in the budget, they are, in a sense, no one has the right to use it for any purpose, except guarantees to banks that take into consideration. If this money is on a stand-alone shelf of 3 billion 100 million, that means that banks will lend, the miners will get, they will have to earn, and they will return with a percentage. If the State has 3 billion 100 million bracelets on a separate shelf, both guarantees, let's give the tents to keep them from humping, so that they don't pay the banks a bank interest, which will amount to several hundred million bracelets. Let us give direct support to industry of 3 billion 100 million.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u235	Colleagues, I've heard, formally-legally, it was really an amendment to the Alexandrian MP, so that we can go back to this amendment, we have to do two things. First, the vote was lifted. Then, the inclusion in the question, the inclusion of the amendment and the voting for it. If there is a desire to support the amendment, we will support it. Peter Mikolaiovich, well, you're not yelling, please. Why are you so aggressive? Where'd you get it? Let's vote down the vote. Then I will put to the vote the amendment of Alexandrovsky. Attention! On revoking the outcome of the vote on the adoption of the law as a whole, then the amendment of Alexandria, and the re-voting of the law as a whole. We vote no vote for the second reading. [[19:19:45]] For-198 The decision is not taken. Get Petra Mikolaiovich out of the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u236	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Arsenius Petrovich, I will also ask you to keep your emotions to yourself by giving me my grades. And your mistakes, which you make as Chairman, are caused by the fact that you're putting the entire Supreme Council in an awkward position. The amendment was made on time, you were inconsiderate, you missed it all, you didn't vote, and now you're putting up a position, so you're justifying the entire Supreme Council separately. Just like you did on my project when you discussed Georgia. And I'll show you tomorrow on the transcript. And then, if you'll excuse me, please, for making such conclusions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u237	Dear Peter Mikolaiovich, I explain in Russian. I just got here. I have just given Parliament the opportunity to return to this amendment. Formally, legally, I should not have made this amendment to Alexandrovsky at all. But in order for you not to raise that question, I gave the room the opportunity to vote. For the second time, I shall put the question to the vote on the consideration of the amendment of Alexandrovska. Vote! Stop! So they don't blame you. No support for editing. Do you understand that she should have been voted for? [[19:21:12]] For 190 I voted twice, the question is off. Dear colleagues, the bill has been adopted as a basis and as a whole. Please show by factions. Let's go to the next bill. The group of regions is 163, all but the Communist bloc is 27. 2001 Bill, Turmanov Viktor Ivanovich. Victor Ivanovich, there is a proposal for a reduced procedure. Will you support me? You'll support it. Let's vote, colleagues, on a reduced procedure under the 2001 Bill. Then let him say he's filming. [[19:21:59]] For 368 Victor Ivanovich Turmanov, please. Word out of place, Turmanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u238	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues! Today, we have adopted a Law on the prestige of mining work, where the bill, which must now be considered in 2001, has been incorporated into a set of laws on the prestige of mining. That's why I'm filming this bill, Arsenius Petrovich. And I insist that we now consider Bill 1033-2. Terehin, the committee considered the profile for second reading. And there's a little amendment. This is the case with widows of dead miners. Please ask questions and consider.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u239	Okay. So I'm putting to the vote the issue of withdrawal, the exclusion from the agenda of the 2001 bill. Exclusion, because he did, but this is a Council document, he needs to be excluded from the agenda. [[19:23:05]] For 394 Excluded. Now, colleagues, we have until the second reading of 1033-2. Is everybody on the table? Surrendered. Do you give me the right to vote? Okay. So, colleagues, there are two suggestions and amendments to this project. First. People's deputy Krutz. It is an editorial part of this amendment. Do you have a note? None. Next. National deputy Krutz, also amendment number 4. Any notes? None. Next. National Deputy Terjehohin Sergey Anatoliyovich. Any notes? That's what we're going to do. Dear colleagues, all the amendments are taken into account, and the committee is considered. So I'm voting for acceptance in the second reading and in general. Fellows, look very carefully. It's all accounted for. There are no objections to 1033? I would like to vote on the second reading and the whole bill, registration number 1033-2, on the amendment to article 4 of the Ukrainian Income Tax Act. Vote. [[19:24:33]] For – 423 Decision taken. Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, we have adopted today the entire package of legislation that has been proposed to solve mining problems. Now the most important thing is to do what we've accepted so that it doesn't remain a declaration, as is often the case. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to the following issues of order of the day. This is Bill No.0857, No.2219, No.3086 and No.3085. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to announce briefly the bill. Now you and I have moved away from economic and social issues for the state. All that is here is a purely political package, which provides for, firstly, an impeachment procedure, secondly a redistribution of powers not laid down in the Constitution, thirdly, a return to the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers, fourthly a redistribution of influence to the Constitutional Court. I have done my utmost to maintain the democratic coalition, despite being the head of the entire Supreme Council. My hands will not break the coalition. You have elected the First Deputy and Vice-President of the Supreme Council, you have the opportunity, you have the opportunity, you have the meeting, I will not be conducting a session that will ruin democracy.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u240	Dear colleagues, we are continuing our meetings. After all, democracy and the democratic coalition are different things. The next issue of the agenda is Bill No.0857 for review with the proposals of the President of Ukraine. [[B in m in s a l in]] The Ukrainian Law on Temporary Commissions Investigators, a special commission of inquiry and a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, with proposals from the President of Ukraine dated 13.04 2007, is to be reported by the deputy head of the Ukraine secretariat, Mr. Stavniczuk Marin Ivanovna. Marina Ivanovna, please to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u241	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The President of Ukraine took advantage of the right granted to him by the Constitution of Ukraine to return the Law “On Temporary Commissions of Inquiry, a special interim commission of inquiry, and temporary special commissions of the Supreme Council, as provided for by the Constitution, with reasoned proposals to the Supreme Council for the improvement of this law. Adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on March 22, 2007, the Ukrainian Law on Temporary Investigation Commissions, a special interim commission of inquiry, and temporary special commissions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine cannot be signed by the President of Ukraine. Because the individual positions of the President of Ukraine do not correspond to the Constitution of Ukraine. And their implementation can lead to violations of the constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens. The law does not provide for the proper legislative arrangements for the organization of arrangements for the activities of the temporary special and investigative commissions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as required by part five of article 89 of the Constitution of Ukraine. And the powers proposed for granting to the Temporary Investigation Commission go beyond the constitutional powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The main point is this. Part four of article 1 of the Act establishes that the organization and arrangements of the Temporary Investigation Commissions of the Special Temporary Commission and the Temporary Special Commissions are determined by the Constitution, named and other laws of Ukraine. The law also stipulates that the same issues are determined by the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations and by the decrees of the Supreme Council. At the same time, according to article 89, part five, of the Constitution, the organization and organization of temporary special and investigative commissions of the Supreme Council are established solely by law. Under such conditions, the method proposed by part four of article 1 of the Act to regulate the organization of the activities of the interim commission of inquiry, the special interim commission of inquiry and the temporary special commissions by the Supreme Council regulations, the Supreme Council regulations, and I would like to point out that, for the time being, the Supreme Council's provisional rules of procedure are still in force in the Supreme Council, which is now approved by the Supreme Council's decree in contravention of the constitutional provisions. The provisions of the first article 24 of the Law apply to the full extent indicated. The law does not define clear criteria on which issues may be recognized as being of social interest and the creation of appropriate investigators by temporary commissions. Not covered by article 85, part 1, of the Constitution of Ukraine, paragraph 33, and questions that may be the subject of consideration by these committees. To our conviction, the law should have a clear set of issues, a set of reasons for the establishment of temporary commissions of inquiry, a set of reasons for which the Supreme Council of Ukraine cannot form appropriately temporary commissions of inquiry, such as the activities of the courts and the exercise of justice, the establishment of the guilt of specific persons in the commission of crimes, and other issues that are the subject of the temporary special commission. Honorary colleagues, honourable national deputies, practically article 18 of the law proposes to grant whether article 18 of the law proposes to grant the Interim Commission of Inquiry the right to decide whether to delete the documents necessary for its investigation, except for those in the citizen’s home. Thus, the law allows the removal of documents from the possession of a person without a reasoned ruling of a court that does not correspond to articles 30 and 41 of the Ukrainian Constitution on the right to privacy or other possession of a person and the order of forced alienation of private property. Dear National Deputies! The remark raises the proposed method of regulating the activities of the special interim commission of inquiry. I pay attention to the need for legislative determination of requirements and to the Supreme Council's decisions on the establishment of a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In view of what has been said, it is proposed that the Law on Temporary Investigations Commissions, the Special Interim Investigation Commission, the Provisional Special Commissions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine should be rejected and sent for further work requiring respect for the constitutional rights and freedoms of Ukrainian citizens. It's about really serious things and about really serious accents in part of the violation of the Constitution of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u242	Thank you, Marina Ivanovna, please sign up for Marina Ivanovna. Please, Kirilenko V”kaslav Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u243	Yachaslav Kirilenko, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear colleagues and honourable voters who voted for the democratic coalition! There was an unprecedented event. In view of Parliament's beginning to consider a completely disagreeable bloc of anti-presidential political issues within the coalition, the coalition speaker, chosen by the NS-NS and BUT votes, left the meeting. If you don't think that this is a reason to convene the immediate Council of the Coalition of Democratic Forces with the participation of the Chief of the Supreme Council and Prime Minister of Ukraine, Timoshenko, who has just been in this room, you're wrong. We report to the electorate that now our coalition partners' hands can break down with such a difficult coalition of democratic forces. I call on BUT to stop now from discussing this issue and to send representatives to meetings of the coalition of democratic forces and not take part in the anti-presidential Sabbath.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u244	Marina Ivanovno, I understand this question is not up to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u245	Well, I understand that this line is not a question. This is the position of the faction and the faction, of course, as I believe, is entitled to its proper position. Moreover, the honourable national deputies, of course, that the laws that are passed to you are your constitutional right. But it is about, in fact, a few points that have to do with serious violations of the requirements of the Constitution. And I would like to point out that they require careful discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u246	Samolica Katerina Seminovna, please ask me a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u247	Thank you. Marina Ivanovno, I'm surprised at all. This is a question with a very large beard.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u248	I agree with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u249	I was President Kuchma. How many times has the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted these bills and he has been promising it all along, more so for his most pocket meeting to vote in favour of breaking the veto. Now. We voted in favour of this bill once before. We've already overcome the President's veto. Moreover, in the presidential campaign, President Yushchenko's candidate promised that these bills would be among the prime drafts. I want to ask you a question. What changes it is when a person takes possession of a throne that is unattainable to humans? These laws are needed. We have to take it. And there's always a special reason for the veto.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u250	Catherine Semenovna, Your Honor, I'm a lawyer, I apologize. Catherine Seminally, Your Honor, I am a lawyer and in my remarks, which I have heard in the remarks of the President of Ukraine, are not about a political component, it is not about any desire or desire, it is about the clear position of the Constitution of Ukraine, which should be respected by the Supreme Council when it comes to the adoption of the relevant laws. The goal is never justified by lawyers. In the legal profession, the letter and the spirit of the law must always be observed. The President of Ukraine advocates that such a law be passed, but he has made his reasoned proposals and has the right under the Constitution to consider these proposals by the Supreme Council and to define the Supreme Council and, accordingly, perhaps to adjust the relevant provisions of the law. I want to say that the President of Ukraine has a position. Such a law must be approved, but it must be in accord with the spirit and letter of the Constitution of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u251	Please ask Bondick Valeriy Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u252	Dear Marina Ivanovna, I appreciate you as a lawyer from the ones you answered Katerina Semenovna Samojlik, but somehow your point of view is changing. When we were working with you in one constitutional body, she was different. So I'd like to remind you what's on this issue of the conclusion of the Scientific and Scientific Administration, and remember it. And for the rest of my time, please hand over Nestor Schuffritch.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u253	Please, Shufrich Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u254	Dear Marina Ivanovna, you know, we've been fighting this law for years, we've just returned our huge debt to miners. I would like to remind you that the Constitution, which was adopted 12 years ago, clearly stated the need for this law. But I want to remind myself in 2004 when I personally had Viktor Andriyovich Yushchenko, who was still a decent deputy, said: “Nestore, accept this law, it is not against Kuchma, it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u255	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u256	I'm sorry. Viktor Andryovich then told me: “Nistor, accept this law, but it is not against Kuchma, it is for the people.” And I am now addressing my colleagues from “Our Ukraine”: “Adopt this law, support it, it is necessary, it is part of the Constitution, and it is not against Yashchenk, it is for the people.” Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u257	Well, first of all, this law is for the deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, because it concerns the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Let us not confuse sin with a righteous, honorable national MP. That's the first one. That's different. I insist that the President of Ukraine does not object. Moreover, he supports the adoption of such a law, but he insists that the Constitution of Ukraine be fully respected.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u258	Next question, National MP Pisarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u259	It's all right. Dear Alexandre Volodymyrovich, Valeriy Anatoliyovich, received no answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u260	I'm sorry. I have a question for you. Can you listen?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u261	One second, please. Now it's a question of the People's Deputy Pisarenko. That's the last question. Then, Marina Ivanovna, you'll answer what you haven't been able to say.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u262	Thank you. In the Supreme Council, we can no longer contradict the representatives of the President's Secretariat. First of all, I want to address our colleagues from "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense," and I want to remind you how you voted in favour of this law in 2004, and everyone was inclined to vote in favour of it. Today, when you call us to preserve the democratic coalition, ask yourself why the President has been destroying this coalition for eight months. Why did his head of the Secretariat break this coalition every day? Ask yourself. Not everyone needs to be translated. And that leads to something like this. The creation and emergence of these woe-democrats who are fighting for what, of course. And to you, Mrs. Stavniczuk, a question. Is this how the lawyer tells us whether we need to fight corruption today and set up mechanisms to prevent this corruption? And now you're trying to protect one person, one person! – and destroy all the mechanisms that have been working for years to prevent abuse by any person in whatever position he is in. Stop it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u263	So what's the question, respectable national MP?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u264	Please let me finish my questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u265	I'd like to say it for you. I hope you'll understand from the second time. Questions. Whether there is a need to combat corruption that thrives in certain offices, regardless of what position individuals take. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u266	I have no doubt that corruption must be combated. Ukraine has a whole system of anti-corruption legislation, and I think that the temporary investigators of the Supreme Council's commissions are really part of the anti-corruption system. But once again, I draw your attention to the distinguished national MPs of Ukraine that the purpose never excuses the means. It seems to me that there are all the possibilities and reasons to deal with the proposals of the President of Ukraine. And the more I'm going to draw your attention, Catherine Semenovna said quite correctly, the law has a long history. The comments of the President of Ukraine came to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on April 13, 2007. And it seems that since then at least the democratic coalition has been able to discuss and make these proposals. If this has not happened, we need to look for this opportunity to make a position – the failure of the Constitution to adopt the relevant laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u267	Thank you, Marina Ivanovna. Have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u268	Thank you, distinguished national MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u269	A co-reporter from the committee, head of the Efraemov Regulatory Committee, Alexander Sergiyyovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u270	The Honourable Chairman of the National People’s Deputies, on March 22, 2007, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the law of Ukraine on temporary commissions of inquiry, a special interim commission of inquiry, and temporary special commissions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. On April 13, 2008, the President of Ukraine returned the law, making a number of remarks to it and, in summary, proposing that it be rejected by the President. It should be noted that according to the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of 7 April 98 at 1198, the President of Ukraine has the right to return the law with his motivated and formulated proposals to the Supreme Council for reconsideration, which has not been made because the proposals of the President of Ukraine are neither specific nor explicit. At a meeting of the Committee on February 11, 2008, the proposals of the President of Ukraine were considered. In total, proposals 11 have been made to the comparative table, including two proposals, two in part, and seven proposals have been rejected. The decision of the committee to take into account the proposals of the President of Ukraine coincided with the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of May 15, 2007. The committee decided to re-examine the Supreme Council of the Ukrainian Law on Temporary Investigations Commissions, the Special Temporary Investigation Commission and the Provisional Special Commissions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, taking partial account of the proposals made by the President of Ukraine, and expressed the view that we are. We need to ask the question of overcoming the President's veto.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u271	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Please ask Alexander Sergiyovich. Let's sign up. Alexander Sergiyovich, please ask me a question. In accordance with the Rules, we have to ask the question of the reporter and the co-reporter. First question, National Deputy Zabzaluk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u272	How do you think it strengthens the adoption of such a law to combat corruption, and does it go and combine today with democratic principles, and, in large account, does it introduce the familiar slogan for us where we said “law one for all”?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u273	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind myself that several members of our Parliament have tried to adopt this bill. And one instance, more specifically, one person who has always opposed is the Presidential Institute. Today, we create or literally every week with you, that we create either temporary investigators or temporary special commissions that have no legal implications without adequate legislation. In order for us to work within the framework of legislation that has been defined in any civilized country, I believe that this bill must be adopted. And our country cannot separate itself from other democratic countries just because we must not have an impeachment procedure for the President. If the Head of State works under the Constitution, working within the legislative field, there will never be questions about the impeachment of such a head of State. If he's in violation, you and I should have the right to ask that question.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u274	Next question of the National Deputy Party, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u275	Evening, Party of Regions. I give the word to Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u276	Please, National Deputy Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u277	Dear reporter, first of all, this law does not threaten the impeachment of today's President, and no one will choose it anyway. But in the future, we certainly need to have this law. That's the first one. The other one. Please give us a clear command, you said you wanted us to consider the President's two proposals and five or seven of yours, and then you said you recommended overcoming the veto. So give us a clear statement as to what would be best for us: are we overcoming the President's veto, and the President is then obliged to sign this law, because if there are more than 300 votes, are we still taking into account the proposals, the two proposals of the President, and yours? I still believe that the President's veto needs to be overcome, and that the law that we have previously adopted should enter into force. And after that, we start to think about how we can proceed. But once again, I emphasize that this law will work for future presidents as a precaution, and for this president, as they say, it is already a song of sleep.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u278	Thank you for asking. I was obliged to report to the regulatory committee that I had made full compliance with the procedure. If you want to know my point of view, our further actions may be as follows. If we go to adopt the President's amendments, we will delay the adoption of this bill indefinitely in connection with the developments that exist in our country today. Therefore, we must go to overcome the veto of the President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u279	Next question. National MP Bondarenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u280	Dear Mr. Reporter, Vladimir Bondarenko, House of Julius Timoshenko. I would like to ask you, your personal thoughts on whether there is no stopping this law by refusing to have the Special Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council, which will necessarily include a special investigating prosecutor, consider such lengthy issues as the Wenko problem, where it seems six times that the RNBO is considering this issue as if we don't have any other important issues, or, for example, RosUrgo's problem with the reverse or the aversion of oil, as well as the work of individual so-called governors or the Kiev mayor, where hundreds of hectares of land is distributed, ignore any requests of the Supreme Council, no one has paid attention to them, because the Supreme Council is left without hands, it has lost its core, one of the main functions is the control function. This fear is obviously in my opinion, and you think it's the reason that it's stopped by individual political forces and certain structures of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u281	Dear colleagues, I am very cautious about the allegations, the more which may sound either from this rostrum or in this room. I would therefore refrain from commenting on the specific facts that the colleague here has presented to us, but I would like to say that the adoption of this bill will improve the work of the High Council MPs in the work of the Temporary Investigators or Special Commissions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u282	Next question, National MP Pisarenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u283	Alexander Sergiyovich, the question to you is, well, very, very simple. There's a lot of people here who blame this law as being passed against President Yushchenk, which is supposed to be impeachment and so on. Here I think that this is not even a question, and above all, we are focused on improving the supervisory function of the Supreme Council. Let us bear in mind that no commission of temporary investigators that we have created has reached a certain result today. Let us refer to the “Criminally, ” in Gongada, in the city of Kiev. Today, there is no practical implementation of the functions of the Supreme Council and the Supreme Council cannot, in fact, protect itself. So I have this question: Can you explain to our listeners what will happen after the adoption of this law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u284	Dear colleagues! I would allow myself to answer this question more broadly. You know one of the political forces when she went to the polls with her slogan, she chose a very good slogan, "Law One for All". And that is indeed the case in any civilized State. But do we, when I ask a question in my time, really have an impeachment procedure for the President? The lawyers who gave the procedure to me answered it was written in such a way that it could not be passed. One of the stumbling blocks is not the adoption of the Law on the Establishment of Temporary Investigators and Special Commissions. What about against whom? Not against who? Because this bill has already been tabled with the previous President, and much of the time it was being processed here by a deputy corps. I therefore believe that there is a political and moral time when we must adopt this bill as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u285	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich, time for questioning is over. Dear National Deputies! I ask you to pay attention to a letter signed by the President of Ukraine. After the argumenting part of the argument made by the President and made today by Marina Ivanovna, he made only one proposal. This proposal is worded as follows: “According to the proposal made by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 22 March 2007, the Ukrainian Law on Temporary Investigation Commissions, the Special Temporary Commission and the Temporary Special Commissions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine” is rejected. That's the only offer. Therefore, in accordance with part one of article 130 of the interim Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I am voting on the proposal of the President of Ukraine to reject the bill. Please vote. [[19:54:09]] For the The President's proposal is not supported. For reasons of vote, please, Kirilenko Viacheslav Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u286	Viacheslav Kirilenko, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Three positions. First. For colleagues from BET who are not dedicated to the fineness of the coalition negotiations. Not once in the negotiation of a coalition of democratic forces is this law, by which you are going to overcome the veto today, by your leader Prime Minister Timoshenko has not entered into a coalition agreement. We agreed on 12 bills, among them there is no mention of the Law on Temporary Commissions of Inquiry. You were principled, you were, you had one view at the time, and you became principled only now that you're joining a alliance with the Party of Regions. The other one. I remind you, when the Party of Regions asked a question a month ago about the resignation of the office of Timoshenko, regardless of the projections, you didn't get a single vote from us against the Cabinet, just from the Party of Regions, and now, for the electorate to know, you're essentially starting the process of impeachment of President Viktor Yushchenk with them. You will be responsible. And the third. Last time we warn you, don't vote for the veto, you're ruining the coalition.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u287	Thank you, Viacheslav Anatolyovich. The honourable Ukrainian national deputies, in accordance with part two of this article, 130 in the event of failure to support the proposal of the President of Ukraine, are voting on the proposal to re-adopt the entire draft law, i.e. to overcome the veto. Please vote. Stop the vote, please. Please, Alexander Sergiyovich of the voting procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u288	I am here, if you will, colleagues, to make no mistake, because when the President has made his additions to the bill, the regulatory committee has taken some of them into account and they have indeed made normal changes. Therefore, in accordance with the Rules to which we operate, we are entitled, taking into account the comments of the President that have passed the Rules, and we have confirmed this in the Rules, to vote and if this vote reaffirms the veto. [[B in m in s a l in]] Once again, I say what is in accordance with our Rules. It's not a new edition. I'm saying again, it's not a new editorial. These are changes that have been taken into account. And, according to the Rules to which we are guided, if more than 300 people vote in the Chamber for these changes, then the veto will be overcome and those comments will be taken into account. Please read the rule.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u289	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Please take your seats. Ladies and gentlemen, I read to you part two of article 130: “If the President of Ukraine's proposal to reject the law in general is not supported by the Supreme Council, the vote is on the re-adopted law in general”, the veto, and it is considered to have been adopted as a whole, if, in his opinion, the support is received no less than two thirds of the votes of the national deputies from the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council, after which the law is sent to the President of Ukraine for signature. I am voting on the adoption of the bill as a whole, in accordance with the procedure laid down by the Ukrainian Rules. Please vote. Bill 0857 was voted on as a whole. [[19:58:25]] For 361 The veto is over, a law passed in general and will be sent to the President of Ukraine for signature. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Please show the factions. Region Party – 173, "Timoshenko Yulia Block" – 152, "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" – 9, Communist faction – 27, "Litvina Block" – 0. Ladies and gentlemen, the next issue of order of the day has come to consider the reduced procedure. Is there a need to discuss this proposal? None. I put to the vote the following questions that are now included in the agenda to consider the reduced procedure. Please vote. [[19:59:39]] For 351 Decision taken. All of the following questions are discussed under the reduced procedure. We are now considering the next issue of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the powers of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, the features of the conduct of constitutional appeals and the non-abuse of the right to constitutional submission]] This bill will be reported by the Ukrainian National MP Portnov co-author of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u290	Thank you. I would like to say, Mr. President, that this bill was introduced in exchange for its first author is Lavrinovich Alexander Volodymyrovich. The essence of this bill is to overcome the constitutional crisis that exists today in the legal field that regulates relations with matters that are the subject of the Constitutional Court’s consideration. Unfortunately, there has been a situation in Ukraine today in which the highly respected Constitutional Court of Ukraine, in fact, has become a hostage of systematic abuse by one subject of the right to constitutional submission. What we see today is how the President of Ukraine forms his work with the Constitutional Court. First. Government acts are being halted. The 48 acts of the government have been suspended with a simultaneous appeal to the Constitutional Court on any of them, the President of Ukraine has not received a positive decision. I didn't win any. Two days before the Constitutional Court comes forward, after the College of Judges of the Constitutional Court has in fact determined that the President has lost. The president stops his act, cancels and cancels. The Constitutional Court stops the conduct, and the President submits the following day with the same content. This is an abuse of the right to constitutional submission, which has become the subject of regulation of this law. The other one. The President's rulings and the President's decrees with orders from the government are also illegal, cannot be considered by the Constitutional Court because the President is actually stopping and calling them off. By this law, we put an end to this system of things. Moreover, this law suggests that certain procedures be put in place to conclude the Constitutional Court, as well as to rule on constitutional decisions to amend the Constitution of Ukraine. Please support this bill as a whole. And according to the decision of the Committee on Legal Policy, which is the whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u291	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. Please have a seat. Short - term issues are not foreseen. In accordance with the decision of the Committee on Legal Policy, I had to report to the committee's decision, it was given to you, the committee considered this issue at its meeting and unanimously approved the decision to support this bill as a whole. Please register according to the procedure: two in favour, two in favour. Two deputies signed up for the performance. Please, People's Deputy Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u292	Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to thank our colleagues Lavrinovich and Portnow for having done such thorough work, and this has all come into this law. You know, the problem of abuse of rights in the Constitutional Court has led to what we actually saw all of the past when there was opposition to the Constitutional Court, and now we see the same thing that the Constitutional Court actually found itself between the hammer and the anvil when every day there were calls on a question or another. Moreover, you can see that the procedure that the reporter just reported is taking place almost every turn. That's actually why we lost our privatisation this year. That's why we lost economic growth today, for which more than 50 actually contributions from the Cabinet of Ministers alone to this Timoshenko government have been stopped. In addition, the rulings of the government that had worked before are added, and there is also no positive conclusion of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. So today, if we want to have a protected Constitution, the responsibility for its violation and the responsibility for its corruption, we need to support this initiative of our colleagues, vote it in this room and vote it out in general, I want to make a note, and I want to pass it on to the President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u293	Thank you. Please, the next national MP, Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u294	Dear voters! Dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. I work for the Legal Policy Committee, which is the main piece of this bill. I have repeatedly presented the interests of subjects for constitutional submission and the Supreme Council in the Constitutional Court, and I can testify to the fact that the adoption of this law will not only allow us to organize activities and ours with you when we initiate an examination of a matter before the Constitutional Court, we will also resolve the hands of the Cabinet of Ministers, which very often cannot work, since its rulings are constantly stopped by the President of Ukraine. But we're going to take some pressure off the Constitutional Court, because then all procedures will be clearly ordered, set time limits, when one or the other decisions will be taken on our application. Dear colleagues, it's a very simple law. He has little change in the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers and on the Law. on the Constitutional Court. I think it needs to be adopted in general, and so we will take away another problem that today provokes a confrontation between the branches of power, the institutions, and we will solve our hands for the actions of the Constitutional Court, which will rely solely on the law and the Constitution. So I think we're going to take down the political tension and the legal tension in our country. I call for this law to be voted on as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u295	Thank you. Please, according to procedure, we have now if there is an insistence on the motivation in those factions. [[B in m in s a l in]] It doesn't, does it? If not. So I'm adopting this bill in the first reading. Please be supportive. [[20:07:04]] For 363 Decision taken. The committee proposes to adopt this bill as a whole. Is there a denial or a remark? There are no national deputies. I'm putting Bill 22,219 as a whole as a law. [[20:07:37]] For 363 Decision taken. Please, on the grounds of the People's Deputy of Portnow.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u296	Honourable People's Deputies, Honourable Alexandre Volodymyrovich, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko, now proposes to vote in favour of the inclusion in the agenda of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of a draft decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to appoint Valentin Navejchenka as head of the Ukrainian Security Service. The Bill 1260 was introduced by the President of Ukraine on December 19, 2007 and voted.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u297	The country’s distinguished national deputies, in general, are considered without being included in the agenda. But I suggest we do it this way now, because we've determined how to deal with the issues, now there's no such submission in the hands of the national deputies, so I'm going to ask the secretariat to hand it over now. And then we'll be able to figure out when the materials are in hand for consideration. No objections? If they don't, please distribute the materials, then we'll look at it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u298	They were all given away.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u299	Please, since we've set the agenda today, I'm asking the secretariat now, hand out these materials, and we'll ask questions about their consideration as soon as they're given. Who wants us to put this matter into the agenda today, please vote? Anyone who wants to be included in the agenda, please vote. [[20:09:34]] For 341 Decision taken. As the materials are distributed, we will consider. A draft Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Security Service Act is now under review. Reporting by Ukrainian national deputy Portnov Andry Volodymyrovich. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u300	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Your attention is given to the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Ukrainian Security Service. [[on the appointment and release of the leadership of the Security Service and the improvement of the individual provisions of this law]] Current legislation places a number of important tasks on Ukraine’s Security Service. This is, above all, the security of Ukraine's state, and within the limits defined by the law of competence, the protection of national sovereignty, constitutional order, territorial integrity, economic, scientific and technical and defence potential of Ukraine. That is why all authorities should be interested in the effective functioning of this body. At the same time, so far the head of the Ukrainian Security Service has not been appointed, as evidenced by the interest of members of the individual political forces in deliberately delaying the process of forming the leadership of the Ukrainian Security Service. In addition, consideration should also be given to the lack of regulation at the level of the status of head of the Ukrainian Security Service in the absence of a legitimate head of the BSS, which, in our view, is unlikely to have a positive impact on the work of this service. In this connection, we are proposing a draft law that, on the one hand, will properly determine the status of the Acting Head of the Security Service, strengthen the role of the Head of the Security Service in the management of the Service, and, on the other hand, promote as soon as possible the appointment of the legitimate head of the Security Service of Ukraine. I would like to inform you that today a meeting of the National Security and Defence Committee, where comments and proposals were made to this draft law, are fully taken into account. As a result of their consideration of the appointment of the deputy heads of the BSC, the heads of management and the heads of the BSB’s district administrations, the head of the Ukrainian Security Service, or the corresponding responsibilities of agreement with the National Security and Defence Committee of the Parliament. The committee decided that, under such conditions, the bill should be voted on as a whole. Please support our law.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u301	Thank you, Andrey Volodymyrovich. Please sit down. From the Committee of Gricenko Anatoly Stepanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u302	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! It's a matter of utmost importance. There is no personal problem here, but there is a systemic issue. Our committee and the Supreme Council, in writing and oral form, have repeatedly called on the President to bring matters to order with the Security Service. Perhaps not everyone knows by whose command the present responsibilities are assigned. Not even the President's decree. It was like that. The former head of the Security Service, Igor Drizcany, took a vacation. By his command, he assigned a full - time responsibility. Drizcany did not return from his vacation; he was released, transferred to the PNB. Since then, more than two years have been illegal in this status. Can it be said that a person in such a situation will really stand up, go against the wind even when needed, see what influences we have on the Security Service. Apparently, it's hard for you to do it. The President applied for the appointment of the Head of the Security Service in December. But after that, during all coalition meetings, the President never insisted that the issue be considered, put into the order of the day. Apparently the “hanged ” head of the U.S.S.S.A. is convenient to someone. But it's not comfortable for the state. So essentially, the document is actually on the verge of legislation, but it's trying to fill the gap that is now due to the failure of the official to do so. And that's a big problem. The second thing that's being proposed here, and this is already a systemic element -- strengthening parliamentary control. It is proposed that staff assignments at the level of deputies and managers of district and regional divisions be carried out by the head or by the responsibilities of the head, but please note that the National Security and Defence Committee is in agreement with the professional parliamentary committee on national security and defence. And this is the guarantee of parliamentary control, this is the normal European norm, starting with Poland and other states. Our committee addressed this issue today.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u303	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u304	Literally 30 seconds. Today the Committee has considered this issue, unanimously recommends that the Supreme Council accept it as a basis for the first reading. If we are urged to accept it as a whole, we would like to take into account two suggestions made in writing. They apply exactly to the consent of the Parliamentary Committee, the correct name “Autonomous Republic of Crimea”, because there is law and now, in the law of the current Republic of Crimea, and some of the other editorial rights that the authors of the bill have agreed with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u305	Thank you, Anatoly Stepanovich. Have a seat, please. Please register: two in, two in, two in. Please, Šufricha Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u306	Dear colleagues, you have just met me with the words “how he likes nutvajchenko”. You know, I don't care if you're there or if you're there. Today, it is a matter of principle that the body, such as the Ukrainian Security Service, has been shielded from political conjuncture and external pressure, so important in terms of ensuring the national interests and security of our country. And so that we really have the Ukrainian Security Service, not the one family and its admirers. I am absolutely confident that today, by adopting this law, we demonstrate to the people of Ukraine that we today want all bodies, including law enforcement agencies, to work transparently for the interests of, above all, the State, for the interests of every citizen. Because in the circumstances in which we unfortunately observe the work of professionals of people who have attended a large school today, who have passed from lieutenants to colonels and generals, today must be humiliated in the face of people who have no idea what the Security Service is, what a counter-intelligence is, and who are only interested in finding compromise on their political opponents. And today we're watching allies. I think this law will protect the honor of the officers I hope our security officers value. We will help them and our citizens whose interests they must protect. I hope we have more than 300 votes today, so no one has a thought.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u307	Thank you. Please give the following statement by the national MP Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u308	Please give my word to my colleague, Saint-Oliynik. Please, Holy See.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u309	Dear colleagues! I also advocate the adoption of this law, and I want to pay attention to why? Indeed, there are a number of questions, including those expressed in the conclusion of the Scientific Administration that relate to the theoretical aspects of the problem raised. I personally believe that the problem begins with the first article of this law, which states that the Ukrainian Security Service is subordinated to the President of Ukraine. I don't think that's normal when a law enforcement authority that is totally clearly defined by law is subordinated to a particular official. And we can see that that's what made the law enforcement agency a tool for solving political issues. Why we, in which we see proof of this. Well, it's a really crazy situation where there's no legitimate constitutional head of the Ukrainian Security Service for more than a year. We see the same thing now that the day-to-day issue has taken place, it seems that three or four personnel changes have taken place by the President's Secretariat in the Ukrainian Security Service, I think these are also political motives that are not professional at all. And finally, when it's said that the President's Secretariat is being charged with treason, those accusations are trying to legalize through the Ukrainian Security Service, but it's operating outside the legal field of August 21st, when these materials arrived, today, when 10 days have passed under the law, there is no procedural decision on these materials, even though it requires a clear law governing law enforcement. And that's why today's historic moment calls for us to support these changes to the law and to bring the Ukrainian Security Service in order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u310	Thank you. The discussion is over. Dear Anatoly Stepanovich, head of the committee, I have a question for you. You're talking about the amendments that the committee made, and I want you to clarify now that you're talking about the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, but obviously not the Security Service, but the General Administration, or whatever the structure is called, please specify.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u311	Thank you. Alexander Volodymyrovich, I want to say under the transcript, about the amendments that should be made to the second reading vote and in general, if that decision is taken by the Supreme Council. First. Part 5 of article 13, Part 1 and 2 of article 15 of the draft law are to end with the words “under agreement with the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on National Security and Defence”. And the second. The text says that the name of the regional unit of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea should be corrected according to the Constitution of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u312	Thank you. I am voting on the adoption in the first reading and on the basis of draft Law No. 3086 amending the Ukrainian law on the Ukrainian Security Service. Please vote. [[20:21:35]] For 364 Decision taken. Dear National Deputies! During a report by the head of the profiling committee, proposals were made to include two changes to the law that he had now repeated once again under the transcript so that they could be recorded. Any more suggestions for this bill? None. Is there any objection to putting it on the vote as a whole right now? None. Then I put to the vote the whole bill 3086, taking into account the profile committee's proposals. A draft Ukrainian Security Service Act on the appointment and release of the Ukrainian Security Service and the improvement of individual regulations is being voted. Please vote in general. [[20:22:37]] For 362 Decision taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 173, "Timoshenko Yuli Block" – 151, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" – 11, communists – 27, "Litvina Block" – 0. Dear National Deputies! I would like to inform you that the Acting Head of the Security Service Valentin Alexandrovich Nastavajchenko is now on his way to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We look forward to his arrival so that he will have the opportunity to answer questions if they arise. And the deputy head of the Secretary-General, President Pukshin Igor Gelarovich, is also invited now, if they find the possibility that he will also arrive, in accordance with the submission of the President of Ukraine, in which he appointed the rapporteur for this matter Igor Gelarovich Pukshin. Now let's move on to the next issue of the agenda. Review of the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Cabinet Act. Number 3085, reports Ukrainian national deputy Portnov Andry Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u313	Today's my day. Hope was for me to appoint a charity fund. Honourable National Deputies of Ukraine, Honourable Chairman. According to article 106, part one, paragraph 31, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the mandate of the President of Ukraine is determined solely by the Constitution. This, in turn, makes it impossible to adopt laws that would impose additional unforeseeable powers of the President under the Constitution. This is the legal position of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine in its numerous constitutional decisions, including those of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. However, despite the above legislation, there are still provisions that give the President of Ukraine additional powers in comparison with the Ukrainian Constitution. This is primarily about the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The draft law proposes to remove non-constitutional rules from the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers: regarding the duty of the Ukrainian government to agree with the President of Ukraine on the initiative for the release of individual ministers. With regard to the responsibility of the Ukrainian government to ensure the enforcement of the decrees of the President of Ukraine rather than to guide them as provided for in the Constitution. With regard to the exercise of the right of legislative initiative by the President of Ukraine to ensure that the Government implements the decisions of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine regarding the entry into relations with the Government of foreign states on the basis of acts by the President of Ukraine, regarding the right of the President of Ukraine not to run for office as Prime Minister of Ukraine for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and other non-constitutional norms. Please support the bill as a profile committee under this law was the Committee on State Building, led by Alexander Alexander Omelchenka, recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt this bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u314	Thank you. Please have a seat. The committee’s first deputy head of the Committee on State Building and Local Government Affairs, Olga Borisovna Bodnar, is invited to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u315	Thank you. Honorable colleagues, respected chairman, respected citizens of Ukraine. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government at its meeting, held on 2 September 2008, reviewed the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the implementation of the provisions of the Act in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine, introduced by the National Deputy Andriy Portnov. This bill proposes to make a number of changes to the individual provisions of the current Ukrainian law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which are at the level of the relations between the Government and the President of Ukraine, in particular, the text of the law removes certain rules that duplicate or are not subject to regulation of the Constitution. In the course of the discussion, the author of the project was heard, the position of all the members of the committee present was identified and the conclusions adopted unanimously – to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the bill be adopted as a basis and as a whole. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u316	Thank you. Please have a seat. Two in, two in, against, please register. Please, National Deputy Bogdan. National MP Pisarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u317	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we are going back to the long-suffering Act on the Cabinet of Ministers. I want to say that, in fact, today our colleagues have prepared sufficiently balanced changes to this law, which will allow us to finally normalize the activities between the authorities and put an end to the dispute about who is responsible and who is doing what. The Supreme Council may have made some mistakes when this law was approved and adjusted. The main goal was that no one fought for authority under this law. Today we see that there is a flaw in these mistakes and there is a complete abuse of authority, the blocking of the economic functions of the state, the blocking of the Cabinet of Ministers in an illegal way. So today, honourable national MPs, our faction, the Yulia Timoshenko Block, is proposing to support this bill. We propose to normalize the activities of the public authorities, and this law, like the laws that we have adopted today, will be the beginning of the constitutional changes that are essential in our country. Moreover, I think that today's vote we have shown the state that the Supreme Council can work, can work fruitfully, and it's a shame that today some MPs have not endured the stress and have gone home before without seeing such significant changes in the legislation of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u318	Thank you. Ukraine’s next national deputy, Kolesnichenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u319	Dear colleagues! Respectable radios and TV sets! Today you are present in very sign ballots and the law that we are currently considering, once again stresses that the Supreme Council of Ukraine is doing everything in its power to ensure that both we and the executive authorities and the State live exclusively within the Constitution, solely by law, because the events of recent years have shown that if we start to reject the Constitution, if we are building up a personal interest in the law, the regulations, the Constitution, or our official powers, we are using for ourselves loved ones and the State, the public system is beginning to deteriorate. It is therefore very important that we now return to the previous drafting of the Cabinet of Ministers Act, which, by the way, has become one of the grounds for what has been dissolved. previous composition of the Supreme Council. I'm glad we have the law today. I am pleased that there is a right for the State, and it is very important for every Ukrainian citizen to have a new point of reference on which everyone will understand -- the law is beginning to prevail in the country. If the law works for both the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers, and for the President, it will therefore be the first step towards overcoming corruption, the first step towards overcoming not only corruption but also corruption in the minds of people. We are beginning to understand and by our vote, we will confirm that Ukraine is embarking on a new European path for the development of our society to build a united, indivisible sovereign, independent Power called Ukraine, where all citizens will be protected, regardless of the status, status, language, nationality and the church in which it is going. For our independent Ukraine! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u320	Thank you. The discussion is over. Is there a need for voting factions to express themselves? None. I then put to the vote on the basis of the first reading of draft Law 3085 amending the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers Act. Please vote. [[20:32:27]] For 362 Decision taken. The committee recommends that the Committee of Alexander Alexandrovich Omelchenka propose the adoption of the bill as a whole. Is there a denial of national MPs? Is there a desire to make suggestions for second reading? [[B in m in s a l in]] Don't you have any suggestions? Then I'm voting on the whole adoption of Bill 3085. Draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Please vote. [[20:33:15]] For 363 Decision taken. Please, by the factions. Region Party - 172, Timoshenko Yulia Block - 154, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" - 10, Communist Party - 27, "Litvina Block" - 0. The decision is taken, the law is generally accepted. The distinguished Ukrainian National Deputies, as I have just been informed by Valentin Alexandrovich Nastavajchenko, represent the new head of the Security Service in the Dnipropetrov region and will not be able to reach the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The President-in-Office of Ukraine, Igor Gelarovich Pukshin, cannot come to the Supreme Council of Ukraine right now. Will we consider this issue of appointment in the absence of them? Is there any objection to our consideration? Then I'm announcing the issue, registration number 1260 and 1269-d, the draft order for the appointment of the complainant as head of the Ukrainian Security Service. I ask this question to the head of the National Security and Defence Committee, Anatoly Stepanovich Grizzenka. Anatoly Stepanovich. Please announce that Anatoly Stepanovich Grizzenko has been identified as a reporter for the committee. Please, who is authorized by the committee to report on this matter? Please, we'll just wait a minute. The committee's deputy chairman of the committee's National Deputy Zubov, right? Please, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u321	Honourable Presidency, distinguished colleagues of the People's Deputies! We have already spoken seriously about the problem related to the activities of the Ukrainian Security Service. Many of the people's MPs'complaints were that the Security Service was virtually not directly engaged in its responsibilities, but was engaged in more, especially recently, political divisions. We all discussed the importance of the quality work of the Ukrainian Security Service. Therefore, today we would very much like the Acting President of the Ukrainian Security Service, Mr. Tstavajchenko, to be here to see representatives of the President's Administration present in this room so that we can address this issue in a civilized manner. Listened to the performer, who worked for two years, let's say, he could be more humanely compassionate, and extremely difficult. So it's gonna be two years. This means to be ridiculed by the President of Ukraine. This humiliation he's been through. I don't know why he went through with it, but he did. And of course, I'm sorry that he's not here today. The same applies to representatives of the Presidential Administration. The crucial issue for the country's life is to determine the fate of the President of the Ukrainian Security Service. And it seems to me that the Administration should be here today to help us all work together to build a consolidating position. Given that neither one nor the other is present, I ask the room to address this issue in their absence and to address this issue. Please support our initiative.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u322	Thank you. Please have a seat.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u323	Dear colleagues!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u324	Please announce the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u325	Yeah. Dear colleagues, today at the meeting of the Committee on National Security and Defence, at which we considered the matter, a bill relating to the amendment and addition to the Ukrainian Security Service Act, we have considered this subject in the context of the fact that the President's Administration has sent to the Security Service incomprehensible material on the Prime Minister's charge of treason and so on. We believe that, and we have decided that in such a situation, there is a need to call into question the expression of mistrust on the ground that there is a situation. Please support our decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m1.u326	Thank you. Have a seat, please. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, the Honourable People's Deputies of Ukraine, I ask you to calm down, we have one last question. I would like to inform you that in accordance with the Committee's decision of 22 December 2007, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine recommends the appointment of Mr. Devitajenko Valentina Alexandrovich as Head of the Ukrainian Security Service. That's why we're going to put to the vote all the proposals, both the President and the committee. I made it clear that everyone is in possession of the submission of the President of Ukraine now, the bio-help, the declaration, and two draft rulings. Does everyone have one? Yes. So I want to say that the two draft decrees are different from each other just because the people's deputies' initiative is to make a second point. The President of Ukraine, in accordance with article 106, paragraph 14, of the first part of the Constitution, submits an appointment to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service and drafts a decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine stating that, in accordance with article 85, paragraph 12, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides: to appoint Ms. Valentina Alexandrovich as Head of the Ukrainian Security Service. Ukraine’s National Deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for National Security and Defence proposed the drafting of the ruling: “In accordance with paragraph 12, part one of article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides to appoint Mr. 2. This decision takes effect from the moment it is adopted. “ I don’t know In this way, I want to say that in accordance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, we need to determine when this decision will become effective. So I ask that we put to the vote first a proposal for the appointment of a committee signed by Anatoly Stepanovich Gritsenko. And then, if we need to vote on the decision in another lineup. There's no objection. I'm voting on Bill 1260. About the appointment of Mr. Nadjajchenka Valentina Aleksandrovitch as Head of the Security Service. Please vote. [[20:42:03]] For-0 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues! I put to the vote the next draft of Decree 1260 – Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the appointment of Mr. Valentina Alexandrovich as Head of the Ukrainian Security Service in accordance with paragraph 12, paragraph 4, part one of the first article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine of the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides to appoint Mr. Please vote. [[20:42:54]] For-0 Against five. We're holding on to two. The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues! Today’s plenary day is over. Thank you all for your work. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., the morning plenary will begin. Good luck.
