ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-08-m0.u1	Good morning, colleagues. Let's register. [[10:02:08]] Registered -439 Dear colleagues, there are 439 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. Today is a great holiday, colleagues, in addition to the consultations held by the lawyer’s day. So let's welcome all the lawyers, and there's a lot of them in the parliamentary walls. [[Applause]] Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, we have just concluded consultations pursuant to article 90 of the Ukrainian Constitution with the President of Ukraine, where all faction leaders, deputy heads of the Supreme Council and head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine were present. In view of the situation that has arisen, I propose that we continue our consultations now, but in the form of faction leaders and the leadership of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I think it would be reasonable for us to close the morning session at all and move to the format that we met at 16 hours after consultations between faction leaders. (U in m in s a l i) Would you like to take the floor, colleagues? I don't know what you want to say. No problem, colleagues, don't argue. We'll leave now, then by 12:30, as always, I'll call it a break. I'll meet you at 12:30. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-08-m0.u2	It's a good thing the Head comes to work. My colleagues, you already know from the media, but I will officially inform you once again that we have completed our faction leaders' meetings. A single decision has been taken to review any package of funding legislation and to hold credible early elections only after a decision has been made public to terminate the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This was decided by all faction leaders. Therefore, an examination of the day-to-day issues can be made after the Parliament has been formally notified accordingly of the application of article 90 of the Constitution of Ukraine and the signing of the relevant decree of the President of Ukraine. The other one. As for today. After the talks we had with the President of Ukraine, he once again pointed out that if the coalition was formed, there is a likelihood that Parliament would continue to work. I'll take my position. I have virtually no longer doubt that any coalition will be formed. If there could have been any conversation about Parliament's work, it was, you know, the situational work of the Ukrainian Parliament. But once again, I would like to point out that if anyone else has a desire to form or a megacoalition -- the left and right parts -- or just a minicoalition is a classic right part or any other, and there will be 226 votes under such a coalition, I will immediately inform the President of Ukraine that there are corresponding 226 signatures, and therefore there is no basis for a permanent suspension of parliamentary powers. I've been at work for up to 24 hours. If necessary, I can stay awake. If you form a coalition, let me know if you don't form it, let me know. I'm adjourning the meeting of the Supreme Council. We're meeting with faction leaders tomorrow for 10 o'clock, and perhaps the situation will change in part of the time frame of the parliamentary suspension. Thank you. See you tomorrow.
