ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-13-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! There's good news. Today we have two jewelers. I ask that we all welcome our colleagues Mustafa Jamileva, who is now 65 years old, Pavel Petrovich Korzh, who is now 55 years old, and the youngest of today's nominees, Andrija Anatoliovich Kožemjakina. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Please register. [[10:02:01]] There are 433 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The morning plenary session is open. Dear colleagues, you and I today have the need to resolve the problem with the organization of the work of the Supreme Council for all the plenary weeks that we have, and for today's schedule of meetings as well. Since this issue has not been resolved yesterday because of objective circumstances, I ask that we resolve it within the next 30 minutes. I'm going to ask the faction leaders to come up to the third floor of the conference room and let us decide on the schedule of today's plenary and then get to work. I'll call it a 30-minute break.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-13-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, we continue our morning plenary session. The meeting of the leaders of the parliamentary factions was concluded. I want to inform you that a consensus has been reached that we should now adopt a decision with you to assist in preparing Parliament's work on the anti-crisis measures that came to Parliament yesterday and which are now in the form of a separate package to come to the parliamentary committees so that we can create the conditions for preparing them for effective consideration in the session room and for effective approval here. There's a proposal for us to change the calendar plan for the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and approve the work today and tomorrow on the committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine so that we can hold the next plenary meeting at 10 a.m. on Tuesday. This proposal is supported by the leaders of all factions. There is an offer, which Viačeslav Anatolyovich Kirilenko would like to make. Please. Let's exchange representatives of all factions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-13-m0.u3	Viacheslav Kirilenko, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, I'd like to ask you another question. Today, 300 years have passed since the Baturin tragedy, when Menishikova’s troops destroyed several tens of thousands of civilians in Ukraine. This event in Ukraine is widely observed at all levels and in all areas. So I ask you, as chairman of the session, to honor this date with a moment of silence.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-13-m0.u4	Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, please proceed with the faction. Ivan Grigorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-13-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, the faction's position in this respect is clear, and I have just expressed it at the Conciliation Council meeting. The government passed 25 urgent bills last week, some of which have already been considered by Parliament. And this week, as we promised, and the government promised, four major, serious, sectoral bills, including budget changes, are also in the walls of Parliament. And, of course, we were absolutely insistent right now, given the situation in the country, in the economy of finance, working in plenary mode. But the events that took place yesterday clearly paralyze the real legislative process, which can be said to be at the level of parliamentary hearings to discuss these laws. That's why we support the condition, Alexandre Volodymyrovich, I ask everyone to hear that we start the first drafts on Tuesday, just the ones that will be considered on the committees for this week, especially those that the government has imposed anti-crisis, and we start on Tuesday with anti-crisis measures, consideration and acceptance. We strongly insist on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-13-m0.u6	Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-13-m0.u7	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues! First of all, we need to understand that this break is not only about the need to work on draft anti-crisis measures, documents, but also because the President is flying for two days in Baku and has not yet agreed on the candidacy he would like to impose on the Supreme Council as Head of the Supreme Council. This is the first time. Secondly, the situation today is extremely difficult and the Supreme Council, in my opinion, is now ineffective in the part that was blocked by the President's inaction, and yesterday, when he held a meeting with heads of government and heads of council, he once again stated that he was unable to rule the state. Because a month later, when the crisis swept over the wet state of Ukraine, it begins to tell us that something else needs to be done with the International Monetary Fund, the World Trade Organization. I mean, let's say, "seven Fridays a week." We're excited today that the Supreme Council doesn't have a package, ah.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-13-m0.u8	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-13-m0.u9	We, the faction of Communists, are excited today that this orange power is unable to propose a concrete draft of anti-crisis measures and we will be back to the fault of the President and his environment, which has been killing all of Ukraine for four years. And it's time today to ask a hard question, including the beginning, once again, of the impeachment procedure of the President, the removal of him immediately from power and practically, let's say, to begin the process of change to the Constitution. This is the only way we will be able to maintain order in the state today. Because one, in fact, today does not leave the whole state alone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-13-m0.u10	"Litvina Block", Zarubinski Oleg Alexandrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-13-m0.u11	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! It is not clear what the discussion is about, for the representatives of the large factions of Parliament have already agreed, and they have already determined that there will be no plenary meetings today or tomorrow. So there's nothing to discuss. It seems to me that these two days should really be used to make those bills of various subjects of the legislative initiative go through committee discussions because unfortunately, not only recently, but the role of the committees has been completely ignored for months. We're getting bills in the session room that didn't really go through the committees. At best, where one head is speaking for the entire committee without the committees being held. So I think that these two days should be devoted to the actual committee's professional work on those bills that have been tabled by both the people's deputies and the government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-13-m0.u12	Thank you. From the faction of the Party of Regions is there a desire to speak? Thank you. So I want to sum it up and let you know again. Dear colleagues! I would like to reiterate that the decision that we should be able to provide professional preparation for those projects that Parliament has to consider according to the economic situation that has now taken place in the country was supported not by large factions, but by all the factions of Parliament, the leaders who represented the factions, unanimously. So this is the consensus decision of the leaders of the parliamentary factions. We must ensure the effective work of the Ukrainian Parliament and be effective in coping with the negative phenomena that are in our country today, unfortunately. In this regard, I ask that the heads of the committees, please organize effective committee work and ask factions to help the Ukrainian National Deputies to participate actively in the meeting of the Committees. And in response to Viacheslav Anatoliyovich’s request, I announce that it is now 300 years from the day of Baturin’s tragedy when the entire city was killed as a result of the fighting that took place on Ukrainian soil at that time. And please let us be ready for the next plenary meeting, which will take place on Tuesday at 10 a.m. Please declare this morning's plenary session closed. I'm sorry, we didn't vote in favour of this decision, although everyone unanimously supported it. I'm voting on the decision to work today and tomorrow on the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the next plenary meeting to be held on Tuesday. Please vote. [[10:37:19]] For 243 Decision taken. The next plenary meeting will take place on Tuesday at 10 a.m. Now please honor the moment of silence of the victims who died 300 years ago on Ukrainian soil.
