ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:46]] Registered in the 403 National Deputies Session Room. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. According to the plenary work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from December 9 to 12, 2008, five plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine were held. Three laws and 15 regulations were adopted as a result of the review, six bills were adopted on a basis, announced and sent to respond to 77 parliamentary requests accordingly. In accordance with article 25 of the Rules, honourable national MPs have 30 minutes Tuesday for statements by authorized factions with proposals. What, what? Dear colleagues, after making our applications and requests, we will speak on a procedure. For statements by authorized factions with proposals, declarations and messages. I'd like the factions to sign up for the performance. Please show me on the board. Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania” faction. He's handing over Sergei Mikolayovich Tereshuk. Oleg Lazko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u2	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, national factions of faction 3 held a weekend meeting with voters in several regions of Ukraine. This is a system of our work, because direct communication with people makes it possible to feel the thoughts and moods of the people, to give an objective assessment of the socio-political processes that are taking place in society. If we say that people are anxious, this will be very few: they are deeply indignant about what is being done in our country, what our politicians and our leaders have led them to. It is not common sense that Ukraine, with such potential, has reached 177th place according to the human development index. Our electors welcomed the final work of the Supreme Council, which the Supreme Council elected as the head of Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvin. Their command is clear: All national MPs, the president and the government must reject political ambitions, unite to save Ukraine, which is at the edge of the economic divide, before the social upheaval. And people are less interested in whether there's a coalition that's the form of a coalition. People wonder if the Supreme Council will work or not. There were a lot of words in this room to support or break out of the crisis of the metallurgical industry, the chemical industry, the machine building, we supported the banking industry. But, honourable fellow MPs, today is an extremely catastrophic situation in the village, in the agricultural sector. The village is in complete decline today. Today we're talking to the whole world that we've got the highest crop history -- over 50 million grains. tons of grains. But at the same time, we're not talking about agriculture having no money today, they're left with grain. We're not talking about the feed grain, it's not required in the internal and world markets at all. We are not saying at all that today we have reduced the number of pigs by nearly 12 percent, by 10 percent. For the first time since 1998, there has been a decline in the food industry in our country. Enterprises are closing down. 41 sugar factories did not work this year. The lack of public policy, and sometimes the wrong state policy, I mean the ban on grain exports, then the quota for oil exports, led to the loss of world markets. Our elevators are overloaded with grain, prices in the world market have fallen, we don't have an internal market for grain. The situation in the village today is much worse, believe me, than it was 10 years ago during the 98th crisis. Today, agricultural enterprises have about 50 billion loans. Credit is needed, credit banks don't prolong because there's human money. Without loans, agricultural enterprises today can become bankrupt. We are constantly convinced by the government, which is running the revenue part of the State Budget. On this stand, the deputy minister of finance assured the government’s programmes to be financed. I assure you that about 2 billion villages from the planned budget have not yet received money, and by the end of the year there are about 2 weeks left, and you can predict that they will not get the village the 2 billion that are necessary today to support agriculture at least a little bit. Us. Today, there is constant talk of opening up the earth’s market. The National Security and Defence Council insists. But, dear fellows, at a time when agriculture is in such decline, when agricultural enterprises are working, it's almost impossible to do so. Therefore, the faction of the “Block of Lithuania” insists on the following. Today, we demand that the National Bank and the government do everything possible to stabilize the situation in the financial markets so as not to allow the further decline of the currency to continue. To do this, we need to maintain strict purchasing and currency administration today. Today we demand from the Stabilisation Fund, when it is created, that it allocate funds to support agriculture. But today, as long as there is no stability fund, we demand that money be allocated to commercial banks to refinance farm programs. Good, means of protection – without this, agriculture cannot start a job. We demand that meat products be restricted today. It's probably unacceptable today that in 17 years of independence we can't feed ourselves with meat, I'm not saying that we can export to other countries. Five hundred thousand tons of meat were imported into Ukraine. We insist on banning the import of this product into Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u3	Thank you, Sergey Mikolayovich. Oleg Lazko, faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u4	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! First of all, on behalf of our political power, the “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko”, I would like to express my sincere thanks to my fellow Members of Parliament, the Head and the Presidency of the Supreme Council for the fact that, following a long-term interruption, the structured system of work of the legislative body has been restored. We testify that a new coalition has been created and worked in Parliament. Our faction is convinced that the period of artificially created political crises in Parliament has ended. Last week, he made it clear that a large majority of the people’s protagonists can consolidate their efforts and work effectively for the sake of the country’s interests. Parliament has taken real steps to ensure that executive power is provided with the necessary tools to minimize the impact of the world crisis. A series of important governmental anti-crisis bills adopted in the first reading will help and protect the leading sectors of the economy: construction, automotive, and agribusiness. But what is important is that the laws adopted guarantee the protection of the social rights of Ukrainians. And this is just the first step. There is a need to change basic social laws, to abandon unnecessary budget spending, especially those related to maintenance of state appliances, and unwarranted benefits. Savings will aim to cover additional social costs and investments in the real economy. The new bills will strengthen the fight against raiding, simplify the work of small and medium-sized enterprises, improve the investment climate, and ensure the stability of the fuel and energy complex. The adoption of these and a number of other laws is just the beginning of a normal, productive work. We are obliged to continue our business rhythm this week. The critical situation in the state requires that we do so. On the Conciliation Council, we have identified a list of laws that require prior adoption. The Yulia Timoshenko faction fully supports the proposal to work until all of them are considered. All scheduled questions will not be considered. So in close cooperation with the government, we have every opportunity to respond effectively to economic and social challenges. Unfortunately, our faction is forced to say that in the Ukrainian politics, they are dissatisfied with the fact that events are unfolding not according to their scenario. They are not set up by what is most, a coalition created by Parliament that has worked and adopted the necessary laws. Unwarranted threats of disobedience are evidence of this, with definite ultimatums. The goal of these authors is another adventure to destroy the new majority, to destroy the stability needed for society. On behalf of the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko and our colleagues in the newly created coalition, I firmly state that we will not allow destructive action to be taken to the detriment of the Ukrainian people. Today, more than ever, our nation needs decisive and concerted action by the government, all the political forces of Parliament, the President and the local authorities to overcome the negative effects of the world crisis on our economy. So any provocative calls and initiatives are playgrounds with New Year's firecrackers near the petrol barrel. Our political power would like to warn all those who admire such entertainment, who give instructions on destruction, who engage in political blackmail, or who try to sow panic in society. This is an antinational position that will have to be held accountable. We have an extremely responsible period ahead of us, we need to adopt a number of anti-crisis laws, but the main thing is that we need to adopt the 2009 State Budget. So I'm addressing all the national MPs, colleagues, let's leave the mutual insults, the baseless general criticism, and make sure that Ukrainian society lives in better conditions next year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u5	Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, a faction of Communists, is invited to the presentation.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, the Company's faction requires the creation of a special commission of inquiry into financial and banking affairs, directly linked to the state's senior officials, the National Bank and those commercial banks and their owners, who have obtained multi-billion-dollar credits on an unwarranted and illegal basis. We also insist on investigating their misuse of the IMF loan. First, why and on what grounds the National Bank of Ukraine gave the commercial bank Nadra 7.5 billion dollars in the dollar equivalent at the rate of 5.05 dollars per dollar, when the US dollar was at least 7 dollars at the time. Whose pockets and whose accounts account accounted for a difference of 3 billion dollars? Why is there no President's reaction to such a presumptuous affair? Not because President Yushchenko, the region of Firtash, is connected with business interests and not only in this case, but also in gas affairs? I would like to remind you that it is the co-owner of the sad intermediation structure that the President is communicating with today, and it is in their interests that Yushchenko demanded that the underground gas be sold from Ukraine for $110 per thousand cubic meters instead of the 179 that. This gas was bought at a state expense. Secondly, President Yushchenko forced part of the Supreme Council to vote in favour of the memorandum with the International Monetary Fund, and thus transferred the repayment of $16.5 billion to us Ukrainian citizens. People have to realize that now their taxes will be directed not to provide the hospital with medicines, not to fill the Pension Fund, not to help many children and people with disabilities, not to the development of transport and utilities, but to its repayment, which is a quarter of a billion dollars a year. For help: The cost of supporting the army is a little more than that. Thirdly, who and when authorized the President to agree to IMF terms that require a reduction in Ukraine's gold reserve over the next year, from the $32 billion we have in December 2008 to 14.9 by December 2009? Instead of ensuring financial stability, providing investment and credit support to the economy, the farmer, the social sphere, housing and utilities to prevent mass layoffs and unemployment, Nazbank, and the President continues to destroy the state of Ukraine as he was robbed and destroyed by the Bank of Ukraine. Then the bank was run by Yushchenko, and now he's running the state. The result is failure. Next, banks today confiscate their assets, sell them for nothing to their businesses just when the real estate and the cars are cheap, and the amount of the proceeds does not allow the debt to be paid. That is, a person is left without property, and he is also guilty of the bank’s money. At the same time, the owners of the companies that liberate the workers, both the employees and the owners of the banks that rob them, are the same persons. Today, the law on the moratorium on the removal of mortgage assets and the restructuring of debts must be passed immediately. Because banks have already established organized debt groups, or organized rackets, that are run by the banking mafia and are covered by an authority. Dear voters! There has already begun to be a massive disengagement of hot water and a marked disruption with gas and heat. The responsibility for failing to do so is once again transferred to the debt of the population. At the same time, tariffs and prices for utilities are rising, and their quality is declining. And there's winter in the yard. In hospitals, kindergartens, maternity homes, and homes people turn off light, heat, and water. And that's what those who represent the central and local authorities and the orange and the white and blue oligarchs do. In stores, food products, shelves of food stores, and supermarkets are lost at the limit of their use, or they are not fit for food. And it's not just abuse, it's a state policy aimed at supporting and satisfying the interests of only business clans. Dear voters, today everyone has a choice: to fight and win or submit and quietly live in poverty. But the last example of the criminal tandem of power and oligarchs is the arrest on the hot head of the Brovar State for getting bribes, imagine being bribed in cash with $42 million. It's for handing over the land. It is extremely difficult to bring such thieves to justice. Because in this case, he is replaced by the head of the Brovary Reservoir.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u7	Give me a 30-second chance to finish thinking. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u8	I'm going to the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine. Consider my speech an official parliamentary request. And the main thing. We have no right to remain silent. I'm addressing Ukrainian citizens. The company launches a nationwide protest campaign that takes place in all parts of Ukraine at the end of December. Join, do not be indifferent, create work committees to protect your businesses and workplaces, and set up committees to protect your property rights and your food. Remember that you are your own.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u9	Thank you. Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov, a faction of the Party of the Regions, is invited to the presentation. Excuse me, Yuri Carmazin, faction of "Our Ukraine People's Self-Defense." Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov will then perform.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u10	Dear People's Deputies, Yuri Karmazin National Self-Defense Party, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense", we are representatives of the "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" faction, and we welcome the restoration of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as we welcome the entire Ukrainian people today. Recognizing the political responsibility for the fate of the Ukrainian people and the State in the context of the deep global financial and economic crisis, the need for the immediate implementation of the principle of new, harmonious, balanced, equitable social relations for the overall development of every citizen, the strengthening of civil society and the establishment of an effective, responsible authority at all levels, the building of a competitive national economy, the faction at its meeting today took a decision for which 37 votes in favour, 14 against and 6, on the approval of the National Development Coalition, Stability and Order. [[Congrats]] The faction commissioned Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk’s famous politician to sign this agreement. I give him my word and ask him to include Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u11	Please. The faction will be continued by Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u12	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, on behalf of the faction “Our Ukraine”, I welcome all Ukrainians, the entire Ukrainian people, with the fact that the Supreme Council of Ukraine has finally been working and performing its functions. The period of intrigue and the destruction of parliamentaryism in Ukraine was over. The work of the Supreme Council began. Today, according to Yuri Karmazin, most factions have approved an agreement to form a coalition with the Yulia Timoshenko Block and the Lithuanian Block. At the same time, the faction commissioned me to sign this agreement and it will be signed today. [[Applause]] At the faction meeting, Viacheslav Kirilenko and Roman Zvaric resigned. [[Applause]] Today, the faction will choose a new leadership that will represent a faction that will not listen to instructions from the outside. But there's no basis for euphoria, there's a lot of work ahead to counter the financial and economic crisis in the name of protecting the rights and interests of Ukrainian citizens. Dear National Deputies! May we be worthy of the trust of the Ukrainian citizens who have chosen us, to keep our promises, and to wait for the electorate! In conclusion, Mr. Head, I ask you to put to the vote today a question of satisfaction with the application for the approval of the People's Deputies of Vakarczuk. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u13	Thank you. Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov, a faction of the Party of the Regions, is invited to the presentation. Anatoly Kirilovich Kinach will perform.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u14	Dear National Deputies! Respectable compatriots! In Ukraine, there is virtually a growing systemic socio-economic, financial, industrial crisis in all directions of activity. And it has to be directly recognized that the main risk for the society of the state, the economy, was formed not on the outside, but on the inside. People, the economy has become almost hostage to the shameful opposition of power, primarily the presidential and government verticals. The government is rapidly losing its qualifications and responsibility, and socio-economic, and the political crisis coincides with a crisis of power in the face of unprecedented legal nihilism, deepening pinching and corruption. In November of this year, the decline in industrial production in Ukraine was minus 28.6 percent, historical, in paws, at most in the history of Ukraine. And ten times higher than in the countries around us. Metallurgy has lost 49 percent of its production volume, chemical sector 37, machinery, which until the last months has been the engine of our economy, minus 39 percent. All state programs, including the fight against HIV, AIDS, have been disrupted. In fact, we're seeing the chaotic, unsystemic elements of monetary and exchange-rate corruption of the country that both the economy and millions of our fellow countrymen are suffering. It is essential that there is no anti-crisis package in Parliament to date as a joint result of the actions of the Cabinet of Ministers and the National Bank. The five meetings of the Cabinet of Ministers are also an unprecedented event and have not approved the 2009 macro indicators project and, virtually, the 2009 budget process that is already broken, which is further exacerbated by the crisis. What matters is that in these circumstances we see virtually a simulation of the activities of both the Cabinet of Ministers and so-called coalitions in Parliament. Initially, the destructive 2008 budget, which has become the main source of inflation and production decline in Ukraine, then the triumphant relationship with the anti-crisis law, which has absolutely no impact on the improvement of the situation and has recently put a stop to the adoption of changes and additions to the budget that are destroying the Ukrainian economy and in which the state has virtually refused to pay back the added value to Ukrainian businesses in the range of 12 billion dollars, which is deeper and deeper than the crisis, and creates the phenomenon of mass unemployment losing internal and external markets. The faction of the Party of the Regions insists on the following: it is necessary to stop this "freaky" imitation of activity. [[in quotes]] The so-called coalition in Parliament is once again an unprecedented example of both legal nihilism and the great extent of the deception of Ukrainian society. With gross violations of the Rules in the absence of a coalition agreement, we are urged to have Parliament resume its activities, unfortunately that is not the case. That is why we stress and demand an immediate report from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine together, stressing, with the National Bank, the introduction of systematic comprehensive anti-crisis actions to Parliament, the Ukrainian State Budget project, the exchange rate policy based on systematic high-professional activities. Unable to do so, move aside, do not torture the Ukrainian people, the economy, and the state. Thank you, for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u15	Dear National Deputies! Factions finished speaking. I ask the secretariat of these proposals, which were made in the statements, if necessary, to prepare the necessary instructions for the institutions of power or appeal. Dear colleagues! On the Conciliation Council, we agreed on a schedule for our work and agreed that we should make a decision on the order of the day of the third session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call. I would like to inform you, fellow honourable Members, that this list includes over a thousand hundred drafts. It is accompanied by appropriate additions, appendix one and appendix two, which committees, or factions, propose not to include the relevant bills in the agenda of the day session. But according to the Rules, I'm going to put it to a vote like this. May I have your attention, please? The whole package, including two appendices, with objections from factions and committees, if such a proposal is not supported, will be put to the vote on the issue of the formation of the agenda solely of those bills that do not raise objections to the factions and committees, or the main body of the draft regulation, will be put to the vote. And then, if there's an insistence, the first and second plug-ins will vote separately. Is there no objection? I'm putting the draft ruling to the vote. Please sign up, give me five minutes on this. Coming through, please. Please point to the board. People's MP Pudov, then Klinkarov, Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u16	I'd like to give the floor to Kamchatno.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u17	People's deputy Kamchatny.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u18	Thank you! Kamchatska “Blok ulija Timoshenko”, Kharkiv region. I fully support the package from these three chapters. But I do have an offer as a representative of the city of Kharkiv. These lists do not, in my opinion, have three bills that I and my colleagues have introduced, particularly in the city of Kharkiv. Bill drafted by Za Kharkiv, 3454 - on measures to stimulate the socio-economic development of the city of Harkov in relation to the 355th anniversary. That's the first one. The other one. The draft decree marking the 125th anniversary of the National Technical University of Kharkiv University of Technology is, in my opinion, very important.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u19	Okay, I got it. Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u20	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, it is a pity that from the general list of issues that we have to consider in this session the deleted bill of the Communist factions and I insist that they be returned to the general list. Bill 1149 of Peter Simonenck on Ukraine’s permanent neutral non-lock status. Draft Law 1015-1 Player on Languages, on Amendments to the Language Act. Cíbenka’s colleague’s draft, 2456, for additions to the Supreme Council’s decree on commemorative dates and Jubilee in 2008 and 2009, respectively. The 1023 Simonnka project to complete the transition of the Ukrainian Armed Forces and other military formations to assemble a special contingent of military personnel under contract. The Simonnka 1024-3 project on mandatory government pension insurance for the minimum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u21	The possibility to complete the list.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u22	1116 on the creation of a working group for the development or amendment of the Codex on Road Traffic. Dear colleagues, as we can see, the vast majority of this list does not bear any political coloring. I don't understand why any factions or committees have decided to remove them from the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u23	Vladimir MacKayenko, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u24	Verni Dubois' word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u25	Ivan Verni Dubov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u26	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, after reviewing this list of issues prepared for consideration in plenary meetings, I am of course very pleased with those drafters of the bills that passed their bills in September, October, December and are already on the list. I, along with other co-sponsors, passed a bill on the town of Sevastopol in March, 2321, and it stands in the line where the committee is to prepare for further consideration. On this point, I have repeatedly spoken here, and I ask you, the order that was at Yatsenuk must not be further, all deputies must be in equal conditions. And for all MPs, by voting in favour of this agenda, we have the right to monopolize the Head of the Supreme Council every day to form our agenda. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u27	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u28	Yurya Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Yesterday at the Conciliation Council, I asked the question that when the entire Ukrainian people are in crisis, we have over a hundred deputies who simply do not attend meetings, plenary sessions of the Supreme Council session, do not sit down and break down committee meetings on what does not happen to committees due to the absence of a quorum. This has to be done, because if the averages, as our President says today, are not on the job for three hours, the same should be true of the national MP. I would like to plan a report to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure on this issue on the provision of discipline. That's the first question. And the second. Please include a bill on the President's Office, where I predict a reduction of up to three hundred people is not a necessary body that will build the whole country today! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u29	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the Lithuanian Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u30	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the Lithuanian Block. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Unfortunately, some of my colleagues during the performances showed that in a year of collapse in the Supreme Council we or they got out of the work of the Supreme Council. Looking at what we're offered to do today, I suggest we take the order for a session so that you and I, as legislators, can prepare for the plenary sessions, analyze the bills, polish them, engage in a key parliamentary mission, legislative work. This has been said about some usurpation, you've forgotten how to be forgotten, there's a daily schedule at the session on the basis of which the conciliatory boards accept the meeting schedule for two weeks, as it was in the fourth call, right. And then there's a day-to-day routine, based on this schedule of meetings, it's a perfectly correct, logical procedure. I propose to vote for the agenda for the session and to include all the bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u31	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! We exchanged thoughts on this subject. I ask permission to stress just one thing, as said by my colleague Ivan Vernidubov. I'm also co-authoring the Sevastopol City Hero Bill. And I think we should ask that question and consider and follow up on the relevant rules of the Constitution. And with regard to the usurpation of power, I think we should say who's in charge of usurpation and who's in charge of the work of the Supreme Council. In accordance with the requirements of the organization of the work of the Supreme Council, the order of work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine should be approved. And meetings for every plenary week are agreed solely on the Conciliation Board of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. If the Conciliation Board does not decide whether or not to consider a matter, the Chief of the Supreme Council does not form its own calendar of meetings. I think during such a long period of work in the Supreme Council it would be worth learning. Therefore, honourable colleagues, there is an offer, the right of legislators to legislate. And the responsibility of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is to take a decision and form an appropriate order of the day session, all the bills that have been submitted to the Supreme Council. With this in mind and with the addition of those bills that may have come out, I would like to check on the Secretariat. I am voting on the adoption of the draft Supreme Council Decision on the agenda of the Third Session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call, including all the bills currently registered in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This will be honest and responsible. Please vote. [[10:38:20]] For 199 No, 179, no decision taken. That's why you're treating me. May I have your attention, please? Another proposal is therefore put to the vote. On the adoption of the draft decree on the order of the day of the third session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the sixth non-additional call, taking into account those proposals for numbers that were presented by colleagues of the national parliaments during the exchange of information. [[Registration number 3095]] With regard to the document, please vote. [[10:39:10]] For 233 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, the schedule for the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from 16 to 19 December 2008 is agreed, and since we have approved the agenda, we do not need to vote on the approval of our schedule for this plenary week. We now continue to work according to the schedule of meetings. It is submitted, Your Honor, to your consideration of the draft Decision on the appointment of Mr. Seljenova Anatolia Alexandrovich as Permanent Representative of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. In this regard, the head of the Committee on Legal Policy, Sergey Grigorovich Mishchenko, has the floor. Sergey Grigorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u32	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! We have forgotten for political, political struggles that we have almost a year no representative of the Supreme Council in the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. We can now eliminate this inadequacy. Therefore, the Supreme Council’s Order on the appointment of Anatolia Alexandrovich, head of the Department of Justice of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as the Permanent Representative of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, is submitted to your consideration. Before voting, I want to point out that you know this man long ago, that he was our representative in the Constitutional Court, he was not one vocation, about his regalia, about his question in the legal context of speaking, I think it's inappropriate, because you all know that this man has always stood in the positions of the Supreme Council. And the Committee on Legal Policy unanimously supported this candidate. The more we have the conclusions of the Committee on Rules and Ethics, which also marks this candidate positively. So I propose that the Supreme Council approve Seljenova Anatolia Alexandrovich as a permanent representative of the Supreme Council in the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u33	Dear colleagues, we discussed this issue yesterday, and there were no objections from the factions. Is there no objection on your part now, on the part of the national MPs, to ask this question for consideration? A draft decision on the appointment of Mr. Seljenova Anatolia Alexandrovitch as Permanent Representative of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine is tabled for your consideration. [[Registration number 3156]] Please, Your Honor, vote. [[10:42:50]] For 257 Decision taken. Thank you. Welcome to Anatoly Alexanderovich. The factions? Please. Region Party – 5; Timoshenko Yulia Block – 150, “Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense” – 55, Communist faction – 27, “Litvina Block” – 20. Dear colleagues, the draft decree on the permanent suspension of the powers of Ukrainian national deputies, Vakárczuk and Timoshenko, is being announced. Head of the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Security of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Alexander Sergiyovich, will you be here? I'm asking you to turn on Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u34	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I understand, was not present today in the wake of the day. Is it the beginning of self-involved determination of what will happen in Parliament or how? Or will this majority coalition, created or not, still need to be understood, determine what it wants to consider? We are preparing this issue for Thursday, and we are ready to report on Thursday.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u35	I'm asking you to calm down. Dear colleagues, the question of the composition of parliamentary powers, has been dealt with in the committee. I would like to remind you that our colleague Timoshenko wrote a statement on October 1, 2008, and our colleague Wakurczuk wrote another application on September 16, 2008. And so there is no political basis here, because people have essentially made the issue of authority, and they don't work. What can we talk about? And there's an appropriate committee decision. These questions are automatically considered. Please, Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u36	Vladimir Mihajlovich, first of all, let us remember the Rules, and on each issue, do not comment on other speakers, you have no right to do so as a speaker of Parliament. That's the first one. Second question. We've agreed on a day-to-day arrangement with you on the Conciliation Council this week. And I say that there is a point this week that we agreed on when we will consider this issue. If you wish to change this agenda by any of the representatives of the majority who have been created, let us change what has been agreed upon at the Conciliation Council. But then I say it doesn't fit any standards.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u37	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? In order to remove all contradictions, I would like to draw attention to the question of who is to now consider the relevant draft regulations relating to the termination of the powers of Ukraine's national deputies, Vakarczuk and Timoshenko, please vote. [[10:46:16]] For 236 Decision taken. Alexander Sergiyovich, microphone. Is there a need to report? Please, the microphone. Or will you be from the rostrum? Please. The factions? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u38	The Regulatory Committee considered a statement by the People's Deputy of Vakarczuk on the composition of parliamentary powers. We have no reason to deny the people's MP his statement, so the matter can be addressed in the Supreme Council and a positive decision taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u39	Ladies and gentlemen, no objection?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u40	I'm putting to the vote the draft Decree 3178 on the permanent suspension of the power of the Ukrainian national MP Vakarczuk. Please vote. [[10:47:26]] For 245 Decision taken. The factions? Please. Region Party – 2, Timoshenko Yulia Block – 154, "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" – 42, Communist faction – 27, "Litvina Block" – 20. Now, honourable colleagues, the draft Decree 3449 on the early termination of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy Timoshenko Mikli Mihajlovich is being considered. Please, Efraem's microphone Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u41	The statement by Timoshenko Nikolay Nikolaevich was also considered by the Committee in connection with the transition to other work. We have no reason not to vote in favour of this statement, so the Supreme Council can be defined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u42	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there are no other suggestions, warnings?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u43	A draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the permanent suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy Timoshenko Mikli Mihajlovich is submitted for your consideration. [[Registration number 3449]] Please vote. [[10:48:50]] For 375 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, let us thank together our colleagues with whom we worked together for their work and for their principled position as demonstrated by making appropriate statements to the Supreme Council, thus fulfilling their civic responsibility and the requirements of the Constitution. I ask for the necessary materials to be submitted to the Central Electoral Commission secretariat in order for them to be able to make an appropriate decision on the following people who will be granted the status of the Ukrainian People's Deputy. Dear colleagues, on the Conciliation Council, we also discussed the question that we have an extremely large number of drafts, and we all need to consider them. And in order to look at them, we need not only to work effectively, but perhaps even to decide on the continuation of the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine before the conclusion of all the issues that are scheduled for today. I am voting on the proposal to continue the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine until the conclusion of the consideration of all the issues set out in the schedule for today. Please be supportive. Please vote. [[10:50:30.]] For the 220. The decision is not taken. Let us now consider the draft laws set out in the meeting schedule. A draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on social protection for many children is being announced for consideration. Registration numbers: 2448, 2474. Reporters: Minister of Family Affairs, Youth and Sports Yuri Alexiyovich Pavlenko, and National Deputy of Ukraine Jaroslav Mikhailovich Suhi. A member of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport, and Tourism, Eugeniy Ivanovich Suslov, will be the focal point. Please, Yuri Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u44	Dear Mr. Head, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! For your consideration by the President of Ukraine, there is a bill amending some of the legislation on social protection for many children. Many families are the most vulnerable in modern socio-economic conditions. Many families are in urgent need of increased public support because they are living far more difficult than many others. The worst problems for such families remain: housing, low material wealth, and education for children. Members of such families are greatly underpaid, mostly underskilled, and generally the first victims of unemployment. Ukraine’s draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to Legislative Acts on Social Protection for Multi-Children has been developed with the aim of improving the State system of social protection for a multi-child family and each of its members, the fullest performance of a multi-child family of its functions, its standard of living, and its role in society. The bill provides for the introduction of additional social guarantees to many families. This is also a further assignment from the Housing Fund to live in homes for families and single mothers and parents who have five or more children, as well as three or more children when one woman is born at the same time. Multi-child families with three or more minors are offered the following benefits: a 50-per-cent reduction in rent for housing, housing, within the limits of the standards foreseen by the current legislation; a 50-per-cent reduction in wages for utility services: gas supply, electricity and other services, the cost of balloon gas and household requirements within the average consumption standards; a 50-per-cent reduction in fuel costs, including liquid, within the limits of the standards set for the sale of the population for many-year-old families living in non-central homes; and an extra-primary installation of residential telephones; a subscription fee for use of 50 per cent of the approved tariffs. Children from many families are offered the following benefits: free medical treatment for prescriptions, annual medical examinations and dissipation at state and municipal health institutions with the involvement of necessary specialists, primary care at health care establishments, pharmacies, primary hospitalization, free travel by all types of urban passenger transport, road transport by general use in rural areas, and rail and water transport by suburban connections, and buses by suburban, inter-urban, including inland, regardless of distance and place of residence. The relevant draft law proposes to amend article 19 of the Ukrainian Child Protection Act, which proposes to complement the position that children from many families with five or more children and persons between 18 and 23 years of age from such families are freed from schooling at all levels, provided that a certain level of education is obtained for the first time. It is also envisaged that the fees for the training paid by the persons listed will be compensated by the higher educational institution in the order established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. In doing so, the amount of such compensation will not be included in the total monthly or annual tax income of the persons for whom it is paid. According to the bill, one parent who has three or more children under the age of 18 is increasing the amount of social tax that will reduce the amount of his total monthly tax income. Moreover, one parent who raises three or more children does not have to be included in the tax income of a parent, a purposeful charity that is provided by residents, legal persons or natural persons in any amount. Laws. Amendments to the "Pro pensions" and "Special Credits to Ukraine" Act provide for the preservation of the rights of the mother who gave birth to five or more children and raised them to the age of six for a pension allowance of 35 or 40 per cent of the minimum of living for those who have lost their jobs. An allowance of the same size for the period after 31 December 2008 was established by the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2008. The right to a pension allowance in question will also be granted to women who are honoured by Ukraine's title “Mother Hero” It is also proposed to increase the length of additional paid leave for workers who have children from seven to ten calendar days and from 14 to 17 calendar days. Thus, the prescribed draft law is extremely relevant and appropriate. In view of the above, it is worth combining the efforts of the initiators of the bills to amend some Ukrainian legislation on social protection for many children. This bill, which I am submitting, was introduced by the President of Ukraine, and the draft Law on the Status and Social Protection of Multi-Children Act, introduced by the People's Deputies of Ukraine, Suhim and Petrov. Undoubtedly, this bill is the first time in Ukraine in 17 years that we have started to form a whole single social protection policy, the social support of a multi-child family. That is why I would like to thank you for the initiative of the Ukrainian people's deputies in their bill, in most positions, the bill introduced by the President of Ukraine and introduced by the Ukrainian people's deputies coincide. So our proposal is to approve the draft in the first reading. And when it's being processed for second reading, it's going to take the utmost account of the proposals that are in the bill tabled by the people's deputies Suhim and Petrov. There's a financial and economic justification for this bill. And that's not a small amount that's foreseen from the State Budget, understanding all the complexity of the State Budget next year. So here, between the first and the second readings, it's going to have to be as balanced as possible to go to every position in the bill. We estimate that the cost of supporting a multi - child family over the year is within 1.5 billion dollars. In general, I would like to inform the Ukrainian National Deputies that, over the past three years, the Ukrainian Ministry of Family, Youth and Sports has been defined as one of the Ministry’s priorities for social protection, support for many children. During this time, a great deal has been done to carry out the passporting of each multi - child family, to study specific problems, the specific difficulties faced by the family as a whole, and each individual child in such a family. As far as possible, support is provided to each such family by the district, district, and state administrations. But to our belief, this is not enough, because social status, social support must be guaranteed to a multi-child family directly by law, must be directly protected by the State. So, honourable people's deputies, we are asking you to support this bill introduced by the President of Ukraine, aimed at social protection and support for a multi-child family in the first reading. And to the second reading, to the maximum, take into account the proposals for a bill tabled by the Ukrainian people's deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u45	Yes, the Minister's report is complete. Dear colleagues, please sign up for a question to the reporter. Yes. Please, Oleg Lazko, the faction of the Yulia Tymoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u46	Oleg Lazko, "The Yulia Tymoshenko Block", our faction will support this bill because it is aimed at strengthening the social protection of many children's families. And in the second reading, we're going to work on it taking into account the possibilities of the budget and the financial crisis. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'd like to make a suggestion to you after considering this bill to consider the following proposal. Since the proposal to work today has not been supported before, so that we can consider all of the bills that are very important, I would like to support the consideration of the short-term bills so that we can look at all the bills today, because they are very important to the country. It's also a budget fill-up, it's also anti-residering legislation, and so the inability to deal with it, it's not going to do much to improve the economic situation in the country. So in order for us to get there, I'd like to consider a simplified procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u47	Thank you, Oleg Volodymyrovich, for your support for this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u48	As for your proposal, if the Supreme Council of Ukraine agrees, once this bill is concluded, if we continue to consider the following, I will put your proposal to the vote. National Deputy Costusiev, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u49	Thank you. Please give the floor to Deputy Corge Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u50	Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u51	Dear Yuri Alexiyovich, I would like to say that our faction will certainly support this bill, because it is relevant and goes to the fairway of all legislative acts that relate to the support of children, particularly many children's families. But I would like to draw your attention to the fact that Decree No. 905, which was adopted in the past month, came into existence in October, more specifically in terms of the order of adoption, a new category of children whose parents agreed to adopt. We initiated our time last year, you are now implementing a year of national adoption. Together, we declare measures to strengthen multi-child families, and this decision is completely out of this forefather and link.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u52	Complete the question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u53	And the reference of your experts to the 209 article of the Family Code, which is about babies that have been rejected by their parents, is totally unacceptable. So, Yuri Alexiyovich, I know that this ruling in the Cabinet of Ministers was adopted by vote and its text does not correspond to the legislative act. So I'd like to ask you to consider this and bring this decision into line with legislation and common sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u54	Thank you. Thank you, Victor Petrovich, for the support of the bill, especially since you are very much involved in its development, working as Ukraine’s minister for family, youth, and sports during 2007. As far as you're concerned, the Cabinet of Ministers has indeed adopted two very important decisions in November that regulate the functioning of care and care bodies, and in fact the authorities and their responsibility for respect, and the protection of the rights of children, orphans and children, deprived of parental care. And secondly, there was a decree that regulates the order of adoption, both national and interstate, which is also an extremely important step and was taken for the first time by the Ukrainian State, which clearly defines the authority of each official, the responsibility of each official, for the fate of the child who adopts. It also provides for monitoring the rights of such a child after adoption. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u55	Complete the answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u56	Unfortunately, this long time in the country has not been and everything has only been given to the moral and ethical qualities of professionals and you know it. With regard to this position, we will reexamine it and give you an adequate answer in accordance with legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u57	Shershun Mikola Haritonovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u58	Thank you. Mikola Shershun faction "Block of Lithuania". We will certainly support the provisions of the bill on measures aimed at enhancing the social protection of multi-child families, but there is a proposal, along with that question. Do you not think that a consistent commitment to State support needs other vulnerable categories of families with children as well? In particular, for the purpose of ensuring the child’s right to be brought up in a biological family, the purpose of caution, parental rejection, and children with disabilities are included. In my view, it is also necessary to provide for increased social protection for single mothers and parents of disabled children. Your vision?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u59	Thank you for your support for this bill. I no doubt fully support your offer and, more than that, I tell you that during the last few years, a tremendous effort has been made to combat early orphanages, to preserve the birth mother for each child. I'll tell you that today those centers, the social centers of mother and child who are already working in nineteen areas of Ukraine have reduced the number of mothers who refuse children by 60 percent, or every other mother for a child, we have saved by providing the necessary social and material, psychological, and other services. And in such cases, it is shown by experience that at times just an outstretched hand and the good word of such a mother are worth a great deal. But I'm sure the state has to help those families that raise children with disabilities, children with very serious diseases.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u60	More easily, please describe the answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u61	Such initiatives on our part are given, both in relation to the child in the biological family and during adoption or during the formation of a foster family where there is a disabled child, to increase, if for a healthy child, two subsistence minimums, for a disabled child, three subsistence minimums. I hope the Supreme Council here will also support us in these initiatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u62	Please, have a seat. I invite you to report on the draft Law of 2474 of the Ukrainian People's Deputy Jaroslav Mihajlovich Suhogo.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u63	Dear colleagues! As we know, demographic policy has been and remains an integral part of not only social policy, but also public policy of any society. Demographic policy is, if you want, the core of the national security system of any state. And any state is concerned about ensuring normal conditions in society not only for birth but also for education and for the normal development of society. The problem of social assistance, social assistance, I emphasize, families, is not just in Ukraine and not only in Ukraine. This problem is common in other nations of the world. I want to remind everyone that there was even a tax in the Soviet Union, and it was called a childless tax. Thus, in addition to the social spending funds, this tax was one of the sources of the social benefits and benefits that many families then enjoyed. What happened now? You see, in years of independence and in the face of the crisis that Ukraine has experienced for more than a year and more than once, we have a very bad practice where social policy looks like a hot patch of holes. There's a bill for teachers, there's a medical emergency coming in, there's a bill for doctors, there's a bill for the militia, there's a bill for the military. Instead of a whole, slim system of social policy, we were constantly searching for where to get money to cover a hole. What did we get? I want to tell him, using the opportunity of being here, and he was right a thousand times when he spoke on our committee about social assistance, that is, social assistance to a particular poor person -- that is, aid that is provided with material and financial resources. If it's not there, it's sweet promises, it's nerves, it's just the excitement of society. I can remind you of a lot of the bills that were passed here in this room, from this rostrum were reported whether it was because of political requirements that we voted for them, whether we wanted to feed and harass and veto someone, like the Children of War Act and so on. So the bill that is under consideration today must be adopted at least because we must finally approach systemicity in addressing social policy issues. Today, more than ten laws govern the welfare and protection of large families. The need to get them into one thing, the need for a certain one, if you want to codify this issue, is long overdue. I want to remind the people of Ukraine of the fourth call. She presented the Family Code if you remember a colleague, Professor Zoreslava Romowski, who said that we should put the problems of many families separately into a separate bill, which clearly states: (a) status; (b) social attitudes of the State and society. Why? I don't think I'm going to open America for you. The parliamentary hearings held in this Hall and the days of the government, which have recently been held here in the fight against poverty, have filled us with the real legislative content of the poverty eradication strategy, giving us dissatisfaction. Among Ukrainian citizens who are either at the poverty line or at the poverty line, families with children and families are usually multi - child families and, in general, multi - child families living in rural areas. What can we get you, dear colleagues? If we lose the demographic situation in the country, we won't get any law enforcement. We don't get the filling, the normal filling of normal children, our vases, we lose sight of the Ukrainian nation's golden gene pool, the Ukrainian children, because we don't help them there. And I don't think that's right. What's the problem? We can here, as in the President's Bill, write up new benefits. This is discrimination against the opposition. I emphasize the adoption of bills here, such as in the presidential, the government to increase, to give to the government. I think it's time for us to eventually adopt laws that would encourage the growth of benefits and subsidies. Dear colleagues, we need to ensure that these grants are addressed. For some reason, today this grant is 9th of December, 18th of December. But social assistance is the kind of money that would give society a normal life. Think about it, it's only a pension in Ukraine that helps with poverty. But in all the states of the world, the pension is what's earned by young hands, the best in society -- the best in years, the health, the care of the family, the whole of society, and suddenly we give it 600 to 800 dollars at a time when worldwide, the pension is earned. [[And we stopped the pension reform.]] So the benefits and the extra payments to a multi-child family should be a reward to those parents for being concerned about the future of the nation, to ensure that they are able to develop normally. Bill 2474, which I report to my colleague Petrov, why do I propose to accept in the first reading? Dear colleagues, imagine, if we accept this bill and take all the positives from the president, we will give the social services, the governments, the Ukrainian National Deputies, their assistants who receive many children's families, we will give them one law in our hands, where all the standards and status and social assistance will be clearly and clearly written. The Presidential Bill proposes to amend again to more than 10 bills in different directions, and try to choose from different laws regarding a multi - child family. Therefore, the proposal of Bill 2448 and the proposal of Ukrainian national deputies must be taken into account when preparing for the second reading. And one more thing. Our bill is scheduled to be implemented on January 1, 2010. The committee, where there was a very lively discussion, explained that in the end we would need to give government structures in 2009 in order to find out, together with the Committee on Family and Youth, what our methodology is in the behaviour of the State, society, and the multi-child family. What the algorithm of relationships is, once, to ensure the real, I dream that this crisis that started will finally remember us, our populist-demagogical passion, and we social bills will start to adopt reality. This is also true of the minimum of living. The minister had just said: Three subsistence minimums, five subsistence minimums. But this minimum of living does not withstand any criticism, as doctors know, from the standards of physical consumption. Populations, especially small children, cannot survive these standards. If it wasn't for shadow income, we'd have a worse situation right now, and so far the doctors can confirm that while we're here talking and screaming, we're down by 300,000. So it died more than it was born. Well, the map of Ukraine has lost such a city, I know, like Ternopil, from small to old. And we're still talking and talking. When we adopt our bills, we need to get out of what? – What is the real value of this bill, how can it be implemented? So I urge you to vote in favour of the parliamentary bill, because, first of all, it allows you to codify all the rules on the issues of multi-child families, it allows a professional committee, together with the government, I would ask, there is no policy here with this government, well, with another government, it doesn't matter, but ultimately, the perpetrator of all our legislation is the government. We have to give them a real bill, and then we can actually monitor their implementation. About 240,000 multi-child families have about 1 million children. This is my warning if anyone asks why a separate law is needed. Because this is a huge category of our citizens. In addition, 250,000 more than 250,000 children are raised in families with 4 or more children. Dear colleagues, have you and I owed to these Ukrainian coasts women? Mother heroine, and there's about 2,000 of them, which. You read it in this bill, it's not serious benefits and unrealistic benefits. They need to be developed clearly and clearly. Regarding the specifics of the aid, I reiterate, they need to be combined with the Presidential Committee and allow our committee of profile in preparing for the second reading to be clear, it is justified to write and ultimately make this law possible for the first time in the history of Ukrainian Parliamentarianism a reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u64	Dear colleagues, the report is complete. Please sign up for the question. Let me explain. Vladimir Yavorowski, faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u65	Dear reporter, certainly in that demographic almost tragic situation faced today by the Ukrainian people, Ukraine, there is no doubt that all these three initiatives -- both presidential and yours, and the other people's deputies -- are absolutely relevant. And because of that, believe me, we're going to vote, "Julia Timoshenko's Block" is actually going to vote in favour of all these three bills, because each of them has one interesting very or two, or three interesting details, and of course it would be best to unify them. So here absolutely, I think we're completely alone in this. That this is something that needs to be supported. I have one-one, Mr. Dry, one-one warning. In this complex situation of total economic crisis, or we're going to pull it out. You heard the minister say the value of the president's bill is one and a half billion. I feel like you've got more benefits, so it's going to be even more expensive, and I'm just afraid of the only one -- or this again. Isn't this bill going to get promoted? How do you appreciate these possibilities of our budget?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u66	Vladimir Alexandrovich, you're absolutely right. Responding to your first observation on the demographic situation, you correctly note that this problem requires a comprehensive approach. We should not forget the terrible condition of our maternity homes, which are there, and the kindergartens, which at the time were handing out to the left and right, and now the queues are piling up again in our cities. As far as the benefits are concerned. That's why the profile committee decided to support the MP's bill that we agreed to the benefits. And the valuable size of this bill will be accepted by the second reading committee and by those who will implement this law by the government. There's no imperative in my bill: blame it. I understand perfectly what we have now. The main thing is to adopt a bill. Don't let him be filled with booze. God willing, in 2009, we're going to break this problem down, in 2010, the crisis is ending, we're going to start an upward development. We had a crisis with you, Vladimir Aleksandrovich, in the hall, remember, more than once. There was hyperinflation, there were phantoms, there were punks -- we went through it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u67	National Deputy Karpuk, faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u68	Vladimir Karpuk, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense”. Dear Jaroslav Mikhailovich, you have read quite a good lecture on the demographic situation. I completely agree with you. And they called it 240 thousand multi-child families and 1 million children. That's really true. At the same time, I am impressed by your view of the systemic approach and address of many families. But the introduction of that law since January 1, 2010, you yourself say that many children are the most vulnerable, the most vulnerable. Although the bill and the presidential bill and your bill were passed in the fifth month, in May-month, but this is primarily the anti-crisis law that helps many families survive the crisis. Thus, from that point of view, the approach of the presidential law is more impressive. But you know how hard it is for us to make these system laws. And when it's adopted, that law you're proposing is the approach? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u69	Well, dear colleagues, let's take a look at the calendar today. January 1, 2009, that's it, that's it. Until then, we need the Cabinet of Ministers to make changes and additions. I don't think the President of Ukraine, when he introduced this bill, acted as an opposition. This is the art in opposition: to promise it to people. That the authorities will never be able to do it. And in this case, I'm talking about the reality of the bill, the fact that it has to be one book, and the essence, the value of all these benefits and social benefits is definitely there. There's a profile committee and there's specialists, along with the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Well, if we do, listen, if we continue this policy: to adopt bills here using the majority and pins to insert the government, sooner or later this pin will come out of the other side and the other government. In the end, the children themselves will emerge, and 2009 will be the laws that support the families of many children. In order to make this problem systemic and complex, we need to adopt this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u70	Sergey Ribuk, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u71	Thank you. May I have the floor to the deputy of Stoyan?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u72	Alexander Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u73	Dear Jaroslav Mikhailovich. You have really shown the need for this important social law. And you know what I'm afraid of? Now there are two laws: Presidential and yours. And I don't want to have political motives here, let's say, because the Presidential Law is very important and it's all set up, and yours is very important. But I'm impressed with your project, you know why? Because you've really gathered all the changes in one document, in one bill, and then, when it's done, it'll be easier to figure out how to give this help to many children. The president's got it covered, but it's in the 10 laws. So I would ask my colleague to reject some political motives, some, well, misunderstandings, to vote in favour of Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich's bill, more loyally, to take the basis of it. And in the second reading, we're going to assign our Committee on Social Policy and the Committee of Youth to take us to the store. And then it'll be very good. But I ask you very much that we do not lose the law on our own, for it is very important to many families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u74	Alexander Mikolaiovich, thank you. I want all my colleagues to stress in this bill there is a huge political motive. When we adopt this bill, we give a positive signal to society. We're not stuck, we're not stuck with the problems in the economy that we are now, we're thinking about tomorrow. So Ukraine has not yet died. And as for lobbyism, there may be some of yours. Well, I'm sorry, there's no lobbying, there's no lobbying for business, there's lobbying for the interests of the Ukrainian people. I think that this bill today in the session room should and should simply unite us all around caring for many children. Remember what I told you, and it is true that whoever does not vote for this bill will have huge sexual problems.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u75	Thank you, Jaroslav Mikhailovich, for such a note. Dear colleagues, the position of the committee will now be reported by Eugene Ivanovich Suslov, a member of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport and Tourism. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u76	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Two bills on strengthening the social protection of multi-child families are submitted for your consideration: a draft of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Legislative Acts on Social Protection of Multi-child Families, introduced by the President of Ukraine, and a draft of the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Multi-Children Families in Ukraine, registered number 2474, introduced by the Ukrainian National Deputies, Dry Jaroslav Mihajlovich and Petrov Boris Fedorovich. [[No. 2448]] These issues are currently regulated by the Code of Laws on the Work of Ukraine, the Laws of Ukraine on "For Vacations", "For State Assistance to Families with Children", "About the Housing Fund for Social Assignment, "For Childhood Protection", "For Retirement for Special Credits to Ukraine". The Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport, and Tourism, supporting both bills, believes that the spread of questions about the protection of multi - child families in various legislative acts poses difficulties in applying them in practice. In support of the decision of the Committee on Social Policy and Labour, the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport and Tourism decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the draft Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Multi-Children Families in Ukraine, registration number 2474. Ukrainian National Deputy Dry and Petrov. Taking into account the second reading of the provisions of the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts on Social Protection of Multi-Children Families, registration number 2448, submitted by the President of Ukraine. Note that the Committee on Budget Affairs has decided that bills have an impact on the spending of the budget towards increase and can therefore be adopted on condition that they are put into effect not earlier than 1 January 2010. Please support the committee's proposal to adopt the draft Law on the Status and Social Protection of Ukrainian Families, registered number 2474, introduced by Suchim and Petrov, on the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u77	Dear colleagues, are there any questions to the coconspirator? No questions? None. Then sit down, please. Let's move on to the discussion. Please sign up for the factions and national MPs. Please show those who signed up. Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine. Adam Martinyuk will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u78	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that both of the bills under consideration are extremely necessary, and they are absolutely acceptable for adoption. One is narrower, which is introduced by the President, because it is called “To make changes to certain legislative acts on the social protection of multi-child families”, and the other is the project of our colleague Dryhogo “On the status and social protection of multi-child families in Ukraine”. In my view, the disadvantage of the first is that there is a double understanding of many families in relation to the benefits provided by law. First, those families that have three children have one benefit, and second, they only have five. So it seems to me that according to the approaches, on a larger list of benefits, of course, the larger and broader bill proposed by Comrade Suhi. And this is the case where there's an opposition representative in this case in the hall of the project. I think it's legally better written. Because we need to decide and make a colossal decision. I'm going to the government of Ukraine because these projects have no financial or economic justification, neither. I'm paying attention to the drafters of the bill and the President's Secretariat, and I'm paying attention to Jaroslav Suhogo, and the national deputy Petrov, that there's no justification for this law, and the law will cost a lot of money. According to previous estimates, this is not one hundred million dollars. But there are no funds that Ukraine would not have to pay to raise a good, normal offspring. Therefore, many families need to be supported, and a list of 15 benefits to many families and guarantees their social protection, where land ownership is anticipated, and the payment is increased by 100 percent to children who are raised in large families and who are trained in educational institutions. And it is from the beginning of three children that families are to be viewed as many children. In my opinion, he needs all the support he can get. Therefore, honourable national deputies, we will vote for both the law and the other, but the Council’s objectivity must be said that the second law is better written, even though it still has to be calculated. I'm asking you to find funds on the budget committee for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u79	Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, Communist faction. Next will be the People’s Deputy of Pudov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u80	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, there is no doubt in either of us that we are really considering a sinister issue. It is a pity, of course, that the reporters, both in the first bill and in the second, said the right things about helping many families, forgot to evaluate them and why we came to such a state of affairs. Why, in 17 years of independence, we have reached the point where we need to save a family, save a young mother, who needs to save a child. Because unfortunately, and in the end, the state, because, unfortunately, every year, we're going to have an increase in the number of births and the number of children raised in children's homes is increasing. Sadly, at one time the Supreme Council began to evaluate the disgraceful phenomenon of child trafficking, but unfortunately we stopped halfway. What can we now say that there is no child trafficking?Oh, my God! No, it is likely to flourish, even though you and I will not be alarmed. Even more so, the demographic situation, and more specifically the mother’s refusal to give birth to children, gives just as much reason as to trade in children, and this trade continues. They probably turned yesterday and this morning and broadcast television about the fact that in the United States there was a court case against the father who adopted the child from the CIS and it literally mated with him in a car where he left her unattended. We need to return to the social benefits and help that many of our people remember. I represent the Polish region, Love on Volina, where there are so many large families. And those of you who remember Soviet history know that in one village of Birke in the Soviet Union there were more than forty heroin mothers. And it's not today's heroine mother, sorry, the indicator, because we've reduced that indicator, and then in order to get the title of a mother hero, we've had to raise, grow up at least ten people, and of course there was someone to care for these children. And I think we're going to do the right thing when we look at these two bills and support the proposal of the profile committee to support the bill reported here by Comrade Suhi. Because it is more complex because it really provides a series of benefits for those who have three children, four and five. He provides one-time assistance to heroin mothers every year. So I urge my colleagues to support the bill of our colleague Dry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u81	The People's Deputy Pudov is passing it on to Costenko's colleague, am I correct? Member of the People's Party, Kostenko. And prepare for the Circle factions of the Party of Regions and then.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u82	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The faction discussed draft laws of Ukraine amending some Ukrainian legislation on social protection for many children's families, introduced by the President of Ukraine and on the status and social protection of many children's families in Ukraine, introduced by the Ukrainian National Deputies Suhim and Petrov. [[Registration No. 2448]] [[Registration No. 2474]] These bills regulate the strengthening of the social protection of multi-child families, one of the least socially protected groups. The faction considers it appropriate to adopt a bill tabled by the President of Ukraine as the most rational one to address the issue. But the broader scope considered the status of a multi - child family, the establishment of certain benefits, advantages, and social guarantees is the bill passed by the people’s deputies Suhim and Petrov. The Bill No. 2448 of the People's Deputies of Ukraine will be voted in favour of the Bill No. 2448 by the People's Deputies of Ukraine on condition that it has been completed for the second reading, the Bill No. 2474 introduced by the People's Deputies Suhim and Petrov. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u83	National MP Kolocei, faction of the Party of the Regions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u84	Sulkovsky, my colleague, Sulkovsky, please, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u85	Paul Sulkowski, please, the faction of the Party of the Regions, Sulkowski, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u86	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Today we are looking at really important draft laws. Because today, no one is in a difficult, difficult condition for the entire Ukrainian people. And in the most difficult of all, five, ten, and more children are single - parent families. Therefore, it is clear today that we must support and support the two projects of the MP’s project, which was reported to us today by the national deputy, Mr. Suhi Yaroslav. Dear National Deputies! You know, we don't think there's gonna be any deputies in this room today that we won't support such a bill. And I would like to address today in the presence of Mr. Minister, Mr. Pavlenko, meaning, Mr. President, no matter how many laws we adopt, if they are not implemented, money is our price, those laws that we will be wasting our time here today. And today, using a minister, I would like to ask that question. There's a law about a mother hero who's given birth to both five and more children. And you know, my dear colleagues, who are in the district of reception as a national deputy, have practically dozens of mothers who have not given birth to five children, but who are ten, fifteen children! And here I am, and what they're asking. They ask why we are all children, fifteen children, and ten children are raised in a healthy way of life, and children are only beneficial to Ukraine. And I am addressing Mr. Pavlovenko, and why has this family not yet received the Mother Hero, this mark, this award? And he wrote me three letters literally the other day. Explains the need to look there for such documents. Two years ago, Mr. Pavlenko, hundreds of mothers, I asked you here for ten mothers, you're giving me a write-off: the documents collected, they're in the President's Office, already filed by the Provincial State Administration. So why don't you include to speed it up, but you only do correspondence. And to the end. The president and entrepreneurs have come together and made such a deal as if power and business under the program “Break up the love of the child” – not a bad thing, because of district government administrations they announced to these mothers that 18 children, if the older child is not 18 years old, if she is not provided with the conditions of life, her.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u87	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u88	Thank you. And what does it do? For example, businessmen in the Plains region, including the Plains region, were to receive more than 30 million. It was Viktor Andriyovich Yushchenko who issued such an order as many. Some 200 of these families were discovered in the Plains. What do you think? Ten children are tied up, where they're really under 18 years of age, and they're driving Kamaz blocks of beatings, and they're saying, "Sign up, we've brought you 17,000. They say, "But what you brought us, you brought us the garbage." You don't want to. And such examples are not unique. I'm going to the governor and I'm saying, even through the press.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u89	Thank you. Thank you, but the time is up. Well, please, 20 seconds, finish the show.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u90	So the Kiev businessmen are going there for a million threes, and that's only three million out of 30 million. But the local officials, Governor Viktor Matchuk, for example, have 52 million copies published in the newspaper.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u91	Thank you. Thank you. Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, a faction of Communists, is invited to the presentation. Alexander Stoyan will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u92	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. First of all, I would like to support my colleague, Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, from this rostrum today, who invites us to look at the reasons that move us today to distribute a measure of fatherlessness. It was understandable why in the second half of the '40s, in the '50s, orphans and fatherless were flourishing. But the question is, Who, and why, today, has created this ruin that has led us to solve today’s child - protection complex? I would like to say that the adoption of this bill, these bills that have been tabled today, is perfectly logical, because when the Supreme Council of Ukraine legislatively introduced the money payments after the birth of the child, we said the letter "a". Today, by adopting this bill, we have to say the letter "b" and all the following letters. It's really perfectly logical and consistent. In doing so, I would like to say that the faction of Communists is ready to support both bills, but we consider the bill that our fellow members of the people's MPs have made more explicit, and the main thing is that it contains a minimum of rebuttal standards, which is for the bill, an absolutely important thing for the law to work on. And so, dear fellows, I believe that this document should be supported, as more prepared, than more carefully written. And what's more, I think we have to think about it, too, to increase the amount of payments that today are calculated from the minimum of living, because it's about what's extremely important. And in addition to everything else, we take this document into one row, we eliminate the imbalance, or let's say it's not equal rights between those parents who gave birth and raised the baby, and between those parents who adopt these children. So once again, I would like to point out that the faction of the Ukrainian Company is proposing to put a parliamentary bill first in the vote and to vote on this document, and then to include in this document the things that come out of the presidential bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u93	Thank you. Alexander Mikolaiovich Stoyan, faction of the Party of the Regions, please welcome to the presentation. The next thing you know, the party's gonna be on.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u94	Dear colleagues, supporting many families is a very important social program. Now I have asked my colleagues from the committee, how much does a large family receive today? So what I'm saying is, depending on the standard of living, a multi-child family, where three children, they get about 150 dollars and plus they multiply by two -- about 170 plus, let's say, 150-170 dollars. It's not even a minimum of living, it's not even a minimum wage, it's a minimum of living. That's how it's done. Clearly, then, what the president and our colleague Suhi are proposing is important. I want to remind you that both in this project and in another project, a few positive positions are the benefits of using housing, getting a credit for building or rebuilding or acquiring housing, it's the payment of temporary loss of employment, 100% independent of the job experience, and, very importantly, an additional monthly allowance for each child. What's more, I want to get your attention, it's not just those kids that were born by parents, it's their own children, it's their biological children, it's those kids that they took from the children's homes today, and it's very important, because now you know the president's politics, and the nation's policies to have these children adopted. And the adoption of this law will help. But this is just the first part of solving the problem. Why? Since, as I've already said, payment assistance depends on the minimum of living, and it's calculated, you know, payments up to six years, up to 13 years, after 13 years. What do we see? In 2009, the government offered 732 bracelets of subsistence minimum, and if you mention that since 2000, this minimum of living remains unchanged, because in 2005, when a new calculation of the subsistence minimum was made, it has not been reviewed, today, according to experts, the minimum of living is below 30-40 percent, which is about thousands of dollars. So the next problem, Mr. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, is that we need to put those projects in place, and more than 20 of them are being introduced by the Committee on Social Policy and Labour, and we predict that we need to review the minimum cost of living, based on the standards discussed by employers, trades and government in 2005. This is the first position. Second position. A real review is needed of the payments tied to the new living minimum. And the third offer. You can't leave 545 dollars a minimum wage, as the government is proposing today, and it needs to be determined by coming out of a new living minimum. So this is going to raise the level of social pay. We propose, on behalf of the faction of the Party of Regions, to support the bill of our colleague Jaroslav Suhogo, to put it first, and all the positive, all the good that is in the President's project, and there are many interesting suggestions, to prepare for the second reading and to submit it as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u95	National Deputy Evening, faction of the Party of the Regions. Is it? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u96	Dear colleagues! Vladimir Mikhailovich! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Respectable citizens of Ukraine! Today's law on the social protection of multi-child families is most relevant because today we have a demographic indicator of Ukraine's birth rate much lower than the percentage of deaths in our country. We are now 47 million instead of 52 million. I would like to say that our colleague, Mr. Suhoi, has properly introduced this bill and on time, and I call for support for this bill because today the health of our nation is under threat. Overpriced drug prices are insufficient, the cost of drugs is much higher than the wages of workers. That's something you need to pay attention to. I would like to draw further attention to the fact that the country has today developed a very strong financial pyramid on housing. In other words, many families have invested money in the purchase of apartments, but these apartments have not been obtained because construction companies have failed. Therefore, I would like to add to this bill that we ban banks from taking their apartments, extending their credit for three years, for many children's families not to take away their apartments. Mothers and children must also be given attention today because the health of our population is a prospect. Therefore, I would like to draw attention to the need for the Ministry of Health of Ukraine to consider carefully the issues of child health, because nothing is being done at present. And we must be very careful once again to monitor the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of the Family and the Youth to ensure that this is implemented under the bill. That is why I support the Suhigo bill and call on you to support it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u97	National Deputy Caplienko, faction “Bloka timoshenko”. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u98	Please pass the word to Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u99	Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u100	Dear colleagues, I'd like us to look at these two bills and compare the two bills in general terms. If we look at the Presidential Bill, the authors suggested that we follow the traditional course. And, to my deep conviction, it's not exactly an effective way. What is suggested is to follow the course of the aid. So I've heard from the president of the country that he wants to fight against morbid social populism, but, well, as far as the logic of the bill is concerned, it's completely wrong. Look, we have a large family, we want to help her, we have two concepts: help her financially to have financial opportunities, and for this money, she'll decide what to do. Or, for example, buy something or change an apartment. And the bill of MPs, I think, is ideologically correct. Because it makes it possible financially, economically, to make a more independent family. In the Presidential Bill, a discount on the use of housing, a discount on the use of telephones, a discount on the use of fuel, a discount on the use of transportation. We've already created so much chaos with these benefits that we're about to have a housing system. Let's also expand this category of boozers. So I think that in the good idea of the President and the MPs, the concept of MPs is more correct. Because it forces the family to act economically and financially properly. Now, according to the structure, of course, the MP's bill is one law, where, of course, the family got it, the lawyer got it, and they work with it. The bill does not modify dozens of bills. Well, the third is the saddest thing, so what's to fund it? There are weak places both there and there. Well, in any case, the deputies were offered at the expense of privatisation. In the Presidential Bill, this article is not complete at all. And I would advise the President's team, after all, to respect the legislative body and explain. If you're proposing a 1.5 billion date, what account is it for from January 1, 2009, I'm sorry? Deputies representing the opposition faction have proposed since January 1, 2010, and have suggested some way to do so. So I think if we're going to make decisions, it's obviously January 1, 2010. But obviously we need to see where we can find that money. So I propose that we make a decision today. So we can continue to work on the committee between the first and second readings. And once again, we have to change our ideology, not to the point of oblivion, but to help. And so the MP's bill seems more thoughtful to me. And I'm convinced that those good proposals that are in the presidential bill, they'll be taken into account by the committee when we're working on the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u101	Vladimir Bondarenko. It's the Timoshenko Street. Is there a Bondarenko? None. Ivan Vernidubov, faction of the Party of Regions. Invite the deputies to the session room, we'll make a decision now.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u102	Dear Chief, distinguished colleagues! Indeed, the issue of supporting large - scale families is very relevant and the demographics spoken of in Ukraine are indeed of concern. It's not the '30s, it's the last years that have made our country poorer by millions. What, though, can we say, really explain the fact that humans die? If the State is interested in its normal development, it should ensure that conditions are normal for birth and especially for the upbringing and support of children. So, anyway, we have to thank the actors and the President and the MPs who raise these questions, and yet we have to admit that the bill tabled by the MPs is more specific than the President's, because it's really not the way to go. And the MP’s bill enables the family itself, a multi - parent family, to plan for where to spend the money they will receive as a help. And the purpose of the MP's bill is to raise the standard of living for many children to produce as one of the least socially vulnerable parts of our population. And there are ways to go. This bill shows concrete ways. That's it. defines the status of a multi-child family, defines the development, support and assistance of multi-child families in the priorities of State policy on family and demographic development, the establishment of advantages and social guarantees for them and the introduction of additional advantages for women who are worthy of the honorary title “Mother Hero”. The Committee of the Supreme Council on Family, Youth Policy, Sport, and Tourism proposes to adopt this bill as a basis, and the Presidential Bill proposes further work. But I agree with those who have already spoken. If a committee based on a parliamentary bill is to work on it, there will be a necessary law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u103	Vladimir Bondarenko. No, we still have.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u104	Vladimir Bondarenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear colleagues, I call upon all of you, regardless of any political sympathy and antipathy, to support the bills that have been tabled today. In my MP practice, I think each of you have encountered the fate of families that have many children. How many kids are there today? They say how many children are so lucky. Yes. But this is sometimes felt, and there are problems every day. I can tell you that in my own time, I tried to push through the city of Kiev a proposal that was very relevant. After the policy of creating family - type children’s homes has been announced, as well as a multi - parent family, only it is not a family born to the fullest degree, since a few of their children are usually then added to the small children who are now in the home. Children’s living conditions in residential institutions are terrible. And today they are all the more terrible. Thus, when children are involved in such a family, at times children of different races, children who are sick, and who are very sick, there are even more problems in this family than in a family that is biologically unique. And such families today should be supported in a special way. So I'm going to add to these bills, which are related to ensuring normal conditions for raising children in families that have taken on such a very difficult responsibility to raise foreign children who have abandoned their children in the same amount as they do for many children. In particular, I suggested that, on the basis of the former pioneer camps, various bases that existed and were then launched, but had infrastructure, the plumbing of its interior, its boiler, something else, build immediately five, seven, ten houses with a land plot and pass them on to families who today do much better to raise children who were previously on the Internet. This is one of the positions. Again, for many families of all kinds, we need to provide real - life or real - life transportation services that allow the family to be fully stocked, at least at times taking vacations or taking short trips, since such a family is not included in any standard automobile. For example, we decided on this issue in a special way, we approached the customs office. And, thank God, we received support, and we received such a car for a family in the Sanhedrin region. But this should become a practice when a family with 10-12 children gets a car from the state. This is a small cost today, but it allows the family to live very comfortably, so I once again urge everyone to support all the proposed bills in order to take into account our suggestions, to make the only big, good document that would protect these families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u105	Dear colleagues, the discussion on the draft Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislation on social protection of multi-child families has been completed. Jaroslav Suhi asks for a closing word as an author, one of the drafters. Please, the microphone. Invite the national deputies to the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u106	Thank you. Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to thank all the Ukrainian people's deputies who have shown concern for this bill. I'm sure you'll show the same activity in making changes and additions to the second reading. In particular, I would like to express my sincere thanks to the leadership of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the fact that the third time this bill is first placed on the agenda. So, I'm kind of accepting this bill, because it's discussed, there's hope that the Supreme Council is going back to normal. If you're lucky, God forbid, there'll be a coalition and we'll finally get to the normal conditions and rhythm of our legislative branch of power. I want to thank Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin separately, who made a good offer, I think she'll be counted for second reading, so that the targeting doesn't dissipate social benefits and help, they'll have to be introduced in a step-by-step but sustained and dynamic way, because otherwise we'll just lose the social content of this bill. And lastly, honourable colleagues, this bill, and rightly said by the Ukrainian national MPs, particularly Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, has an incentive role for both the family and the state, both for social services and industrial business leaders. If the State shows that it has returned to this problem seriously, then we will have the moral right to talk to industrial business leaders about what it has in the factory or factory or in the multi - parent family, it needs to be given more attention. I hope that we will support the MP's bill, and I promise that I will personally participate in the drafting of this bill on a committee of profiles so that all the positive remarks made by the President are taken into account. Thank you. Please support our bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u107	Dear colleagues, we have completed a discussion of the bill in two of its variations. The Committee's conclusion, the Presidential Bill to be taken into account in the work, and the Bill of the People's Deputy of Sukhio to be accepted as a basis. But according to the regulations, the first one is put to the vote by a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on social protection for many children's families, registration No. 2448. Please vote. [[12:04:39]] For 234 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, by factions, please. Region Party – 0, “Club of Timoshenko” – 152, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” – 62, Communists – 0, “Block of Lithuania” – 20. But I would very much ask a committee of profile to work on the second reading on the basis of the Yaroslav Suhog bill, it has such a more systematic character. One second. Dear colleagues, I ask you not to depart, I will put another motion to the vote, then Jaroslav Mikhajlovich. A number of deputies, and Oleg Lazko, spoke, suggested that if we did not support and work to complete the discussion of all matters at the evening meeting, we should be quick to consider draft laws that deal with the need to resist the crisis. I can't help but put this motion to a vote. So I'm voting on the proposal that we consider the following bills as a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[12:06:04]] For 348 Decision taken. Jaroslav Mikhailovich, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u108	Dear colleagues! I am so sorry that this session hall, unfortunately, has won politics again and again! In spite of all this seemingly showy fuss between Yashchenk and Timoshenko, it was finally clear to me: both boots of a pair! And don't tell me there's some kind of friction between you! You may not be able to bargain and share! I am very sorry that today's vote did not contribute to what Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin said on “Inter” – about the consolidation and unity of all forces. So, clearly and harshly: we are the opposition, and you “keep your head on”, do what you want! Unfortunately, you've come up with a path like this, it's a dead end! Because we were able to adopt one bill today, and 17 bills were needed for the second reading. I am so sorry that this happened in the session hall today!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u109	Thank you! Ladies and gentlemen, there is a recess of up to 12 hours of 38 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u110	Dear colleagues, we continue to hold meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in accordance with the order of today's meeting. The next bill that we are considering is the draft Law amending some of Ukraine’s legislative acts (for investment activities). Reporter from the government: First Deputy Minister of Economics, Maksut Anatoly Arkadyovich, co-rapporteur, is the head of the economic policy subcommittee of Plitników Aleksy Vitaliyovich. I invite the First Deputy Minister of Economics to the report, please, Anatoly Arkadyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u111	The high-ranking presiding officer, the high-ranking national deputies! For your consideration, it is proposed to amend some legislation in Ukraine. [[on investment activities]] Before going to the characteristics of the bill itself, I would like to say that the involvement of investments in Ukraine, especially in modern conditions, is one of the top priorities of the government. And for that reason, we have quite developed legislation. But there are some problems of disagreement that keep investors from coming because of insufficient conditions for them. Therefore, one of the purposes of this law is to regulate existing legislation that would enable investors to come to Ukraine and to invest in Ukraine. And accordingly, this is one of the means of getting Ukraine out of a difficult economic situation. First. The draft Act amends the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences in Part of the Responsibility of Officials to require investors to submit documents not provided for by Ukrainian legislation. In particular, there is an increase in the fine for such actions from 10 to 25 untaxed minimums. The second issue covered by this law is a series of changes to the Investment Act. First of all, the definition of the very term of investment is defined. There is also a term for an investment project. These are the issues that investors view because of the inaccuracy of these definitions, and many problems arise in practical activities. There are also certain requirements for an investment project to be followed.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u112	Let me finish. I'm sorry, Your Honor, I'd like to remind you that we're working under a reduced procedure, so just one more minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u113	Yeah, it's literally half a minute. The most important issues of this law are the registration of investment projects, particularly those in need of state aid, and the forms and types of state aid that can be provided in the implementation of investment projects. This is very important today, because this will also increase the efficiency of the use of public funds, as investment projects will address the relevance of these investment projects to the priorities of the state. Appropriately, the costs of the payers will be used more effectively precisely for the priorities that are in the state today. In conclusion, I would like to say once again that this law does not make radical changes in legislation, but it is very important for investing in Ukraine's economy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u114	Thank you. To the report, I invite the head of the economic policy subcommittee, Plitnickov Aleksija Vitaliyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u115	Mr. Chairman, honourable national deputies, I would like to bring to your well-known opinion of the Committee on Economic Policy on this law. The draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts was considered at a meeting of the Committee on Economic Policy on September 17, 2008. [[on investment activities]] Indeed, the National MPs have observed that the bill amends the Ukrainian Investment Act, particularly the terms of investment, the investment project, and some other changes are made. The biggest controversy is that this bill excludes promissory notes from the characteristics of investments, i.e. you can invest in any securities, but you can't make investments with bills. This was precisely what raised the biggest questions in the discussion. Taking into account that the conclusions of the bill of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Expert Office are positive, and in general, taking into account the observations and the course of the discussion, the Committee's decision was to recommend a bill to be submitted for consideration by the Supreme Council and adoption in the first reading and in general. So that's what it means to see the situation of the Committee on Economic Policy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u116	Thank you, Alexei Vitaliovich. Please have a seat. Let's write two in a row, two in a row. Karmazin Yuri Anatolyevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u117	Dear National Deputies! Yuri Karmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. The honourable national deputies, the changes that are being proposed, they have now reported to the Deputy Minister and Head of the Committee, absolutely necessary right now to get the state out of the crisis, especially with regard to state support and incentives for investment. I'd like to say that given the state of the economy that it's in. So, despite the fact that there is a reference to the changes made to the Administrative Code, the Code of Administrative Offences, there is a reference to it in the Scientific and Experimental Authority, I still think that if we adopt this law in the first and second reading, it will contribute to the development of our economy, because the law provides for financial assistance from the State Budget and the local budgets for the implementation of investment projects under co-financing conditions. [[Article 166 with badge 10]] I would like to say that what's particularly important right now is that it's for local budget funding, such as, say, the same waste-fire plants or garbage-processing plants. Ukraine is now littered with debris. Up to two percent of the territory of Ukraine is littered with debris. So, let's say, these programs have to go. Next is another loan, which is also planned under this law. So I'd like to adopt this law in both the first and the second readings as an exception. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u118	Sulkovsky Pavel Gnatovich. And, dear colleagues, Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko is concerned that not all national MPs know what is currently going on in the plenary. I remind him of his request.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u119	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! We as national deputies don't mind adopting the law, investing in our economy, production and so forth, but I would like to ask a question today. Alexander Volodymyrovich, literally in the days of the Head of the Supreme Council, Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin, announced that there was a coalition in parliament throughout Ukraine, encouraged the people of Ukraine, who was to take responsibility for the state of affairs in Ukraine. But it's actually a lie. There's no coalition on paper today. Words like it are, and 226 signatures are missing. After all, when will the highest elite of politicians tell the Ukrainian people the truth? That's what we've led Ukraine to -- destabilize it -- into a crisis situation that you don't throw a branch into. Just practically Ukraine is leading to irreparable things. And here's an example. What other investments can be made when, from its own state budget, the government, literally three months ago, by its decree, directs 20 million to the Plains region to support the village. And these nearly 20 million were scattered, embalmed by officials: the head of the district administration, Victor Matchuk (the Party of Our Ukraine), the first deputy, Yuri Blagadir (the Party). The People’s Party of the “Block of Lithuania. ” Volodymyr Mikhailovich, you have to conclude with those of your party who sent 20 million to your own. which are cared for by entrepreneurs, agricultural entrepreneurs. The KRU has not yet completed a three - month test on the day after Turkinov’s assignment. True, at last today, the Court of Auditors gave me an answer and an amazing one. An amazing one, I'd tell you, sir.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u120	Complete, please, Pavel Gnatovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u121	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that we are practically required to create a parliamentary commission of inquiry immediately to the materials of the Court of Auditors. [[I'll register a draft decision tomorrow.]] The end of how many officials must be considered immediately: the President, the Head of the Supreme Council, led by Yatzenuk, and it turns out that Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin also asked these 20 million to go to the Goshtan region. And there the Partymen practically set aside these funds! And now, apart from the commission of inquiry from the Parliament, we can't specifically set up, because somehow under the direction of the head of the district administration, the KRU doesn't want to conduct a check. That's why it's over.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u122	Pavlov Gnatovich, finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u123	That's why. I'm done. I beg you, Vladimir Mikhailovich Lithuania, specifically by the end of the working day, to tell the people of Ukraine and Parliament there is a coalition, there are 226 votes or no. If you do not, you should not deceive the people of Ukraine, but it is only fair to say that just continuing to manipulate is simply a crime! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u124	Dear National Deputies! All those desiring to comment on the bill made statements. I am voting on a proposal by the Investments Committee on the basis of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation, No. 3065. [[12:53:44]] For 241 Decision taken. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. We are considering a draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts on liability for market-based infringements of securities. Reported to the head of the State Commission on Securities and Stock Market, Anatoly Ivanovich Baluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u125	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies! For your consideration, it is proposed to amend some Ukrainian legislation on liability for securities market offences. The main purpose of this bill is to introduce and improve administrative and criminal responsibility for the use of insider information and price manipulation in securities transactions, to create obstacles to access and misappropriation of information about issuers of securities. Experience has shown that disclosure is an effective tool for influencing companies and protecting investors’ rights. The importance of disclosure is related to the fact that only on the basis of regular, reliable and reliable information can shareholders and potential investors assess the quality of equity management, make informed decisions on the assessment of its capital. There are no rules in law that provide for the responsibility of issuing officials and professional participants in the stock market for violating investor rights, which leads to the impunity of these individuals and the invulnerability of investors. In view of the foregoing, there is an urgent need for such a responsibility. The Criminal Code is supplemented by new articles that provide for the introduction of criminal responsibility for socially dangerous crimes, such as the violation of the register of holders of nominal securities, the violation of the order for the transfer of the register of holders of nominal securities, the concealment of information about the activities of the association, and the violation of the disclosure of information in the stock market. With a view to raising the level of legal discipline of market participants, the draft law proposes to increase sanctions for a legal violation. It is also envisaged that a special part of Ukraine’s Criminal Code will be supplemented by an article: building, building, or other enterprise, institution, organization, purpose, criminal responsibility for raiding activities through the seizure of buildings, buildings, or other business, institutions, organizations. Or other unlawful interference in the activities of enterprises, institutions, organizations for the absence of signs.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u126	Dear Anatoly Ivanovich, you seem to have forgotten that the decision to shorten the procedure has been voted on. So please finish the report more precisely now.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u127	There is also a need for the introduction of a material component of criminal responsibility for the use of insider information in the stock market and for administrative responsibility. The main scientific and expert office supports the adoption of this bill as a whole. Some comments are made that we hope to make on the second reading. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u128	Thank you. Have a seat, please. I invite the head of the committee's committee on law enforcement, Vladimir Romanovic Moysik, to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u129	Honourable Alexandre Volodymyrovich, honourable colleagues, the drafters of the bill presented the substance of the changes proposed in the Criminal Code of Ukraine, the Code of Administrative Offences and the Law on the National Regulation of the Market in Securities in Ukraine. Honourable Alexandre Volodymyrovich, it happened that the draft law first placed rules on amendments to the Criminal Code and to the Code on Administrative Offences, and later to the law on the national regulation of the securities market in Ukraine. And that's why our committee has been defined as the main, but the substance of the changes proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers is mainly about the law on government regulation of the securities market in Ukraine, and criminal and administrative responsibility already follows. The committee therefore supports the adoption of amendments to the Criminal Code, the Code of Administrative Offences on Criminal and Administrative Responsibility for Offences in the Market of Securities, but at the same time it should be noted that the Scientific and Experimental Administration does not exactly support changes to these laws and proposes further work. At the same time, the Committee proposes to support the Supreme Council as a basis, and the inadequacies to which the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority draws attention should be taken into account when preparing the bill for second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u130	Thank you, Volodymyr Romanovich, sit down, please. Let's write two in, two in, two in. Please repeat the entry.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u131	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Prepare Bondarenko Oleni.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u132	Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense". Dear National Deputies! These changes that, in fact, have been made by the Science and Experimental Authority, I think they are necessary. And this law should be adopted in the first reading. Why? What is proposed? When we adopted the Criminal Code, and I worked on it for three years, we didn't then have the lawlessness that is today, we didn't have the paralysis of power that is today, we could never have imagined that the President of Ukraine would not guarantee independence and integrity and property, and businesses, and compliance with the rules of the Constitution. That's why I'm asking you today to adopt this law in the first reading, because such an article, which is proposed to supplement the code, 206 with the “1” badge: capture of buildings, buildings or other business objects, institutions and organizations, or other improper interference in the activities of enterprises, institutions, organizations for the absence of signs of opposition to legitimate economic activity, which has led to violations of the normal operation of such an enterprise, institutions, organizations will be punished. I would like to say that government proposals are too soft sanctions. It's about raiding companies. It's not such a day for a member of the MP's post office to talk about Ryder's admiration. None. And that's what you didn't just say when you reported that it was actually about Ryder's admiration. It's about another kind of raiding, it's about falsifying documents. It's also about what's happening. The order of business and the business of providing financial services is disrupted by any "Kings Capital", other companies that, without the right of the bank, actually do business instead of the bank and deceive citizens. That's why I want us to adopt these bills first. Second, the term of the committee was reduced in the base for the preparation of the changes. I'm ready to make changes here, too, but these changes have to close access.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u133	Ivan Vernidubov, faction of the Party of Regions, instead of Helen Bondarenko. Please. Next up will be Gordianka.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u134	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! There is no dispute, and the legislation that regulates the market for securities, corporate relations, has to be adopted. This bill is timely, vicious. This would increase the effectiveness of regulators as well as of law enforcement agencies for abusers, raiders, and so forth. But I personally have a lot of comments about the draft of this law. On the one hand, indeed, the rules on liability for wrongdoing in the market for securities really need to be improved and in the direction of spreading the material responsibility itself, a fine for a violation. But on the other hand, a large number of comments are certainly due to the fact that, as explained in the explanatory note, a bill has been prepared for the execution of Kabmin’s orders. And the developers probably sat at the start, and then very quickly, they backed the timelines, they put a bill on the mountain. And I think it's more appropriate to bring it back for consideration in the first reading for this kind of work. And first of all, it's general reasoning. Still, where it comes from, the amendments to the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences. Yes, they must be great. But in assessing the position of the project, it is worth considering, as noted by the Chief Scientific and Expert Directorate, that article 53 “Deprival of the right to hold certain positions” or determines the amount of fines for committing crimes within 30 to thousands of non-taxable citizens. And in many of the new articles proposed by the project, fines are more than ten times the minimum amount of fines for committing crimes, and the maximum amount of fines in many articles is equal to the maximum amount of fines for committing a crime. Thus, administrative misconduct, the vast majority of which are not yet beneficial, is foreseen.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u135	Give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u136	More severe sanctions than those envisioned by the public perception of the relationship between crime and administrative misconduct. Therefore, we need to review the proposed decisions. These are things that need to be reviewed at the stage of the drafting of the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u137	National MP Gordienko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u138	Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, respected Ukrainian citizens, I would like to remind today all who are present in this room and all Ukrainian citizens, who are a characteristic sign of today's time in Ukraine, that is, the most debilitating of Ukraine, that is, the process of plundering large public property. The process and the process of redistribution of ownership is in parallel. In parallel, the battle for ownership of each oligarchy clan goes on. I would also like to say today that we are living in an age of extreme instability and that it is most unfortunate to ignore the Constitution and the legislation of Ukraine and to ignore, first of all, its guarantor and all authorities. At that time, it is extremely difficult to protect an honest worker or an honest entrepreneur or a working group. I would like to remind all of you that in the post office, as the predecessors have pointed out, there is a great deal of material about the capture of our Ukrainian businesses. I would also like to tell you that the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine will support the bill in the first reading. We're here to step up the responsibility for the raid. But from the fact that we are living in an era of disregard for the Constitution, the laws of Ukraine in our country, which is the greatest threat to national security, we still very doubtfully believe that which we would not take harsh sanctions, that it would bring exactly benefit and that it would.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u139	Let me finish. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. The Committee's conclusion to you is to adopt a bill as a basis, taking into account what was put forward during the discussion by the people's deputies that this bill requires substantial work. So I ask you to prepare for the vote. A proposal for a committee to adopt is put to the vote on the basis of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the liability for securities market offences]] Registration No. 2614. Please vote. [[13:08:22]] For 251 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! In view of the importance of this law, we may do so. We would propose to shorten the bill committee so that the next plenary week, Thursday, for example, we could consider this document on Thursday, Friday. If there is no objection, I will then put to the vote such an assignment to the committee of profile. You don't? I am voting on a reduction in the procedure for preparing for the second reading of Bill 2614 so that we will have the opportunity to consider it on Thursday or Friday next plenary week. Please vote. [[13:09:15]] For 252 For 251, the decision is made. 252, excuse me. A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the suppression of illegal takeover and seizure of enterprises is being tabled for consideration. Registration No. 3011. The rapporteur is the head of the State Commission of Securities and Stock Market Baluk Anatoly Ivanovich. Correspondent is Head of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, Natalia Jurijovna Královska. Please, Anatoly Ivanovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u140	Thank you! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The main purpose of this law is to prevent the use of wrong-absorbing schemes and methods and the capture of businesses, which poses a real threat to the national and economic interests of our nation and requires the formation of an effective system of responses to these negative processes. The bill provides for amendments to the Economic and Procedural Code, the Civil Code, the Ukrainian Law on Restoration or Recognition of Bankruptcy of the Debtor, the Act on the National Regulation of the Market in Securities of Ukraine, the Enforcement Act and the Act on State Registration of Legal Persons and Persons of Entrepreneurs. The bill provides for amendments to the Economic and Procedural Code to be made to the exclusive competence of agricultural courts, disputes between shareholders and registrants, or custodians. To avoid unwarranted lawsuits, to place arrests on farm subjects, and to suspend decisions of the general congregations of farm societies, the bill amends article 67 of the Master’s Procedural Code to deal with applications for a lawsuit against the decisions of the general congregations of the company. This is due to the need for courts to take into account that the prohibition of general meetings violates their rights to participate in them and to the management of associations of those parties who have not challenged the decision and contradicts the content of the security measures and their methods of application, which protect the interests of those involved in the process, not the deprivation or violation of the rights of others. The court should not take such measures to ensure that claims involving interference with the internal activities of the household companies are taken. In addition, the bill provides for the addition of the Civil Code to the application of the statute of limitations in one year on the charge of decisions made by the authorities of the company. The introduction of such a standard is intended to limit the actions noted in part, since the general congregations are held annually by shareholders. Therefore, a lawsuit against a court of law on matters raised in general congregations should be filed over a year and the questions should be settled in the next general congregations.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u141	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u142	The bill also complements the law on the restoration of the debtor’s ability to pay or recognition as bankruptcy in part of the agreement with the authorized shareholder or party to a limited or additional liability, the recovery plan or the peace agreement in case such a plan for the resolution or the peace agreement provides for the exchange of the debtor’s liabilities on shares, shares, or rations of the debtor. It is also prohibited to take part in the carrying out of activities of nonstate-owned property owners who provide services for the protection of state and other property, services for the protection of citizens. In the conclusion of the General Science and Technology Administration, observations are made. We support them and hope that by the second reading they will be taken into account and that the law will be passed. Please have your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u143	Yes, the report is complete. Thank you. Please sit down. Natalia Juryovna Královska, head of the committee. Please take the position of committee on this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u144	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished fellow MPs, distinguished voters! To your attention, draft Law 3011 amending certain Ukrainian legislation on combating illegal takeover and seizure of enterprises is proposed. Regrettably, not only every Ukrainian parliament member, but also almost every Ukrainian citizen has heard or watched about the seizure of businesses on television – the piracy of the twentieth century, economic piracy. Today, it is difficult to imagine in civilized European countries where property is respected and its laws are protected. In Ukraine, there are still many ugly and uncivilized phenomena, including prominent raids by raiders. Therefore, the business is under constant threat of “polygraph of polygraph balloons”, which in order to take away and share what they have not created and what they have not earned. The Cabinet of Ministers introduced Bill No. 3011 to block raid schemes and methods. Because numerous attacks on enterprises are damaging the business climate and endangering the economic security of our country. This bill is, of course, timely and sufficiently important. We all, respected colleagues, have an obligation to protect the interests of legitimate business in Ukraine and the national interests of our country. They say “healthy spirit in a healthy body”. There must be a healthy business in a healthy country. In turn, healthy business is a guarantee of the economic health of our country. And today, more than ever, the health of business in our country is a matter of the economic survival of our country. The measures outlined in the draft law significantly reduce the risk of raids on enterprises. The bill does not concern the rights and freedoms of citizens. The implementation of Bill 3011 does not require additional expenditure on the State budget of Ukraine. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in its conclusion to the Bill of 10 September 2008, determined that, following the first reading, the bill could be adopted on the basis of comments and proposals made. The Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Enterprise Committee considered Bill 3011 at its meeting on 17 September 2008. During the discussion of the bill, the members of the Committee supported the Government's proposal to resolve various aspects at the legislative level of countering the illegal takeover of enterprises. At the same time, the Committee agreed largely with the constructive comments of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office and decided to take them into account in the second reading. The Committee proposes a draft Ukrainian Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on combating illegal engulfment and seizing businesses as a basis. Please support the committee's decision. In the same vein, the “Julia Timoshenko Block” and the “Julia Timoshenko Block” faction in Parliament support and support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u145	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues, the committee's report has been heard. Please sign up for discussion: two for, two for, two for. Please record. Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania” faction. Karmazin will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u146	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, my dear colleagues, I think this is a bill that not only deserves attention, but needs to be voted for by all the MPs. I don't think there's any more non-political, non-ideological bill than this. Because today's business day, and what I'm saying is that it's not about huge businesses, it's not about big capital, it's about medium-sized and small enterprises that are unfortunately becoming a very convenient target, a very nutritious ground for raids. It is so soft in the Bill of Acquisition. By the way, is this an exact legal term for “opportunity-absorbing enterprises”? And when it comes to excitement, it's clear that in terms of absorption, obviously, there might be a nuance in preparing for the second reading. But in the people, and not just in the people, but in the media, there's a term that's completely understood by everyone already -- it's a kind of insolent and shameful phenomenon that has become almost a norm for Ukraine today. Why is it important for us to adopt this bill? You know, there are many definitions that there is a democratic state. Now, if you want, maybe it's Eurosystically, but still, the democratic state is a state where the power of the law is not the right. In this case, by voting in favour of this bill in the first reading, we are voting in favour of the power of law, because the right to power, to insolence, to impunity, to what we see today in terms of Ukrainian enterprise by bandits or economic bandits is simply unacceptable. I think we should vote for this bill because it applies to all entrepreneurs, all businessmen, honest businessmen.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u147	Yuri Karmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u148	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this law should also be adopted and adopted in the first reading, and the committee is obliged to rework it in an accelerated manner because it is extremely necessary for the State. What is proposed? It's proposed in the Code of Economic Procedure to make a change to restrict the way the courts use it today. What are they doing today? They accept the approval to provide a lawsuit where they set up, prohibit certain categories of shareholders from participating, and so forth. What's that? It's part of the raid. Travelling today without a trial is impossible. So where there's a raider, look for a judge! And so the judge was found in Lviv Zvaric, and I'd like to help with the investigation and I'm going to Alexander Ivanovich Medvedzka right now. If you can hear me, Alexander Ivanovich, please remove the documents on the double assignment of Mr. Zvaric's documents because he passed twice the commission. For the first time, he was refused. And the president refused. On the second occasion, an influential official from the Secretariat said: “No, there will be a cook. They made people vote again, file documents, and so on. The judge appeared. It's me who's helping Alexandra Ivanovich Medvedzka. Let him look for it. He'll pick up the paperwork. Now, about this bill. As far as this bill is concerned, Your Honor. It's absolutely correct right now to prevent a lawsuit from being taken out of the question. Establishing a ban on the holding of general congregations, the participation of shareholders, and so forth. Next. I think it's in the article. The National Depository System Act and the characteristics of electronic circulation of securities in Ukraine, which suggests that more than 50 per cent of the State registry is conducted by a legal person.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u149	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u150	Thank you. Which is defined by Kabmin. It's very important that we record that keeping registers of stockholders, papers where there is a government share in general, any 25, 30 percent, would be conducted by the legal person that Kabmin recognized and defined. and obtained in the established order a license to keep registers. This would provide property for all Ukrainian citizens who belong to the Ukrainian State. Thank you for the opportunity to express yourself. I'm asking you to vote in favour of this project and in favour of shortening the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u151	Thank you. Alexy Plotnikov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u152	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! This is certainly a very relevant subject of the bill. Undoubtedly, the fight against illegal logging of businesses is not just a concern for professionals, it is a concern for Ukrainian citizens, and this has already been the case today. I only want to draw attention to some serious flaws in this version of the text, and to the fact that the proposed text seriously violates the rights of equity rights of shareholders as enshrined in article 6 of the Securities and Stock Market Act, according to which simple shares grant them equal rights to owners. According to this text, all of this is violated. The project is proposed to establish that decisions on the selection of the registrar will be made by one of the shareholders, such as: Moreover, it can have decisive control over society because it cannot carry out general meetings on its own, i.e. in this respect it is extremely wrong and this does not lead to the resolution of this task, which has been set before both the bill and the author of the bill, and the solution of this serious problem in society again. All of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u153	Dear colleagues, the discussion of draft Law 3011 has been completed. Are there any other comments and suggestions? A committee proposal is then put to the vote: the adoption of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the suppression of illegal absorption and the capture of businesses. [[Registration number 3011]] Please vote. [[13:24:08]] For the 250. Decision taken. Honorary colleagues, national deputy Yuri Karmazin, suggested that the Supreme Council should take a decision to shorten the procedure for preparing for the second reading. Is there no objection? So I'm voting on a proposal to shorten the draft to a second reading, in such a way that the next plenary week on Thursday and Friday we have the opportunity to make a final decision on this bill. This is bill 3011 registration number. Please vote. [[13:25:01]] For 252 Decision taken. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Measures to Ensure the Permanent Functioning of Fuel and Energy Enterprises is being announced for consideration. Registration number 3212. The rapporteur is the first deputy head of the Committee on Fuel and Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, Sergey Mihailovich Titenko. Please, Sergey Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u154	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. I'm going to try very hard to report this bill to you because it relates to the well-known 2711 bill that was passed in this room three years ago and proved its viability and the ability for the country to preserve all the industries of the fuel-energy complex during the operation of this bill, this law. And the bill that we're talking about is a purely refinement of the part, the term of Law 2711 in the extension part of it for the following year. I would like to inform you that data from the State Tax Inspectorate, the State Treasury, the Prominestbank, the Savings of Ukraine and the interdepartmental commission to pay off the debts of PEC companies during this time have accounted for more than 3.7 billion dollars. The decisions of the interfaith commission during the same period recorded debts with the subsequent damages of more than 2 billion dollars. A major tax debt of 3.1 billion dollars was also restructured. Last year, given the complexity and difficulty of the bill's procedures, many of the subjects involved need to be involved. It was extended this year and allowed this year, exclusively this year, to restructure the debt of more than 3 billion dollars. By the end of the year, about 500 million billings will also be made by decree in accordance with this law – 440. I want to say that the continuation of this law for the next year will allow this difficult time financially and economically for our country to be saved from artificial bankruptcy by the enterprise.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u155	Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u156	Fuel-energy complex, starting with Naftogazu, and ending with the simplest Obelenergo. I also want to say that among the many drugs that we now adopt as laws in this room, this law has been tested and will allow us, in fact, to preserve our fuel-energy complex. At a meeting of the Committee on Fuel and Energy, the bill was considered on 24.09 and was supported by the majority. I'm asking you to support me. To adopt the bill as a basis and as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u157	Thank you, too, please sit down. Dear National Deputies! Please register to discuss the bill two-in-pro, two-in-contrary. Please show the names of the national deputies on the board. Yuri Kamazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u158	Please. Yuri Carmazin. I ask you to uphold this law, and I continue to give the floor to the National Deputy Kostenko. Klimenko. And I'd like to make a suggestion that this law should be passed by 2011, because we're not going to get out of this crisis that fast. I mean, the date has to be changed and accepted in general. So put a change of date on the vote. And to the national deputy Klimenko, please pass on the word because I signed up.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u159	Alexander Klimenko, Ukrainian National Party I would like to thank, first of all, the author of the bill, Sergey Mihajlovich, who worked in the coal industry, who also took care of energy issues. Since this issue is primarily about Ukraine’s independence, part of its independence, primarily from economic instability, because this bill will make it impossible to deal with issues that will be linked to bankruptcy, artificial bankruptcy of coal enterprises, the energy sector, those that are now part of our energy and then Ukraine’s national and economic security. So it seems to me that today it is necessary to extend the moratorium so that today there is not just this savannah on the market and the takeover of businesses, including the decision of the court and the executive services. I would also like, Sergey Mikhailovich, with your permission, to make a proposal for us to vote for him and in general also if he is voted in the first reading. The faction of "Our People's Self-Defense" discussed this bill at its faction meeting today, and it was supported by the majority of those present on this faction. We will also vote for him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u160	Mikhailo Papiev, faction of the Party of the Regions
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u161	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! I signed up against this bill and I'll explain to you why. If you think back to the history of the adoption of this bill, you will recall that it was adopted in June 2005. And then we accepted it as a forced action, because it was necessary to prevent the bankruptcy of the Naftogaz Ukrainian companies and energy plants. Then every year, in 2006, in 2007, and the same procedure continues in 2008, we continue the term of this law. Although, in my opinion, this highlights the insatiableness of the work of both the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the government. Again, we don't have a government bill today. Would it be interesting to know the position of the government at all? Are they meeting constantly, like that ostrich, to bury their heads in the sand, and that the Supreme Council of Ukraine, for them, continue this forced action annually, which enables us to conduct mutual accounts, write off tax debts, and do many other temporary measures? Therefore, it is a request to support this bill in its first reading and in general, but at the same time to give an order to the government. Let the government come to an end with some systemic bill that will set the rules for not one year, which we will continue through, when we adopt the budget every year, and let there be a clear, transparent bill that will allow, firstly, the calculation of enterprises of state utility property, budgetary institutions, population and many other issues, because the issues of subsidies and benefits are also bound up in this bill. I ask that this commission be clearly formulated. And the government will introduce a comprehensive bill in January this year to address this issue. I'm asking you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u162	Thank you. Natalia Royal, please. Will you be performing? Please, from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u163	Dear Chairman, distinguished fellow MPs! The Yulia Timoshenko Block supports this bill to prevent the artificial bankruptcy of strategic facilities of the fuel and energy complex, in particular NAC Naftogaz Ukraine and NAC Energy and other energy industries that today provide the energy security of our State. The purpose of this bill, we understand, is to create an enabling environment for enterprises to pay off the fuel and energy debt set created by the failure of consumers to pay for energy. What is more, during the financial and economic crisis of the world, when we realize that the rate of payment is falling. We need to create as many possible conditions as possible in order for the calculations to take place on time and in time and to support our energy complex enterprises. I also support a colleague from the Party of the Regions with a view to establishing a single bill that should resolve all relations. At the same time, however, I support Karmazin's initiative to extend the bill until 2111 because we understand that getting out of the crisis in this case will be difficult enough and more so for energy enterprises. We need a period of time to fully restructure all debt in order to get enterprises out of the right, good financial and economic relations. Let us therefore set up a single working group to draft a single bill, with a clear outline of the introduction of all legislation, so that we have a fully cleared energy system in our country by 2011. Therefore, Yulia Timoshenko's Block supports the bill and proposes that it be adopted as a law on first and second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u164	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion of draft law No.3212 on amendments to Ukraine's law on measures aimed at ensuring the permanent functioning of fuel and energy companies has been completed. Offer. Who's up there? Please, Sulkowski's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u165	Vladimir Mikhailovich, if by a reduced procedure, two for, two for, two against, are recorded. And here we are witnesses. It's written twice, it's written twice, it's written twice, it's written twice, it's written twice, it's written twice, it's written twice, it's written twice, it's written twice, it's written twice, it's written twice, it's written twice, it's written twice, it's written twice, it's written twice, it's written twice, it's written twice, it's written twice, it's written twice, it's written twice, it's written down, it's written twice, it's written twice, it's written twice, it's written And now, in fact, it just came from the faction of the Yulia Tymoshenko and says that until 2011, we need to extend the term of this bill because it is not so easy to get out of the crisis of the economy and the situation in Ukraine. But, Your Honor, I want to say that you're just being evil, you can only make Ukraine into a crisis, you can't bring it out, you just don't know it, and you don't know it, you don't have the frame to get Ukraine out of crisis situations, that's the point and the problem. And so no matter how much you go on, by 2015-2020, you can't cope with any crisis if you do.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u166	Ladies and gentlemen, the committee's proposal and conclusion, attention, please! - of the deputies who spoke. One, to be accepted as a basis and as a whole. At the same time, another proposal was made, not on January 1, 2010, but on January 1, 2011. So now we're going to vote this way, I'm going to lay the groundwork, and we're going to continue to determine by the results of the vote. There is a proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian legislation on measures to ensure the continued operation of fuel and energy companies. Registration No. 3212. Please vote. [[13:37:29]] For 391 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, we have taken this as a basis. Who's to say that now that we're out of order, we've adopted this bill as a law? Please vote. [[13:37:54]] For 384 Another point, dear colleagues, was the suggestion that the date should be replaced by January 1, 2010. Dear colleagues! Well, there was an offer, we're already voting. So I'm putting this motion to a vote, and I'm going to make an appropriate amendment. Please vote. [[13:38:32]] For 388 Correction accepted. There is a motion for the adoption of the draft Law, as the Act, to amend the Ukrainian Law on Measures to Ensure the Permanent Functioning of Fuel and Energy Enterprises, with a corresponding amendment that we have just voted on. Registration number of draft Law 3212. Please vote. [[13:39:13]] For 381 The law is passed. Thank you, fellows of honor! The draft Law on the Application of Normal Prices in Tax Control is announced for consideration. Rapporteur of the First Deputy Minister of Finance, Umanski Igorovich, co-rapporteur of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, Terjehohin Sergey Anatoliyovich. The Cabinet of Ministers proposed that the bill be reported by Igor Ivanovich in the absence of a finance minister. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u167	Thank you very much. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The bill proposed by the government for consideration provides an opportunity, in line with European practice, to ensure that the tax base on goods, jobs, services that we believe will significantly limit the use of tax minimization schemes based on pre-tax transactions or the implementation of surplus assets with minimal income. Despite the fact that the concept, mechanism and algorithm for the use of the normal price are legally clearly defined by legislation, namely the Business Income Taxation Act, it unfortunately does not work. This is due to the unnaturalization of the normal price to indirect methods of testing. The scope of application of the bill is distributed for subsequent operations. These are external economic contracts, barter transactions, related transactions, and tax-paying transactions that apply tax rules or rates that are different from basic, so - called simplified taxation systems, offshore companies, and so on. The bill proposes four basic methods of determining the normal price: sales analogues, resale prices, plus costs and book value that are approved by the Cabinet of Ministers, except of course for the last method. What I would like to stress separately and ask the distinguished national deputies to pay attention. With a view to limiting the potentially inadequacy of tax authorities, the draft law proposes the obligation to prove the validity of the findings of the checks based on the application of the normal price, not on taxpayers, but on the tax authorities of Ukraine and solely in the judicial order.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u168	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u169	Thus, we believe that the bill will allow today, if adopted by the tax authority, to minimize tax avoidance and minimize the tax base. Thank you very much and please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u170	Thank you. Please sit down. Sergey Anatolyovich Teryohin, Head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy Please, the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u171	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll be brief. Considering that in the last five years, Kabin has not proposed for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine a bill on how to define non-direct methods, as provided for in paragraph 1.20 of the Income Taxation Act, and in order to pay off taxpayers’ obligations to government trust funds, we cannot apply the order of determining a fair market price or a normal price at all. We decided to take this bill to the Supreme Council when we considered this issue on the committee, because unfortunately, and in this version, it's not going as smoothly as we would like. Do we need the normal price, the definition of the normal price? I have to. Since we cannot apply the order and order of the Kyoto Convention, it is safe to assume that tax obligations can be determined in indirect ways. However, the methodology we have been offered does not generally meet the standards of the International Committee of Evaluation Standards at the United Nations and the recommendations of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development on Transfer Prices. It's a short one. Is this law necessary? Yes. Is it in this version? No, it's not. But in order to correct this law and make it technological, we propose that the committee take it as a basis and, along with other deputies, bring it into order and submit it to the Supreme Council for second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u172	Thank you, Sergey Anatolyovich. Dear colleagues, please sign in: two in favour, two in favour. Please explain the names of the national MPs who are registered. Paul Zebravsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u173	You have to record, so you didn't sign up.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u174	For some reason we should always think about how tax administration can make life easier. To this end, taxpayers pay taxes and pay taxpayers their wages in order to find profits and to avoid tax evasion. You know, it's a normal price, it's already instilled in Parliament in my memory for the seventh year. And every time the taxpayers want to pass this law. This law does not pass in any convocation. [[the third call already in progress]] What a normal price is, it's kind of like a customs price. What do entrepreneurs have today? The buyer has found a discount for a company and a cheaper product, a product, and is forced to value, and it is torn off by VAT and customs at the rate at which the customs authorities want it. We have a bunch of lawsuits and a lot of trouble for entrepreneurs today at the customs office. Businessmen do not find it convenient to buy cheap. Instead of buying equipment cheaper and having the opportunity to structure their business more, they have to buy it expensive, make some profits there, and then use the same offshore companies. It's not fair, it's not right. I'm convinced that not taxpayers, but business taxes should serve and work. I think that this law, the very concept itself, cannot be approved or supported. I call on all the national deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine not to vote in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u175	Paul Sulkowski, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u176	Please tell your colleague Irina Akimimovy.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u177	Irina Kimov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u178	Dear colleagues, there is no doubt that a clear definition of the normal price is necessary. It is not clear why under this law the right to determine methodology is passed on to the Cabinet of Ministers. Moreover, this right of definition is removed from the legislative field, prior to the definition of normal prices it was in the Business Income Tax Act and the Value Added Tax. When we create a new instrument for the administrative intervention of the Cabinet of Ministers in areas that should be regulated only by law, we create a good basis for corruption. What do we need now? In order to get more out of our business sector, depending on the wishes of a tax officer? If so, then vote for the law. I don't think we can vote in favour of such a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u179	Dear colleagues. Please, Mikola Kravchenko "for", a faction of Communists. Carmazin is a ‘pro’.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u180	Cowchenko, the Communist faction. I would like our voters to know what is actually going on today. A “Lexus” party, costing $160,000, is valued at $30,000, pays customs fees there and other taxes, transports to Ukraine, sells for 10,000 bracelets allegedly, then forms a further difference and is submitted for VAT reimbursement. This is about the kind of scheme that is now completely operational at all customs offices. With a view to solving this problem, the law has been introduced. It is understandable, therefore, that those who do and understand this will not vote in favour of this law. But in general, this law is needed, and it needs to be adopted.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u181	Yuri Carmazin, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u182	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Honorable national MPs, an example given by the national MP Kravchenko, are absolutely correct. Last year, I was paying attention to the head of the tax office, how they got in, at what price. It was 5-7 times less than not just the market price at all, but the minimum holiday price from factories for a lot of goods, including the car that the national MP said. As far as legal technology is concerned. Of course, it would be better if the government introduced a draft amendment to the corporate tax law. Because that's where the concept of normal prices is defined and what's written now in these four articles would be written. But in view of the fact that there is no such bill yet, I propose that on the first reading, only on the first reading! – we have passed this law in view of proposing to the government and proposing to the profile committee then to amend the Law on Corporate Income Taxation and in this case to normalize these things, because what is provided for in article 2 of this project is perfectly correct. If official sources of information are used to determine the normal price of goods. about price and market torture. It's very simple to do that. The land is being sold. This land costs more than $100,000 in Kiev or Odessa for one hundred dollars. Is it shaped how? So, ladies and gentlemen, I would like us to come closer to life, and in the open information that is being printed, the real estate books, the magazines clearly record the cost of the object that is being sold. But they're sold for millions, and they're made for a penny. Therefore, we should accept the first reading and invite the government to make changes before.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u183	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill is closed. The committee's proposal is to take the basis for further substantive drafting of the bill. A position on adoption is put to the vote on the basis of the draft Law on the Application of Normal Prices in Tax Control. Registration number 2234. Please vote. [[13:52:45]] For 205 “For” – 205, the decision is not taken. I'll put it to a vote. The factions? Please. Region Party – 0, "Club of Timoshenko" – 149, "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" – 10, Communist faction – 26, "Club of Lithuania" – 20. A traditional proposal is then made: Refocusing on rereading. If not, the bill will be rejected. So for the rereading of the first reading. Please vote. [[13:53:27]] For 213 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Continue work for 15 minutes, morning session, to be exact. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. Dear colleagues, before we begin our consideration of the bill, we should consult. If we finish our consideration of the drafts, and there's not much left there, then perhaps you would let us from the midst of which are the bills that we have failed there, which are relevant -- if the Supreme Council agrees, we would consider ratification. No, that's how we are after we've finished our schedule for today, we're going to work on the committee. What is the offer? We're not going to perform. The suggestion was, if you don't mind, after we've had all the drafts in the evening, and we've got free time, we could go over the ratification issues. To do so, it would be appropriate to invite government officials. If the Supreme Council agrees. If we don't, we'll work on the committees. That's the offer. I'm told by the secretariat that the reporters are unable to provide. So we're going to work, and then we're going to figure it out. Draft Law 3045 has been announced for consideration. Reporters: First Deputy Minister of Finance, Umanski Igor Ivanovich, co-rapporteur, Head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, Terjehohin Sergey Anatoliyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u184	Thank you very much. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Unfortunately, it is important to note that in Ukraine it has become a mass phenomenon to create fictitious companies whose purpose is not to carry out real economic activities but to serve the needs of tax evasion. Unfortunately, it's very simple: there's a company that trades documents for which a tax payer increases gross costs, or a tax credit for VAT. Such a fictitious firm, of course, does not pay taxes. The magnitude of these phenomena is impressive: about 200 to 250 such fictional companies are found each month. Clients are given only tax credit and on average 3 billion dollars a month. In order to improve the effectiveness of the fight against this phenomenon, the following changes are proposed: Article 205 of the Criminal Code specifies that a fictitious enterprise is not only a fictitious enterprise but also a control over a legal entity for the purpose of covering illegal activities. The Criminal Code is complemented by a new article that envisions criminal responsibility for committing crimes that are knowingly contrary to the interests of the State and have caused great material harm to the State. The extent of this damage is determined -- more than 1,000 non-taxable minimums. It is also established that investigations into criminal matters involving a fictitious enterprise are carried out by the authorities that have broken the case, today only by the Ministry of Internal Affairs. The State Tax Service Act establishes the right of the taxpayer to carry out pre-registration checks so that the taxpayer can verify and enter the responsibility of the financial institutions for the non-disclosure of the tax opening of the taxpayer's account. It also gives tax authorities the right to appeal to the court for the annulment of State registration.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u185	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u186	Clarification of the basis for an out-of-plan verification of VAT damages. There are also limits for financial institutions to carry out expense transactions solely on the date of receipt of documentary confirmation of the tax return on the account of the tax authorities. The proposed bill, to our deep conviction, will allow us to step up the fight against fictitious enterprises and reduce the efforts of unscrupulous entrepreneurs in their desire to avoid tax evasion. Thank you very much and please support the bill in the first reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u187	Dear colleagues, the co-report invites the head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, Terjehin Sergey Anatoliyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u188	Dear colleagues, the committee at its meeting on September 9th reviewed this project and, after examining its situation, concluded that the proposed amendments to legislation are unfortunately not complex and will not address all the tax administration issues that are now quite relevant and in some parts are false in nature. Well, in particular, the proposed amendment to part one of Article 205 of the Criminal Code — “Factual entrepreneurship” — is not in its nature, since it does not aim to improve this norm, which in fact does not correspond to the content of the criminal offence, i.e. it provides for criminal responsibility for the creation or acquisition of business entities for the purpose of covering up illegal activities or carrying out activities for which there is a ban, rather than providing for responsibility for the creation and registration of enterprises in breach of the procedures defined by law. [[or]] This approach to criminalizing these acts is used in world practice. In addition, according to article 234 of the Ukrainian Civil Code, it is a fictitious act committed by the parties without the intention of creating the legal consequences that this right has caused. Such an act is declared invalid by the court, and this provision is not counted when the bill is being drafted. The same applies to changes to the Criminal Code, since the definition of a fictitious enterprise in such a situation can be imagined as to how many people would be fictitious without reason. So these norms need to be substantial, I would stress even a thorough overhaul in the context of tax administration changes. This question is relevant. And given the relevance, the committee suggested that Minfin set up a joint working group to work on the project in conjunction with the application of the mechanisms for determining tax liabilities by indirect methods, applying normal prices and other related tax administrations.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u189	Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u190	National deputies of Ukraine, representatives of central executive bodies, local self - government bodies, scientists, and public organizations. The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine draft Law 3045 of 07.08, introduced by Kabmin, that the subject be returned to the right of legislative initiative for further development. You have been given a draft decision. I made the decision of the committee. And from my point of view, it's the same story with the previous bill. If we send him out for work, we'll wait another year or two for him. If we take it as a basis, then all of this will come to the Supreme Council, and we will be able to work on it fruitfully. So I personally think as a national MP that it's best to take this bill as a basis. It's up to you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u191	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for a discussion: two-for-two-again. Please show me the name of the national MPs on the board. Alexy Plonikov, please, faction of the Party of the Regions. Then Paul Zebrowsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u192	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! Indeed, as the chairman of the committee did, it is a very imperfect bill. In addition to having certain shortcomings, it has some inadequacies that are strictly legal. The Criminal Code is not correct here either. In fact, according to the ideology of the bill, criminal pressure and tax pressure on the national economy are increasing on subjects of entrepreneurial activity. In particular, for some reason, this bill proposes criminalizing certain social and dangerous acts by completing the criminal code. In particular, there is an article in the Criminal Code, “The violation of the requirements of law in the commission of an act that violates public order”, that is, if in normal countries such things are somehow mitigated, we have, in accordance with this bill, what criminal responsibility is imposed. In addition, where attention is also drawn to making changes to paragraph 2 of Part One of Article 11 of the Law on the State Tax Service in Ukraine, it is proposed that the State Tax Service conduct a pre-registered visit and documentary exit checks. That is, if the structure is not yet registered, but it is already subject to tax inspection, i.e. tax pressure if not by direct tax, tax visits are expected to increase. So I am absolutely against this bill, and I urge accordingly to vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u193	Thank you. Pavlov Zebrovsky, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u194	Dear colleagues, with good intentions, the road to hell is about the same as this bill. Strangely enough, the amendments to the Criminal Code are proposed by Minfin. Actually, I don't think it's Minfin's prerogative, it's what other ministries are, and that's exactly what we need to focus on. I would like to say that this bill is criminalizing society. We've talked enough about decriminalizing society. Today, by this bill, we criminalize society. Should We Fight Fake Firms? Absolutely. Is it necessary for someone who commits a crime to be in prison? Yes, of course. But in fact, for counterfeiting documents, there are other articles of the Criminal Code. And you just have to not make life easier for the controlling authorities again, but you have to force those bodies that actually have to deal with the disadvantages that exist in economic activity in the economy of Ukraine. I am convinced that if today the chairman of the committee says that he is ready to propose a new philosophy, I think that a new philosophy that is logical will be reasonable, we will definitely support and do not have to wait on the Cabinet of Ministers, because it is actually a long procedure. But if the Committee on Customs and Taxes, and we first set up such a committee in this office and it doesn't have much work to do, it's going to draft a bill, and we're happy to vote for it in this direction. And for this bill, just for ideology itself, philosophy, I cannot vote, and I call on the people's deputies not to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u195	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. Adam Martinyuk. Please invite the deputies to the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u196	Thank you. Adam Martinyuk, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, distinguished radio listeners. Our colleagues, who at first seemed convincingly to prove that the law was wrong, but this was proved to those who did not read or know what the law was about. Why do they oppose the adoption of this law? It's very simple, because this law aims to increase the liability of taxpayers. Who are the taxpayers? Those who are mostly in this session hall, those who own factories, factories, paratroopers, newspapers, banks and so on and so forth. Clearly, they do not want to pay taxes, and more specifically, they do not want to be liable for tax evasion. So let's call things our names, talk about what's in the law, and then argue why we don't want to adopt the law, so we have to vote for that law.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u197	Thank you. Dear National Deputies, Paul Sulkowski, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u198	Thank you. It's very interesting that today, just from the "Timoshenko Block" of July, the National MP said that these laws are practical, if adopted, they will not benefit Ukraine. Very interestingly, this did not come from the Party of the People's Deputies, but came from the “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko”, the head of the committee. And what's even more interesting is when today the Communists, the Communist faction in parliament, are supporting the orange powers, that is, it's clear that the communists today take responsibility for the state of affairs that Ukraine is in crisis with the oranges. And that's why it's so interesting, Reverend Volodymyr Mikhailovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u199	Please, essentially, the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u200	And now, in fact, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, and in your presence, because I asked questions without your presence. Today these laws are extremely necessary, there are no professionals in the government, and you see, law-abiding parliament does not vote, it rejects. This once again says that they are imperfect, they are not in favour of Ukraine, and they reject the faction itself of the “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko” government, their government, project by project. This confirmation is today, just in the morning session in Parliament. So, Reverend Volodymyr Mikhailovich! In particular, to you, a question. You have declared that there is a coalition. This coalition should finally work and take responsibility and 226 should be formed by national deputies. So, honestly, before Ukraine, is there a coalition, or is there no coalition? If so, please read in accordance with the new Constitution 226 signatures of the National Deputies so that the people will know who it is now. For example, we are delaying a crisis, we are delaying time, and Ukraine is still in crisis. Therefore, personal responsibility will come to pass.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u201	Thank you. I'll give you the answer when we're done with the question. Now for the replica, the Communist faction, please. Dear colleagues! I'm asking for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u202	Dear colleagues! Calm down, calm down! I realize that after my speech, I had to speak to the oligarchs and disavow why they did not vote in favour of these laws. So it is clear what they would like! That's the first one. Secondly, you can see that this law has absolutely no relation, which is where the color is. This law is not surprisingly protected only by Communists, for they understand that it is necessary to pay taxes because it is necessary to pay a salary and a pension. You, regardless of whether you're in white or orange, you don't really want to vote for this law, because it's against you, because you're hiding taxes. If the responsibility for tax evasion increases, you do not want to be punished for it. Here's a bench, it's very simple to open. So please stop using what is not appropriate. Because the oranges don't want to vote for this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u203	Thank you. No name, please. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Dear colleagues, right now, before the announcement of the break, we have to finish our consideration of the bill, and the morning session has been resumed for 15 minutes. I remind you of that. Dear colleagues, Bill 3045 on amending some Ukrainian legislation has been concluded. A motion for adoption is put to the vote on the basis of draft Law 3045 amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. Please vote. On the basis of that, please vote. [[14:11:38]] For 228 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, one minute. I'm asking you, let's consult. We had two bills to consider, one minute. If it were your will, I'd put it to the vote to consider these bills in the morning session. Then close the morning session, not hold the evening. So we can work on committees. Is there no objection? So I am voting on the proposal to continue the morning session until the conclusion of the two bills. It's 3075 and here, 3281, 3409, 3409-1. Please vote. [[14:12:42]] For 359 Decision taken. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on Tax Laws]] Reporter: First Deputy Minister of Finance, Umanski Igor Ivanovich. Please. Correspondent: Head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, Terjehyn Sergey Anatoliyovich, and also the Committee on Fuel and Energy, here it is suggested to listen to it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u204	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, there is a request for agreement with the hall to postpone the prescribed bill and to remove it today and move on to the next one.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u205	No, no, one minute. Dear colleagues, since the meeting schedule has been approved, I can put this proposal to the Cabinet of Ministers to a vote. And if we don't make a decision, we're going to have to consider this bill. Therefore, I am voting on the proposal of the Cabinet of Ministers to postpone the review of the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts, 3075. [[on Tax Laws]] [[14:14:13]] For 216 The decision is not taken. Please report this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u206	Thank you. Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The draft bill introduces systematic changes in tax legislation in the areas of taxation of the labour fund, reforms in local taxes and congregations, and adjustments are made to Ukraine's rent policy. I would like to emphasize the most important point: it is intended to cancel local taxes and congregations that are ineffective in terms of their administration, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, the income from these taxes, unfortunately, exceeds the cost of their administration. I'm not going to count them all, I think everyone has the opportunity to get to know this list. It is also proposed that land tax, land tax, and congregation taxes be added. Redistribution of the tax burden on the employer's pay fund from 33.2 percent to 30 percent, on employed workers from 2 percent to 5 percent, so-called salary cuts. It is proposed to reduce the congregation's rate of compulsory state pension insurance from 0.5 to 0.2 percent for foreign currency purchases. It is proposed to increase the rate of interest on gas, except for gas for population needs from 200 to 400 dollars. With a view to creating a level playing field, taxation of the rent of hydrocarbon production is being done to introduce the adjustment coefficient to the wage for gas. The oil coefficient and the gas condensate are in operation today. The implementation of the bill does not require additional budgetary funding. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u207	The report is complete. Thank you, sit down, please. Terjehohin Sergey Anatoliyovich, the decision of the committee on the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u208	Ladies and gentlemen, the positive features of this bill can be attributed to the proposal to abolish 10 local taxes, which are actually currently not working, either unemployment taxes or unemployment taxes such as utility taxes. However, when considering the bill, the committee noted that it was necessary for the government before the second reading to provide compensation for the loss of local budgets by cancelling, first of all, the municipal tax was 215.6 million dollars. We had a rather lively discussion about raising rents for fossils. The bill was prepared before we felt the effects of the global crisis, and now it looks rather questionable to raise such payments for the resources, although the calculations show that it is simply a removal of the profits of some companies, first of all, with foreign capital. There is also a question of the so-called privatization of payments to the Pension Fund. This is the right step, without such a step we can't go to the second level, introducing the second level of the pension system, i.e. the personalized calculation, the personalized accounts. But once again, and given the external circumstances, we need to discuss very carefully for the second reading whether we need to do so now, or whether we need to move this rule forward, say, for a year, or maybe further. Moreover, such a proposal should be agreed upon by the parties to the General Agreement of 15 April 2008 between Kabmin, the All - Ukrainian Union and employers’ organizations, entrepreneurs, and all - Ukrainian trade unions and trade unions for the eighth to ninth years. There's no such reconciliation, unfortunately, so you can.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u209	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u210	You can look at the draft decision. The first is to accept the basis, the second is to ask Kabmina for second reading to make proposals to compensate for the loss of local budgets, as well as the agreed positions of the parties to the General Agreement on the proposed size of insurance contributions by types of compulsory public social insurance and the redistribution of the structure of insurance contributions to social insurance funds between employers and insured workers. That is, I think this bill has more positive qualities than negative ones. However, the room is to be decided. We suggest we take it as a base. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u211	Thank you. Dear colleagues, from the Committee on Fuel and Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, committee head Martinenko Mikola Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u212	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, what would I like to pay attention to in this bill? We are constantly having discussions at the end of each year and in the middle of the year about the rents on organic energy produced in Ukraine. I would like to remind you that recently, not further than June 3, we have set rents for the gas of our own production of 100 and 200 dollars, depending on the depth of the landing, up to 5,000 meters and over 5,000 meters. The bill proposes a rent of 400 dollars. Dear friends, we still have our gas and oil industry. We need to stimulate this sector of the economy in order to be less dependent on imported energy. So what suggestions does the committee offer? And we've had a conversation on this issue, including with the Ministry of Finance, that we're leaving the same basic figures, but based on the relationship to today's prices for imported gas and to the dollar that's today, which was June-month this year, that is to say, it's going to increase proportionally if the current rate is increased, and you know that it's already official for 7 dollars, and if the price of imported gas is going to be increased, and our businesses will pay more. These are the problems that I wanted us to take into account in the second reading of the bill. There is also another problem that we need to work on -- both the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers. Many of the legislative acts on this issue lie under our dress for a long time. This also applies to laws on electricity, on oil and gas, and so forth. So our proposal is to adopt this bill as a basis and take into account the committee's observations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u213	Thank you. Michael Papiew of the Committee on Social Policy, which also considered the bill. And then we'll have a discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u214	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! You know, before we talk about the essence of this bill, I'd like to go to our important hall and appeal to all the Ukrainian national MPs with the call that we never have such drafts in our consideration at all. Why? Because it's not just a law that today increases the workload on the payroll fund for the most unprotected employee. This is a law that violates the laws of Ukraine that are already in force. This is a law that violates the signed General Agreement between the Government and the organizations of all Ukrainian professional associations and the organizations of all Ukrainian employers of Ukraine. Now, I have an appeal from all these organizations that urge the Supreme Council of Ukraine not to vote in favour of this bill. And I am authorized to announce the decision of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Social Policy and Work: “Recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the basis of paragraph 3 of the first part of article 109 of the Interim Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a draft of the Ukrainian Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on tax laws made by the Cabinet of Ministers to return to work.” [[Registration number 3075]] Dear colleagues, look. If we are now talking about European choice, our country's Europeanness, that all decisions should be made by the government in the social dialogue mode, and at the same time the government is enacting legislation, and now Mr. Terjochin has confirmed that the mechanism of consultation between professional associations and employers' organizations has not been carried out. My fellow Members, I call on everyone not to support this bill so that more of these bills will not be passed by the Government for consideration by the Supreme Council, the anti-national bill. And one more thing. By 3 percent, the government is proposing to increase the remuneration of employees from the Labour Fund.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u215	Dear colleagues, please register to participate in the discussion. Two in, two in. Please. Please point to the board. Yuri Carmazin. Yuri Anatoliyovich, faction “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u216	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. Ladies and gentlemen, I am as much behind this bill as I am to urge you to vote against this bill. What am I going to call you against voting on this bill? Because of what I would like -- and I am now addressing the Prime Minister of Ukraine with this -- to see who is the author of this bill. Is the Prime Minister of Ukraine the author to predict an increase in the remuneration of the Pension Fund directly from the salary of each employee from 2 to 5 per cent? Count it in your money, and you'll see how much less it's going to be. I was unable to enroll in the previous law when I discussed where the Ministry of Finance is seriously proposing amendments to the two articles of the Criminal Code. I'm sorry, I've spent my whole life doing this, I've been doing the new Criminal Code for three years, I've run the group, but I wouldn't have had to sit alone and write what Minfin wrote. You have a Ministry for that, you have other ministries for that, ask them, agree. You can't make bills like this. I'd like to ask if you've agreed with the Committee on Local Self-Government that you want to exclude from local taxes and from the congregations at all, such as: a congregation to participate in the race at the hippodrome.? It's not normal that we don't have a ipdrome in Kiev, it has to make a profit, it's going to make an atom today, it's going to privatize it, it's going to build buildings there, but it's not always going to be that way. Or, next, a congregation of dog owners, the right to use local symbols, local auctions, and so on, that is, local self - government budgets. Why are you doing this? It's a tough situation. Besides everything else, I'm against this bill, and I'm registered because otherwise the system doesn't record.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u217	Thank you. Hanna Herman, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u218	Dear colleagues, we could talk today about the minuses of this inconvenient bill if it didn't look much more serious. Here you can see the whole trend, the trend of the non-professional team, which today is made up of the "Julia Timoshenko Block", part of "Our Ukraine" and the faction of Communists, the "Lithuania Block" as well. These are people who think differently, who don't have a system in work, who don't have the only vision of what's going on in the country, and they don't offer effective and only ways of coping with those problems. And this bill today, and these speeches, which remind us of the famous story of swan, rat and cancer, completely characterize today's team, today's so-called coalition, which you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, without all grounds, faked and proclaimed. And I think that people and the people of Ukraine today have seen who now belongs to the authorities in Ukraine -- unprofessional, corrupt politicians who are wasting our time and doing simulations of this Parliament's work instead of effectively solving the problems facing society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u219	Yes. National MP Naydenov is transferring the right to speak to Peter Cibenk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u220	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! The Communist faction, the first deputy head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, Peter Cibenko. What can be said by looking at the bill tabled by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine? First of all, it is the phrase “do not believe your eyes”. Because Prime Minister Timoshenko of Ukraine has been persuading voters, citizens of Ukraine, throughout the period of government leadership, and, frankly, it is inconceivable that she and her government are the only advocates of the working people of Ukraine, which will protect the veteran, the pensioner, save the disabled, support the sick and protect the disabled. And this bill, once again, introduced by the government, exposes this outright lie and places it in its place, because it brutally destroys any preference for social protection of pensioners, veterans and disabled persons in the tax area, and in fact destroys the budget of the Pension Fund of Ukraine, and then deprives pensioners of even the hope of improving even in any future pension insurance. What are we talking about? Economists argue that if the worst recession scenarios are implemented, the budget of the Ukrainian Pension Fund may fall by a third. I'm going to say one more time: one third. What, then, does the government offer in this critical situation, responding to this presumptuous challenge? And he suggests reducing the budget of the Pension Fund of Ukraine and other insurance funds by 3.2 percent. So there's a reduction in the number of these very important social funds, and then it makes the situation worse. Instead, the worker’s wages increase from two to five percent. Once again, the government is acting on the principle of saving the drowning -- the cause of the drowning themselves. The other one. In its time, the Supreme Council of Ukraine offered the head of that time.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u221	Give me 30 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u222	In its time, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, at the suggestion of the then head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons, had adopted the law on the budget of the Pension Fund for the sale of cars, gold products and precious stones and exchange of currency. The government takes that away. This law deprives not only the pensioners, veterans and invalids themselves of any preference, but also their organizations. So I would like to stress once again that the Ukrainian Company, its faction in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, will not vote in favour of this document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u223	Paul Zebravsky. I see. Then Sulkovsky, Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u224	Dear colleagues, this bill was drafted when economic dynamics were high enough. And it was quite right for the legislator to say that gradually it was necessary to translate the tax burden from the entrepreneur on. A man of employment. Is this a cluster of issues in this law right now? Not yet. And I'm convinced that this block of questions for second reading needs to be removed and, I think, including the deputy minister of finance will agree. As for the other blocks of the question. First of all, this cancels out the order of 10 non-working taxes. These taxes alone consume huge amounts of resources and human resources and financial resources. In addition, for the first time, they tried to structure and attach the price to a gas - renting algorithm. I want to tell you that early this year, the same ideology was proposed for oil. Why? Every year, when we accept a budget, the bidding begins. Oil rents, gas rents. And it's clear that these trades always take precedence over one side or another, which coalition is in power, someone is doing a coalition of rents, gas or oil, or not doing it. But in fact, it has to be simple logic -- once and for all, you have to accept the system itself. Should the initial start price of the rent be reduced? I guess we should, but I think we can fix this before the second reading. So if you take down the second block of social security contributions to the Social Insurance Fund, if you agree with the initial price of rent on gas, and you just take into account the grants to local budgets for the cancellation of these ten taxes that most local self-government authorities don't work on, then I think you can take this as a basis. And the second reading is exactly what I said, make all the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u225	Paul Sulkowski. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u226	Thank you. Well, this is the next time the bill confirms, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the words that don't match what you said this morning, that at the meeting yesterday, the agenda was agreed for the whole week. This is the project-by-project reconciliation that's practically going through. And here today is confirmed by the official himself, the first deputy minister of finance, Mr. Umanski Igor Ivanovich. There he is, listening. He goes out to the rostrum, and right now, as Head of the Supreme Council, you put it into the agenda, he goes out and says, take it off, because this project is not necessary. This is confirmed by Mr. Teryohin from the faction of Yulia Timoshenko. So tell me, please, what, we don't have any draft laws that are extremely necessary today. Why are we now? Volodymyr Mikhailovich, you are in order to organize the full contribution of the Supreme Council. We've been talking about this for 30 minutes now, and we see it should be taken. That's right.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u227	Thank you. Dear colleagues, since this is repeated systematically, I want to say that the decisions of the Supreme Council are either positive or negative, which is the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. You'll offer something better, dear fellows, it'll be better. Alternative? Let us act in this way in order for the Supreme Council to be the Supreme Council. I'm sorry about what I did. Please, Adam Martinyuk, then John Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u228	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. I would like to start with a reminder of our famous classic of parliamentaryism: “Don’t stick in the insurmountable!” I would very much ask those who want to, to do their best to push, to count, to do something else to make sure that the Communist Party or the Communist faction is in some coalition, once again I emphasize, there is no Communist faction and there is no Communist faction, and there will be no. That's one thing. Second, I'm going to my landlady, almost Anna Mikolayevna, don't call the wolf out of the woods. You'd better talk about Communists, Soviet authorities, whether they have qualifications or not, be quiet, because you don't have to remind yourself of times.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u229	Ivan Kirilenko, the faction of the “Julia Timoshenko Block”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u230	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, why he had to take the floor. Dear colleagues, I am addressing all factions yesterday, more faithfully last week, this week began with an extremely productive, normal work. Before that, we passed legislation by colleagues who don't belong to the majority, they don't join the coalition, and the paper got bills in the first and second readings of almost 400 votes. We gradually begin to understand each other, to listen to each other. And as soon as the government representative went out to the rostrum, he asked to take it off, look at the document that was introduced on August 28, and he was working on it in the summer, and over these months, how many things had changed. No, we've been left to look at each other, so to speak. The faction will not vote, because really the bill requires a removal from the consideration and work of a completely different document, but how much bitter and evil there was. Colleagues who have prepared it will carry it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u231	Ladies and gentlemen, the 3075 bill is closed. The committee's proposal and the committee's conclusions are to be accepted as a basis. So I'm voting on the adoption as the basis of the draft Law 3074, amending some of the legislators. Take the vote off! Please, first Deputy Minister of Finance, Umanski Igor Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u232	Dear National Deputies! It was absolutely correct, the bill was drafted in the spring and, accordingly, was filed in the summer. He was developing and passing under other financial and economic conditions that were in the country. Thesis first. Another thesis. We worked with the MPs and asked on the second reading to remove a block of issues related to the taxation of the payroll fund, which is really not on time today. First. And the second. At the rate of rent, at the gas. We really agree that this base rate, given the coefficient, needs to be clarified. So in this paper, we really think that it needs work and refinement, and today, it's not relevant. Mr. Žebrovsky was absolutely correct in expressing a position that, in fact, according to the text of the law, we would consider it appropriate to accept. Thank you so much!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u233	Dear colleagues! The discussion is over, the position of the Cabinet of Ministers has been proven to you, and they are proposing this bill substantially, when working on it, to clarify it. Then you could, if your will were, I'd put it to a vote right now. It's over, fellows of honor! I'm done! To vote for acceptance as a basis, if there is no desire and goodwill, then put on a rereading of the first reading. That's how it's done. Am I saying it right? I'll put it to a vote then, I'll put it to a vote, I'll put it to a vote. Alerting the adoption of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on tax laws. I've already voted! Now, one minute! [[14:40:03]] For-13. Against 28, held – 4, the others did not vote. So, dear fellows, I'm going to make a second proposal. It won't go away. It won't go away. It's about re-reading. Why not? I have the right to vote if no decision has been made. And the proposal was also to make a substantial work of it. For re-reading, please vote. [[14:40:46]] For 217 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. All according to the Rules. Please, Alexander Efraemov, microphone, head of the regulatory committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u234	Vladimir Mihajlovich, I would like to understand for myself that this is in accordance with the procedure for the vote? What is this new form where it is prescribed?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u235	I would ask the national deputies of Sasa, if he is, to take the rules and read the corresponding rules. And now I'm announcing to, please, if you found it, read it out so there's no questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u236	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear National Deputies! Our current Rules contain article 28 “The right of chairman at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council”, constitutional, constitutional, Jaroslav Mikhajlovich. Thus, there is the tenth part of the first part of this Rule of Article 28, which states that the chairman of a plenary meeting is entitled to hold a rating, in brackets, to predict the results of the vote on the order of the day plenary meeting of the Supreme Council. [[signal voting]] And I think the Head of the Supreme Council is governed by this, in accordance with the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u237	Dear National Deputies! The draft laws 3281, 3409, 3409-1 on amending the Ukrainian Act on Excise Assembly Rates on Tobacco Elections, Productions are being discussed. Now I'm going to make the final announcement, and then I'm going to give it to you. Now, one minute, I'm going to finish the speech. Reporting: National Deputy of Ukraine, Pavel Jakimović, First Deputy Minister of Finance, Umanski Igor Ivanovich, Head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, Terjehohin. Before you go into the study, the microphone, please, Jerzyv Aleksandra Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u238	Vladimir Mihajlović, our colleague Sergei Vladimirovic read the Rules perfectly. But if you read it further, it does not give the leader the right not to vote on the first reading, or to vote on the first reading. That's exactly what I was talking about when I asked you what the vote was? I mean, you don't have the right to take a bill and not vote on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u239	Thank you for your clarification. I came from Alexander Sergiyovich, who was also offering to send him out for work. All those proposals I made, I also put them to the vote. Dear colleagues, let's work, because I can see that sleep is failing when the Supreme Council begins to work. Let's work. This bill has been announced for consideration. Reporter: Hungarian Pavlov Jakimovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u240	Dear Mr. Head, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! The need for the adoption of Bill 3281 on Amendments to the Ukrainian Act on Excise Assembly Rates on Tobacco Products is a matter of several factors. First, social, namely, the desire to improve the health of Ukrainians, because Ukraine has one of the first places in the world to smoke among other countries. According to various reports, more than 16 million people smoke, 50 percent of adults, 25 percent of women, and 70 percent of schoolchildren smoke. According to the U.S. State, nearly 100,000 people die each year from cigarette - smoking diseases in Ukraine. At the same time, tobacco production has doubled in five years. According to the World Health Organization, smoking takes second place in the list of causes of premature death, killing some 5 million people each year. In fact, 10 people die from smoking every minute. Secondly, due to the deterioration of the balance of payments due to the negative impact of the global financial crisis on the economy, there is a need to find additional sources of income for the State Budget. Thirdly, the adoption of the project aims to ensure compliance with Ukraine's international obligations as a participant in the World Health Organization Framework Convention on Tobacco Control. In accordance with the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Article 1 of the Ukrainian Act “On Excise Assembly Rates on Tobacco Products”, which took effect on September 1, 2008, the price of cigarettes with a filter increased by an average of 60 copies, without a filter, by 30 copies, which became only one of the first steps towards restricting the availability of tobacco products. However, regardless of the indicated increase, the prices of cigarettes are high.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u241	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u242	Prices remain or are not the lowest in the world. Under these conditions, Bill No. 3281 provides for the logical development of the provisions of the above law. Bill No. 3281 envisages a substantial increase in excise duty rates, which will allow the process to continue to overcome the negative effects on the cost and accessibility of tobacco products that have accumulated in recent years, and will also help reduce tobacco smoking and increase the availability of the State budget. At the same time, an additional analysis shows that in view of the real situation in the Ukrainian tobacco market, there is a reasonable question about the gradual and balanced increase in excise duty rates, taking into account the level of inflation. Otherwise, it is possible to destabilize, namely, the increase in the volume of smuggling of this product, which in turn may lead to a decrease in revenues to the State budget of Ukraine. It should be borne in mind that these are the issues that are highlighted in the bills drafted by the government and the Committee of Profiles – Bills 3409 and 3409-1, which also propose a step-by-step increase in excise duty rates among others and tobacco products. So Bill 3281 actually takes into account most of the proposals in Bills 3409 and 3409-1. I therefore consider it appropriate to support Bill 3281 in the first reading, and the constructive proposals of Bills 3409 and 3409-1 can be taken into account in the preparation of Bill 3281 for second reading. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u243	Thank you. Yes, the first Deputy Minister of the Umanski Igor Ivanovich is invited to report. Please, Igor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u244	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! All three bills that are currently under consideration are actually predicting an increase in excise duties on tobacco products. What Differences? Differences are very simple. One of the goals that the government and national MPs, the subject of the legislative initiative, were indeed to limit the consumption of cigarettes in Ukraine. On the other hand, it's a resource instrument that allows for an increase in the general fund of the State Budget. But Ukraine is in the world market for work distribution and world competition. Unfortunately or fortunately, Ukrainian producers have to compete with Russia, with Moldova, with neighbouring countries. Thus, the principle of difference in the bill of government and alternative legislation is the degree of increase in this excise congregation. The government is offering two stages by 25 percent, an increase in excise duties by 25 percent from the first quarter of next year and 25 percent from the second quarter of next year. Regrettably, the MPs are proposing to significantly increase the prescribed excise duty, which, in our view, may lead to a weakening of the position of Ukrainian producers and the creation of competitive advantages of products from Russia, Moldova, etc. Therefore, I would ask you to approach this issue more carefully and to support the government bill itself. It's about alcohol and beer excises. I would ask the National Deputies to consider that there is an alternative proposal for the government in this matter 378 bills, and in this part to consider them together. Thank you very much and please support the bill of government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u245	Yes. Terjohin Sergey Anatoliyovich, head of the Tax and Customs Committee, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u246	Dear National Deputies! Actually, it's a very specific discussion right now. The point is, Bill 3281 refers to tobacco and 3,409 refers to alcohol and 3,409-1 to tobacco and alcohol and government regulation. [[government]] [[It's our committee developed.]] That's why they're not alternatives, and to an extreme extent, on the committee, we tried to put all the proposals to the government, the MPs in the same bill. With regard to the bill currently under discussion, 3281 are expected to increase the specific ad valorem rate of the excise congregation, the minimum tax liability of cigarettes and cigarettes several times, and cigarettes and cigarettes 20 times. As well as the excise duty rate as a percentage of the turnover, replace the rates to the full maximum retail price. Based on the fact that the proposed 3.5 rates are almost once or more than that of the Russian Federation, with which we have practically open borders, this will lead to the emergence of a huge number of smuggled tobacco products in Ukraine. It should be noted that, at the signature of the First Deputy Prime Minister at the Committee's address, it was noted that Kabmin did not support this bill. By the way, I remind you that my initiative of September 1st of this year has already increased the rates of excise duty on cigarettes by one and a half times. So here's a comparative table. If there is now a minimum tax burden on cigarettes in Russia of 30 pennies of 53 cents, it is suggested that in Ukraine there be 100 pennies, i.e. more than 3 times, and the rate is 20 percent, while in Russia there is 5 and a half. Clearly, we had this situation in 2000 when we were.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u247	Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u248	Thank you. . When they were raised about two and a half times on alcohol, and then eight months later, the industry would have to restore to the budget what they lost after that raise. That's why the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy does not recommend adopting this bill as a basis, and when we consider Bill 3409-1, which also sets a minimum rate of 100, but as of 1 January 2011, with a gradual increase, the momentum is determined by the Government of the Russian Federation, then to take a decision on the basis. So once again, a 3281 committee does not recommend that it be accepted as a basis, but a 3409-1 committee should be based on 3281 and a government project. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u249	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues, I ask you to sign up: two for, two for, two against. Please show the board. Paul Sulkowski. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u250	Thank you. Well, of these three alternative drafts of the law, the faction of the Party of the Regions will support 3281, a parliamentary bill that will actually help a giftless government today to some extent correct the situation that this project is talking about. And I'd like to do it again and again, so to say that we, as a faction of the Party of Regions, will only support the draft laws that it develops. And the faction of the Party of the Regions if it's a draft law, it's only for the benefit of Ukraine, not as some Communist faction politicians say today. You don't have to say and raise those times, what you're going to say is that it's going to be okay and you're going to remember. I don't think we should do that. We don't have to go back to that. Because if we go back, we'll see who's going to get hurt more. The people of Ukraine will appreciate who is who. So I would like to see Vladimir Mikhailovich, once again, not allowing such scarce projects into Parliament and not wasting time, because today we are meeting in the morning, practically, fully valued by 50, 50 by 50 percent. And that's why today, until the end of the morning session, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to promise, would have said honestly not only to us people's deputies, but to all of Ukraine: are there 226 signatures to create a coalition? If not, with whom? And do Communists join the coalition or not? For the voting shows that they enter, support even those bills of law faithful, unfaithful, in favor of Ukraine, not in favour, uphold the laws of the oranges.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u251	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would still ask that we agree on one position so that we can have an understanding. If there is no talk on the subject under discussion, the microphones will be turned off. Oleg Laszko, please, the faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u252	Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, my dear colleagues, we had a very violent debate today on the faction about all three of these bills. And as a result of this discussion, faction is one. I came, I made a decision: to support Bill 3281, which we will now vote first. I just want to give you one number. It is estimated that 130 billion pieces of cigarettes will be consumed in Ukraine this year. From them, the budget will go up to 3.8 billion dollars. In the event of the adoption of Bill 3281, it is projected that 107 billion cigarettes, goods, 20 billion less will be consumed in Ukraine, with an additional 6 billion dollars and 11.5 billion in total. In the face of a global financial crisis, we're adopting Bill 3281, and we're killing a few rabbits: first, we're dramatically reducing the number of people who are going to smoke, second, we're going to fill the budget, and now we're not going to waste money. Moreover, there were fears that prices would be higher than that of neighbors, and that would be why smuggling would take place. In fact, we're just comparing prices to Russian for some packs of cigarettes, and in some cases they're going to be much higher. I'm not talking about the price of the European Union, where in the same Poland or Britain, the "Malborough" package costs $25, and we have it. We have a children's gift, and by the new year, I was buying children's gifts, the cheapest gifts, 20 bucks, and a pack of six bracelets. Is that fair? We spend millions of people, hundreds of thousands die each year, but tobacco companies put billions in their pockets. I think so.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u253	Sergey Tereshuk, Lithuanian Block faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u254	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Clearly, we need to look for a source of budget fulfillment. But you also have to take into account the fact that today is a financial crisis. And in practice, most countries in financial crisis are reducing taxes to save jobs. Today, it's difficult to save jobs. That is why we should consider this feature. I'm against smoking too, I'm against smoking too, but believe me, if we raise the price of cigarettes, we won't solve this problem. There's only one thing I can say: a tobacco factory can shut down in Cherkishka, how many jobs will Cherkashina lose? So I propose voting, taking into account the position of the profile committee, there are more experts there, and listening to Mr. Teriochin's words.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u255	The national deputy Gordienko hands over the right to speak to Peter Stepanovich Cibenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u256	No, no, he's speaking. I followed the line.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u257	Replica, please, after the discussion. National MP Gordienko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u258	Dear colleagues! In a fundamental way, the question of budgeting and other things can be solved by introducing a state monopoly on the production and implementation of tobacco and alcohol products themselves. And those who are so passionate about filling the budget today, I would like to ask you to support the ruling that was registered as the Communist Party of Ukraine 3318, in which this is proposed. Those who struggle with tobacco and care so much about the health of the nation, I would like to tell you, remember all the banning and rising prices of measures that have been taken against for many decades, but they have not led to anything. I would like to tell you that if we do so, the questionable quality of the drink and the questionable quality of the surrogate cigarette itself will be consumed and consumed by our people. I'm telling you today, please, and I'm telling you. Those who introduce these bills, let's really understand and support in the further position that we need to introduce a state monopoly for the production and implementation of tobacco and vodka. This is going to be a budget, which means both control and quality, and so on. So we have no choice but to support the position of the Communist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u259	Ladies and gentlemen, please step forward. Dear colleagues, please, the performances are over. So now, if we're done, Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, Andrew Schlell, Terhochin, Hare What? Dear colleagues who are claims, please tell us. Before the vote, is there a question from the voting procedure? Please sign up, five minutes. Yes, please show me on the board. Teryohin, please, and then Wolintz.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u260	Dear People's Deputies, the position of the BUT faction is to support all three bills in order that I correctly sounded to find the truth at the second reading stage. Once again, Bill 3409-1 refers to a complex change in excise taxation not only of tobacco but also of other excise goods, plus a change in the law on government regulation, a change in the administration of these taxes. So if you vote, then Vladimir Mikhailovich, let's vote for all the bills, accept them on the basis that they don't meet in all positions and put them in one table on the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u261	Thank you. Deputy Volintz, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u262	Please pass the word to Peter Stepanovich Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u263	Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u264	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, those of our colleagues who are very concerned about the position and location of the Communist faction, I want to say that the faction of Communists did not join the coalition with nationalists, did not enter and would not enter, that was the first. Secondly, we have our own position on any bill, no matter who introduces it, it's the second. And thirdly, I'd like to ask Mr. Paul Gnatovich Sulkowski if he ran into the Bank to consult with the President of Ukraine before blaming the communists, because his position has recently been very clear with the position of President of Ukraine, increasingly unfortunately.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u265	Dear colleagues! The line is after the show is over! I've finished the speech, there'll be a line! Everyone, calm down, please. The Viennese faction “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u266	“Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”, Vladimir Vizevski. There are three bills, and it is not entirely clear in which order we are going to vote. The first law 3281 has been reported, and I will personally vote for it, and I am convinced that part of the significant “Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense” will support this bill. Because there's further reasoning from this, that no matter what, we can't stand the competition with Russia. I want to say that competition with Russia is really hard for us to endure, because Russia has been much more prepared for the world crisis, and just as the dollar went to us, God forbid someone else didn't have it. So given the difficult situation that we're going to have to face in the budget, this bill, first of all, needs to be adopted, because at least in this way we can save our budget and direct those costs. And we know that the following year is the year, according to the decree, of young people, to direct youth action and fight drugs and smoking.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u267	Jaroslav Dry faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u268	Dear colleagues! Today’s sessional day and what is happening here have proved and made it clear that there is no anti - crisis strategic program in today’s government! So we see what we see: the headless and headless "trapping holes" with the inevitable getting new holes in the budget and new, even more complex problems that we're going to have to look again for, some measures to get out of the deadlock. The hot search “where to pick up anything else”, some copy, has nothing to do with the laws of the market and has nothing to do with it. I'm not a smoker, I've never been a smoker, but no one's ever given up on what the price has gone up, no drunk, no alcoholic has ever calculated a high price for liquor. Remember, the production of cigarettes in Ukraine wasn't ours, it was foreign companies. Including Philip Morris, who invested hundreds of millions of dollars to raise Ukrainian, you probably didn't hear Tereshuk. These are jobs. So I think we should think about tomorrow, not fly.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u269	Thank you. Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u270	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear colleagues, for those who talk about jobs. A total of 6,000 people were employed in the tobacco industry in Ukraine. Every year, 100,000 people die of cancer. So you have an answer for these jobs. Millions of people suffer from tobacco. And the result of this suffering will be the same as that of everyone else. Therefore, there is no need to tell. Who wants to see, compare these places, go to the Shalimov Institute, go to oncology, to the Cancer Institute, and look. And then you'll understand why you're here. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, given that this is an additional charge to the budget, I propose to support Bill 3281 in the first reading and to foresee a shorter procedure for the second reading. For the next plenary week to deliver and vote in general, and to provide additional billions in the next year’s budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u271	Thank you. Alla Alexandrovska.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u272	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Dear colleagues, let us, in the end, see what we really want to achieve by enacting these laws. As far as excise duties are concerned, yes, they will add additional amounts to the budget. But by the consumer, at the expense of the population that we today receive very low wages, a moratorium has been imposed on the increase of government wages. Today, we have allowed a foreign owner to operate our workers in Ukraine. We have self - worth cigarettes, of course, which are very low and their price is low. Why does our Government not want to impose an additional tax on those producers of foreign products that poison our people? What's with the excise? There could be government regulation in an entirely different area. That is why I believe that this law should not be considered. And the Communist faction won't support it. Of course, the ideal option is the State monopoly on the production and implementation of tobacco and liqueur products.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u273	Dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts. I've announced the right to Paul Sulkowski's replica, the faction of the regions, please. No last names, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u274	Thank you. I want to get a line because a fellow communist named my last name, someone running to President Yushchenk and so on. So I want to state that four years ago, as a trusted candidate for President Viktor Yanukovic, I was saying that if Victor Andrievich Yushchenko became president, there would be a bard, not a single president, but a few. Janukovic will become president, there will be order, stability in Ukraine, what life is saying today. And that's why today, I'm talking to my Communist colleagues again, why there is no Communist faction elite in the hall, because you vote without them with oranges. And then when the people give what the Communist faction so votes, the leaders will say, but we weren't in the hall. You will be responsible for the state of affairs that you are voting with the oranges today, not in favor of Ukraine’s law, and you will be responsible before.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-16-m0.u275	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Let's talk about the elite and work. Dear colleagues, so according to the registration, I'm going to put the bill in turn for voting, that's 3281, 3409, 3409-1. I am voting on the adoption of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Excise Assembly Rates on Tobacco Products. [[Registration number 3281]] Please vote. [[15:12:14]] For 351 Decision taken. Next. May I have your attention, please? Just a minute. The next bill is in place. The committee's proposal was to put all the bills to the vote because they're calling it off. Am I right, head or not? If not, then we'll shoot. The next is Bill 3409 on Amendments to the Act on Excise Assembly Rates on Tobacco Products. Please vote. Dear colleagues, we will then prepare one project for the second reading. [[15:12:59]] For the 220. The decision is not taken. May I have your attention, please? It is put to the vote for adoption on the basis of the draft Act, registration number 3409-1 on the amendment of the Act on excise duty rates on tobacco products. Please vote. [[15:13:34]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Thus, honourable colleagues, of the three bills, adopted Bill 3281 as a basis. In view of this, I would ask the committee to finalize this bill so that it can be brought to the attention as soon as possible. The committee is protesting. Dear colleagues, one minute. The proposal was made to decide on a shorter procedure for preparing for the second reading of Bill 3281, taking into account the provisions of drafts that did not receive the necessary support but are essential. So I put to the vote a reduced procedure for considering this bill, registration number 3281, so that on the following Thursday and Friday we can consider it in a second reading. Please vote. [[15:14:44]] For the 220. The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, at the conclusion of our work, allow me to make an announcement. In accordance with article 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I am also informed by the minutes of the meeting of the parliamentary faction "Block of Lithuania" in the Supreme Council of 16 December 2008 that the head of the deputy faction "Block of Lithuania" has been elected the national deputy of Ukraine, Sharov Igor Fedorović, the deputy head of the faction, was elected the national deputy of Zarubinski Oleg Alexanderovich. Next. Dear colleagues, in line with the decision of the "Our Ukraine" faction of 16 December 2008 to elect the leadership of the faction, the faction authorized the faction to speak on behalf of Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk. Did I read your message correctly? [[Applause]] . And finally another announcement. Honorary colleagues, on December 9, 2008, at a plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a decision was announced on the three factions' decision to form a coalition between the deputies' factions of the "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense", the "Julia Timoshenko" and the "Lithuania Block". According to the decision of the three factions, on the basis of the decisions of the three factions, an agreement was made on December 16, this year to create the National Development, Stability and Order Coalition. This agreement was signed by authorized representatives of three factions. Dear colleagues, I've announced the faction's decision to make a deal and the decision to sign a deal. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, the list of issues scheduled for the December 16 meeting has been exhausted. As we agreed, after 16 hours we'll be working on committees and factions. Then I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Tomorrow we'll continue our work at ten o'clock on Wednesday's schedule.
