ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u1	Good morning. Let's register. Should we register or not? [[10:00:53]] Registered -400 Four hundred Ukrainian national deputies are registered in the hall, and the morning plenary session is publicized. I think we should start on our birthdays. Dear Sergey Raphaelovich Greenewecki, welcome to your birthday. [[Applause]] Dear Vassil Alexiyovich Kiselov, we also welcome you on your birthday. [[Applause]] On this optimistic note, there is an hour’s break.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u2	Vassil Alexiyovich, I wanted to say hello because you have a Jubilee. I was just looking for you. [[Applause]] In everyone who has a Jubilee, everything will be organized, please come to my office after the parliamentary session. Colleagues, I'd like to move on to the day-to-day issues. 2679 is a decree on implementation in Ukraine of the European Social Charter. 3062 is a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Prevention and Anti-Legalization of Proceeds by Crime. Next, at 12:30, we're going to have the election and release of the judges. But I think that by 12:30 we will be able to look at 0895 -- this is a draft law amending some of Ukraine's laws (to improve legislation against domestic violence), which is a second reading, a very important law. Also, 0962 is the draft Law amending articles 155, 156 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code (this is the issue of the depravity of minors). 0894 are bills aimed at setting up so-called special green tariffs in electricity. And if we get there, a report from the Interim Investigation Commission investigating the causes of the death of a 17-year-old teenager in the Kramator region of Donetsk. It's a question of vaccination. I propose to vote in favour of this agenda, please vote. [[11:03:49]] For 267 Decision taken. Please sign up for three minutes on the basis of the vote. Sulkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u3	Arseny Petrovich! We have had a lot of discussions about the efficient use of resources that have been earmarked by nature. In the Plain area, and you also said that it doesn't apply to the commission that was formed in those areas that were affected. So there's either a request or a commission that's made to look at the use of funds that were allocated to support farmers, and there's huge abuse, especially in the Plains region. 20 million funds have been allocated, of which nearly 12 million have been disbursed by government officials, and in particular the first deputy Blagoder has been disbursed, in our view, unconsciously, insolently, cynically, by the enterprises that the official is practically constantly caring for. So let's take it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u4	Viacheslav Kirilenko "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense"
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u5	Viacheslav Kirilenko "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear colleagues, the agenda for today is re-formed by two factions: the Yulia Timoshenko Block and the Party of Regions. Unfortunately, once again, no proposal for "Our Ukraine" is included in the agenda, including proposals for the lifting of parliamentary immunity. I'm not even talking about other suggestions. So we don't have the ability to be optimistic about the fact that the three factions that kind of started the consultations yesterday can form the order of the day, because it's re-formed by two factions -- the Yulia Timoshenko Block and the Party of Regions. In view of this, we believe that the further practice of ignoring the issues brought up by "Our Ukraine" is unacceptable. I want to say that the High Council meeting has now come to one conclusion: BUT and the Party of the Regions, together with the communists, have decided to celebrate the 90th anniversary of Komsomol. It's not a job and that's why our Ukraine doesn't see it yet.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u6	Demyanchuk Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u7	Simonenko is a faction of Communists. Dear colleagues, I ask you to consider today and to include in the agenda 0957 -- draft changes to the law, it's touching article 57 on education, and this has to do with the level of debt restructuring. And secondly, it's 2476, it's pension insurance and it's paid for the work of teachers. And I ask you to consider it, the government, by the way, supports it. And secondly, I call on all the national MPs, the faction leaders, if you take the initiative in the Communist faction to create an anti-President coalition in the Supreme Council, I invite you to negotiate how we will continue to work. And the third is about removing the touch. I suggest, in a sense, that we address this issue in a complex, that we remove the President's in touch, remove the intrepidness of the national MPs and the judges, only then will we have a concrete result in our work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u8	Yes, comrades! The first thing about Level is, I'm talking to my colleague Sulkowski, and we have two solutions to this problem. Option one. I can give an order to the Court of Auditors, without a vote, to check this thing on an equal footing, is the simplest and quickest option. Option two. You're making a draft decision, and we're putting it up for next plenary week, if we work, for consideration. But the draft resolution, you know, you're going to wait a long time until the commission sits down, looks at it, it's a whole bunch of money again, a whole bunch of bureaucracy, and you get nothing. So if you don't mind, we'll send you to the House of Accounts, just give me an official letter so I can have a reason. Copy that? Copy that. Now, about the question Peter Mikolaiovich raised. Today we have discussed 57 articles, a really critical thing in the Ukrainian financial sphere, when we are paying off the incredible costs not only on the basis of the decisions of the Ukrainian judges but also on the basis of the European Court of Justice. So the two bills that Peter Mikolaiovich just said we are sending the government for a clear and clear position of the Ukrainian government. How to eliminate this debt, how to restructure it, and what to do with pension insurance. The faction leaders also took these bills to discuss them at a faction meeting and to produce a single position for each individual faction on the question of article 57. Colleagues, let's get to the point. The first question is regarding 2679. Draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on the implementation of the European Social Charter in Ukraine. Colleagues, we had serious parliamentary hearings, a draft decree. How do you view simply voting and taking the appropriate decision? Will you support me? You don't have to put a vote on it, no one's denying it? Thank you, colleagues. I am voting on the issue of acceptance as a basis and in general Order 2679 on Parliamentary hearing recommendations on "On the move towards implementation in Ukraine of the European Social Charter ". [[revised]] Comrades, we vote. [[11:09:52]] For-166 The decision is not taken. For some reasons, if this is a sign, no report, no problem. Please sign up for three minutes. Although, comrades, I will give up on motive because this is not provided for in the Rules. Let's write it down for three minutes. Victor Taran.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u9	Dear colleagues, I think we really need to consider the question of parliamentary immunity, and this is a rare case where I agree with the communists completely. We really need to consider the question of parliamentary immunity, which concerns both judges and national MPs, and the President. And finally, you have to put a dot here and put it in the order of the day.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u10	Katerina Samuelk. Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u11	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, on the one hand, we can support the proposal that let's really, it's recommendations, nothing serious, we can vote them without discussion, without reports, because it's parliamentary hearings. But we all know very well that during parliamentary hearings, there are ideas that are mutually exclusive and that ideas that can't be drawn not by just one, but by dozens of government budgets. This is one moment. One second. We need to watch carefully what we write in these Recommendations and how. On the one hand, the Communist faction cannot help but support the problem that we have repeatedly insisted for several years that this Charter be ratified. But we cannot agree with what is written here: Speeding up the adoption of the Labour Code and everything else that the Communist faction denies.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u12	It's a light bulb.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u13	Vladimir Jaroschuk, faction of the Party of the Regions. Please pass the word to your colleague Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u14	Ivan Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u15	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind everyone that this year, most likely by October 30, Ukraine will have to submit its first official report from the government as, on the move for implementation in Ukraine of the European Social Charter to review. This was our commitment to the Council of Europe, and when the government of Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic and we were here in the hall, most of us voted. And then a decision was made, and we said that about this year in the fall, we'll give the first official answer as to how these positions are being implemented and at the minimum wage, at the minimum subsistence minimum, by other social standards. So we think that we need to vote, we need to consider, we need to vote, so that we look perfectly normal at European level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u16	Sergei Gordienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u17	Sergey Gordienko, faction of the Ukrainian Company. I'd like to talk to all the citizens today and my fellow MPs about social issues, about beautiful names, sometimes there are terrible things to hide, and I'd like to go on with Adam Ivanovich's opinion that we're talking about a new labour code right now. But I point out to all Ukrainian citizens and my colleagues that the Labour Code essentially violates and narrows down the rights of the hired worker, and that this Labour Code primarily protects the rights of the employer. In view of the fact that these positions are in the stated decision, we will probably not be able to support it in the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u18	Colleagues, I have another offer. In view of the fact that we have successfully overturned the bill and according to the requirements of the Provisional Rules, such a bill cannot be considered at the current session. For the sake of further consideration, I ask you to vote for the re-reading of Bill 2679. A reporter will appear and then we will vote again. Did you hear that, comrades? I ask you to support 2679 – parliamentary hearings for a second reading. [[11:14:36]] For 339 Thank you. The following bill 3062 on amending the Ukrainian Law on Prevention and Opposition to the Legalization of Proceeds by Crime is announced. A very interesting bill and an important one. Stanislaw Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u19	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! I present Bill 3062, which is prepared and designed to meet the requirements of international standards in the area of combating money laundering and financing terrorism. These are the FATF recommendations. For the purpose of adopting this bill, it was worked out by us with the National Bank and 14 central executive authorities. The purpose of this bill is to implement Ukraine’s commitments, which were adopted in 2003 with regard to the implementation of the new FATF standards. The bill proposed for your consideration is not new. He has been in Parliament several times. Last year it was Bill 2847. And this is already its improved, improved version, which takes into account the proposals and comments made by the national deputies. The adoption of this project is the introduction of new international standards and confirmation of Ukraine's desire for integration, both financially and globally, into the standards that exist in the world. Today, I want to inform you that there is a mission in Ukraine, a joint mission of the Council of Europe and the FATF, which appreciates the gains that have been made in Ukraine over the past five years. This bill has been given a positive assessment by the Scientific and Expert Council and there are some observations in the process of processing from the National Bank and there are comments from the Expert Council. But I think we can process them and ask you to support this bill in the first reading, and we will work on taking into account all the comments that you will make in this process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u20	Please sign up, colleagues, five minutes of questions, answers. Kilincarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u21	Klinkarov, the Communist faction. I would still like to hear more clearly what specific changes we are making to this law, and how will these changes improve the situation in the fight against this negative phenomenon? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u22	Thank you for asking. First of all, the major changes that have been made are the changes that we have made in five years. Because it's the first one. These are systemic changes to the law itself, because the law was the first to be written on our knees, we haven't even had any experience. Today all those moments are taken into account; they come from the work that took place in five years.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u23	Well, first of all. No, no, no. It's all been before. These are some systemic moments, procedural. And the main moments in meeting the FATF requirements are the involvement of non-financial professionals in this system. That is, reporting to financial intelligence will also be provided by accountants, accountants, lawyers -- those who see how financial transactions are conducted but do not directly take part in them, but they do have some information about the conduct of these operations. And in case of suspicion, if these operations could be related to the laundering or financing of terrorism, they would send this information to the committee. This is the main novelty of these 40 recommendations.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u24	Yavorowski Wolodymir.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u25	Vladimir Yavorowski, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, town of Kirovograd. Dear reporter, I've been to Krinica recently -- in this European economic forum and I've been talking to some Polish businessmen. And they told me, Ukrainians, how to deal with some issues in Ukraine with executive power. If you come in and you're lying on the right side of the table, there's 20 grand. If you put it in your left and the other color, there's 50 grand. And so on, and so on. I have a question for you. You said this bill to combat corruption in Ukraine would bring European standards closer. Ukraine is now in one of the first places in scale, equal to corruption. So please make it clear to the Ukrainian society how many steps will we go down or above after the adoption of such a law and such amendments?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u26	Thank you for asking. Well, first of all, this is not a purely anti-corruption project, because we're not a law enforcement agency. The fight against corruption is done by those bodies that are defined. We provide information, but we don't provide information about the person who did or did not commit corruption. We provide information to law enforcement agencies where we see violations of legislation and the possibility of using those funds and washing them. But the information we provide can be used by law enforcement officials to combat corruption.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u27	Konovaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u28	Thank you. Dear reporter, please tell me, because, in fact, Ukraine now holds 134th place in the world on an equal footing of corruption. And that's probably the initiative you're taking today. But I am very curious to hear from you, and how many criminal cases have been committed regarding the information provided by your agency? That's the first question. What specific measures are being taken because the laundering of “dirty” money is also related to the issue of illegal arms trade, military technology. And we're concerned about this issue today, but I feel that your department is not actually paying attention to it today. Please answer these specific questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u29	Thank you for asking. On the first question. I can tell you that during the committee's work in the area of the Anti-Laundering Act, we have sent 1,850 cases to law enforcement agencies that have violated nearly a thousand criminal cases. The total amount of laundering suspected of these materials is, well, even such that it is difficult to advertise. That's almost 200 billion dollars in five and a half years. On the second, or on the second, of your question, I can tell you that everything about financial transactions in arms trade, if they, these devices, are legal and we see them, we're directing information. But.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u30	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u31	But right now, we don't get that kind of information from the institutions that run this trade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u32	Sit down, Stanislaw Mikolaiovich. My colleague Arzhevtin, please, from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u33	Dear colleagues, our Committee on Finance and Banking has considered this bill. We've had a few new editions. To tell you the truth, we have decided that we are to adopt this bill as a basis, but it was not in a particular mood. Therefore, the bill, if correct, had to be returned to the first reading. But given a few factors, a special factor is that our nation, when we were excluded from the FATF blacklist, made a commitment that we are implementing our legislation into international norms and that we are obliged to comply with it. The second factor that forced us to make this decision is that today there are experts from the special committee of the Council of Europe, representatives of the World Bank, representatives of the FATF, the International Monetary Fund. So we have to demonstrate that we want our legislation, really, to implement international standards. So our proposal is to adopt the bill as a basis. According to a large account, the reporter said that the scientific and expert office supported this proposal. Regrettably, no, the expert office suggested that it be returned to consideration. But we're going to ask you to support him. The bill was considered by the National Bank of Ukraine. It's conceptually supportive, of course, but there are substantial remarks that have been made from the very beginning, such as those that conflict with international standards and the requirements of the FATF. But I think we can reconcile these technical things on the second reading. We don't have the editors that are today and the functions that are delegated to this authorized body. So in fact, there's another one in Ukraine, one ministry that's increasing the scope of those participants in primary financial monitoring. And now, apart from banks and other financial institutions, this monitoring will be done by notaries, lawyers, notaries and even post offices. In our view, such a wide range of expansion of primary financial monitoring participants is entirely appropriate. The reporter spoke of the effectiveness of the work of this authorized body, and I heard figures that were not considered on our committee. Today you know that financial monitoring collects over a million messages a year from participants in primary financial monitoring, such as from banks. In fact, there are dozens of courts, and in courts there are units of effectiveness. In other countries, financial monitoring is receiving 800-900-1000 messages. Among other things, this authorized body is asked by this bill to empower it to create state bodies in areas, to create scientific institutions. I think that's the norm we should rule out on the second reading. The bill itself today contradicts many bills, including notary, on the National Bank, even on the unification of citizens and even on political parties, because we have never received an answer as to what criteria today are the terms “political actors”, “essential participation”, “foreign politicians”. Throughout the bill, the phrase “and other powers” and “and other functions” is used. You know, if you leave those standards in the bill, of course, that would be a free interpretation. In fact, the bill introduces almost total financial monitoring checks in the country. Financial monitoring begins to interfere with the function of the National Bank and to exercise control over the activities of commercial banks. There are also many suggestions that we have actually made to the participants or authors of this bill. But once again, given that we really have to implement international legislation and demonstrate to the group that is working in Ukraine today, that we are really going to do this. We were asked by the Prime Minister to give us a quick look at this bill. We did it. Therefore, a request for support is made in the first reading. And I think our second reading committee is going to work on it, because the National Bank's observation, the comments of financial market participants, we should definitely consider. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u34	Five minutes -- questions-answers. Paul Silent, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u35	Your Honor, after listening to you and your warnings, I have come to the conclusion that I will not vote. I don't know how my faction buddies are, but I've come to think that we're actually creating another center around which all of the nesting ways of corruption in Ukraine can spread. And you said to yourself that, just what needs to be done, you would have to do the things that are necessary that exist in European practice. You've already denied to yourself that it's going to be a body that's going to be in place, that's going to have an impact on the banking system and all the operations. So we can make a pattern that needs to be removed for this structure. Didn't I get you right? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u36	You ask the right questions. Still, I asked him to support me in my first reading. And I know that we already have the changes prepared for the second reading in the new edition, which I think percent by 50 are actually going to change today's norms. And I'm only addressing because we really have to demonstrate that we're making commitments to other states, especially those that work in the FATF program. To be accepted in the first reading, and I promise we're going to work on it, and these standards are just going to disappear because they're funny even in the texts that are laid down in this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u37	Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u38	“Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, Vladimir Yavorowski, Kirovograd. Dear colleague! These amendments to this law raise our domestic national law to, as it were, a world standard. It's like we've already agreed on that. Indeed, there are many things that arise because European standards are acceptable where civil society works and so on. We're obviously going to have a very hard time doing this, and I understand your certain fear. The monitoring that our commission is conducting is really a very interesting and important thing, but it's done in a closed mode. We never know, they just transfer documents to organs, to power structures. What happens next, we don't know about it. As you look at to get to second reading to me, you as a professional, as a banker explain to me, please, for the second reading, let's say, bring in the matter of, at least, national MPs, presidents, ministers, heads of government, so that, let's say, this monitoring is public, and let the Ukrainian society know about it. Overflow.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u39	Thank you. I'm just going to say to the MPs that this bill that we're considering today is not new. Its same name as the previous bill, only we add such a small tail: “or financing terrorism”. This is what international standards require. But of course, there's a lot of things painted under this noise here that should never go through, because we're stopping financial market participants. And now, the village post offices have to hold the person who will be carrying out a special program under this law regarding the execution of these transfers. They're supposed to come in and check them out. But I'm stressing, we're going to change this in principle before we read again. So I'm thinking about how I would like to reiterate my support in the first reading and the fundamental change in the second reading. In fact, we have adjustments for almost every article.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u40	Ruslan Knazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u41	Dear Stanislav Mikhailovich, in fact, is an ancient story of opposition, prevention, legalization of the proceeds obtained by crime. Now she's gone a little bit further from our television screens and the front pages of the newspapers, but we do recall the time when our country was on the FATF blacklist, and how relevant this issue was about the possibility of adopting such a law, and then somehow it was this nuisance was removed. Well, we understand that this was a great achievement of the state, and given these circumstances, this law was lost in the walls of Parliament. I thank you personally for initiating, pedaling this topic. But given your expertise in banking, I would like to ask you very much to make a few key points on what specific benefits Ukraine will get as a result of the adoption of this law, because, unfortunately, so far there is no agreement on how important it is in Parliament. As a professional banker, you can explain it to everyone in the hall, because not everyone understands it as much as you do and you know it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u42	First, I would like to remind you once again that when our country was blacklisted, we made a commitment in 2004. In fact, the entire banking system, when we got on the list, was shut off from international payments. In fact, we were on the verge of our computational crisis in Ukraine. I think this bill or movement is part of the implementation of international legislation. Now, by the way, in our committee, we're looking at another bill on the legalization of non-criminal incomes, which has already gone through eight countries in Europe. We also want to prepare for our country not to be a donor of other countries, so that the $40-60 billion that are rotating today, our Ukrainian money, will rotate in other economies, will return to Ukraine. This bill, which we're going to make in principle on the second reading, is a bill on the legalization of revenue received, I'm stressing, not a criminal way, of course, this is the path to Europe. I think this is the path of investment to our country. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u43	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u44	So we have to demonstrate this step. But I emphasize, our ministry, officials, shouldn't be here killing things they'd like very much, because we're stopping the market principles in our country.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u45	Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u46	Mr. Stanislaw, I would like to make it clear that here in article 19 it is envisaged that all civil servants who will work in this special authorized body should, at the time of work, cease membership in parties, movements, public organizations. We have recently considered the Law on State Service, where the same rule is provided. I mean, my question is this is ideologically you think that in all the structures of government a public official should be outside the political party or, let's say, in bodies that deal with sensitive matters like fighting corruption, abuse and so on, we should stop membership in the party. If all of us do, this is obviously to be regulated by the Law on State Service, on political parties, and not by this law. Does this idea apply only to this body?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u47	If you know, according to our legislation, it's illegal for some government agencies to work for members of one party or another. We've been looking at it, there, the National Bank, in tax inspection and all that. As far as this bill is concerned, they went even further, since Article 19 prohibits being a member of a party for a period of service in that institution or even for a contract of employment. Of course, this standard is contrary to article 36 of the Constitution, it is, indeed, yes. And, of course, this article needs to be reconciled, including with the Law on the Unification of Citizens, on Professional Associations, on Political Parties. There is a direct contradiction. And to decide whether or not to refer the category of these civil servants to a category that should not be members of the party should be a separate discussion. So far we don't support this norm.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u48	Thank you. Please sit down. Colleagues, we record, faction leaders, and more specifically, factions and Ukrainian national deputies for the performance. Peter Gashuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u49	Please give the word to the faction manager.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u50	Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich. Would you please get rid of the word or not? Right. Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u51	Dear national deputies, a few years ago, when I was creating this organ, I spoke out of this rostrum and said that we are creating, not an organ, but a pitiful likeness to cover ourselves from the west. That's what happened. Isn't that right? We have not created a full body, this body cannot work fully today with what it has to do with what it has to do. So I do not agree with the need to make changes to literally every article. Unfortunately, I don't agree with that. The law, which is prepared, is well prepared, despite the fact that there are a lot of observations about scientific and scientific management. It's enough to just say that the Scientific and Expert Office thinks it's appropriate to send this bill to pre-work, to re-read it and to make these comments on a whole ten-page paper. It's for those colleagues who haven't been able to get to know each other. So there's a lot of problems there, but these problems are the first to be solved. And second of all, this organ has to start working in the end. And that's why those powers that are offered to him, and those rights, they're absolutely right. It is also appropriate to obtain documents on the subject of laundering and legalization and to promote the prevention of these crimes. Strange things are happening today. Today, the value added tax is washed away, something is exported in cars, nothing is exported, and nothing is controlled today. Is that normal? It's not normal. Today this is done for the promotion of public tax officials, and very seriously, on a scale such as billions of dollars, it is a huge waste for the state. And we can't fight it today, there's no organ. Thus, it is suggested that the body be filled with muscles and brains. I think that article 20 is perfectly normal and correct. And the 19th article, which was critical today in this room about the political independence of a special authority, I think, should be introduced in many other specialized bodies. Because it is predicted that the use of a specially authorized body in party, group, or personal interests is not permitted. That means no one in the office will call and say, "Here's the names and give me everything you need and put it down for tomorrow." That's what it means. What can happen today is that there was not enough space ten years ago, so in my opinion, this is progressive things, the law needs to be adopted in the first reading and allow MPs and a few committees, not just one, to consider this bill, including a professional law enforcement committee, not just.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u52	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the bill has been discussed. I'd like to say a few things about this bill. First and foremost, do not simplify this bill to financial monitoring, which relates exclusively to fighting and terrorism. Yes, it's one of the key tasks in order of the day's financial monitoring. But I would also like to point out that this bill is based on the real face of civil society in Ukraine. What's important about this bill is that it's practically financial monitoring of politicians. That is, the political corruption for money that exists in Ukraine today must be overcome by a completely independent and extremely effective government body, which is the holding of supervision. We have to do everything to keep this body out of politics, once; professional, twice; had a proper network, three; had adequate material and technical security, four and the necessary authority, five. Because today the left-hand side of Ukrainian politics is involved in illegal arms and the only way to fight it is to enable the monitoring and law enforcement system to fight it hard and actively. So I urge you to vote on this bill in the first reading. What's more, we should have a day-to-day agenda, besides this bill, another bill that relates to the declaration of the expenses of politicians and statesmen, because after the declaration of 40,000 to 60 thousand, and on the feet, on the hands and on the pants of more money than in the annual declaration. So I propose to vote in favour of this bill in the first reading, to send on second reading and continue to fight political corruption. I'm voting on 3062 in the first reading. [[11:44:32]] For 345. Thank you, colleagues, for accepting this act. Let's go to the next bill, bill, second reading, number 0895. Victor Dmitrovitch, please. Victor Dmitrovitch, he's on his way, isn't he? Or me? You need, 0895, you're reporting.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u53	Dear Lord Chairman! Dear National Deputies! The Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted on 22 February 2007 a draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts. [[on improving legislation to combat domestic violence]] The bill aims to improve legislation in the area of family violence by diversifying the forms of work of victims of domestic violence, introducing new types of administrative connections, such as the obligation to undergo treatment for alcoholism for those who commit domestic violence, the creation of shelters for victims of this violence, and corrective work with those who are prone to domestic violence to form a nonviolent pattern of conduct. The bill received the approval of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Ministry of Family and Youth and Sports of Ukraine, and the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Health. In view of the failure of Parliament to adopt the bill in the second reading, he was to be introduced to the newly elected Supreme Council for further consideration of the second reading procedure. The bill had 34 amendments and proposals. 24 of them are fully accounted for, 9 are partially accounted for, 1 is rejected. As for the rejected amendment. This is amendment number three, made by the Ukrainian national deputy Shevchuk. The committee is therefore of the view that it is appropriate to introduce a type of administrative commitment, such as the obligation to undergo treatment from alcoholism or drug abuse to those who are prone to domestic violence. This is not a violation of human rights. It is proposed that the bill be adopted as a second reading and as a whole as a law of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u54	Thank you. Colleagues, so there are a few things I wanted to consult with you. First. In fact, a completely new form of responsibility is being introduced as a commitment to the treatment of those suffering from drug abuse or alcoholism. So I would suggest that we listen to both the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Youth and Sports and the Ministry of Internal Affairs on this subject, which is the tool for this treatment. First, do we have a proper system? Second, do we have money? And third, how will this be done? I propose, colleagues, to give the floor to the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Minmolodsport in turn. Another Ivanovna, please, is your position.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u55	Thank you. Dear Arsenius Petrovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! The bill proposes to expand the list of administrative offences and, in particular, to supplement this list with such an obligation to undergo treatment for alcoholism and drug abuse. But the position of the Ministry is that this type of attraction cannot exist as a contraction. This must exist as a preventive measure, as a precaution to avoid domestic violence. And there is such a mechanism. We have the relevant laws that regulate these issues, how we receive compulsory treatment from drug abuse, alcoholism, mental illness with appropriate laws, court decision and procedure. And it's proposed that we remove this as a leverage here, and leave that legal nature to those special laws already settled this issue. Besides, I also wanted to point out that it was suggested that other than crisis centers create shelters, but they would essentially do the same function.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u56	Another Ivanovna, a simple question. What is the position of the Ministry? We have the law if the article, chapter 1, of article 1.2. 3, which provides for paragraph 6.1. First page of second reading. Pick it up, read it. : “the obligation to undergo treatment for alcoholism or drug abuse”. Shevchuk proposed to delete the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u57	Minustu’s position to support this proposal by a national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u58	About the removal? Do I get it right?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u59	Exclusion, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u60	That is, to remove such responsibility as the obligation to undergo treatment. Right?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u61	That's right, Arsenia Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u62	Right. It's clear to the court. Let's move on. Ilya Mikolaiovich, what is the position of Minmoledysport in relation to the law?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u63	The Ukrainian Ministry of Family, Youth and Sports worked together with the Committee on Law Enforcement and supports the proposed bill and considers this to be an effective way of improving work on domestic violence.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u64	You can do it now, not from paper, but in fact. Have you read the bill?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u65	Of course.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u66	Tell me he's not setting up a ministry in the text of the bill. What are some suggestions, perhaps controversial under this bill?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u67	All the controversial proposals that were settled in the process of processing.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u68	So you've been working on everything on the committee? Yes. Got it. Now, Mikhailo Georgiyovich, who's with the Ministry of Internal Affairs?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u69	Evdokimov Vladimir Mikolaiovich, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u70	Here's your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u71	We also fully support this bill, and the proposals are very correct. And that's why our position is the same as Minosveta's and Minusto's.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u72	I heard. Colleagues, Myrrhichnik's microphone, and Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u73	Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear colleagues, I'd like to draw your attention to the amendment that relates to the imposition of compulsory treatment against alcoholism, drug addiction. I absolutely agree with the legal position of the Ministry of Justice, but I would like to draw attention to a rather specific legal culture that is unfortunately in Ukraine. And if we're going to propose to the court, if we're going to get a court decision, if we're going to have a problem that involves, say, the loss of children, or the physical harm of their parents using drugs or alcohol, and there's no one to go to court, through complicated procedures, we're actually going to leave them in a state where they're going to suffer from that violence, from those pressures. Perhaps if we understood this situation regarding the legal culture, we would abandon it, and in this way.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u74	Yuri Carmazin. Katerina Vaszczuk and Mikola Catherinechuk
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u75	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Ladies and gentlemen, I've been very familiar with the entire text of the law, and I want to thank the members of the committee for their civic position, because this is the prevention of halting the destruction of our Ukrainian gene pool, this is what it is. This needs to be saved today, and it is a law that protects the interests of minors. Because after the Law that we have with you on psychiatric care, treatment should only be voluntary, including from alcoholism and drug abuse. Here's what we got. What? Can we force this father or mother to heal somehow? Not at all. Who will do this? So I thank the IMF for its support, thanks to the position of the family, the young. And I would also like to say to the distinguished representatives of the Ministry of Justice. They're purely right, so, well, ideally, it should be what they say. But we don't live in the ideal -- we live in another society. Let's adopt this law, and it has protection.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u76	Katerina Vaschuk. Turn on the microphone. Next up, Catherinechuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u77	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, distinguished reporter, distinguished colleagues! We have considered this bill in our Civil Parliament, “Women of Ukraine”, because it refers to the most important in the State of the institution, the institution of the family. And from what will our family be like, such a strong, moral state can be our Ukrainian state. Therefore, we absolutely insist that this article on compulsory treatment, especially alcoholism, should remain. It can't be deleted in any way. Legal culture seems to require that, and life dictates other conditions. Tell me, where will a woman get her husband’s treatment decision from far away from the village? This is the most violent in the village. I very much ask you to leave this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u78	Mikola Catherinechuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u79	Mikola Catherinechuk, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” faction, the European Party of Ukraine. It is a very timely bill that corresponds to the level of violence suffered by Ukrainian families. But at the same time, I would like to stress the following: that according to the International Statistical Classification of Diseases and Alcoholism and Drug Addiction, this is all related to mental disorder. Mental care is provided on the basis of the Mental Assistance Act, and there is voluntary treatment. This law establishes the basis, order, for the provision of mental assistance in an orderly fashion. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in the time of the Soviet Union, this law was partly used in order for political persecution to reach its goal of having people at a different point of view in treatment. I would still like to leave the question to doctors and experts. So I am opposed to having a compulsory treatment.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u80	Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u81	You're not answering, are you? Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to draw attention to an ideological bill that needs to be approved, but there is a whole range of norms that will not be implemented. Then we need to consult and think about how to get out of this situation. For example, we organize shelters for victims of domestic violence. So who's making it? Homes are created by local administrations. What kind of money does it create for? The law on local administrations does not have such powers at all. So or let's say right now that we're now going to take into account those proposals that aren't in this part that, let's say, we're prescribing the functioning of those institutions that are going to deal with these people. Or they may think that we will be moving a few articles to a third reading. Because a great mind does not need to be voted upon so that it does not work. But we have to vote to make it work. So, Arsenius Petrovich, I suggest we take the two, three moments that don't provide for an understandable procedure, how it will work. In particular, crisis centers and shelters for victims of domestic violence So that after we've approved, the city authorities will know how to work and know that there are structures where people can be accepted and psychologically supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u82	Colleagues, there is such a proposal for your consideration: to support this bill as a whole. But I make amendments to the second reading, the text you can see on the last page of the comparative table signed by Michael Tepluk. So that I don't read them right now, I can now read them as from me, so that you can understand what they mean. We're going to vote them as a separate amendment, it's going to be the next one, we're going to replace the administrative responsibility that's proposed through compulsory treatment for, in fact, medical treatment. So we're subtracting the administrative responsibility that the First Deputy Minister of Justice said. And so we're going to take Minust's amendment into account and we're going to accept the bill as a whole. All right, comrades? Okay? You're gonna make me read the amendments to the General Legal Department or something. This is not an amendment to the General Legal Office, this is a proposal by the national deputy of Yatzenuk, whose text you can read in the conclusion of the General Legal Department. I ask you to vote for this amendment made by Yatzenuk. [[11:59:33]] For 295 And that's all counted. I mean, that's both. And that's the second amendment. Here we go again, and shelters. Once again, I am talking about the protocol, and this is about the medical procedure, not the administrative engagement, and this is about the second block of changes to the Domestic Violence Prevention Act. I mean, both, Mikola Volodymyrovich, it's all taken into account. Colleagues, the bill in question, are voting on adoption as a whole. Please vote. Legal administration, technical legal expertise and preparation for signing to the Head of the Supreme Council. Please vote. [[12:00:22]] For 331 Dear colleagues, I want to tell you that we're working very hard, we're having an extremely substantive discussion in the hall, too many lawyers, probably in the hall. I welcome everyone, the bill has been passed. A break is being announced.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u83	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. We continue our morning plenary session. The question of the election and release of judges is being considered. Sergey Vasilovich Kiwalov, please to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u84	Honorable National Deputies, Your Honors! On 17 and 24 September 2008, the Supreme Council Committee on Justice considered the appointment of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the head of the Supreme Administrative Court, the head of the Supreme Economic Court on the selection of judges on an indefinite basis and the election of judges previously elected on an indefinite basis and the appointment of the High Council of Justice on the dismissal of judges under general conditions and the violation of an oath. Honorable national MPs, according to the procedure of the court, are given the name of the judge. The judge rises from the scene and, if he is warned, the national deputies report it from the scene. Such a judge is temporarily removed from the draft ruling, and we return to his consideration after voting on other candidates. The judges are in the guest bed and on the balcony. Draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine No. 3216 of 25 September 2008. The committee recommends that judges be elected on an indefinite basis: The Court of Appeal of the District of Zitomir Kotik Tetjan Stanislavna; the Court of Appeal of the Lviv Region of the End of Nadia Petrovna, Kury Natalya Mikhaylovna; the Court of Appeal of the Ternopil district of Lecan Irina Eugene; the Court of Appeal of the Montenegrin Region, Dembitka Olena Alexandrovna; The Lviv Administrative Court of Appeal of Lysztinski Andrija Mihajlovich; the local Coastal District Court of the Zakarpat district of Iltio Ivan Ivanovich; the local Zaporozhye District Court of Zaporozhye District of Yarkin Svetlana Vasilovna; the local Radehiv district court of the Lviv district of Mulavka Oleg Vasilovich; the local Sokal District Court of the Lviv district of Adamovich Mikhail Jaroslavovich; the local Cruskavetsk City Court of the Lviv district of Grecków Vitali Teofilovich; the local Yellow District Court of the Mikolai district of King Lilia Mikhaylovna; the local Pecher district court of Kyiv Bilocerkowitsa Oleg Anatoliyovich; the local Shevchenkov district court of Kyiv Zubkova Sergia Alexandrovich; the local district administrative court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Cikurenko Anton Sergiyovich and the local Czerka County Administrative Court of Ličevecki Igor Aleksandrovich. The committee is asking for the support of this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u85	Ladies and gentlemen, since the deputies had no warnings or questions about the judges listed, I am voting on the draft Decree 3215 on the selection of judges on an untimely basis. Please vote. [[12:34:40]] For 276. Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u86	Draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine 3217 of 25 September 2008. The committee proposes to select judges previously elected on an indefinite basis as judges: The Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine, Mr. Glaucuk Svetlana Volodymyrovna; The Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine, Maletic Mikhail Mikhailovich; the Court of Appeal of the Kyiv District of Matyushka Mikol Pavlovich; the Court of Appeal of the Lviv district of Zvrehanovsky Lydia Dmitrovna; The Donetsk Administrative Court of Appeal, Jurchenko Valentine Petrovna; The Kiev Administrative Court of Appeal of Gorban Tetjan Ivanovna; Lviv’s Administrative Court of Appeal, Karalus Volodymyr Marianovic,
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u87	One second, microphone, Yavorowski, please. National Deputy Yavorowski Volodymyr Aleksandrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u88	I ask you very much to remove now from the list of candidates for the post of judge of the Lviv Administrative Court of Appeal, Karalus Vladimir Marianovic, and I will explain why.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u89	Karalus Vladimir Marianovic, excommunicated. Come on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u90	The Lviv Administrative Court of Appeal, Popak Jaroslav Stepanovich, Starunski Dmitry Mikolaiovich; The Kharkiv Administrative Court of Appeal, Donec Lian Alexiyevna; The local Hmelnick District Administrative Court of Kasap Viktor Mikolaiovich. Please support this project.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u91	Apart from the candidature of Karallus, there are no more objections to those who have made this draft decision? I'm voting on draft regulation 3217 for the deletion of the surname of Karalus for decision-making. Please vote. [[12:37:15]] For 331 Decision taken. Do we have a final assignment?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u92	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u93	Please, now, Vladimir Aleksandrovitch, what question do you have before the court of Karalus Vladimir Marianovic?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u94	Honorable colleagues and honorary judges and candidates for these positions. Believe me, I've never been in my fate and my MP's business with this judge. But I simply have to fulfill my political and moral responsibility. I was approached by a group of district council deputies from this town of town, which is a district center that speaks of such things as myself, very undeniable things that this judge had a few connections and was opposed by literally the entire community of the area. There have been even some illegal decisions regarding the privatization of an unfinished house in behalf of the daughter of the head of the college. And that's why he got caught up. And this $3 million house was bought for 20,000 dollars. I can't help but notice this. As a result, he was declared a number of vices.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u95	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u96	And I would consider it necessary, because we literally received these lists today, I got this letter, I would ask just so that maybe not to cripple the fate of this judge, but to delay, to understand, let the committee sort it out, and then we'll put this candidature. That would be wise. Believe me, there are some very serious things here.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u97	Sergey Vasilovich, please, your point of view.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u98	I think we need to support the Yavorowski People's Deputy, let's not worry about checking, we'll go back to that candidature and move to the next meeting.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u99	Is there any objection to such an approach to national MPs? If there is no objection then the appointment of the judge of the Lviv Administrative Court of Appeal of Karalus Volodymyr Marianovich is transferred to the next plenary session when we consider the question of the election of judges. Please proceed to the next draft of the Order for the Liberation of Judges.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u100	Draft Decision of the Supreme Council 3218 of September 25, 2008. The committee recommends that the judges be dismissed: the Court of Appeal of the Zaporozhye district of Tobacco Viktor Mihajlovich, in connection with the application for resignation; the Court of Appeal of Kiev, Widowschenka, Sergio Leonidovic, in connection with the application for exemption at your own request; the local Winnicki district court of the Vinnicki district of Andronov Vladimir Matviyovich, in connection with the application for resignation; the local Krasnoarmian Regional Court of the Donetsk Region, Stavkević Katerina Mikolayovna, in connection with the application for resignation; the local Kirov City Court of Luhansk, Stelmah Boris Glebovich, in connection with the application for resignation; The local Drodobian Regional Court of the Lviv Region of Susko Nadia Volodymyrovna, in connection with the application for resignation; the local Ohtyr District Court of Suma District, Furdilov Viktor Mihajlovich, in connection with the application for resignation; the local Kharkiv District Court of the Zakorujko Zinaid Grigorovna District, in connection with the application for resignation; the local Bilogir district court of the Hmelnicki district of Radčin Alexandr Ivanovich, in connection with the application for resignation; The local Cemerovetsk District Court of the Hmelnicki District of Moroz Volodymyr Mikolayovich, in connection with the application for a state of health pension, which prevents the continuation of the duties; The local court of the Ternopil district of Levandovsk, Jury Jaroslavovic, in connection with the application for resignation. The Committee requests support for these nominations.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u101	Dear National Deputies! Any questions to the chairman of the committee regarding this project? No questions asked. I'm voting on draft Decree No. 3218 on the release of judges. Please vote. [[12:42:12]] For 326 Decision taken. Please take the next draft of the Order on the release of Judges.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u102	Draft Decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for No. 3208 from 24.09.2008 The Committee recommends that in connection with the violation of the oath to dismiss judges: the Court of Appeal of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Soboluk Mikolaiovich; The local Alushtine City Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Piminov Tetjan Nikiforovna; the local Saxon District Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Borschevska Love Volodymyrovna; the local Zamostian District Court of Vinnice Baidak Vasil Grigorovitch; The local Primorski District Court of Odessa Hansi Natalija Viktorovna; the local Thessaloniki District Court of Kiev, Skorika Volodymira Mikolaiovich; The military court of Odessa garrison of Čumakov Aleksandra Vasilovich. The committee requests support for this application by the High Council of Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u103	Please, who has a question for the committee. Please turn on the microphone of the Lozinski People’s Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u104	The Honorable Sergey Vasilovich, the only reason for the release of Judge Ganziy Natalya Viktorovna, the judge of the Primorski Court of Odessa, is because in 2005 the Ukrainian Attorney General's Office was a criminal case. It's been three years. The criminal case isn't over, the defendant's sentence is gone, and there's no basis for the law to accuse this person of committing a crime either. Moreover, the reason for her explanation and presentation is that she is very often ill. Please tell me, what is the law that violates a person if he is sick or if he violates the law or the oath of a judge? In addition, I would like to remind you that when the issue of the acceptance of an oath by members of the High Council of Justice was considered and you refused to accept that oath, Lydia Paulna Izezitova rightly observed that there was a legal dispute and that, pending the conclusion of the case, it was not appropriate to accept the oath of new members of the Supreme Council of Justice of Ukraine. Right now, Judge Ganziy's argument is in the administrative appeal court of the Odessa region. I suggest.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u105	Please, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u106	I propose to remove the question of the dismissal of Judge Hansius until the criminal investigation and the trial of the court in the administrative appeal court of the Odessa region is completed.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u107	Sergey Vasilovich, please, your point of view.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, I am not too quick to comment on Judge Ganzi because she is the Vice-President of the Primorski Court of the City of Odessa. Therefore, I have only a few suggestions on what has been violated. We have the chair of the Supreme Council of Justice here in the room, and the Supreme Council of Justice is the only constitutional body capable of presenting the dismissal of a judge. I just want to bring you the facts, not to mention a criminal case, we know them, 366, 364, we don't care about that today. We are concerned that Judge Ganziy, she does not appear to be present today, in 2005, as an official, a judge, to have drafted a document of her signature, a copy of which had been submitted, she assured Ilchenko, a citizen, of two fictitious documents, contracts for the sale of real estate objects. After that, using the data forged by Ilchenko himself and the assured Ghanaian, the facility moved in, with ownership, to an entirely different citizen. And the sale contract was eliminated, and most importantly, on the basis of these documents, the judge ruled that the rightful owner had been evicted. I would like to stress that this is not my opinion, I have examined the above, examined this fact one, two and three, and the Supreme Council of Justice and voted in such a way as to make the submission to the Supreme Council of Ukraine with regard to the dismissal of the judge. Only the Supreme Council of Ukraine can decide on this.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u109	Thank you. Because the release is granted by the High Council of Justice and there are doubts among the national deputies. I ask you, Izvitova Lydia Paulovna, please explain the reasons for the decision of the High Council of Justice regarding the dismissal of the judge.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u110	Dear National Deputies! I want to let you know about this. In the draft decree that is proposed to vote on the dismissal of judges for violating an oath of seven judges, five have challenged our decision before a court of law. And only one of the judges, Soboluk Mikailo Mikolaiovich, is the decision of the court. He was denied a suit. So our application here is undeniable. True, we do not know the outcome of the appeal and whether it was at all. Ganziy Natala Viktorovn has never appeared for two years at a meeting of the High Council of Justice. At the same time, she accused our decision in court. The court’s decision has not yet been taken, perhaps our decision will be overturned. So when I speak of my opinion, it may be appropriate to wait for a court decision. We made the submission. We made a submission when our decision was not challenged. And all the rest, it's a matter of committee and the Supreme Council. Conclusion on Hansius. We believe that the judge acted conscientiously. We think she used fake documents to make two decisions. We believe that the judge, when dealing with the case, actually forged it, not one case, but two. And in her case, even court records were found. I mean, these protocols weren't made in court, they were made by a party to the case. That's why we made that decision. We believe that there is no doubt a violation of an oath in Judge Hansius. The fact that she used fake documents, such as sales contracts, was evidenced by technical expertise. That's why everything else is going to be Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u111	Thank you, Lydia Pavlovna. I also ask to express my view of the head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, Onopenek Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u112	Thank you. The honourable national deputies, these judges, who are involved in breaking the oath, most of them were initiated by me. So you have materials to consider. I think we should look at essentially, what's more, there's an application by the High Council of Justice. Regarding Hansius, there are some questions, really, for your own benefit, perhaps a time delay. There's a criminal case, and we've brought it up for trial, and we've brought it up in court. Perhaps, indeed, a certain question is asked by a national MP so that this decision does not lead to, well, a review of your decision. Therefore, it is possible that the only exception should be made to Judge Hansius, as stated by the chairman of the High Council of Justice. For all others, the Superior Council of Justice made a decision. I think the High Council needs to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u113	Thank you, Vasil Vasilovich. Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u114	Thank you. Martinuk is a faction of Communists. Vasil Vasilovich, Vasil Vasilovich and Sergey Vasilovich, just a question about Ganzi. Is a criminal case being considered in matters for which we dismiss or otherwise? I think the criminal case is a different case. We're releasing her for a substantial violation of the judge's oath. And we have the right to release her. What's being considered criminally is, please, let it be considered criminally. Criminally, she's not being criminalized. And we're freeing ourselves for breaking an oath. I propose a vote. There's no connection to each other.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u115	Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u116	Dear Sergey Vasilevich, I have a question for another candidate, under the candidature of Judge Solomen District Court of Kiev Skorik Vladimir Nikolaevich. I have also received information and written treatment, which states that, to some extent, there were not entirely objective reasons for taking this serious decision. And there's also some political subtext that's involved in politics. I'll ask Judge Skorik to postpone the trial today.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u117	Thank you, Mikhail Vasilovich. We have to finish the discussion on Hansia Natalia Victoriana. After this nomination, there are still questions that have not been clarified before the decision is made? Is it? Please, the people's deputy of Sharov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u118	Dear Sir, dear colleagues! I support Victor Lozinski's position, and our faction also supports it. If there's even the slightest doubt about man's fate, let's drop the question and go back to him next sessional week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u119	Sergey Vasilovich, your offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u120	I don't mind. Indeed, it is possible to re-examine the materials that are available on the Supreme Council of Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u121	If there's no objection, we'll remove Hansia Natalya Victorian from this draft. Is there a denial?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u122	None.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u123	There is no objection on this motion, we remove it from the draft regulation. Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov also said about the nomination of Judge Skorik Vladimir Mikolaiovich. Please, Sergey Vasilovich, what are your thoughts on this?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u124	Well, we considered the presentation of the Supreme Council of Justice, and at the last meeting of the Committee, we decided to dismiss Skorik Vladimir Nikolaevich from his post as judge. But there are certain points, and Judge Skork is here. Maybe he'll explain something or the chairman of the High Council of Justice will comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u125	Lydia Paulna Izovitova, please, what grounds did you have to file for the release of Judge Skork?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u126	Honourable National Deputies, Skorik Volodymir Mikolaiovich, has made a proposal to release him for breaking his oath. He, you know, considering God's application to the electoral bloc of local organizations and political parties, Leonid Chernewsky's Block, for recognition of unlawful and unlawful decisions, took the matter into his own hands. And on March 5th last year, he filed a lawsuit for violating the requirements of current legislation, and stopped the decision of the Third International Conference of the entire constituency block of local organisations, the political parties of the “Lionid Chernevski Block”. He prohibited the Dniprovsky District in Kiev from taking any action to implement the decision of that conference and to implement the decisions of the senior governing bodies of the political parties on the recall and the permanent suspension of the powers of local council members until the matter was resolved in substance. And then he hid the case. Then he hid the case, that's all. These decisions and their approvals are recognized by the Higher Council of Justice as violating a judge’s oath.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u127	Your Honor, I have a question for you. Did Skorik Vladimir Mikolaiovich acknowledge the violations that the Supreme Council of Justice had incriminated against him?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u128	Skorik Volodymyr Mikolaiovich never attended a meeting of the High Council of Justice for nearly a year, reported that he was engaged in trials, was in an advisory room or a disease, and gave no explanation of his actions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u129	Thank you. Is there a Mikolaiovich Skork in the session room?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u130	Yes. Let me explain.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u131	Wait a second. Wait, I was wondering if you were. Please stand by the microphone. First to the People's Deputies, please have a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u132	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I think we need to be consistent today and do as the Supreme Council has done with Judge Mukatov district court Moničim, who stopped the Supreme Council law. So today we're talking about Judge Scorch. A year and a half ago, Judge Skorik also shut down the Supreme Council law, which is a law amending the status of local council members. He forbade all the territorial electoral commissions, the Central Electoral Commission, from replacing those who had been released, who had been deprived of their powers under an imperative mandate. Then this case was hidden, and we couldn't charge her with an appeal. So I think if we don't release this judge today, tomorrow he'll stop the code that he's judging, he's accusing his release, and he'll stop the Constitution. If we are not consistent, why should we stay here and adopt laws if they are stopped in the Solomonese Court? That's why the faction of Yulia Timoshenko calls for all political forces to be consistent and not to let the Supreme Council in the Thessaloniki District Court be destroyed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u133	National Deputy School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u134	Thank you. Well, first of all, I'd like to point out that here before we heard information that the judge never showed up for a meeting of the High Council of Justice. Well, what can we talk about? It's just a contempt not only for the MPs' corps, but for the Supreme Council's laws that were annulled in the District Court, it's also a disregard for a higher body that has the right to bring judges to disciplinary responsibility. Well, how's that? So it's not just not admitting it, it's also a demonstration ignore. So I think we should just give a clear answer, and I think around 400 votes this answer has to be about the actions of such a judge. I think it's going to be a perfectly adequate and symmetrical answer to his violation of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u135	Yes, honourable national deputies, I see, there are already so many hands that want to speak out on this matter. Please sign in. People's deputy Beales, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u136	Dear colleagues, Reverend Alexander Volodymyrovich! Actually, really, I'd like to support my colleague at school. Well, let's be objective. One judge for two years does not appear at all to the High Council of Justice, referring to the disease, the other judge ignores the High Council of Justice for a year, does not appear at her invitation. What kind of morality can we even talk about? And that's why I think we should agree with the position of the High Council of Justice, with the position of the committee of profile, and still include these two judges on the list. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u137	National MP Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u138	Hand over the port, Portnow.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u139	National Deputy Portnov Andry Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u140	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that this judge is also involved in three other cases. First, this judge suspended the parliamentary elections for the term. Not only the Law “On an Imperative Mandate”, the parliamentary elections for the term, but this judge moved the internal forces around the country by approval. The judge was also covering up cases, coordinating his actions with representatives of the Czernovecki Block, who attacked the Thessaloniki District Court last year, as we informed the Attorney General’s Office, after which we were unable to access justice and could not sue the Court of Appeal. This judge is almost a year away from work, and it is virtually impossible to hold him responsible. We ask that he be deprived of his authority. And I will now prepare with my colleagues from the political power to appeal to the Attorney General of Ukraine to bring this judge to criminal responsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u141	National MP Zabzaluk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u142	Dear colleagues, we talk so often, including in this room, about the problems that are taking place in the judicial branch of power, we say so often that today this branch of power needs close attention. And now that they're giving us material that clearly confirms the violation of existing legislation by a number of judges. I think we need to be consistent today and support the submission of the relevant committee and the High Council of Justice. And including this Judge Skork, it is necessary to include and exclude him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u143	Samolikka Katerina Seminovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u144	Dear colleagues, we've started the information completely different and so, you know, diversified. I personally, Alexander Volodymyrovich, came to the conclusion that there is a great deal of subjectiveness in the case of this judge. We have heard a wide variety of information from the High Council of Justice, our fellow Ukrainian national deputies. And that's why I think whoever's saying anything, no matter what they say, I think we should be asking that question anyway. And I support the speech in this regard, Mikhail Vasilovich Chechetov spoke, I support his position in this regard. And I think the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine will support the position expressed by my colleague Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u145	National MP Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u146	Dear friends, at our committee meeting there were all the representatives of all the factions that are in Parliament, including the Communist Party, the Party of the Regions. The committee’s decision was unanimous. Moreover, the committee had the opportunity to examine all the materials presented by both the Higher Council of Justice and the cases filed on citizens’ complaints. In my opinion, Jesuitism, which was shown to stop the Supreme Council's law when a member of the bloc did not call it, actually accused his own decision to exclude his own deputies from the lists, in order to ban all parties and blocs in Ukraine from excluding those who had actually violated the oath, in my opinion, it was a direct violation of the law. And this was acknowledged by the Supreme Council of Justice, and all the institutions. This was confirmed by the Supreme Council Committee, where there are representatives of all factions. Therefore, the request to vote on this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u147	The national deputy of Labunsk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u148	Thank you. I'm sorry, I've had a heads-up, I've also wanted to inform you that the committee's decision was unanimous, and there were no questions at all. All the documents have been examined. I want to remind our colleagues that we have odinous courts in Ukraine. And unfortunately, today the Court of Solomon of Kiev is one of those courts where judges today allow themselves to cease the operation of laws altogether. And the brilliant representative of this is this judge. I would like to remind you that when the Judges of Solomon’s district stopped the Law on the Election of the Attorney General. Today, Solomon’s court is the norm. If we are such terrible cases, regardless of whether we belong to political parties or just hide or ignore, I want to say that today this judge was ordering one political force, tomorrow he will do another and so on. I believe that when the issue of judges is being considered, political views must be forgotten and approached.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u149	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u150	And to approach this question in principle, because such judges are in general a danger to the entire judicial system of Ukraine, to political parties. Therefore, I urge all my colleagues to vote and to make a decision regarding the release of this judge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u151	Petrenko Vadim Mihajlovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u152	Petrenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. It's a law for all of us. These judges are breaking the law, there is a committee decision, I propose a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u153	Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u154	Dear colleagues, if we had made all the decisions under the law and the Constitution last year, including in the early elections, then perhaps we would have had the right not to interfere with ourselves and our conscience, to challenge a judge who became a hostage to the political situation we created, and the President violated the Constitution. Not all of them, of course, did not participate in this misery. That's why I ask, once again, it's not the judge's fault, but it's whoever created this misery last year that brought this country into this country, and you're getting into a new election. Therefore, I repeat the request to withdraw this candidature, and if not, then one approach: either two judges should be removed or none removed. But in a large way, it's the fate of two people. I propose to remove these two cases for the time being, and to vote on the list without the candidature of Gandhi and the nominee of Skorak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u155	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Judge Skorik Volodymir Mikolayovich is present in the hall. Will we listen to his explanation in essence? There's no need for that. Because the proposal came in the same way as for Judge Hansius and for Judge Scorch to postpone consideration of the matter. I understand that there are different points of view: some now want to make decisions, others want to make decisions. If this is the case, then we will be identified separately from each candidate on the matter of transfer and settlement. With regard to this candidate, we have completed our positioning. Please refer to the other candidates listed in this draft regulation. Is there still a question for the people's deputies? If, according to other candidates who have made a motion for release for breach of oath, then I will now put to the vote the proposal of the national MPs to remove from this draft the two names for which proposals have been made. Please put to the vote the motion to postpone the consideration of the dismissal of the judge of the local Primorski District Court of Odessa Ganziy Natalija Viktorovna. [[13:09:34]] For 168 The decision is not taken. Hansia Natalija Victorovna's candidacy remains in the draft decree. I now put to the vote the motion to postpone the question of dismissal from court for violating the oath of a judge at the local Thessaloniki District Court of Kiev, Skorika Volodymira Mikolayovic. Please vote. [[13:10:09]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Thus, all the names mentioned in the draft decrees remain in place. So I'm putting to the vote draft Decree No. 3208 on the dismissal of judges from their positions for breach of oath. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:10:47]] For-153 The decision is not taken. Sergey Vasilovich, please continue working on the committee so that we can bring to the hall questions that do not raise objections to the Ukrainian national MPs. Please write down the reasons for the vote. With a five-minute vote. Please. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u156	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense. Dear colleagues, I'm addressing you for what you've done now is a bad thing. For 2-3 years, people don't work, they break oaths, they break the Constitution, they break the laws, and they don't get rid of them all. It's a completely wrong approach, I'm talking to those who voted. Another question was that each individual vote had to be voted on. And I think that was just the head's mistake, so if you'll excuse me. Because everyone has a personal responsibility: no one is assigned a list and no one is released on the list. So I ask you to go back to voting separately. Those who do not deserve to be in prison have to change their robes to work. That's it. And so the law should be one for all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u157	National MP Gordienko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u158	Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Please pass the word to Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u159	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues! Let's see what the law and the Rules define in this case, when we look at personal matters. Without a doubt, when we have no objection to the assignment, and more specifically, when there is one, we remove the surnames and vote in behalf of all. What is more, when it comes to liberation. Now we've made absolutely no sense to you right now, on the one hand, blaming the chairman has nothing to do with it, because he was making a motion to vote on the removal. Unfortunately, we haven't been removed. But I support Karmazin. Alexander Volodymyrovich, let's go back in person to each of these seven judges and vote in person. Because the extent of the crime, or the breach of an oath, is far from responsible and for one or two others is hidden. Let's go back to personal consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u160	People's Chamberlain, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u161	Dear colleagues! Well, I'll tell you the truth, for me personally, and I'm sure, and for those people who look at us, especially the profession of lawyers, the vote that has just taken place, it's very unique. It is unique that everyone has listened to the violation, the violation of the Constitution, the very interesting facts of how laws and district courts stop with the approval of a judge alone, how a person allows himself not to appear for the work of constitutional bodies. And after that, it's actually an approved activity. I think that then the logical extension will be instead of this room, to increase the state of Solomon’s and Primorski’s courts to 450 people, and we, the people’s deputies, simply go to work where the Constitution, the laws of Ukraine, the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine are subject to revision. It's like a vote. And now we have a proposal from the “Timoshenko Block” to return to this vote, to remove these two judges, so I understand, which did not support the entire ruling, to vote the verdict, except for these two judges and these two judges separately.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u162	Thank you. Please, Cranowil Taras Viacheslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u163	Please give the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine Chechev Mikhail Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u164	Dear Alexander Vladimirović, distinguished colleagues when it comes to the fate of two people, and I repeat, the reasons are far from superficial, but they are profound, which were created primarily by the President, when decrees were passed in violation of the Constitution on early elections that led to today's chaos in the country and once again involve us in this chaos, in the new elections and so on. The people here are hostages of the political situation, so some measure of responsibility rests with us when we were not able to prevent these anti-constitutional actions at the time. I therefore propose that the issue of speed be deferred, since it is the fate of the individual and he is the hostage of the situation created, first of all, by the authorities, by the supreme authority of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u165	National MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u166	Uphill, Yulia Timoshenko. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to continue the subject that the MP has raised and asked, and when a criminal is tried, do not his fate? His destiny. But then no one screams that fate, fate, and if it's a criminal, he's still being discussed and he gets what he deserves. Today, these judges or pseudo-judgments, since they have already broken their oath, deserve to be given a ruling. And if we have not voted on it, those nearly 300 MPs who have not voted today have taken responsibility for the legal chaos that is taking place in our country today. And you don't have to sneer at the President or anyone else today, you've taken responsibility for the outrages that these judges have made and will now be making other judges, looking at ours, excuse me, toothless.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u167	Thank you. During the vote, a proposal was made by the Oliynik People’s Deputy, to remove the name of the two judges Hansi and Skorik from the draft decree. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. I'm voting for a removal from the draft regulation called Hansius and Skork. [[13:17:34]] For 316 Decision taken. So I'm voting on the draft Order 3208 on the release of the judges for violating the oath for removing the names of Hansia Natalija Viktorovny and Skorik Vladimir Mikolaiovich. Please vote. [[13:18:07]] For 335 Decision taken. Thus, we settled the question of the appointment and the release of judges. I welcome all the judges who have been assigned to a good and effective job all the time that they will want and will be able to embrace their posts in order to promote justice and the rule of law in Ukraine. Welcome. [[Applause]] We move on to the next issue of the agenda. Draft Act amending articles 155, 156 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. [[on the Depravity of Minors]] Please, Sweden Victor Dmitrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u168	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! Your opinion is proposed by the draft Act amending articles 155, 156 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. [[on the Depravity of Minors]] The purpose of the bill is to clarify the circle of persons who are subject to appropriate crimes. The bill is proposed in part 2 of article 155 and in article 156 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine instead of a qualifying sign of father, mother, person replacing them, the introduction of such a circle of subjects: father, mother, stepfather, stepmother, caregiver or caregiver, the person to whom the responsibility for raising or caring for the victim is laid. Criminal responsibility for the commission of crimes has also been strengthened in some way. A total of six amendments were made. They're all accounted for or partially accounted for. The ideology of those considered in part is reflected in the bill. It's exactly the same thing as what's in the table. During the drafting of the bill, we had certain coalitions with the Chief Legal Authority of Parliament. However, the committee has stopped at what we are now proposing to you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u169	The Ukrainian National Deputies, who made their suggestions and amendments, need something to reason on or try to convince us of the support of individuals who are not fully accounted for? None. If such proposals are not available, I am voting on the second reading and on the whole draft Law No. 0962 amending articles 155 and 156 of the Criminal Code on the Depravity of Minors. Please vote. [[13:21:32]] For 324 Decision taken. We move on to the next issue of order of the day draft of the Law amending the Law on Electricity and the Law on Alternative Sources of Energy. [[on the establishment of special green tariffs on electricity and heat]] Please, Zarubinsky Oleg Aleksandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u170	Dear colleagues, I'll take three minutes to remind you of which bill is being amended in general, because this bill was being prepared for second reading throughout the year, taking into account the position of the Ministry of Education, taking into account the position, as you understand, of the National Commission on Electricity Regulatory. But I'd like to start with just a few positions. Ukraine's energy independence is largely determined by the use of its own energy sources. And Ukraine has its own energy sources of 35 percent. So the question of creating the right conditions for development, as it is called around the world, is green energy, that is solar energy, wind energy, and small hydropower plants, that is, renewable energy, which is not what we're taking from the edge, and it's never going to come back, because glory to God and the sun will be, and the wind will be, and we'll expect it to be, and the small rivers will be like that. Unfortunately, for today in Ukraine the share of “green electricity”, which is an alternative, will be said to be 0.8 percent. In Germany, 20 percent. In Norway, which produces gas in fourth place in the world, it would not seem necessary to develop it, 20 percent. And that's a reduction of how much of the emissions into the atmosphere of the harmful substances. So our committee took this matter very seriously and carefully. The project that is now being proposed to you has been voted unanimously by all the people’s deputies, unanimously, despite party and factional membership, and we have representatives of all five factions on the committee. Your proposals are made. You've got the tables. No, I want to point out one point. Please take a look at the table. [[one minute]] There's 20 of my number 20 offer. No, it's included in a different edition. Today, however, a number of national deputies have called on us to leave it as it was formulated. So, Reverend Alexander Volodymyrovich, I ask you then to put what it is, 20 suggestions, not what's included in another edition, but as in the second column, please look. If there are no other moments, I think we should vote in favour and then we can vote in the second reading and in general. Please put it in.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u171	Ladies and gentlemen, up to 20 amendments are an insistence that we consider those that are included in the comparative table? Wait a minute! Is it up to 20? Please, National Deputy Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u172	Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. I would like to ask you to explain how the text differs. What did you propose, and what is the difference between editorial consideration? So we can figure out what we're voting for. It's an important thing because this is the question of definition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u173	Maybe not everyone has a table on their hands, maybe not everyone has a table, and I'll read the original version that was proposed and that they insist on today on practically all factions. [[If you'll excuse me, Alexander Volodymyrovich.]] The “green” tariff is approved by the National Electricity Regulatory Commission of Ukraine for electricity produced by electricity operators using alternative sources of energy other than domestic and coke gas. The value of the “green” tariff is set annually for each operator at the level of double, medium-weighted electricity tariff that is being buried. [[Well, this is where people figure out what they're up to, and I'm not going to comment.]] And the difference is that in another edition this green tariff is proposed to make a certain lift, that is to say make from and to. At the time when. First of all, be careful. [[B in m in s a l in]] Then we should vote on the original edition of the 20 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u174	Take it easy. Chechetov National Deputy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u175	Dear colleagues, I ask once again to support the proposal made by the Zarubinsky People's Deputy to vote on the 20th amendment, not in the wording in which it is “accounted for”, but in the original version in which the author gave it. Against this background, the law should be voted on as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u176	I'm putting to the vote the 20th amendment of the Zarubinsky People's Deputy. Please identify yourself. [[13:27:44]] For 308. Decision taken. Dear Adam Ivanovich, we vote for both maintenance and rejection.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u177	Let me get this for a transcript, let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u178	Please, everyone, calm down, sit down. Please, we have a second reading procedure, and we will work according to it. Please, Adam Ivanovich, for the reasons of the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u179	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, you've just voted the opposite of what we agreed. You agreed not to support the amendment, but to leave it as was accepted in the first reading. The Zarubinski amendment was put to the vote. And Zarubinsky's amendment took 308 votes. So the final edition is not what was adopted in the first reading, but the amendment made by Zarubinski, because it is supported by 308 votes. And Zarubinsky proposes not to support his amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u180	No! No! Adam Ivanovich, you are as always right.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u181	Oleg Alexandrovich, please don't answer. The Supreme Council of Ukraine approved the decision, and it will be executed in the text of the law. Please, which of the national deputies has any questions about the amendments to the tables?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u182	I mean, it's a very important and relevant law, just amazing.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u183	Oleg Alexanderovich! Any questions about the other amendments? If there are no questions, I put to the vote the adoption of the second reading and the whole draft Law amending the Law on Electricity and the Law on Alternative Sources of Energy. [[on the establishment of special green tariffs on electricity and heat]] I'd like to make a statement. [[13:29:56]] For 359 Decision taken. The law was passed in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u184	Thank you all.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u185	Oleg Aleksandrovich, please sit down, everyone understands the approved amendment number 20 of the Zarubinsky People's Deputy. Next question of the agenda: A report by the Temporary Investigation Commission to investigate the causes of the death of a 17-year-old in Kramatorské Donetské region and to establish mass complications following vaccination against measles and rubella among the population of the Donetsk Region, as well as to verify the correct application of the vaccine that was given the vaccine. Head of the interim commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Korz Viktor Petrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u186	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Respectable national MPs, respected Ukrainian citizens, have been the basis for the establishment of the Temporary Investigation Commission on a separate flight case, as have the unique health complications associated with the holding of additional immunizations in May of the current year. The immunization of the population with a vaccine for the prevention of measles and rubella in 2008 was initiated in accordance with the Ministry of Health’s decree and the Ministry of Health. It is known that on 11 April of this year, a vaccine for the prevention of bark and red blood cells in India was imported into Ukraine for a total of 9 million doses and distributed to sanitary and epidemiological facilities. And already, on May 6 in the Donetsk region, additional immunization was started. It should be noted that as soon as the campaign was carried out in the Donetsk region, a mass appeal by citizens began to be registered for medical care in connection with the deterioration of self - worth. Then came one fatal accident: the 17 - year - old Anton Tishchenka of Kramatorska, who had been vaccinated twice on schedule and did not need additional immunization. On May 12, he was hospitalized in an infectious ward, where he died 14 hours later. Later, complications after vaccination were registered in the Lugansk, Herson, and Zaporez areas where the vaccination was carried out. I would like to point out that all the victims were vaccinated with a vaccine of Indian production that was used in Ukraine without official registration, or illegal. According to official information, 207 post-clinical complications have been reported. According to the approved plan of work of members of the Temporary Investigation Commission, a number of consultations were conducted with leading scientists and experts from the Academy of Medical Sciences, leading scientific institutions and other organizations. An analysis of clinical, pathological, laboratory, and expert findings indicates that a number of serious disorders have been committed during the organization and further immunization of the population, resulting in severe consequences and deterioration in the health of the population following vaccinations. In view of what has been said, we consider the following: consider the death of Anton Tishchenk, as well as the mass cases of deterioration of health among the population of the Donetsk region, and the vaccination against measles and rubella such as those directly associated with the carrying out of an additional immunization campaign, to recognize the sufficient work of doctors for the timely and medical care of Anton Tishchenko and those who have contacted him in connection with the deterioration of his health. Next, a campaign of total additional immunization against measles and rubella among the 16-29-year-old population, without taking into account their vaccine status and transmitted disease, is considered to be untargeted, scientifically unwarranted, that is not consistent with current legislation and could have resulted in the severe consequences of the very reproductive population of our nation. I would like to point out that according to the Ministry and district health authorities, only 20 percent of the relevant age group in the region needed additional immunization. At the same time, for the rest of Ukrainian citizens who have immunity, such immunization is not only harmful and dangerous to health but can lead to severe consequences. Next. We find it wrong to use the vaccine listed as one that has not undergone appropriate clinical-epidemic training, trials and so on and has not been registered in Ukraine. Except for the note. A number of Ukrainian laws have been violated. In particular: medical facilities, protection of the population from infectious diseases, decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and other legal acts. Dear colleagues, if the heads of the department of profile did not ignore the valid legislation and the low legal provisions, they would pay more attention to compliance with such standards, including those of the latter. The conclusions of the Court of Auditors' audit, I strongly believe that we would have no reason to set up an inquiry committee and to hear these, unfortunately, are shameful to the European country. At the same time, with the expert's conclusions taken into account, we have good reason to believe that the campaign for additional immunization of the population between 16 and 29 years of age has been carried out in conditions of total violation of existing legislation, resulting in fatalities and mass complications. As a result, we insist that the officials of the Ministry of Health involved in such vaccinations be held accountable. I would like to point out that in almost four months, during which there is a public discussion of additional immunization, no constructive proposal has been received from the Ministry of Profiles regarding the further settlement of the affected issue. Only in these days did we agree on further cooperation in this matter. Dear colleagues, we do not question or deny immunization or recognize its meaning for the public health system, nor are we united in the need for further implementation. But this must be qualitative, safe, scientifically sound, and carried out in a manner that is determined by legislation and in accordance with European standards. To conclude, I would like to thank all my colleagues: the Attorney General's Office, the members of the commission, the Academy of Medical Sciences, businesses and organizations, for their cooperation in the implementation of the State's important work. Considering that the interim commission of inquiry has reached all conclusions and has fulfilled its functions as provided for by the Supreme Council's decree of June 5, this year, I ask that the provisional commission of inquiry be suspended. And, Your Honor, I ask you to support the draft ruling that you have been handed over to you today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u187	Any questions to the reporter? Please sign up. People's Deputy Caplienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u188	Thank you. People's Deputy Caplienko, Timoshenko Street. I have two short questions. First. And who bought this vaccine for the vaccine that implanted this man in Kramatarsky? That's the first question. And the second. Did the interim commission of inquiry notice at all the fact that in Ukraine the requirements for the transport of appropriate vaccines with a so - called passport of temperature studies, which determines that the temperature for the maintenance of this vaccine cannot be below two degrees Fahrenheit [5 ° C] above five degrees Fahrenheit [5 ° C]? As far as I know, these passports are being broken down right across Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u189	I see. I thank you for your questions and I would like to inform you that this vaccine has entered our country as a humanitarian aid from the UNICEF International Fund. This vaccine came in line with previous agreements signed by the previous government. But these arrangements were of a principled nature, and the very coming of this vaccine was not agreed upon. This was the responsibility of the current Ministry of Health, and all necessary legalization, research, and so forth would certainly be carried out. Sadly, this was not done. And it was the guy from Kramatorsky Anton Tishchenko who was last vaccinated with this particular vaccine. Regarding its storage and transportation regime, the investigator of the Attorney General’s Office, as well as the members of our commission of inquiry, drew attention, while in the Donetsk region, to the fact that the sensors, thermometers, and thermoindicators that are available on the portions of this vaccine were not working.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u190	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u191	And appropriate expertise. The last word on this issue will be put by the investigators of the Attorney General’s Office, who are already on their way out.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u192	National MP Demyanchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u193	Demyanchuk, Communist faction Please pass the word Samuel to Catherine Semenovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u194	Thank you very much. Please tell me, Victor Petrovich, you know that there have been rumors in the medical community that a "drunk" has been brought from India. That's what they call drugs, which are like drugs, and they don't actually work, they don't fit anywhere. So I want to ask you a question, are we going to support the decision, especially with regard to criminal responsibility, because it's about the lives of children, of Ukraine's future? But please tell me, who specifically arranged for the delivery of this vaccine, who was preparing the documents, who was signing these documents? Who should bear, apart from what we say to people, the people who should specifically bear criminal responsibility for the lives of our children and for the lives of this child Tishchenka who died. Who, exactly?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u195	I got it. I want to say that I can't take over the functions of the prosecutor's office, but I want to make it clear that today we have a violation of the use of a vaccine that hasn't passed the certification procedure and all the clinical trials in our country. This should be the responsibility of the specific officials of today’s Ministry of Health. Next. I can't help but notice that this vaccine has been suspended for use in India itself, that we have an official report, and that this vaccine has not been used in any European Union country. So today we still have to pay attention to the fact that there is no system today, a perfect system of research into the quality of vaccines coming into our country. And we have imperfect legislation. That's why we've arranged for deputies from our profile committee, members of the inquiry committee and members of the ministry, which is urgent, and this is fixed in the draft decree, we need to get them to work in our country as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u196	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u197	For us to have, as a minimum, one certified by international standards of a laboratory that will provide us with comprehensive answers regarding the quality of vaccines. We urgently need to adopt the National Programme of Population Immunization and make changes to a whole range of Ukrainian legislative acts, which is quite obvious. And, of course, these problems have accumulated over the years -- it has to be acknowledged. But the time has come to tell society the truth. And it's urgent to remove all the flaws in this important social issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u198	Karpuk Vladimir Grigorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u199	Dear Victor Petrovich, we, of course, express our sincere sympathy to the family of the deceased Anton Tishchenk. But together, we are aware that more of these cases in Ukraine will not be repeated. And from your assessment, because we've studied the material in depth before, and we've studied the situation that has been with prevention in Ukraine, with the state of legislation. Do you think these questions have arisen right now, or have they been systemic violations that have formed over the years? And negotiations were held with international organizations: WHO, UNICEF since 2005, because there was not one government decree, not just one commission decision to carry out this vaccine, and it was the Indian vaccine, because it was $4.9 million, which no doubt is just a vaccine. I actually have a lot.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u200	I'll give you an answer, although we've had exchanges with you in the commission of inquiry on a number of occasions. I want to confirm that, in fact, the previous Minister of Health and I, as the minister in family affairs, signed documents signed by young people and sports that were directly or indirectly relevant to the vaccination. But I have already said in my report that, as a citizen, as head of this commission of inquiry, as a doctor for education, I support, as I hope, everyone in this room, the need for a systematic vaccination of our population. But I strongly deny the use in our country of an untested, uncertified vaccine is a direct violation of existing legislation. And you know very well that the time frame for storing this vaccine allows us to do extensive research today, to determine its quality, and perhaps to return to the issue of its implementation. So here we have to be absolutely clear about understanding the need for vaccination and the direct violations of legislation that have been assumed, unfortunately, by this organization, directly, by the company.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u201	Thank you, please, sit down. Sign up for the discussion. National MP Alexeyev, please. National MP Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u202	Please give the floor to the People's Deputy Kaplanko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u203	Please, People's Chamberlain.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u204	Thank you. Dear colleagues! In discussing this decision and after this report, I would like to raise a number of questions. First. Of course, the problem raised by the reporter is large enough, and the tragedy that took place in Kramatorsk was not only a great surprise, but it caused great concern in every community’s heart. But for the time being, there is an institution in our country that involves not only adults but also children. And there are questions like vaccination for measles, for pertussis, for tuberculosis, for polio, especially for influenza. If we make a decision that we can scare our population into another or extraoccupational vaccination, or if it doesn't do us any more harm than the conclusion we've just come up with. And the second question. Should we not take more widely these most important issues that have been raised and assessed throughout the country with the involvement of the Attorney General's Office, including the relevant conclusions of each sector's representatives, create a basis for further processing by this Interim Investigation Commission, which was created? I'm confident that the Yulia Block of Timoshenko will support my proposal not to take conclusions that have actually caused a greater loss to our country as a rejection of vaccination as such. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u205	National Deputy Grigorovich. People's deputy Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u206	Ladies and gentlemen, this question that we are discussing today in the Hall is extremely important for the national security of our Ukraine. After this tragic incident, which has been caused by systemic violations over the years with questions of immunoprophylactics in Ukraine, the absence of clear modern legislation, other violations are extremely significant for the future fate of many people. Recently, when I met this literally on Monday with primary health care workers, people asked me questions, and what would happen next, how would the medical people be responsible for that situation, how would they continue, who and who in the country would take responsibility for any further questions of immunoprophylactics? So I think that's a bad lesson that's a bad lesson for all of medicine and for us as parliamentarians. For some reason it is so complex that we pay attention to medicine in this room only when there is a tragedy. Because we put the day’s issue and health care financing and equipment and so on into Parliament’s hearings. Unfortunately, Parliament has not responded to our calls. Now, trying to turn this into a responsibility just for certain people, whether it's normal and necessary, but it doesn't solve the problem, it's a very complex problem. We have to analyze, scrupulously, systematically analyze all those reasons, do everything we can to ensure that more tragedies in Ukraine are not repeated. And although there are such conclusions that it is a quality vaccine, we believe that it is not possible to carry out further vaccinations with this vaccine in Ukraine. We have to make that legislation that is consistent with the current state of immunoprophylactics, we have to make a program of immunoprophylactics, so that every person really knows and is confident that the vaccine and medicines that are being introduced into Ukraine are quality, that people are really protected, and now it depends very much on our decision whether there will be further vaccination in Ukraine in general, whether there will be confidence in medicine, or whether there will be confidence in parliament as one that protects the rights of every person. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u207	Bachelor's Aunt Dmitry.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u208	Dear people's deputies, the Commission has worked very hard, in principle and responsibly. And the three questions that we have before us are very important, of course, of course. This is, first of all, whether there is a causal link between the death of a child and vaccination. And since criminal proceedings have been opened in the Public Prosecutor's Office today and pathological research has not yet been prepared and we have not been provided with all the necessary medical documents, the Office of the Attorney-General will, of course, still answer this question. The second question is very important. If this vaccine was necessary, whether it should have been carried out. Yes, of course you do. And what we're talking about today is that horrible infectious diseases like polio, like tetanus, like diphtheria, are now only defeated by vaccination. Every year in the world, 2.5 children and adolescents are rescued, saving their lives by vaccination alone. That's why vaccination is very important. Moreover, there has been an increase in the incidence of measles in our country over the past three years, and we have been the main source of measles in Europe. Dear colleagues, the third question, was before us to study the quality of the vaccine. And can this vaccine continue to vaccinate against measles and rubella. And there's a clear answer. No, you can't. Because the vaccine was first imported into Ukraine, nowhere and in any country of Europe and the world had previously been used. And she's a deviant against the bark and the redhead, she hasn't passed the clinical trials. Therefore, this vaccine cannot continue to vaccinate our adolescents. Well, with regard to who is responsible for such vaccinations today, and for the health of our State, the answer is also clear, of course, that the State and we, the people's deputies, are responsible, not the World Health Organization, which has given us such a gift of EUR 5 million. Therefore, we are in favour of continuing vaccination against measles, but with the vaccination that will take place, the clinical trials that have been conducted around the world are French production. The number of children to be calculated and prepared for vaccination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u209	National MP Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u210	Please pass on the word of Lilia Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u211	National Deputy Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u212	Lilia Grigorovich, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense". Dear fellow national MPs! Dear voters, citizens who can hear us today! Of course, this tragic event required the creation of a temporary commission of inquiry. The work of the Interim Investigation Commission confirmed that this child's death was just the top of a set of problems. Because we must, at last, be responsible for the health of the nation, know what we inculcate, how we inculcate, when we inculcate, or how we inculcate all. In view of the fact that this vaccine has been granted to us for some time, it would certainly be possible and necessary to start a thorough study and test of the vaccine in the past year 2007. In view of my colleagues' agreement that we don't need this vaccine, I'm sure now no vaccine, even the best in the world, French, will be used in Ukraine without just testing in one laboratory, but probably in a few. In view of the fact that I would like to say, my fellow Members, that this is a question that causes all of us who belong to both the legislative and executive authorities to have a very complex review of what our children get, starting with the first injection of the mantle and the BSC and ending with the vaccinations that we make of the flu seasonal in terms of what, when and if necessary. Dear friends, I'm a first-class child allergy specialist. And I want to tell everyone that I was just working with those kids that were banned. With children who had severe forms of asthma, sleepiness. I want to report to her, my dear colleagues, that some 80 of those children were still being vaccinated, but not in some kind of pre-arranged punching way all under one ridge. No, it's not. We were preparing the kids. They were given antihistamines for weeks or two, and some of the kids we were specially instilled in under the conditions of the station with weakened vaccines, because the child really has to have immunity against diphtheria, against polio, and it's an axiom. Given my dear friends, I want the work of this Interim Investigation Commission to do two important things. The situation, the tragedy with Anton Tishchenk should not be repeated by the state's fault, this is the first. The immunization of children in Ukraine must be conducted qualitatively and comprehensively and successfully, as in all other countries of Europe. So a little bit more should be understood and responsible not only by the state, but also by the information of parents, children, because it is our shared responsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u213	Corporal Vladimir Volodymyrovich. National Deputy Sas. People's MP, Bully. Please. Ladies and gentlemen, please use your cards in your seats, because when you turn on the microphone, it turns out to be on the other side of the room, not where you are.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u214	Thank you very much, dear colleagues. In fact, the conclusions of a special commission of inquiry, for example, did not satisfy me very much. And I understand the following thing that, unfortunately, there was no last name for the people who were guilty of what happened today. It seems to me that neither friends nor family of Anton Tishchenk are satisfied and cannot be satisfied with the conclusions of this commission. But I'm surprised, for example, by another question that I'm asking you all to pay attention to. Everyone understands and everyone knows about the system, a very serious system that unfortunately exists. the corruption system in the relevant ministry. And today, the Special Investigation Commission will report on this issue, and there is no representative of the Ministry. And it seems to me that those conclusions, those suggestions that I think today might have made by the national MPs, we did it for someone, not for those responsible officials who would have to sit in this city and do everything they could to make sure that it never happened again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u215	Thank you. Please, Tomenko Mikola Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u216	Dear colleagues, I am absolutely convinced that the commission has worked quickly, efficiently and productively, but if we go out of the text of the ruling, we would obviously have to group together those proposals that are contained here. And my approach is this: the Attorney General's Office has not completed the investigation. And I think that these materials that will go to the Attorney General's Office will be useful and important so that we, what the national MPs say, specifically respond to the criminal acts that have taken place. But this should be done by the Attorney General's Office, not the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So we're handing these materials over to the Attorney General's Office. The Cabinet of Ministers also transmits all the material of the report that has been worked out. I think, well, I guess it's not right for us in the Supreme Council's decision to list all the series of vaccines that are in Ukraine that we have to ban or not ban. Well, if we're still going to confirm a series of vaccines in the Supreme Council, it's obviously not the subject of our activity. We would pass on to the Cabinet of Ministers all the proposals that are worked out in the report, and the Cabinet of Ministers would have to conclude whether they are organizational or political or otherwise, in relation to the Ministry of Health. So I would like to suggest that you accept the commission's report and send all the materials to the Attorney General's Office and the Cabinet of Ministers. And they should already inform us properly how they responded to, once again, the successful, productive work of our commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u217	Thank you, Mikola Volodymyrovich. So we heard a report from the commission. The project, which was handed out on behalf of the commission, unfortunately went beyond article 83 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, since the Supreme Council of Ukraine does not have the authority to give instructions on the cancellation of orders and on other positions relating to the appointment of specific vaccine stamps. There are those positions that are envisioned as the mandate of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Understanding the full responsibility of the parliament, which has studied the situation that has led to the tragedy in Kramatorski, which has complicated the situation in Ukraine with respect to the issue of trust in vaccination, it is suggested that, as defined in article 83 of the Rules, we should take the report of the commission and send this report to the Prosecutor's Office and to the Ministry's Office, the authorities who are required to study these materials, which they had in addition, in order to approve their decisions, which are in accordance with the basic law, they should do in accordance with their powers. No objections? For reasons after the vote, please. Please, Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u218	Thank you, Yuri Carmazin, for giving your word. I have a question that everyone seems to have: Why now the Minister of Health? This was evidently to come out, to calm people down. Now how many people are watching what to do. I feel for the 140th, 196th, and the family of the boy who died. But I think we have to write here right now, this is our question that we wrote correctly: to develop a concept of a government program. Do we have the right to do this? We do. That's why I think it's perfectly right: to make proposals to improve the legislation on immunization -- too. And where it stands, in agreement with the Head, where we are written "to ban the urgent use of vaccines" – to write to the government: "to study the issue of prohibition". So to write, it will be within the limits of the Rules. And there will be answers to the questions that people expect of us today. That's what I'd ask.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u219	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a motion to vote: to take note of the report of the commission and to send the materials of the commission for study to the Prosecutor's Office and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the proposal of Mikola Volodymirovich Tomenka. [[14:03:54]] For 211 The decision is not taken. Please show the factions. Region Party - 142, Timoshenko Yulia Block - 25, Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense - 0, Communists - 26, Litvina Block - 18. Please sign up for the vote. National Deputy Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u220	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin. You see, the Lord knows who to give the first word to. I'm asking you to make the proposal I made. I'm no different from Tomenko's national deputy. His proposal is made, my – no, the written proposal of the members of the commission is put on the table. I ask you to put my proposal where to leave what the members of the Temporary Commission have proposed, only in a different edition. Where it is “banned”, write “the government to consider the relevance of the further use of vaccines used”. And it's still in the text. And it will be perfectly normal to “and establish control over the implementation of this commission as the first Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Lavrinovich” because the Temporary Commission cannot control it. And you'll be in control between the committees, the minister and so on, the government. It will be easier for you to do so. These little amendments I make, and I ask you to vote on this.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u221	Efraemov Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u222	Dear Alexander Vladimirović, distinguished colleagues! At the outset, I would like to ask that this issue be put to the vote, but not all deputies have been able to take up their jobs. The second thing I'd like to pay attention to is, let's take into account what in this case is actually the lives of thousands of people. We have no right to leave the matter alone, not to vote today. The proposal made by Nikolai Vladimirovich Tomenko reflects the substance of the problem, does not exert any pressure on the investigative authorities, is simply informative. The information we received in the hall today is very disturbing, and today it is our duty to send this document to those bodies that are required to study and make a decision. I would therefore like to raise and vote on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u223	Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u224	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, everyone who had the opportunity to comment on the matter today, started by saying that it was an extremely important and extremely relevant issue. None of those who spoke today, regardless of their political affiliation, denied that, firstly, the commission worked impartially. Secondly, the commission was investigating a fact that had really universal, universal interest. And the third. Everyone said it really needed to go on. So, please, how can you explain your failure to vote for a simple, clear decision? The draft decision is to take a report to the public. No one objected that the commission, once again, worked impartially. And according to the articles of the Rules, send the conclusions of the commission to the Attorney General’s Office, which conducts a separate criminal investigation, and to the Cabinet of Ministers. I don't understand how you can explain to the voters why you didn't vote in favour of the draft decree. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u225	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u226	Chechatov, faction of Party regions. I am generally outraged by the position and faction of our Ukraine, and by the position of the Minister of our Ukraine, who, yesterday at a meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers, created a formal ballad to disrupt the constructive work of the Cabinet of Ministers. Today, the issue of national health, the issue of the lives of our children is being addressed, and the Minister has not allowed us to come to the Supreme Council! And the "Our Ukraine" faction, which declares all the time and says that it has not voted for the people, nor has it voted for any vote. How can you do that? It's just that the politics of you, my dear colleagues, has engulfed you. Go back to the people! Get back to people's problems! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u227	Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u228	Dear colleagues, do not be hasty to shout “disgusting! ” There are various suggestions. And this was Karmazin's proposal, and this was a proposal made by the deputy head of Tomenko's Supreme Council from our faction. Colleagues, indeed, there is no minister, we have listened to one side, and we are going to be judges. We can vote on that question tomorrow. Come on, and the minister should be here. I think he's investigating the Attorney General's Office, the Attorney General's office should be here. Today, on television, the information is official: Ukraine is on the verge of a flu, one in ten is about to be vaccinated. What are we doing? Are we warming up the temperature especially in society? Let's make more careful decisions. We will vote on a decree that will be weighed and will not frighten people. For tomorrow, let's postpone the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-25-m0.u229	Dear colleagues, since there is no willingness of factions to support the obvious things now, i.e. to take note of the report that has been made, and to refer these materials to those bodies that have constitutional authority to adopt the decisions on this issue, we may now be tasked with developing a draft decision and going back to that matter as ready as possible. Is there a denial? There's no objection. The meeting of the Supreme Council is closed. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., the plenary meeting.
