ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u1	Good morning. Colleagues, let's register. [[10:02:36]] Registered -438 There are 438 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is publicized. Yesterday, dear colleagues, we held a meeting of leaders, so after the faction leaders have spoken, I will announce the agenda that you will be offered. Colleagues, I suggest you sign up for the performance. News today is unlikely to be as positive as there is no day of birth as any national MP, so there is nothing to tell you. Let's sign up. Let's rewrite it again, because one of the factions didn't fall. Repeat the recording. The “block of Lithuania” did not fall, but they will then ask for words why. We need to rewrote, please rewritable. Now it's all right. “Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense”, Kirilenko Viacheslav Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u2	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters, the Supreme Council begins its next plenary week. We can say that the agenda for today is re-formed without taking into account the proposals of our Ukraine, the People's Self-Defense. It was re-formed by two factions: Timoshenko Block and the Party of Regions, and so far, for us and, I think, for most voters, we can't move away from this unacceptable situation. At the same time, we are concerned that during the multi-week formation of the order of the day these two factions are in need of a response to both the parliament and the government. We are concerned that we cannot provide solutions to much of the issues that affect Ukraine's national security. On the one hand, colleagues from BUT are urging us to create a coalition of three, on the other hand, first, Prime Minister Timoshenko refuses to properly fund in the budget the next year the needs of the Ukrainian Armed Forces and thus fulfil all the commitments made by the government to strengthen national security. Second, Prime Minister Timoshenko refuses to contribute 1.2 billion dollars to the budget next year. The money to pay off debts to the Russian Federation for the previously consumed natural gas so that Ukraine can raise the lease on the base of the Black Sea fleet. This is not yet another task that the Prime Minister should personally undertake in the implementation of national security. Third. The government does not respond to the repeated demands of the faction "Our Ukraine – the People's Self-Defense" in part of the averaging oil movement on the Odessa-Broda oil pipeline. In doing so, we are not given any argument, but we are simply expressing a position that this is not possible. This is unacceptable and directly affects Ukraine’s national interests. At the same time, we do not see any reaction from our partners to the unacceptable actions and decisions of the individual local authorities that have recently been published. For example, a commission dealing with the issue in Ternopol decided that it would be necessary to hold elections without delay, such as in the Ternopil area. We understand that the commission, most of which consists of the “Timoshenko Block” and the Party of Regions, is proposing to hold elections in Ternopol just because the Ternopil Miskrad has made a decision on the principle assessment of the collapse of the “Timoshenko Block” of the Coalition of Democratic Forces and has expressed its full support for the policies of the President of Ukraine. But at the same time, we don't see a response to our proposals by BUTU regarding a joint response to the decision of the Supreme Council of Crimea and the Donetsk District Council, which practically requires recognition by Ukraine of the independence of South Ossetia and Abkhazia. So, in the backdrop of constant spells about the need to create a new coalition by our former partners, we don't see any action that would at least take half a step to meet the position of "Our Ukraine." In this regard, at a meeting yesterday in the Head of the Supreme Council, we are now proposing simple steps to stabilize the situation. First. Again and again, we're not interested in a portfolio coalition, we're interested in a coalition of principles. In this regard, we offer four steps that need to be taken today. First. Today, three factions – "Our Ukraine", "Timoshenko Block" and "Block of Lithuania" – should form a day-to-day order together, not rejecting the "Our Ukraine" proposal, but agreeing with them in a significant way. The other one. Today, three factions have to put the daily issue of repealing the bills adopted in the first reading: The Law on Referendum and the Law on State Service, since these two laws directly beat the status of the Ukrainian State and pave the way for serious negative events within the country that will take place as a result of the adoption of these two laws. Third. Today, we propose that at least two factions -- "Our Ukraine" and "The Block of Timoshenko" -- agree on the text of a joint statement on the Ukrainian-Georgian conflict. In our view, former partners in the Timoshenko Block are demonstrating increasing differences with our position on this key issue. This concerns us, and we need to put all the dots above the "and" here. And step four. Today "Our Ukraine," the Block of Timoshenko and the Block of Lithuania, if there is really a intention to create a coalition on three, should make a public statement about what.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u3	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u4	The three factions, "Our Ukraine", the Block of Timoshenko and the Block of Lithuania, today must make a public statement that the President's proposals are supported by all five laws that are anti-constitutional and which were adopted during the joint vote by the Block of Timoshenko and the Party of the Regions. This is about laws that wash away the very foundations of Ukrainian statehood. If these four steps on the part of our partners are to be seen today and to be convinced of their sincerity, then calls for the creation of a coalition of three on the side of the “Timoshenko Block” is not a broad one, but a real goal. Unfortunately, we can only see the smoke of the curtain, during which the negotiations between the Timoshenko Block and the Party of the Regions continue, as well as the joint vote of the Timoshenko Block and the Party of the Regions, which means it's a lie to the electorate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u5	Vladimir Litwin, “Block Lithuania”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to stress from our faction: the main thing that should unite us today is the refusal of ultimatums. I'm convinced that trying to dictate to someone is an unacceptable position, that's the way to a dead end. The other one. We're thinking there's two options for events. The first option is unlikely, but so far it's possible: that the Supreme Council, all of us together, will come together, we'll take the head, the heart, the brain -- and we'll start working, and we'll see the coalition as a tool for implementing that policy that the country needs. Let me tell you my point of view. Personally, the coalition is burning me as much as it suits the interests and needs of Ukraine. We're talking about a coalition as a goal of self, as preserving someone in power or putting someone in power. Let's forget about it. The other one. Dear colleagues, when we want to work, let's think about Parliament. Parliament talked about how children feel, and on September 1st they go to school. We never said that. Parliament should talk about these problems. We've never been with you in the last period, and the year has passed, as we are with you today, by the way, elected to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we haven't told you what the situation is in the country, in the agricultural and industrial complex. We haven't talked in a word about how people feel about paying these residential tariffs. We did not discuss how people survive today’s price factor, the price of basic food, and what will happen to people tomorrow. We're talking about everything that burns first of all politicians, parties, absolutely no concern for the people. And once again, most people don't understand what we want. Or let's have a serious discussion today about what the Supreme Council should work on and determine what approaches, where the principles on which there should be a budget, which should be priorities in the budget, and which should be linked to the Supreme Council by work, not by opposition, but by work. Let us postpone all decisions that break Parliament and then do not be perceived by the Ukrainian people for better times, let them lie down. When we come to our senses, we're going to want to compromise, we're going to go back to these decisions, and I'm sure it's going to be a mutual concession. Secondly, if the decision is made today and the decision is not made in the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the country needs to be elected, let's face it, let's say, let's take all these cards off the table, all these arrangements that they were made in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Let's have a serious discussion and let's say what we have to do to make sure that Ukraine doesn't fall, because we've gone to the country. Then let's say that we have to make decisions first of all. We can't accept the budget, let's take the basic social expenditure for 2009 so people know what the minimum wage will be, which will be the minimum wage, so people know what pensions will be, and what they'll expect from this uncertain situation, because the chaos and chaos in Ukraine are increasing. Notice, fellow officials, in the Supreme Council, the opposition in each district council, in the district administration, to the district council goes to the district. There's a fight coming. Then let's say someone needs some electoral law. How, then, will the elections be organized? Although, once again, the position of our faction is that we don't have to run an election today, but if there's no way out, if there's no will, let's make the fundamental decisions, and then we'll do everything we can to make the elections transparent. What they are saying in advance today is that there is absolutely no democracy in the country, because democracy is a lack of a clear understanding of what the outcome of the elections will be. It's an administrative resource, it's huge money, it's another scam. And to conclude, I ask, fellow honourable Members, let's implement the decision of the Conciliation Council that tomorrow we will make changes to the budget in part of the financing of the Kharkiv Aviation Plant, because after this talk we will lose another business tomorrow, which was the glory of Ukraine, the glory of our people. And not just our people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u7	Petrenko. Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u8	Dear Head, colleagues, our constituencies! Ukraine’s modern history is simply strikingly similar to that of a very gray old age. In ancient Rome, after several significant defeats from Hannibal, a senator at each meeting cried out a few years in a row: “Carphagen must be destroyed! ” Finally, that was the case. Not in direct battle with the glorious general, but by faith, the unique city-state was destroyed and never reborn. It's a sad analogy, and it's not an accident, because it doesn't leave the feeling that something like this is happening in Ukraine, that someone is very missing, and in their thoughts, or maybe in their voice, they're saying this kind of spell. Why am I talking about this? But at least because this prophecy is, unfortunately, being fulfilled today and right here, and unfortunately with our hands. And back in the early '90s, there was a unique, the highest trust of the people. The most important acts of our statehood — independence, sovereignty — were proclaimed here. For the first time, the national strain was adopted, and the new Constitution was adopted. The struggle for democracy, freedom of thought and speech, for the modern European principles of the organization of society and power, has been marked by the establishment of a parliamentary-presidential form of government and a substantial increase in responsibility for the State's role as a political power. And what do we have today as a result? Too lightly and quickly, all authority and respect were shattered. In just a few months, they lost unique opportunities. The winners of the past elections have not yet been able to agree, as we have together, on the wise distribution of power and authority, to build a strong independent country. Please tell me, where, in which state of the world is this possible? Having everything today to do good to the country and to the people and strangle your child with your own hands? A few days later, intrigue, strife, endless suspicions, ultimatums and accusations make the Council's release a reality. Interestingly, the organizers, the instigators, and those who live in illusions calculated the matter by taking this step. First and foremost. Will this increase the authority of the country’s most important branch of authority? What he knows today is only for us. To a large extent, respect for the laws we adopt depends on respect for the legislator. Will voters and more than 50 percent of voters come to the polling stations before the new year? The question is rhetorical. Re-voting in 40 days is for Christian ice cream. But this election is already going to take place in any weather and any number of voters. But what kind of parliament is this? Whose supporters will come to the precinct? Who will be the winner of such races? What forces will form a coalition, and especially a government? And are they going to make it at all? And who will be friends with whom and against whom? All of this is a question that needs to be answered in the midst of a presidential campaign. We don't really understand that all these drama elections are capable of finally turning the country into a major political disaster. Because unifying slogans no longer seem to exist. Some will ignite anti-Russian sentiments, especially through the prism of events in the Caucasus, while others will fuel anti-Nativity rhetoric. Otherwise, it just doesn't make sense for other people to talk, because it's not too late today to decide in the halls and pensions and scholarships and wages and long-awaited reforms. What's the problem, colleagues? The other one. And where the country and the people are in these endless intrigues and quacks. In the 2009 State Budget project, the government increases people's social payments by a third, but without the Supreme Council, the project will remain a project. Without the necessary funding there will be an army, and Euro 2012, housing, health and education. But who wants to know today? And someone else dreamed in these conditions about the DPH in December. In addition, the moratorium on the agricultural land market is ending, not only by six million farmers but also by a mere multimillion dollar village. There is a high probability that there will be serious misunderstandings with the earth in power, for we have never been able to accept the relevant laws. Third. What will actually change in the political decorations of this hall after possible elections? Is there going to be a BET or a Party of Regions? Do all of them suddenly communicate with the president in an unanimity way? Will the other political forces present in this room pass? Oh, no. Sociology once again invites us under this dome, perhaps a little in other proportions. Inevitably, the spirit of this hall will change. Most of us were friends of the past, and today we're just friends, and tomorrow we're gonna be enemies until we get a new president. We will not envy the future leader of the nation, for he will have to lift his and our Carthage with you. That's why we're here.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u9	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u10	That's why we're officially saying, BUT is definitely against the madness of the early elections. We reject any charges of inability of our political power to negotiate. In order not to be loud, we're proposing today, here and now, drafts of our documents: coalition agreement, regulation work, action programs from 155 signatures of our bloc's national deputies. Do not look for ultimatums, populism, pro-American, pro-Brussels, or procremite positions in these documents. There is common sense, real pragmatism, and pro-Ukrainian choice. The positions of the previous coalition are based on them. They also set us up, and hopefully most of the political forces present here. We are pleased that their signatures have already been signed by more than 30 representatives of other political forces, which means that hope is, and the threat of crisis will be reversed. So join your colleagues today, and as always, let's go to work! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u11	Verni Dubov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u12	Verni Dubov, “Regions” faction, Sevastopol. Respectable comrades! We celebrated 250 at the state level recently. 500 foundation of the city of Balaklava, which is the foundation of the town of Sevastopol. This year, the city celebrated its 225th anniversary of its education in June. Indeed, all things have been noted that the city is worthy of worship, and the city is a model. But at the state level, why don't high-ranking government officials like this town so much? What do I mean? You and I have been in violation of the Constitution of Ukraine for 12 years now, because, despite the requirements of articles 118, 133 and 140 of the Constitution, we have not adopted a law that regulates the special status of the city of Sevastopol. The Supreme Council even accepted the changes to the Constitution, but until now it had failed to comply with the requirements laid down in the Constitution in 1996. This is not only because of the political struggle in the Supreme Councils of various convocations, but also because at the time of writing the Constitution of Ukraine, as long as power was shared here in Kiev, regions were forgotten. To move away from certain things, the Constitution contains a brilliant phrase for all cases of life: the cities of Kiev and Sevastopol have a special status governed by the laws of Ukraine. And if the Law on the City Hero of Kiev was adopted, it was already too close to the walls of the President's Administration, the Supreme Council and the Cabinet, then the Law on the City Hero of Sevastopol has been dusted in the archives of Parliament for years, and the inhabitants of Sevastopol have been deprived of their guaranteed rights to local self-government, whose specificities are enshrined in the Constitution. Because the hero city of Sevastopol has a special territorial, administrative structure, which is the main feature of the people's lives, not the presence of the Black Sea fleet, as politicians say, who only come to our city for representative tours. Sevastopol includes a separate town in Inkerman, and more than 35 settlements that either refer directly to one of the districts in Sevastopol or one of the five village councils. This population pool is combined in the name of “Sevastopol” which has been made historically, and the names of these settlements sound like a requisition of Ukrainian local self-government. The bill, why am I talking about this today, why is this topic relevant today? You know, the Supreme Council Act has been adopted four times, four times, probably the only such fact in the history of the Supreme Council's work, and four times he has made a successful promise to the President of Ukraine. Today's bill is, it's on the committee headed by Omelchenko Alexander Alexandrovich, but he's not being moved, he's not being introduced to the Supreme Council Hall. This topic is relevant today because in Sevastopol, there is a lack of self - control. The so-called “Kuni Qina Command”, which has come into town for two years, has led to absurd command style, has brought with it from secretaries, body guards, drivers, substitutes - first intercessors, other substitutes. And since this team has begun to violate the laws of Ukraine, the Constitution of Ukraine, the really, local self-government, the Sevastopol City Council has started to oppose it. But when the City Council, in accordance with the Constitution, voted and expressed distrust at the head of the local administration of Kunicin, sent the President of Ukraine as a constitutional body to the guarantor of the Constitution, the President was not even notified of the letter. The Secretariat replied that there was no law on Sevastopol, and the laws on local government self - government and the law on local government administrations on Sevastopol were not in force. What, then, is involved in directing sevastopols and Sebastopol officials? There is no law, “no court,” and the Kunicin team continues to rob the city.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u13	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u14	and violate other laws of Ukraine. Soon we are preparing a report to the Supreme Council of the Special Temporary Commission, but I call upon all of you, I urge you, Arsenija Petrovich, let us urgently consider in this room the draft law on the city hero Sevastopol, who is on the committee of the Omelchenko. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u15	Communist faction, Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u16	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! On behalf of the Company and our faction in the Supreme Council, on the basis of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, I declare that it is necessary to bring the question of the initiation of the impeachment procedure of President Yushchenko to the agenda without delay. Once again, colleagues, we, the Communists, propose to establish an anti-presidential coalition immediately and more than enough ground to do so. Yuschenko has torn the country apart by planting the ideology of belligerent nationalism and has given State rewards to the Nazi criminals and, demeaning the honour and dignity of the heroes of the Great Homeland War, freeing Europe and Ukraine from fascism, has become engrosssed in the war crimes of his Georgian godfather Saakashvili and the illicit arms trade, he has grossly defied the Constitution of Ukraine with his puppet policy and poses a grave threat to the country's territorial integrity. Yushchenko is silent when the President of Romania throughout the world declares that Ukraine must return South Besarabia and Northern Bukovina, who have joined the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic since the Second World War. Romania's officials are openly discussing Ukraine's disintegration into several States, one of which Galicina will join NATO, Yushchenko and the MID in silence. The official Romanian media publishes maps on which the Czernovicka and Odessa regions are listed in Romania, the reaction by Yashchenko and his MIDA. Through The Hague International Court of Romania, it is attempting to pick up the island of Zmejinay from Ukraine, with the richest oil and gas, the continental shelf. Ukraine has been called upon to maintain relations with Bucharest and to give part of its territory in exchange for friendship and support in joining NATO. That is the answer to the question of why Yushchenko is silent, and NATO, in exchange for part of our territory, is nothing more than a coup d'état. Wasn't it a coup d'état when little Yushchenko cited the US company 13.5,000 square kilometres of the Black Sea shelf for its share? Thus, apart from the Americans and Ukrainian oligarchs, Yushchenko and the Romanian side may have arrangements for the future dividends of his family, from the development of the continental shelf, the island of Zmejinay, which will move towards Romania. Yushchenko's policy of militarization, nationalism and illicit arms trafficking has already led to Ukraine being dragged into the military conflict in the Caucasus by the aggressor. Ukraine could now become a party to another armed conflict in two months, for the second time, respected colleagues. This is an unprecedented event: the seizure of a cargo ship carrying Ukrainian crews off the coast of Somalia, 33 T-72 tanks and five City rockets on board. The goods, according to the Ministry of Defence officials, were assigned to Kenya and were allegedly carried out under an existing contract. But why this little African country so many tanks. The answer is simple: if this is a deadly weapon for Kenya, we need to know that since the 1970s the United States of America has actively armed Kenya and used it as a base for the control of the oil fields of neighbouring Sudan. Ukrainian tanks and cities, defending American interests, will once again carry death in Africa, as recently in Georgia, when Saakashvili troops fired a peaceful sleeping Tskhinval from missile installations. The company of Ukraine requires hearing in the session room the reports of the Minister of Defence and Acting Head of the BSS, the Secretary of Sovnazbezbez and the Head of Ukreseksport. Let them answer who financed and prepared this shipment of weapons, who is responsible for the fact that 33 tanks and 5 towns were in the hands of pirates, why was no military cover not organized, why did not Ukrainian ships go to the shores of Africa to deliver their sailors? It's not because ships capable of fighting, not training, that we simply don't have. Cut and sold on scrap metal. For the second time in a week, Yushchenko is visiting the United States. While Ukraine was on the verge of a political and economic default, when the popularity of the orange messiah fell below and the threat of impeachment and criminal responsibility for what was being done became a reality, Yushchenko fled to the White House for support. In exchange for the surrender of Ukraine's national interests, he intends to benefit from the dissolution of the Supreme Council, the establishment of a state of emergency and the establishment of a naked nationalist dictatorship in the country. And the fact that Yushchenko was accompanied by forces, the Minister of Defence and the head of the BSS in the U.S. Army.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u17	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u18	I'm done. I don't think it's possible to underestimate the possibility of a force scenario that many are talking about. Ukraine's company appeals to all citizens of our country, regardless of nationality, religion and social status, President Yushchenko, by his policy, is leading Ukraine to an economic, financial and political collapse and is deliberately destroying Ukraine's territorial integrity. Yushchenko is a political criminal and must be removed from power.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u19	Dear colleagues, the time for the speech is over. Several suggestions were made regarding the formation of the agenda and the coalition. Dear colleagues, I would suggest that we stop these empty talks about forming a coalition and so on. Because, you know, it's as impressive as that anecdotes when the godmother says, "You want me this way, my friend, as I fear you." If there is a question of forming a coalition, you need a letter under the signatures of the three faction leaders, as a first step, to form a day order. Sign a letter, form a day order according to the signatures of the three factions, and this order of days according to the requirements of the Provisional Rules, and more precisely now of the Rules, will be announced, and show, and prove by the vote that not only is power, but there is a desire to form a coalition. Second, in terms of budget and financial matters. Dear colleagues, I fully and fully support the offer. I'm going to the faction leaders, we're going to have this week -- no matter what the coalition is, there's going to be no coalition here right now -- the government of Ukraine, the finance minister, the economy minister, the head of the Central Bank for the first time that we see the 2009 budget, and the second government by the end of 2008, to deal with the consequences of the global financial crisis. This morning, Doe Jones dropped by 7 percent. This is a historical fall in the history of this index. And if there's a discussion that Ukraine has stayed away from these processes, you're very wrong. The consequences of Ukraine’s global financial crisis are now felt. It is therefore urgent to resolve budgetary and financial stability issues during this week and to listen to both the government and the Central Bank. And last but not least, colleagues, regarding individual conversations last week about the status of autonomy. I don't think the Ukrainian Parliament can stay away from this issue. We have to stop once and for all any discussion about the status of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. This is the autonomy defined by the Ukrainian Constitution. Instead of depriving the Autonomous Republic of such powers, we need to fill our rights of autonomy. Colleagues, I suggest we move on to the agenda. So it is proposed for your consideration of 2564 – this is the draft Law on the National Plan of Action for the Implementation of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child. This was introduced by the President of Ukraine. 2635 is a draft of the Act on the National Programme for the Exploitation of the Chernobyl AES and the Conversion of the Hidden Object to an Environmentally Safe System; 2695 is a draft law on the approval of the Public Programme for the Prevention of HIV Infection; 3061 – Draft Act approving Ukraine's 2008-2012 Universal Space Science and Technology Programme; 0042 is a ratification between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on military cooperation; 0056 – Ratification of Ukraine's application for membership in the International European Innovation and Technology Programme; 0057 - Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet and the Government of Croatia on military and technical cooperation; 0085 is a draft law on the ratification of the Memorandum between the Cabinet and the Government of Malaysia on cooperation in the defence sector as well; 0088 – Act on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Algerian People's Democratic Republic, also on military and technical cooperation. This is yesterday's order, a colleague who agrees with the faction leaders. I propose to put him to the vote for approval as today's schedule. Please vote. [[10:38:03]] For 285 In motive, three minutes, please. Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u20	Dear colleagues, the Party of Regions, and I, including, supported the proposed draft of the day today. But I would like to point out that we have a lot of debt on the legislative side for further strengthening the reform of the social component of social life. Retirement reform has stopped in place, and we have not taken a step further towards the introduction of compulsory government social and health insurance. Colleagues, look at our hospitals, at our once thriving field office, at the hospital, at the hospital, at the hospital, at the hospital. Such a situation threatens national security already in Ukraine. So why was I motivated? I would like to ask all the leaders of all factions, during the next discussion of the agenda, please refer to the social bills that have passed the committees that would need to be included in the agenda, particularly the bill on social status and social protection for many children's families in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u21	Kulikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u22	Thank you. Dear Arsenija Petrovich, the second issue of the agenda was the decision to terminate the powers of Deputy Vakarczuk for the term. When will this matter be in the daytime order, and when can we vote for it and be able to take the oath of another colleague? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u23	Grivkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u24	Litwin, Litwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u25	Vladimir Litwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u26	Dear Arsenia Petrovich, fellows of honor! We have maintained the order of the day, and we ask for the support and suggestions that our colleagues have made, and at the same time I would like to draw attention once again to the need for the adoption of the Act amending the budget in part of the support of the Kharkiv Aviation Company. We ask all factions to sign an appropriate bill so that this is our agreed position on this issue. And I want to remind you once again about making a decision on the Saxons. The commission was appropriate committees, and the committee postponed consideration of the matter. I'm sure he'll be drowned, as we often do. We would like to accept an appropriate application to do so. I'm sorry about the sleepers in order to draw attention to people who have huge problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u27	Peter Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u28	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, apart from the issues that we have raised on several occasions, from the point of view of protecting the interests of our ordinary citizens and the relative and pension benefits, the opportunities to get a job, the first job for our young people, unfortunately, it's very difficult, let's say, to make changes in these conditions in which the Supreme Council is working today. I'm not talking about 57 articles of the Education Act anymore, unfortunately, but they don't support our proposals for pension insurance, about debt restructuring and about not paying back what it takes to get our teachers. But I also suggested honoring our history because we have this: Carla XI, who is Swedish, so to speak, the king who came to Ukraine to take over Ukraine and conquer our people, conquer our people, put him in Poltava by the monument of KarluXII. And the millions of commodores who built our own, let's say, gas and pipelines that built chemical companies that built them.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u29	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u30	In Western Ukraine, a metallurgical complex, Donbas mines, nuclear power plants. It celebrates a 90-year-old Komsomol and refuses to even consider the issue of the State not forgetting those who today have created material values and benefits for our people. I'm asking you very much to do this. without discussion, we suggest that we put the draft decree, which is prepared for 2611 in the agenda. To vote and thus allow these people who created the economic independence of our state to be remembered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u31	Who else hasn't spoken from the faction? Kirilenko Viacheslav
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u32	Viacheslav Kirilenko, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense". Dear colleagues, I propose that we bring to order the items that, unfortunately, were rejected yesterday at the meeting of the heads of factions at the Head of Parliament. We insist, and we would like those who want to form a coalition with us to support it. More than anything else, the faction of Block Tymoshenko. First. 1375 - Order on Cancelling Deputy Intactness The other one. 1143th Presidential Bill on the introduction of criminal responsibility in the event of a denial of hunger. 1311, 1313 are bills that relate to reforms of local self-government and were provided for in the previous coalition agreement. And 1,400, 1374 is a return to the question of the repeal of the laws adopted in the first reading of the referendum and the State Service, which directly beat the state status of the Ukrainian language. We asked and asked our colleagues from the Timoshenko Block to support these issues in the agenda, if they really are.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u33	Yes, comrades, I report. First of all, it's about our colleague Vakarczuk. Kiril Borisovich, this is for you. The Legislature Committee requested that the matter be postponed for tomorrow. So it's more likely that it'll be in the daytime tomorrow. I included it today, but I just received a statement from the regulatory committee to review it tomorrow. Second: regarding Vladimir Mikhailovich. We were discussing, really, yesterday's position on budget changes. And the proposal is that tomorrow the Budget Committee will consider a series of changes to the 2008 State Budget Act of Ukraine and incorporate the relevant Kharkiv Aviation and Financing Standard of 100 million. That decision was made yesterday. Next: regarding Sach. I'm on my way to Valentina Alexandrovich Zeichuk. Valentin Aleksandrovich, look at where the Sakach ruling went and why the committee has not yet come forward, and tell us who to talk to so that we can immediately address the issue not only in Sakach but, as planned, completely in all sanatoriums. And in the 57th article, Peter Mikolaiovich, on Friday I signed a letter to the government of Ukraine, and we expect the position of the government of Ukraine on the adoption of this bill. The 0954 position is, I told you, at the signature of the Turkinov. And by 2576, if I'm not mistaken for his number, it will be after the government publishes the position. Colleagues. So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. The same is true of comsomol. I've made it clear to you that the only solution will be in accordance with the requirements of the Temporary Order of Faction Leaders, and I'm going to put this issue in the agenda. 2564, Pavlenko Yuri Alexiovich. Draft Law on the National Plan of Action for the Implementation of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u34	Dear Mr. Head, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! The draft Law on the National Plan of Action for the Implementation of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child is being submitted to your consideration by the President of Ukraine for the period up to 2016, which is required by the commitments made by Ukraine regarding children. The National Plan of Action is a particularly important and timely document for Ukraine that sets the strategic national priority for protecting children in Ukraine. The National Action Plan is Ukraine's first comprehensive regulatory document in years of independence, which regulates the main areas of protection of children's rights and interests. Very often under the dome of the Supreme Council of Ukraine there is alarming statistics on childhood. High infant mortality rates, almost 102 thousand orphans and children deprived of parental care; over 168 thousand children with special needs; 11 child colonies are holding children who have committed crimes. In general, more than half a million children today suffer from various types of crisis. According to sociological surveys, children themselves determine the rights that are most often violated, namely the right to express their opinions, their own opinions and beliefs, their right to rest, their right to quality medical care, their right to education, their right to develop talents. During the past three years, the President of Ukraine has held four All - Ukrainian meetings with concern and affection for children, where the most challenging problems of childhood have been addressed and priority measures have been set for overcoming them. Many laws governing the protection of children's rights have been introduced in the order of the legislative initiative of the President of Ukraine, the Government of Ukraine, the National Deputies of Ukraine, many of which have already been voted upon by the Supreme Council, part of which is under consideration. So there are systemic changes in the country’s protection of children’s rights. Here I can say that over the last three years, the President of Ukraine has been declared in the interests of the child, the year 2006 has been declared a year for the protection of the rights of the child, the year 2008 has been a year for supporting national adoption and the development of family forms of upbringing. At the same time, the following tasks are more clearly solved. Realizing that the development and well-being of children are directly dependent on the degree of realization of their rights, a bill has been drafted that defines the strategy of State policy for decades and is a common vision of how to create the most favourable conditions for children in Ukraine. The purpose of the bill is to establish a comprehensive child rights protection system in Ukraine and to fulfil Ukraine’s international obligations as defined by the United Nations General Assembly for the benefit of children. The bill sets priorities for the activities of the State, the public and the community in the interests of each individual child. The implementation of the specific measures envisaged by the bill will allow, inter alia, orphans and children deprived of parental care to exercise their right to family education through adoption, foster care in foster families, and family-type children's homes; Children with disabilities realize the right to education irrespective of their health and place of education; children living with HIV, access to diagnostics, treatment, care and support; Provide professional advice in maternity homes of parents born with birth defects, because the success of the development of a child with disabilities depends directly on how much parents are prepared to show a child's illness; To reduce the rate of stillbirth by 20 percent, which means that the measures provided for in this law will help to save the lives of five of the children of those who today have no chance of survival; To reduce by a third the mortality rate of children under five years of age, primarily the reduction in child mortality due to parental neglect and neglect; create a system to protect children from economic exploitation and from any work that may be dangerous to the health of the child; ensure that children have equal access to cultural values, institutions, institutions and organizations of culture and to non-school institutions. Protecting children's rights is a complex policy, a unified work of all branches of government. At the time of the resolution of the issue, and this is provided for in the bill -- the creation of juvenile justice, the introduction of reintroduction of justice. The issue of resisting the involvement of children in criminal activities, child violence, and the spread of the social problems of adults to children remain acute. We are confident that the development and implementation of special judicial procedures will allow for better consideration of the rights and interests of children in conflict with the law. Support for families who are raising children remains of great importance. And it's not just about paying off state aid. Working with a family in crisis involves intersectoral cooperation in solving problems that have caused a family crisis. We need to introduce new approaches to the protection of children's rights, namely to create a qualitatively new national monitoring and monitoring system for children's rights in Ukraine. Such monitoring should not be based solely on State statistics and government reports, but it is essential to ask and take into account the viewpoint of children and their parents. The Ukrainian Ministry of Family, Youth, and Sports publishes an annual report on the situation of children in Ukraine. In 2008, this monitoring report maintains the main indicators of child welfare at the time of the adoption of the National Plan of Action for the Implementation of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, and will thus be an indicator of the implementation of the measures envisaged by the bill. A few weeks later, it will be finally approved and distributed to each national deputy for introduction. The adoption of the proposed bill will allow a systematic solution to childhood problems, avoid waste of action in the interests of children and misuse of resources to improve the status of each individual child in Ukraine. As this bill has long been under consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the bill has been supported by three previous governments: the government of Yulia Timoshenko, the government of Yuri Yehanurov, the government of Viktor Yanukovic, this bill is being tabled by the President of Ukraine today so supported by the current working government, I would suggest that the bill be adopted on a basis and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u35	Please log in -- question-answers, five minutes. Homutinian. Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u36	Simonenko, the Communist faction. I'd like to ask you, well, it's not the first year we've heard these songs of words, so let's say, from this rostrum, as far as you promise. And when the people were poor in Ukraine, they lived even worse in years of independence. This is especially the crime of the state authority that you have imposed, and you are a representative of that political power because you destroy and kill childhood in general. That's what your confidence is based on when we have the President of Ukraine as a traitor to national interests, and you're talking about the possibility of implementing this program. Who will do it? So, please tell me, what is the basis, that funding will change, and you already know how you're going to redistribute this money for our children? Perhaps you have built new homes and palaces of children’s creativity? Children were taken away, pioneer homes that were converted into casinos today, so to speak. What have they done? Maybe you've stopped playing sports courses to destroy and build on them, so to speak, assets?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u37	Thank you for asking. I understand the point of your question, and I want to make sure that we don't promise, but we do. I can report for every day of my work during these three years. I can give you concrete examples of how it saved a child's life, and unfortunately, the absence of a system of state policies over the years during independence has really put our childhood at the brink of survival, and that's why we have a very high level of mortality today. In the last three years, birth rates have increased, and child mortality has stabilized. At the same time, there is no doubt this bill, and I am pleased that today it has been put on the Supreme Council, and I hope for your support for the bill, because for the first time in years of independence it creates a system-wide policy of the state in terms of protecting childhood, to protect each individual child. Abby.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u38	Schmellow.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u39	Bezu, please have a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u40	Dear Yuri Alexiyovich, I have a question for you. Clearly, the Convention on the Rights of the Child was adopted in 1991 by the United Nations. And you and I are certainly demonstrating violent activity, because since 1991, for seventeen years now, we have finally come to a national plan, but the problem is different. You know, please tell me if you know that today the plenary issue of the national plan has been initiated by the Committee on Legislative Protection and why. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u41	Thank you for asking. I will say that Ukraine’s commitment to developing a national plan in line with the decision of the General Assembly of the United Nations has been in place since 2002. In 2006, the National Plan of Action was developed and introduced to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Unfortunately, for two years we had come to his consideration in the Supreme Council Hall, even though it was a difficult story. As far as his initiative is concerned, as far as I know, all the committees that considered the bill were supportive and approved, and recommended that he be approved as a whole. And I know that our professional committee of youth politics, physical culture, sport and tourism has supported it as much as possible as possible and today's session of the Supreme Council. I would like to take this opportunity to thank all the people's deputies, all the factions, all the committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, who have really taken a very responsible view of this very important bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u42	Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u43	Oleg Zarubinsky, Block of Lithuania. Mr. Minister, please tell me that I read that the plan was developed by 2016. Please tell me this is a special year, why not 2015, why not 2020? What is this, what is eight years, this is from 2008 to 2016? What calculations have been made? Why is it eight years, not ten years, not seven years, and so on? Where did this figure come from? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u44	I thank you for your questions. Actually, this plan has been set aside for decades. And I'm saying again that it was introduced in 2006 and it was calculated in 2006-2016. His consideration in the Supreme Council of Ukraine was somewhat delayed, so this is his own title for the period until 2016. So it was approved at all levels. At the same time, I want to assure you that in the last two years, governments, appropriate ministries and departments, I can fully say for the Ministry of Family, Youth and Sports, we are acting in accordance with this plan, because a large part of the positions that are now prescribed as legislative standards are already regulated by the regulations of the relevant government. So in this case, there's a task today -- it's legislative to regulate and approve this document, which actually defines the decade 2006-2016. And there's no special date here, but it was.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u45	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u46	In 2016. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u47	Kostenko, last question.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u48	Dear Yuri Alexiyovich, as far as I know, the practical programme of the UN Convention for Action Plan by 2016 was adopted and Ukraine joined it as early as 2000. So it has been eight years and eight years before the end of this program. Because it's basically being implemented by the government of Ukraine, including our own department of expertise, and it's being funded, and how much money is being spent from the budget, and how much is planned for budget spending, if today the Supreme Council is to adopt this program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u49	Thank you for asking. Undoubtedly, the final figures for the bill can be discussed after its adoption. Because the Ministry of Finance, without law, and the government, without law, cannot, in part, provide for funding for the following year. But approval, approval today by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the signing of this bill by the President of Ukraine and its entry into force will force the government to review some of the budget proposals for the following year, taking into account the specific positions of the programme aimed at protecting the rights of children. I can say that today and in the proposals of that project, which is now under the state budget for the following year, spending on the protection of children's rights in individual positions has increased from 30 percent to 60 percent compared to this year. And I hope that this trend will continue. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u50	Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u51	Yuri Alexiyovich, what's our problem? That we've been working without the government for the last few months. So yesterday we were looking at two proposals from the Ministry, so it's like the government is gone and they're offering themselves. You're saying that we're going to adopt the law, and then the Cabinet of Ministers is going to think about it and put the money in. Well, is this the approach of the Ukrainian Parliament and government? If funding is provided, should we have submitted the government? And the Ministry will calculate it. Now, our Science-Expert Office says that there's no mention of the Cabinet of Ministers looking at it, and the Ministry's looking at it, there's no one here. Here is 90 percent of the proposal made by the Ministry of Health. I seriously doubt that these figures, which are set here, that 90 percent of us will be living in Europe in a year, are in agreement with the Ministry of Health. My first question. Kabmin, all the ministries of expertise were assessing whether they agreed? And the second question. We've been on the committee for two years talking about this plan of action. This is the 13 - page law and the 24 - page plan of action. This is a plan of action for your ministry and other ministries. Well, the Supreme Council of Ukraine should adopt a plan of action to improve the ministry's work, conduct sociological research, hold a conference. Well, isn't that our job? Can't it be written in the law: “To assign the Cabinet of Ministers, there to the ministries to develop a plan of action for the implementation of this program”? Because if we're in Parliament right now, if we're going to have a plan of action in the Ministry, no one is going to understand us. So two positions. First. How to agree with all the ministries and Kabmin's position, because there's funding foreseen, we're not supposed to adopt the law, it's not going to be financed. And the second. Do you think that you can move the plan of action, take it out separately, and, say, record that the Kabin will individually approve?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u52	Thank you, Milo Volodymyrovich, for your question. I want to say that this bill is in agreement with all ministries and departments, with specific measures. What's more, once again, I'm saying that this reconciliation has taken place at the level of ministries and departments three times, three times in a change of government, every time there's been a reconciliation of positions. And no doubt, when some position came in, there was also funding. I understand that today, of course, there could be a lot more positions here to add to those who need childhood, but this document takes the most into account the budgetary possibilities and financial opportunities of Ukraine today. Moreover, I am convinced that every year it will be possible and necessary to make changes to the bill, taking into account the new possibilities of the State to finance, and also taking into account the fact that a problem will be solved, but a new problem will arise again. Sadly, this work experience shows. Hence, there are no problems in terms of disagreement or disagreement.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u53	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u54	the contradiction of one or another standard with one or more responsible ministries or authorities. As far as the plan of action is concerned, I would ask that the plan of action be part of the law, for it is also our commitment to the United Nations, and the bill has worked with them and agreed. And secondly, it will increase the government's responsibility for implementing the bill or after it's passed the law. So I would suggest that I accept that proposal, a comprehensive proposal that took into account the interests of all authorities, take into account the interests of the political forces, take into account the interests of public organizations, both Ukrainian and international organizations, and the proposals of the United Nations as the initiator of the adoption of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u55	Please sit down. Catherine Eugene Lukyanova, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u56	Dear colleagues, the committee at the meeting reviewed the bill and decided to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a basis and as a whole. The National Plan of Action for the Implementation of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child was adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a whole on 27 June 2007. However, he did not take effect in view of the late termination of the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The proposed programme sets out strategic orientations for the protection of children’s rights and interests in Ukraine. The adoption of the bill will allow for a systematic solution to the problems of childhood, avoid wasteful activities of various departments, and conduct clear monitoring of effective measures. The main drivers of the program are the development of a healthy way of life for children, the realization of the right of every child to health and rest, the creation of a level playing field for every child to have access to high-quality education, the development of the creative potential of children, the resistance to HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis and drug addiction. The program focuses on protecting the rights of children of different categories, preventing social orphans, overcoming child neglect and homelessness, combating child labour, child trafficking, sexual exploitation, and other forms of child abuse. It is important that the bill provides for a number of regulatory measures to address the issue of the introduction of juvenile justice in Ukraine. In particular, the program contains two sections relating to juvenile justice: the protection of the rights of children who commit offences and the creation of a juvenile justice system. We need to know that there is a situation in international standards that requires a separate system of justice in each state for children, that is, the existence and functioning of juvenile justice. World practice clearly applies the rule that a judge who sentenced an adult criminal cannot judge a minor. In general, given the above, it is worth noting that this is the first such bill and such an initial experience in Ukraine. The Committee on Economic Policy, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on Health and the Chief Scientific and Experimental Administration support the adoption of the bill on the basis of further consideration of the accepted proposal. The European Integration Committee concludes that the adoption of this bill will contribute to the implementation of the 2008 Action Plan of Ukraine-EU and requests that it be expedited in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I would also like to say, for a transcript, that in view of the fact that, according to the drafters of the bill, its adoption requires an additional cost of 300 million dollars from the State budget. Therefore, we suggest that it be put into effect on January 1, 2009. I would like to point out to my colleagues that this program is in principle already in operation. Given the importance of the state's existence in the legal field of the programme, please support the committee's decision on the adoption of the bill as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u57	Three minutes are questions and answers. Vladimir Josephovich Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u58	Matveev, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Well, we're going to vote in favour of this bill because it's politically necessary today to show that Ukraine wants to do something for these children. But I would like to draw attention to the fact that the main problem that exists today is not being solved by this programme. There is no basis for why children have been divided into four categories. First, they divided into the poor and the rich and, secondly, divided into the inhabitants of the city and the villages. Because from the time the child is conceived, which will be born in the village, there is no constant observation of the Feldscher because the field and obstetric centres have been destroyed and because there are no social conditions for the normal development of the child in the village today. Do you understand? Until we are in Ukraine, these are the main causes of children's inequality, our children's happy childhood. Any suggestions?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u59	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u60	I asked: would there be any suggestions from the Committee on this matter?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u61	The Committee on Youth Policy, Childhood, Sport and Tourism is constantly discussing how to improve the lives of all children, regardless of whether the local population or the rural population is in Ukraine. The question is another: today the government of Ukraine has to add to every program, which is a global program, its proposals on how to end this, well, this division, as you put it correctly, because there are no urban children, there are no rural children -- there are children of Ukraine. I think that this program is precisely because we report to the United Nations, it doesn't divide the children into each other, I think this is the program that has to unite Ukraine: both the government, Parliament, and the President, and all branches of power -- in order to improve the lives of the children and move forward -- not by voice, but by the implementation of this program.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u62	Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u63	Yuri Carmazin. Dear reporter, I'd like to ask you to express your view of a completely, let's say, non-original title of the law, starting now with this: "National Action Plan on." and so on. Obviously, the name of the law has to be changed. It should be called “The National Programme for the Implementation of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child in Ukraine”, as the General Scientific and Scientific Administration insisted. And I don't understand why we're not doing this today. In addition to everything else, it was predicted that it would be necessary to predict how children's rights should be protected if the possibilities of domestic medicine were exhausted and to provide for the protection of them in foreign medical institutions; how do we make other aspects that are not regulated here, and obviously this is food, clothing, prevention and treatment of children, obviously, should be taken only in the first reading?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u64	I want to answer. First, about the name. I realize that the name may be improved several times, but this bill doesn't change, it's the first. As for the second, I will answer with one sentence in Russian: the best is the enemy of the good. The more we improve, the less likely we are to accept any kind of program. I therefore very much wanted to encourage Parliament to adopt this bill as a basis and as a whole. Because if we improve, improve, and improve, we will finally have no program.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u65	Thank you. Please sit down. Colleagues, we are recorded by factions and national deputies. It's five minutes from the National Deputies and the factions. Alexander Sergeyevich, I hope you're not taking pictures, are you? Thank you. Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u66	Oleg Zarubinski. ‘Block of Lithuania’. Dear Arseniy Petrovich, your colleagues, you know the title: the implementation of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, says that there is not likely to be a lot of people in this room who are not voting today for the adoption of this bill. But I think the reason for the vote is not just that, but there are plenty of positive points. So for an example, I'd like to say this: putting in place a mechanism to finance the needs of orphans and children deprived of parental care by the principle: money goes to a child. This is a very important norm that is not always being fulfilled. And when a child suffers from it, when he moves to another territory, when other caregivers appear, and so on. It's an international rule, by the way, and as far as retirement is concerned, money goes to a person. But it was said here that perfection has no limits, and I think there are some imperfect moments here. For example, "to ensure that all children have a mandatory medical examination by 2010". So I know that no one has canceled the mandatory medical examination of all children today. And if that is the case, what will happen in 2008? Is that not necessary today? What will happen in 2009? I feel that this is not an exact norm, it is incorrect, for the compulsory medical examination of children should take place now. No one canceled it. The next moment, “it is not me to provide by 2016, at the expense of the State budget, with medical resources to treat HIV-AIDS as 90 per cent of the sick children”. By 2016, 90 percent, and who will be the ten percent? How have calculations been made so that children cannot be helped in a 100 percent way, especially when this is not about 2008 but until 2016? I don't think that's right. Just as it's not possible to provide access by 2010 to at least 95 percent of HIV-infected women to services and to prevent HIV from mother to child. What about 5 percent? Why does it count like that? I think these are miscalculations. And another positive moment, it says, “Creating a safe and conducive environment for child development, preserving its health and life”. Maybe it's in search of its reflection now, but I'm asking you to think about it, and the Ministry of Education: and who thought that a child should come to school at six years of age and have the load that she now has? Fifty percent of six - year - olds are physically unprepared for that kind of stress. Or maybe someone will think to implement this rule, that a child shouldn't carry a 10-pound portfolio every day, and two sets of textbooks -- which are in school, which he has at home with him. Who thought every day every child had seven classes from 4 to 5? I am.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u67	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u68	I think we should think about that too. And then it won't be abstraction to ensure healthy conditions. Here's a healthy condition: don't wear 10 kilograms a day at the age of eight, don't come here who can't do six years physically unprepared for school. And in the end, you know, when 12 years are invented, and they have 7-8 lessons left in them, obviously these 12 years nobody needs one either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u69	Kilincarov. Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, the Communist faction supports this program. But we stress the need to report, not to the United Nations, but to our own people and to our own children, the future of our Ukraine. And this program will stay on paper, we're convinced, Communists, because it's not hard to accept, but what will be done. And this is what I'm saying to make the first conclusion: In years of independence, a child became an object of exploitation. Children earn money today, and that’s what makes them rich. Why? Because it was the nationalists who, in speculating on popular democratic slogans, over the years of independence, in implementing their policies that deprived children of the right to rest. Where did the pioneer camps and the availability of recreation go? I'm addressing you, dear fellows, here you are, owners of powerful businesses, whole industries, sitting in the seats of officials, so please tell me why you took away the right to rest, the right to treatment. Children’s sanatoriums were collected for the treatment of children with tuberculosis. That's what we Communists talked about. What about the program when this is not resolved? Children became the subject of experiments. You're doing the vaccination. You kill children with your politics, and you say you should report to the United Nations. You use children to enrich your child’s work, it is banned by the United Nations, and here you impose and cultivate it. Child sexual slavery, child trafficking. What should you have done by accepting this convention or by supporting it? Three years ago, PARJE sentenced Ukraine for trafficking in children and women. What can we talk about, what kind of program? We see with you today that are destroying sports courses and playgrounds to build wealth and housing for rich people only. The destroyed rooms of schoolchildren at home are not what was created during the years of Soviet power. The groups of technological creativity and artistic activity are not available at all today, and no one is doing so. Ukraine continues to trade children, and I have mentioned this. Childhood homelessness. The funding of a child at birth for 130 dollars is required by law 470. What else do you need to think about children rather than write these programs? What do we, the Communists, propose to do? And it is urgent to restore the functional assignment of the facilities that our children used, to return the kindergartens to the children, to return the pioneer camps to the children, not to create the bases for entertainment outside the city. Today, we must return the pioneer homes to our children, and we must restore the free use of cultural and sports facilities. The construction of housing for young families today is free of charge.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u71	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u72	So we, the Communists, are now proposing not only to accept papers, but to determine clearly what funding will be, what institution will be responsible for it, and, above all, to report to its own people by changing policies. Because, once again, children have been turned into slaves, who are making money today, these rich people who are destroying Ukraine's independence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u73	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u74	Ladies and gentlemen, I support the adoption of this bill, but I ask you to think deeply about how to prevent this document from being left on paper. Why? Starting with the form of submission of this document, we already have a misunderstanding. A misunderstanding between the government and the president. For example, the government adopts the Order, which is called the State Programme to overcome childlessness and carelessness for 2006-2010. It was approved on May 11, 2006 by a government decree. There are questions about what needs to be done and what needs to be done to provide food, clothing, effective treatment for children, and we don't take it into account. Moreover, the Law on State Programmes obliges the government itself to develop a comprehensive approach, the government itself and many ministries to take part in it, and the government was to submit and the Supreme Council was to approve. We're from the President. Okay. Then I see when, at which government meeting this is confirmed. Because this document had already been accepted, it was accepted in this room by the time the Supreme Council was dissolved. I would like you and I to consider such very serious issues as are recorded here. Well, for example, in paragraph 4.9 on page 9, you'll see that by 2016, you'll be able to provide for every child who's committed or suspected of committing an offence with the right to legal aid. Your Honor, are you saying that you don't have to grant the right to help right now? And you want to take this raw material as a law now and in general? Let's stop adopting laws like that. Are these laws? It's an order, an order, anything you don't think about. Laws can't be adopted like that. The laws are to be adopted in the first, second, and when necessary, in the third reading, everything must be weighed down and considered so that there is not something that my colleagues, who were taking away the premises, were speaking of today. So, dear friends, I would ask you very carefully to go to this document and add a position to look at the issues at all levels in cities, city councils, district councils about the return of these children's centres and cultural houses, and others that were chosen not to be the case, there was a colossal group of young technicians' stations, and now they've sold each other, third and they're trying to sell more out of the auction. So let's put this back, so let's assume this is also an option, but we can make changes, including names, only when the law is adopted as a basis. I'm asking, let's take this as a base, and then on the second reading we'll add.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u75	Hanna Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u76	Dear colleagues, we hear that children in Ukraine are being used. It seems to me that a better illustration of how children are used in this rostrum are not found, everyone has used children for their own: Communists to return pioneer camps; "Our Ukraine" to say which Kabmin is bad; BUT to say which bad president. Let's just forget for a moment which party and which faction each of us belongs to. Let's think about that even bad law, it's still, at least, a drop in the sea to help those homeless children, the unfortunate ones that Yuri and I are sitting here with the minister, and we're often taking them to school. I realize that this law is imperfect, I realize that it can be adopted for another three years, and I understand, Mr. Jaroslave, that it is torn away from a whole complex that would have to be supported by a family and then by children and so forth. We know about those 10 steps to meet people, let's take one step to meet the children, let's help them, let's help us all together, let's forget about the parties we belong to, vote for this law today and pass the exam in front of the children, if we can't put it in front of ourselves and in front of society. Please, let's take this first step, and then as we can, we'll improve, but it's always easier to give what's on paper than to give what we're going to take in a year or two. I'm asking you to forget about all the divisions and the whole vote now and help those children, at least in nothing, let this be an imperfect help, let this be a drop in the sea, but it'll be a drop and we'll put it in, and we'll, you know, we'll get out of this room with a clean conscience even if there's an election for the term, even though we've helped some kids here. Please do this.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u77	Vladimir Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u78	The Grand Head, the distinguished national deputies! Vladimir Karpuk, “Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense”. I also want to support the thesis that this law should be adopted both in the first reading and in general, so our responsibility to children for today is enormous. And whenever you are particularly in small villages, there are problems with preschool education, health care, out - of - school education, the functioning of these groups, and so forth. And the main problem of these state-wide problems, which is lack of funding, is first. And at the same time, there's funding that these costs are being used ineffectively and irrationally. I think that the annual increase in funding by 300 million for such a system programme is not enough, and it is not enough that the considerable burden of budgetary funding for this state-wide programme is once again being passed on by local budgets. Local budgets are also unable to provide for the expansion of rural kindergartens, normal health care, health care, out - of - school education, and so forth. So we need to think about how to use these costs effectively. At the same time, I propose to conduct a permanent parliamentary monitoring of the implementation of this important programme. It's both a committee and a parliamentary hearing to hear about a year later how this program is being used, how it is being financed, and how funds are being used rationally and efficiently. Once again, I urge all MPs to support this law as the first in reading, in general, to actually pass the exam in front of the children of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u79	Peter Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u80	Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! The Constitution of Ukraine speaks of Ukraine as a democratic, legal, social state. It's a slogan, so to speak. What is the real thing? We all have to realize that the degree of civilisation of the state, the degree of civilization of society depends on how children and older people feel in this society. Tomorrow we will celebrate Veteran Day, the Day of the Elderly, and the corresponding theme will be one of the leading in the daily Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[I hope, at least, that's what I'm hoping for.]] And today we're talking about a national action plan. Very paradoxical, but I would like to ask questions and questions to my colleagues. Who are we going to protect our children from by adopting this national plan of action? It turns out that we're going to protect children from power, from the state, from the state where they live today. What happened to Ukraine when childless, fatherless, orphans flourished in it? Obviously, after the greatest war in human history -- after World War II, the Great Homeland War -- it was natural because parents died in war, and so the orphans were quite common. And why it's happening today, what's happening to us, what's going on around us, we all have to ask ourselves that question today. And yet another problem, it has already sounded about the name of this document. You know, dear colleagues, I have such an impression that we often use the concept of “national” to the city and not to the city, as it were. I would like to say that perhaps it would have been more appropriate if this document had been called “Ukraine's Plan of Action for the Implementation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child”. So, honourable colleagues, the faction of Communists will insist that this document should be accepted, but it should be accepted in the first reading, because even those remarks, the warnings that were made when the Minister's address was asked, they still have to be taken into account in order to make the document as perfect as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u81	Schmellow. Out of the way, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u82	Thank you. A colleague here said that all the parties were drunk, caring for the children used children. I'd like to say what kind of pierre do we have? They open up, they invest money in diagnostic centers, oncology centers for children. Can you please tell me what to do next? Where will parents take the money after they have even made the right diagnosis to heal their child? That's why I think we need to look at this, too. Next question. There's a disease like phenylketonuria. If a child lives in a village for you to know, it is not diagnosed at all, but it is not treated. There's only one thing that's required, it's diet, it's diet. Ukraine will not bring this food to the children. And if you don't keep this kid on a diet, she's going to be an idiot by the age of 18. And if it's the right thing to do, and it's our kids with you, it's all to be taken into account. And it's easier to do a pyar action than anything else -- to say anything -- and it doesn't need to become a pyar action, too, to mention all the children. And of course, this quality between the village and the city, it would disappear, because in the village, children are not being treated at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u83	Colleagues, time for discussion is over. Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u84	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear comrades, I have taken the floor to comment on what we have been talked about and talked about in terms of what we claim to be children. I would like to emphasize that our proposals were, above all, relevant to the fact that the next programmes were not on paper. The entire complex has already been implemented in the years of Soviet power in real structures. And a pioneer camp. It was meant that the buildings and buildings in which the child was in the 10-12 rubles 24 days a year and 5 times fed the child. We're talking about that these children's institutions, they're meant to be creative, they're artistic, they're accessible. We're with you who's here. Have you forgotten how much they paid to go to the movies?Oh, my God! 10 copies or 15 pieces of art were free at all. So we could have been educated and so free of charge, and kids can't get it back today. Why? Because these cultural palaces and clubs are casinos today. They made fun of it. I will insist that we consider this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u85	Colleagues, now for the voting procedure. We have considered this bill in full procedure and, unfortunately, a whole series of comments on the second reading of the bill. I'd probably take it from a basic point of view, it's a so-called addition to the bill, the Action Plan. Here we have to figure out, when it's adopted in general, how to format a plan of action. Or to make a reference to the Cabinet of Ministers – the Cabinet of Ministers to develop a plan of action – it would probably be most logical to include it in the body of the bill, so that the Supreme Council of Ukraine will adopt a plan of action -- well, we'll get to the mice. So the next proposal that was discussed today at the faction leaders’ meeting. Let's vote on this bill as a basis, as a committee, and the committee is working on it, and we will have the opportunity in the shortest possible time to accept it as a whole. Is it accepted? Roger that. Colleagues, I would like to vote on the bill tabled by the President of Ukraine on the National Plan of Action for the Implementation of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. [[Registration number 2564]] [[11:38:19]] For 383 Decision taken. Thank you. Colleagues, let's move on to the next bill, 2635. It's a draft of the Law on the National Programme for the Exploitation of the Chernobyl AES and the Conversion of the Hidden Object to an Environmentally Safe System. Vladimir Mikolaiovich, please. Chandra Volodymir Mikolaiovich, Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u86	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Ukraine's draft Act of 10 April 2008 on the State-wide programme for the removal of Chernobyl AES and the conversion of the “Hidden” facility into an environmentally sound system developed by the Ministry of Emergency Situations and People's Protection from the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster to carry out the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers of 12.03. 2004 and since 26.05.2005. It was presented by the Cabinet of Ministers to the Supreme Council in August 2004 and in March, December 2006. However, due to the coincidence and change of circumstances, he had never before been considered by Parliament. Thus, the bill is proposed for the fourth time and is submitted for consideration by the Supreme Council. To date, the project has not lost its relevance and is essential for the provision of work on the site of the Chernobyl nuclear power plant. The project of the General Public Program for Disposal of Chernobyl AES and the conversion of the “Secure” object into an environmentally sound system has been further developed with regard to the terms, taking into account the time that has passed, as well as the comments made by some organizations and individual citizens to the previous project during its work on the Committees of the Supreme Council. The adoption of Ukraine's law will allow for the adoption of a single document on the definition of activity and removal from the operation of Chernobyl AES and the conversion of the “Hidden” object into an environmentally sound system and budgetary financing of this activity. The Chernobyl AES and Hidden sites are located on one industrial site, have common infrastructure, construction structures, power supply systems, water supply, heat supply, ventilation, sewerage, etc. The operation of both facilities is carried out by the staff of one enterprise: the state-owned specialized enterprise “Cornobil nuclear power plant”. The only regulatory documents have been developed to perform the work and remove the block operation and convert the Hidden object into an environmentally sound system. The activities and removals of the Chernobyl AES from the operation and conversion of the Hidden Object into an environmentally sound system are inseparable because they provide for the use of a single infrastructure, transport system, radioactive systems, etc. Distinguishing work from the exploitation of blocks and transforming the “Hide” object into an ecologically safe system is virtually impossible. And in order to optimize the process of decommissioning the Chernobyl AES from operation, budget economy, it is necessary to consider the work in question in a comprehensive manner, and therefore to develop a state-wide programme of removal from the operation of the Chernobyl AES and the conversion of the “Hidden” facility into an environmentally sound system. Considering that the process of decommissioning of the Chernobyl AES is quite long and will take place for several decades, the proposed state-wide programme will determine the main stages of this process and the necessary priority measures for the next five years. Implementation of the first-line measures will ensure the termination of the operation of the blocks – a preparatory phase for decommissioning, during which nuclear fuel will be removed from the blocks and transferred to the nuclear fuel storage facility and a safe configuration of the “Hidden” object to be converted into an environmentally sound system. The development of further steps will take place when they are approached. As a result of the implementation of the programme by 2013 it is envisaged: to stop the operation of the first, second and third power cells of the Chernobyl AES and to start working on their final closure and preservation; to create an effective system for managing the radioactive wastes of the Chernobyl nuclear power plant; to complete the construction and operation of the new nuclear fuel storage facility; to complete the construction and implementation of the Conveyment Conveyment Conveyment; to improve the social security system for workers of the Chernobyl AES; and to ensure transparency in the reporting of the safety-related pre-emption and removal activities from the operation of the Chernobyl AES and the conversion of the Protection Facility into an environmentally sound system. The adoption of the Ukrainian Law will allow for the approval of a single document on the definition of activities and removals from the operation of the Chernobyl AES, the provision of a legislative basis for the further development and implementation of a set of measures on these issues and their budgetary financing. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill has generally received a positive conclusion from the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, which was considered by the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Use and Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster and recommended to the Supreme Council for adoption in the first reading. I'm asking you to back me up. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u87	Let's sign up for a question, please. Zarubinsky National MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u88	Thank you. Dear Mr. Minister! I think all my colleagues are going to need it, and if you explain, from the transformation of the Hidden object, you've repeated it several times, into an environmentally sound system. Can you please say that the object is ecologically dangerous today? How does this relate to all the statements, including your announcements, and your statement that it poses no danger to the population of Ukraine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u89	The Chernobyl nuclear station was destroyed by a catastrophe the world did not know. It's a technological disaster. And we realize that the fourth energy source, there's no fuel out there, and it's both fuel and fuel. Of course, much has been done during this time, and it has been nearly 22 years. Established sensors, established procedures that control the state of the fuel materials on the fourth cloud. Work was also done on the discharge of fuel from the power grids. By the way, in April of this year, discharges were completed from the first, second, and third power cells of the nuclear station. But of course, it is a dangerous object and certainly takes the State’s very serious attention to make it truly safe for the environment.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u90	Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u91	Thank you. Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, Party of Regions Volodymyr Mikolaiovich, I want to address you. And you remember when we were members of the fourth vocation, how the passions in this session hall were suppressed, how we twisted our hands to various factions so that we could give the goods to take off the fourth block of the nuclear power plant. At the time, everyone asked questions about the damage we are experiencing, whether we are suffering damage, where we are taking the money to put electricity, water, water, water, environmental security, and so forth. There has been a lot of talk about how the United States and other countries that promised us paradise life and paradise bushes when we shut down this Chernobyl station will finance the process of closing and turning into an environmentally sound system. I have a question for you, but this is where the finance minister should be. Please tell me, is there any such funds to close the Chernobyl station, and who will fund this new program that you are talking about today?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u92	Thank you for asking. That's a big question. I'm going to say you asked about the fourth power grid, but the fourth and third power grids shut down in April 1986. It was the first, second power grid that was stopped in the second year. To my deep conviction, I'm going to say as a specialist in nuclear energy, such reactors as "RBMK" are certainly non-modern and really need to be closed. As it was done, that is the second question. What compensation we have to give the world's society for this closure. That's the question again. I think it might be a question for those governments. I'm the only one who can say that the world community really helps us quite seriously. And in July, there was the last meeting of the donor board, it was held in London, and money was allocated. There are two financing problems: an account of nuclear security, which is now being financed in order of 250 million.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u93	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u94	and "Hidden" is funded by the second fund, and it's there now, at the moment, it's 500 million euros. And after the project is completed and the corresponding cost, if there is an increase, donors are obliged to fund the construction of this facility to the end. But there is no doubt that much of it lies also with the State budget of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u95	Valentin Matviev.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u96	Please pass the word to Simonenko Petra.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u97	Peter Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u98	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear Vladimir Nikolayevich, I have heard your information, I have checked that you were idle during the flood-related disaster in Ukraine, and I would recommend that you leave this post alone so that you do not torture yourself, and we receive clear answers. In 2000, the nuclear power plant was shut down. Here, in this room, the only faction, the Communists warned before it ended. We've heard your information. I didn't hear what was done. What you're talking about has long been said. We warned you that you were delaying the construction of the same landfill of dry nuclear waste, and you are doing nothing. You say, in the end, frankly, here as a public man, maybe you will become a nationalist, representing the Movement, and you will protect national interests, not American interests, why do we not have that program that was adopted back in 2000? Why will the people of Ukraine now suffer again because of what you do not know?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u99	Thank you for asking. Here are two questions. First. I did, though, well, Peter Mikolaiovich, that you visited the region of Ivano-Frankivsky, and there people saw, you saw how the rescue workers worked in those difficult conditions. As for my assessment, there is a fairly high rating of both the UN representative in Ukraine and the representatives of the OSCE. As for the second question about Chernobyl Station, I can tell you that in this year, nuclear fuel has been unloaded from the first, second, and third power grids. I think it's a big step. The other one. The construction of the Vector facility has been completed to store low-active and medium-active radiation wastes. And the fact that it's a big program proves that this program is being introduced for the fourth time to the Supreme Council, and I hope that this Supreme Council will still accept this state-wide programme so that it can be transparent, according to the plan, according to the law that this program is going to be able to be possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u100	Let me finish. Please sit down. Seminoga.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u101	Honourable Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished fellow national MPs, adopted a Supreme Council decision on the state of affairs and prospects for overcoming the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster in April of this year. The decision stated that the Cabinet of Ministers should prepare a single national programme on the removal of Chernobyl AES and the conversion of the “Hidden” facility into an environmentally sound system. Today we are looking at this bill, which is proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers, and in particular by the Ministry. The proposed bill called for optimizing the process of decommissioning the Chernobyl AES from the operation and conversion of the “Hidden” facility into an environmentally sound system by approving a single document to determine the direction of the operation from the operation of the power grids of the station and transforming the “Hidden” object into an environmentally sound system and budgetary financing of this activity, namely, a targeted state-wide programme that foresees the implementation of the first-time measures according to the appendix. As a result, adoption is foreseen for the period up to 2003. stop the operation of the first, second and third energy shells of the Chernobyl AES and start working with their final closure and preservation. The other one. Create an effective system for dealing with the radioactive wastes of the Chernobyl AES. Third. Complete the construction and operation of a new nuclear fuel depot. Four. Complete the construction and operation of the new shelter above the facility. Fifth. Improve the social security system for Chernobyl AES workers. And the sixth. Ensure transparency in the coverage of safety-related activities and preparation for removal, and remove the use of Chernobyl’s AES and transform the shelter into an environmentally sound system. The main drafter of the Ministry of Emergency and Population Protection bill conducted public hearings of the proposed project, as well as responses to comments and proposals to the project, came from the committee after its registration in the Supreme Council. The specific nature of the comments and suggestions made during the consideration of the draft legislation suggests that they can be taken into account when preparing the draft for second reading. By generalizing the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority on the outcome of the first reading, the bill can be adopted on the basis of observations and suggestions. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster decided to recommend to the Supreme Council to adopt, on the basis of the draft Ukrainian Law on the National Programme for the Elimination of the Exploitation of Chernobyl AES and the conversion of the “Secretation” object into an environmentally sound system introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine by further working on it in the committee. The adoption of the bill will contribute to the implementation of the State policy on the preparation for the removal and removal of Chernobyl AES and the conversion of the “Hidden” facility into an environmentally sound system and the protection of personnel, populations and the environment from the effects of ionising radiation. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u102	Three minutes of question-answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u103	First reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u104	Valentin Matthew, Vladimir Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u105	Please hand over to Petra Nikolaevich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u106	Peter Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u107	Simonenko, the Communist faction. I also want to ask you, distinguished colleagues, a question. For what reason do we not have a programme that has been approved, including by the Supreme Council? In this situation, failure to implement the programme because of either lack of funds or sabotage has left us with a very dangerous effect on the people of Ukraine. Those who do not do the right to do the wrong-doing do the wrong-doing. Because they continue to develop these consequences. I want to remind you, my respectable colleague, that I was here at this time in 86th year, and I saw that without any laws, without any laws, the whole country worked. And as you recall, everything here was subordinated to eliminate the consequences of this catastrophe and accident. Today, all you can do is talk about it and not do it. Why, for what reason, are they not?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u108	Thank you for asking, Reverend Peter Mikolaiovich. I do not agree with you on this point that the program is not being implemented today. Today, international institutions are operating, an international treaty financed by a group of international donors. There is a donor board that makes a decision that approves the program that works and is being implemented today. According to this program, there is funding of $750 million and construction is done as a minimum of 4 objects, this is the “Hide” itself, the liquid waste treatment plant, the industrial complex of solid radioactive waste management and the very repository for radioactive fuel. All these directions are moving forward today, it's happening. It's a job. I agree with you that there is a certain backlog. Today, we're about four years behind those schedules that were adopted earlier. Sadly, though, there are subjective reasons. The project that's going on is the first time in the world. And the problems that are being sucked into today by the professionals who work there; the need for both scientific and huge finance. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u109	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u110	The work in this direction is going, the work in the Chernobyl AES is, unfortunately, not as efficient and as smart as you would like. And the results are, by the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u111	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u112	Unlike previous speakers, I have a positive assessment of the activities of the MCS, including by eliminating the effects of submerging. And on this point, I want to ask you. It says here that the expected results of the programme and its effectiveness are expected to be completed by 2013 and put into operation a new nuclear fuel depot. This is the point that's so intense -- by 2013, even though it should be when this repository is being prepared -- when the first stage is done, the second stage, and everything, and then when it's loaded there. So maybe we need to specify these things? Have you considered any specifics on the committee, that is, closer to our reality today? And the second question related to the implementation of article 50 of the Constitution is that people should be informed of what is going on at this nuclear station and at another station, what are the blocks of what are being stopped now that we are going into the winter. Who's to blame? Thank you. It's another department.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u113	Thank you. Let's answer the second question first. The program itself has an item and funding this item on information and scientific and technical support for activities on this site. That is, there are finances that will provide information to the population on the subject. That's the first one. In terms of floating terms, the committee has weighed the termites, which are really swollen, and they don't respond, as a minimum, to reality. We know that the first phase of the operation of the vault is due to take place in 2009, in the following year, and for that, at least, much has been done today. We will correct and enter specific figures, specific dates for the completion of the construction and storage stages of other nuclear power plants that are being built today.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u114	Thank you. Please sit down. Colleagues, you have two choices. The first option is to continue the session for 15 minutes, give only to those deputies who raise their hand and wish to speak and vote on the bill. The second decision is to announce a recess and then finish the bill after the break. Do you like the first one? Wise. Who wants to comment on the bill? Well, it's been too long, comrades, 15 minutes, 15 minutes. If so, then the break is announced. After the break, we will consider the bill. Sign up for a break, colleagues. And Lavrinovich will lead the other half, so you'll have to sign up at Lavrinovich's. All right, I'm calling it a break.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u115	We continue our morning plenary session. Please sign up for a question to the committee head. Seven-foot Anatoly Ivanovich, please on the rostrum. Dear national deputies, as I was informed before the question was completed. And they signed up for the performance. Please record statements by factions, national MPs. Let's start the discussion. National MP Grigorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u116	Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! Dear residents of the Chernobyl area! I will be absolutely objective if I say that, starting in 1986, the safety of the Chernobyl nuclear station itself, and even more so, the safety and environmentality of the Chernobyl AES shelter -- it was not just a theme that brought together all the politicians that brought Ukraine together, which eventually brought the entire planet together, because we had not seen a larger technological catastrophe and understood that ecologically safe shelter is the most important factor in minimizing the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. If we look at the program that is being proposed today, by the way, to be accepted in the first reading, we will see that it provides answers to a lot of questions. Not only does it have to be ecologically, I emphasize, environmentally safe shelter, but it does answer the question: what to do with the fuel that's on the power grid, how to protect the workers of the Chernobyl nuclear station who have to receive social benefits, social benefits, social preferences from the state. And in the end, we're going to get a full list of jobs, actions that can be rereaded and improved before the second reading. It seems to me that the questions that have been heard in the hall today were another confirmation that the programme is the legislative act that unites Parliament's efforts, because another way to minimize the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster and to secure Ukrainian citizens: and those living in the third Chernobyl zone and those living in Ukraine in general is simply another way impossible. Therefore, the faction “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense” certainly supports the adoption of this program in the first reading with further elaboration and consideration of all the proposals that will come from the people’s deputies for the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u117	Cibenko Peter Stepanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u118	Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! Of course, the faction of the Ukrainian Company will vote in favour of this document, in support of it in the first reading, but there are a number of questions that will not be answered that will be very difficult and very difficult. I would like to ask you, too, dear colleagues. The way the so-called civilized Europe has acted, the so-called civilized world in relation to Ukraine, insisting on the urgent, immediate closure of Chernobyl’s AES, is fully embodied in the well-known wisdom: “The promise is a trifle, and the fool’s joy.” What am I talking about? And before Ukraine made a decision, it once again capitulated before Europe. We'd probably be much better hosts if we were to use full-scale, let's say, nuclear fuel and only then make decisions about the closure of the Chernobyl AES. Among other things, when a colleague of ours decided to close the Chernobyl AES, Vladimir Mikhailovich Yatzenko, deputy of the Communist faction, made a draft decision on the phase-out. What did this give us? That would give us a few things, well, first of all, we wouldn't have any problems with the unused nuclear fuel. We could have stopped running quietly, not been able to upload nuclear unused fuel, for the first time. Secondly, it allowed us to use that nuclear fuel to produce in Ukraine, and I now remember this figure, but I think it was called about 100 million kilowatts/hours of electricity. And finally, finally, we could, we had the opportunity to see, and how Europe and the world would live up to their promises before Ukraine. Because, you know, Ukraine's commitment is only part of the deal, and how does Europe, because it's the same problem as the world, because it's the problem, too, it's going to live up to its promises? So once again, I would like to point out that today, obviously, a few years later, we had to go into this exact mechanism of closing down the Chernobyl AES. Once again, the Communist faction on the first reading will support this document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u119	Kravchenko Mikola Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u120	Kravchenko, the Communist faction. I'll tell you what is undoubtedly the State's decommissioning program for the Chernobyl AES needs to be approved. Unfortunately, it will be another programme that is not being implemented. And it is disturbing, first and foremost, to see how even this bill was presented. But whatever. Let Vladimir Nikolayevich not be offended, but so to present a bill, so to speak, it simply casts a shadow on the professionalism of the Cabinet of Ministers and the Ministry in particular. Well, you absolutely didn't say anything about the program. The head of the committee said more than the minister who should have the issue in perfect order. And that's what this non-professionalism is all about, and it's what's causing us to have these problems. Let's put it this way: we've been calling it through the Ministry of Emergency Situations, we've just called it, despite the fact that there's been warnings. Let's say that today. We moved in with you then in July, spent the crazy money, as much as we asked, all the money we spent. What do you think? The first signals are coming today: 25 million people have already been stolen in Ivano-Frankov region, 10 in Ternopolsky. So it's just that, well, let's just say, we found it on top. And if we dig down there, we'll find people that no one's ever come to. That's what I'm talking about. If we do this state-wide program in the same way, we're just going to throw money into the wind. And I have to tell you that when we look at purely technical issues in this program, we must not forget those people. How have the Chernobylites been abandoned by the State today? The benefits that they have, they defend in court today, they set up special organizations to help them break away from the State. That's why we are. I'm personally in favour of accepting it, and the faction will vote in favour of this program. But the only thing that needs to be done by professionals is very strict control over the use of money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u121	Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u122	Thank you. Honorable Chairman, Honorable Colleagues, Honorable Citizens of Ukraine! Of course, we are facing a decision today without exaggerating the historical decision. The program that we're talking about today has been developed by many governments and for many years. Finally, the government was able to come up with this concept, this particular program that was accepted both by scientific thought and by practitioners who would put it into practice. I fully agree with my colleagues on the need to control this extremely important program for our country. But I can't help but mention that it was our government, the government of Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic, that solved a question that all the orange governments together couldn't deal with in order to reach out to more than a billion dollars from donor countries and investors for the implementation of the Chernobyl programmes. And, of course, what the government is adopting today is that it's not only at the expense of the international community, but also, taking into account our country's understanding and capabilities, we're going to meet now to solve this problem. I would like to mark a certain symbolism of what is happening today, right on the days when politicians are accused of being unable to agree that they are unable to come up with a single concept, the only solution for the benefit of our country. It was the government of Yanukovich that developed the program that is now being proposed for voting. And Timoshenko's government is bringing it to Parliament, and right now, I'm absolutely convinced, about 400 votes, we're going to take the program. I would like the public of Ukraine to see that if there is a desire to work, when there is a sense of responsibility to their own actions and to their own country, the national deputies of Ukraine, the Supreme Council as a whole, are able to unite in order to make an extremely important decision and examples of them in this room. And the adoption of this law is another confirmation that we understand our own responsibility and, regardless of political colours, we act to protect the interests of Ukraine and our citizens. Thank you. And please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u123	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u124	Dear Mr. Head, George Carmazin, I ask you to convey the word to the first head of the Chernobyl Committee of the Supreme Council of the First Call of Volodymyr Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u125	Yavorovsky Volodymyr Aleksandrovich Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u126	Dear colleagues, national MPs, distinguished voters, of course, I feel that there is no one in this room who would normally not vote for this long-lasting, but for me, I can honestly tell you, perhaps even unlikely to execute, because so many times we've talked about it, so many decisions we've made, this bill. It is like voting for him, of course, and it is necessary. With our minister present, I would like to break the subject. It's a good thing we made a plan to shut down the Chernobyl nuclear station. But behind the parentheses of this bill is an archival, perhaps even more important than the closure of the Chernobyl nuclear station, the question of where we're going to hide those radioactive wastes that have accumulated in the 30-mile zone. We have today, if I'm not mistaken, about 800 temporary, so-called temporary, nuclear burials, where they were dumped in a 30-mile zone and the remains of this uranium-graphite that were scattered throughout the territory and military and non-military technology that was not subject to being removed from a 30-mile zone, all in silence. We have nothing more permanent in Ukraine than what is done temporarily. Because of this, these temporary burials have long become chronic, long - standing, they are submerged by groundwater, it is all clear, there is still more, the red forest, there is still the same Cinderelly, which eventually will still have to be worked out, or it will take its own action. Regrettably, the former Soviet Union was being built under every effort under the Krasnoyar Nuclear Waste Repositories. But again we depend on Russia in a lot of ways. In our very complex and often bizarre relations between these two countries. This is a colossal problem. Because I think we would really need to either discuss this question, or prepare a bill, or prepare a separate program, another program about where we're going to be, I just didn't hear from our minister, honoring him and what he's doing, but I didn't hear from him how Ukraine is going to solve this problem. We're going to build our nuclear waste dump or we're going to look somewhere in the neighborhood for this. This is just a colossal problem facing Ukraine today. And I felt it necessary to simply stress it today in order for our voters to hear that such a colossal problem exists and that we must solve it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u127	Gordijenko Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u128	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine, I would like to draw you to the events that took place a few years ago and when the Chernobyl AES station, the Communist Party of Ukraine and its faction in the Supreme Council were in a solemn setting, warned and warned that such an exercise and at such a pace was associated with great risks. And the hope of a huge international aid, which here and from this rostrum and others were saved in us in Ukraine, unfortunately, proved to be a nice bubble. I understand that this program is a great state document and it needs stages and ways of self-implementation, we've heard it in a speech and I want to stress that Ukrainian citizens don't think it's going to be done tomorrow, and it's going to be done a few decades in advance. He's going to need a lot of money just like all programs are financed, so let's think about it, because we've taken them here in the Supreme Council and in other bodies, whether they're all being implemented or not. So we have a very strong warning about how this program will be implemented and financed in the future. I would like to return again to international aid, to those who have declared here that it would be, where this same assistance is, how the negotiation and implementation of previous agreements are leading. We must bring together the interests of many ministries and departments in order to carry out this program, and perhaps it is time for us to create a separate body authorized to carry out this very problem and to create a truly safe shelter. As the local region develops, because it is very closely related to these problems, it is also the city of Slavic, and all the problems that are being or are being fulfilled or are being realized are also a question. And today, of course, the faction of the Company of Ukraine in the first reading will support this program. But we need to keep in mind and have a serious public discussion so that what we are talking about here in this room is not a problem of a narrow circle of people, but that it is discussed and decided by those who suffer from it, who live and who live in these conditions. If we are able to settle down, there is certainly some hope that this program will be executed.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u129	Thank you. Is there a need for reporters in the final word? None. Anatoly Ivanovich Seminoga, is there a need in the closing word? None. So let's move on to making a decision. I am voting on the adoption in the first reading of the draft law on the State-wide programme of removal from the exploitation of Chernobyl AES and the conversion of the “Hidden” object into an environmentally sound system. Registration number 2635, please vote. [[12:53:04]] For 354 Decision taken. I'd like a profile committee, please, and a profile committee would like to take it as a basis. I am now asking you to work on the proposals that have already been made so that we can put to the vote in the second reading and in general. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Ukraine's draft law approving the National Programme for HIV Prevention, Treatment, Care and Support of HIV-infected and AIDS Patients for 2009-2013. Please welcome Valery Grigorovich Poor, Deputy Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u130	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies! Let me first welcome you all to the great festival of faith, hope and love. And on this day to present for the first time in the history of the Supreme Council a bill on the National Programme for HIV Prevention, Treatment, Care and Support of HIV-infected and AIDS Patients for 2009-2013. I think today, exactly the day that society is looking forward to this law, believes and hopes that the deputies of the Supreme Council today will vote, not only will they accept it as a basis, but they will also accept it as a whole. During the drafting of the bill, the programme takes into account the extremely unfavourable epidemic of HIV-infection of AIDS and the comprehensive approach taken to solving the problem. The implementation of the current national programme has not been able to achieve its goal of controlling and limiting the spread of HIV infection, of AIDS in Ukraine, as evidenced by the following indicators. According to data collected since 1987, as of 01.09.2008, 134 000,717 people infected with HIV have officially been registered in Ukraine: 25,000,333 have been infected with AIDS; 14,000,232 have died of disease, including 245 children. [[Start of HIV-infection registration]] AIDS. The number of new cases of HIV infection in just eight months of 2008 is 8.4 per cent compared to the same period. By the end of 2007, the estimated number of people living with HIV infection in Ukraine was almost 440,000. The estimated prevalence of HIV infection among the adult population of Ukraine is 1.63% in 2007 compared to 1.46 percent in 2005. The deterioration of the HIV infection situation and the increase in the number of AIDS patients is due to a number of socio-economic causes: the inadequacy of the development of health and social assistance infrastructure at the rate of epidemic spread; the lack of funding for prevention and treatment measures; and the imperfect system of population information on prevention. The new programme aims at stabilizing the epidemic situation, reducing disease and mortality from HIV infection, and AIDS. The project is divided into three main areas. First chapter. Legislation, governance and human resources policy, which envisages improving legislation in the field of HIV infection prevention and monitoring; training of medical, pedagogical and social workers on HIV infection; development of scientific direction to improve the treatment of patients with HIV infection, AIDS; establishment of a national HIV infection control centre, AIDS. The second section of the program. Preventive action. This chapter presents first - time measures that will allow us to reduce the rate of spread of the AIDS epidemic in the country. First of all, we're focusing on primary prevention, which involves widespread information to the general population, social work with children and young people, promoting healthy lifestyles, building tolerance for people living with HIV infection and high-risk groups, these are people who use injective drugs, children and adolescents with risky behaviour, children on the street, and also those who are in danger. The main priority of the project is to provide preventive measures for the transmission of HIV from mother to child of an early detected HIV status in all children born to HIV-infected mothers and to ensure that 100 percent of them are treated. The priority of the programme is also to ensure the safety of donors and to ensure that those who have had contact with the blood of HIV-infected persons in the performance of their professional obligations. Chapter 3 of the programme “Liquial and diagnostic measures and socio-psychological services”. The state commits itself to ensuring access to free HIV testing for the general population, as well as to the treatment of people with HIV infection, the AIDS they need. For the first time, a significant increase in the number of patients receiving antiretroviral therapy, diagnosis, and treatment of opportunistic infections is planned at the expense of the State Budget. To achieve the goal of the program and to carry out the assigned tasks, the amount of funding is required. A total of 3,651,847,000 dollars is planned for the program. Including the State budget of $2 billion,905,000, the local budget of 270,000. millions of dollars. Other sources help us with the Global Fund grant, that's 480 million 572 thousand dollars. What are the main new programs, that. The features of the new program that will still help stabilize the epidemiological situation, reduce the rate of disease and death from HIV infection. The draft of the new programme is based on best international practices and recommendations from Ukrainian, international experts. The project was being prepared with the participation of public and international organizations as well as of people living with HIV and AIDS. The project determines more concrete and measurable results of the number and qualitative indicators in accordance with the requirements of Ukrainian legislation on State targeted programmes. Preventive orientation. Taking into account the concentrated nature of the epidemic, the project provides for a variety of preventive measures among the general population and risk groups: injectors, orphans, homeless and so on. There is also an increase in the range of medical interventions and an increase in the number of patients receiving medical care at the expense of the State Budget. The project foresees a series of measures to improve the management system, to create a monitoring system and to evaluate at national, regional, capacity-building and to train teachers, social workers, and to provide scientific support to the program, including the search for HIV-infection medicines, and the new generation of AIDS. More funding from the State and local budgets is available to carry out the planned tasks and actions. The planned amount of funding is several times the amount of funding available to the program. In view of the above and the social significance of the program, I ask for support from the Ministry of Health. The bill presented is considered on a profile committee, which was unanimously supported. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u131	Please ask the reporter. National Deputy Caplienne, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u132	National Deputy Kapleyenko, “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko”. I have a few questions. First question. Every program has a beginning and an end, so it has some lines and risks that it's going around. The question to you is, you haven't named any terms. That's the first question. The other one. Whether any research is being done in Ukraine against AIDS. Because your report says that all the actions involved in this program are, in fact, monitoring and any measures to keep people who have a certain relationship with blood from getting sick, that's the second question. And third, if there is a program, please tell us what anti-crisis measures have been taken into account in its development? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u133	Thank you. At the first question at the beginning of my report, I said that the programme was planned for 2009-2013. Because the program, the National Programme for Prevention, the Treatment of HIV Infections, which was developed by 2008, 2004, 2008 -- is ending. Another question about monitoring and whole programs, this program is unique because, in fact, it sees much more promising coverage, in practice, per cent of the provision of antiretroviral therapy, again for the first time including treatment of opportunistic HlV-infections. And today, almost a billion dollars are available in this prevention programme, and this is the first time in the history of Ukraine that HIV and AIDS infection have been a problem, because unfortunately, the situation that has arisen with the epidemiological situation has not provided for the development of the preventive orientations of this disease. If you say so. The monitoring and the risk of the situation I'm going to say is a program of action.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u134	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u135	To fully predict the full implementation of the programme today, as the system in the European Union does, in other countries of the world, of course, there are few of these costs. This takes at least six billion dollars.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u136	I see great excitement in the session room, according to how we meet high-level guests in Ukraine. Vladimir Alexandrovich Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u137	I ask you to give the floor to the distinguished Ukrainian Parliamentary, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u138	I thank you very much for such an evaluation. I'd like to ask. This is Yuri Carmazin. I would like to ask, how do we get out of the situation that there is still no funding for the four already active measures and the creation of other district government centres for the rehabilitation of drug-dependent young people, the allocation of funds for the creation of the National Center for HIV-infection? And why have they now stopped doing research in places of deprivation and found out who is suffering from this terrible plague? Because there's people in separate cells in 50 people, you know, in detention cells, and then it's all spread out. Is it possible that we should anticipate the cost and return to the practice that existed before? Because we just don't understand what's going on.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u139	Let me finish the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u140	I fully agree, and I want to say that during this period 2004-2008, there is a lot of work that has been done, because the established centres of AIDS are practically, in every region of Ukraine, there is a lot of testing, even though it's on a voluntary basis, and we're planning changes to legislation in this program. But testing today is voluntary testing for HIV infection. And the same program provides for development, because not only does it commit itself to the state level, but it obliges Ukraine to develop its regional AIDS prevention programmes, which will also be provided with funding support. And it's in these programs that we're going to see the development of the health-care system in both the preventive and the treatment system. In fact, there is today a problem in the places where people are being punished. I want to say that this is also under the control of the Ministry of Health. And this program provides a separate funding period for the AIDS Prevention Authority right in the program.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u141	Grigorovich Lilia Stepanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u142	Dear Valery Grigorovich! In fact, if in 90-91 we were hearing about the first cases of this disease today, unfortunately, I find it sad to find that I have to accept a complex program. I want to point out that it's adequate, it's really complex and it's really all-embracing. There is, however, both antiretroviral therapy and care for those in need. I want to ask you the most important, it's the cheapest, but the most effective, prevention through education, through schools. And there you were talking about the education, the fact that it's much easier for children to tell from the first to the fourth grade that it's death, than then to spend a lot of money on valuables and for life. So I'm going to ask you to analyze this moment, how effective it is, how much it costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u143	Thank you. That's a very good question. I want to say that the experience in Ukraine, including in the medical community, was not about HIV and AIDS prevention. And of course, experience has been gained from cooperating with international organizations. In 2008 alone, a million euros have been allocated by the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany to help with research and prevention on exactly the specific problem of AIDS prevention. But what I'm saying is, if you talk from 1997 to today, there's never been a penny allocated to prevention. This year, nearly a billion bracelets are available to ensure the preventive orientation of HIV prevention and AIDS infection.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u144	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Correspondent from the Committee of Viacheslav Grigorovich Pierreius
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u145	Deeply respected President, deeply respected People's Deputies! I will only try to highlight very briefly the issues that have not been addressed by the representative of the Ministry who has reported this programme to the Cabinet of Ministers. First. This is the first AIDS programme funded by the Government not fully, is it not, but enough money? Nope. It's the fifth program. Think about it, program five, no effect. At present, the Ministry requests six and a half billion to make positive progress. It's a three-and-a-half billion-billion-dollar law. Huge money, if our colleague, Lila Grigorović, has just said that in the early 1990s, we talked about isolated cases, no one knows how many sick and virus carriers are in Ukraine. And this was made possible by the adoption of the law that came out of those walls. Therefore, in support of the entire programme, the Committee decided to support it only on first reading. Why? Because it takes a lot of, in our view, substantial refinements to this law. What he needs, and what he needs, is undeniable. But it must be aimed at specific goals so that, five years later, the deputies in this room do not say again that three and a half billion have left, no one is to blame, and the train is not only there now, but it has moved far forward. Moreover, I want to tell you that everyone in this room and everyone who sees and listens to us today is not immune to this infection. Why? Because she's long since married groups of risk in Ukraine, and today, when you come, I won't say, we all have a good chance of getting sick. The programme must therefore be adopted, but it must be seriously refined in order for it to have the effect that it is in Europe. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u146	Please ask the co-conspirator. National Deputy Gordienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u147	Dear reporter, Gordienko, faction of the Ukrainian Company. I understand, of course, that not supporting this program is a crime. But I'm going to tell you that at the local level, it's going to go down to the local level, and it's going to be worth just as much as paper and paint is spent on this same program, because they're never going to be implemented and they're never going to be implemented. Did I correctly understand the previous reporter and you that the reason, one of the reasons for this violent development of this negative phenomenon, is the collapse of the economy, of health institutions, that the absolute inaction of our state in raising a growing generation and population, and the other, is the mass of paramedical problems, not essentially medical ones, I understand?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u148	That's right.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u149	National deputy Shevchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u150	Thank you. Shevchuk, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. Dear Vejacheslav Grigorovich, as I understand it, positively appreciated the government’s draft on this law, but I have the following question. Whether your committee has taken these huge amounts into account in 2009, three billion and a half years from now, whether it will be financed from the following year, whether the budget will be voted separately again, and whether the state-wide programme will vote separately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u151	I have already said that this is not the first programme and not the last one, that it is the fifth programme and this year there is funding for it, and next year it will be funded. But I've already said that the Ministry is asking for more than six billion, and three and a half, huge money, and a poet's programme has to work. The money's accounted for.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u152	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u153	Yuri Carmazin. I represent the hero city of Odessa, where the spread of this disease is not.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u154	The leader of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u155	It's the biggest. And we screamed here before, and I wrote the address, and the ministers changed, but unfortunately the situation didn't change. And now it's only expected to cover only sixty percent of the risk groups in terms of HIV prevention, and one hundred percent of the risk groups are still at risk. But let's define conceptually. I would like the committee to now support this position of the National Institute for AIDS. We don't have it, we have a small compartment at that size, we have a small compartment in the leased areas. I'm just saying, it's a shame for all the ministers who haven't been in these years, that we don't have that kind of specialty yet. Please, let's include this in the program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u156	Well, that's already included in the program. Included, included, included. Well, look, the deputy minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u157	Karpuk Vladimir Georgievich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u158	Here's the center. Deeply respected colleagues, I'm a doctor and I'll tell you, as a doctor, from the fact that we're going to create oncology centers with you, let's say that you think something's going to change with oncology in the country if there's no primary medical care for a person to come to some fancy center, someone has to give him a first diagnosis and send him there, and when he's already got three or four stages of tumor, or when he's already got AIDS that far away, there's nothing to help him, except for the money he's thrown out, in my opinion, we're not trying anything, you know. Why are we talking about a program that needs to be changed, if we're just going to give money for treatment, then in 10 to 15 years we're going to have half-ways and who's going to treat it, and who's going to make money for these sick people, you're going to think about what's going on in health, and here we're never going to raise those questions from prison, from the amount and the disease, never deny it, and we've long since renounced it, we've got kids and nothing else!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u159	It's a sad grade.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u160	So the center, I think we need to do things everywhere, little things like that, and there, you know, when you get to a huge hospital, what you're dealing with.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u161	Last question, National Deputy Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u162	Dear Vejacheslav Grigorovich, you are an experienced physician, a health organizer, you say that this is not really the first program to be adopted.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u163	Fifth.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u164	Yes. Which, in your opinion, is why these programs have failed to achieve the effect that these programs have had.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u165	There is no clear answer to your question. You know, our committeeman did an audit and saw that the purchase of drugs, including VIL, SNIDA, was 10-20 times as real. So until we've brought the order in, and we don't get enough sense into this program, nothing's going to happen.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u166	Thank you, Vjacheslav Grigorovich. Please sit down. Let's sign up for a discussion. Please, Zarubinsky Oleg Aleksandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u167	Oleg Zarubinsky, Block of Lithuania. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! I listened to the doctors, our colleagues, and the executives. And I would like to approach this program from the point of view and through the prism of the legislators. Actually, what we need to do is what we need to do. Right now we're listening to, I think, a third state-wide program, and today there's going to be some state-wide programs, and I have this question. If it's a state-wide implementation program, or, let's say, the achievement of some of the results in one field or another, and we accept it, we approve it by Parliament. Clearly, then, how should this program be designed by those who design it, and how should it change legislation? What are the legislative acts that legislative initiatives propose to ensure that these noble goals in this program are implemented? Because without proper adjustment of the legislative field, it is impossible to do so. And I suggest that those who have prepared this think about these proposals. First position. Second position. You know, here in the explanatory note, I have something that during the period of the previous national programme, the actual number of people who have HIV-AIDS has not only decreased but increased by 10 percent. [[2004-2008]] And I have then, my esteemed colleagues and a distinguished reporter, such a question. If we now have to approve a new program – the National HIV-AIDS Programme, why don't we listen, and how has the previous program been implemented? And if that program is 2004-2008, obviously it would be useful to hear today, or to have a distributive material, so that there's information that analyzes what the positives are and what the previous program isn't done before the new program is adopted? This is done in normal parliaments of normal countries. This is the second position. Third position. This is what I said when I spoke about the Children's Rights Programme, today there was a similar mistake or just non-professionalism, the expected results: “To provide education for schoolchildren in 90 percent of the general educational institutions under the Healthy Life and Prevention Programme for HIV, AIDS”. [[read]] What is 90 percent? Who will choose these 90 percent of schools? If this is a national program, 100 percent of schools should be covered. Do you not want to extend this program to some school? You can't put that in public programs. In general, I think it's better to have something than nothing ever happened. But I would very much like us to once again to hear the report on the previous program before receiving the new program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u168	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u169	Yuri Carmazin. Dear friends, obviously, the program should be accepted now, but I saw that the committee representative was absolutely right and rightly observed that only on the first reading did we need to amend it. I strongly agree with my colleague Zarubinski, who said that we should see and hear the report and not only the Ministry of Education. Ministry of Health as a previous program implemented. Just because we were told that the purchase of drugs was at prices that were over 10-20 times. It's scary. In a poor country, there are still drugs to raise prices and take these costs! So, dear friends, I've seen these centers develop like Odessa. We shouted out that let's predict groups of risk, especially places of deprivation, because it's extremely serious. But I saw that the further the program went, the further we left to ensure that all of these people were tested. They just came to a conclusion, they were first gathered in one colony on the 14th in Odessa, those who were already convicted, because they were transferred from a detention facility, and then they refused to check in at all. That's better when people don't know. But they meet relatives who are close to these short - term dates. All of it. They get sick, it spreads. It's urgent. We don't have this item on places of deprivation, so we need to write it down. We have to write on page 4, where there is at least 80 percent of patients with HIV infection with antiretroviral therapy to provide 100 percent, not 80. What should 20 percent do then? Hang? Shoot? Oh, no. We are obliged, the State, and so forth. The Constitution states that the State must create a secure environment for Ukrainian citizens. So, dear friends, here we have to ask the question a lot wider. This is true of both the hairdresser and the bather and the blood donation service, and absolutely everything. And I definitely don't see what we can't find in the state today. More than a dozen residences that we have today are state-owned, so we can't find more than 242 meters for the Center for Prevention and the Fight against AIDS. I'm going to the President's Secretariat. Mr. Balogo, please prepare an order for one of the President's residences to go to these centers! There are plenty of others. Prepare, please. Here, maybe you'll do well. So, dear friends, I am convinced that it is necessary for a national institution to study this terrible disease. And 6 billion takes 5 years -- let's plan 6 billion, but yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u170	Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u171	Dear colleagues, first. Of course, the faction of the Party of the Regions will support the National Prevention Program. But I would immediately like to continue with a thought that someone may not have heard or understood what Professor Pierreius said. Colleagues, the report of the House of Accounts is in your hands. The Ministry of Health has failed to implement medical measures to combat tuberculosis, prevent and treat AIDS for 79.3 million dollars. It may seem that they did not absorb the money they were given. No, the money didn't come. I see. So we have to give more money. If we approach you from such a position, we will never do or change anything in the health system. I'll call you again. According to the European Institute for Social Health, health spending has increased fourfold over the last six years in Ukraine, drug use has increased threefold, and maternal mortality has increased four times, child mortality has slowed down, the population has been fatally dying, and one and a half times as high as in Europe, death from tuberculosis, including AIDS. What's the matter? But the point is that the health issue has long been no longer a narrow professional, narrow clan, only the medical community is a social and political issue, it's the extinction of the nation, it's the degradation of the nation. Look closely at our TV channels, which are advertised there. Where, then, can drugs be advertised on a television channel?Oh, my God! But would that be acceptable?Oh, my God! And the poor one starts to count there, and he greases his head with Viagra, so he eats plaster there, and there's something else. People! But let's go back to the facial health system and realize that we need a comprehensive approach, such a complex approach, a systematic approach. The fifth year is not introduced into the session room a law on general government social, medical, and social insurance. Professor Pierrey told you: “Well, how can we talk about the treatment of the consequences when the primary system is lost, where are our FAPIs, where are those district hospitals, hospitals, hospitals, where are the initials, and where is the prevention? ” I remember the first tender that was broken by Polychuk Mikola, remember, 12 million dollars for the purchase of condoms and 300,000 dollars for the purchase of condoms. Where are the condoms to be worn and worn? If we go further in this way, these condoms should be put on the heads of those responsible for the health system today so that they do not reproduce.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u172	People's deputy of Kilinkarov, please. Kilincarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u173	The distinguished people's deputies, the Communist faction, will certainly support the national AIDS programme. But I would like to ask you a few questions. We write the program again without knowing the basics. How many AIDS patients do we really have? And these 3.5 billion bracelets, they're going to be allocated for what? For infrastructure development, is there a construction of AIDS centres or is it directed directly to treatment facilities to carry out a real fight against AIDS? Therefore, I think it is very important to know to date how many people are sick in our country today and how many people are in need of funding primarily from health care institutions. Maybe even spend, let's say, all over the country, there's a mandatory blood supply for HIV and so on. Because I think that through these centers, that's where I heard information about what's washed away and money and so on and so forth. In the face of the financial deficit that exists in our country, I think that's actually what I'm saying, in a large way, how much money would be wasted. Now there's another problem. If we are talking about AIDS today, I fully agree with the need to amend other laws today, including the Criminal Code on drug trafficking and so on, to strengthen the measure of responsibility, to introduce rules there up to 15 years. I don't know if we have to fight this, let's go back to the death penalty, because what's happening to young people today, and how drug abuse is just killing our nation's future today, I don't think we can look at it calmly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u174	Ungurani Pavel Jakimovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u175	Dear Chief, national MPs! Paul Ungurian, Ukrainian National Deputy, Yulia Timoshenko, representative of Odessa City. As a youth, I really understand the problem raised, and we feel very strongly about it because it is the young people of Ukraine who have been targeted by this terrible danger. And that is why I would like to support the seriousness of the tone that Vladimir Grigorovich Pierrey gave to our conversation when he drew attention to the reasons, for the main reasons. Here's what's going on: funds are being allocated, programs are being adopted, concepts are being held, conferences are being held, but in the long run, there's an increase in disease. Thus, the clear conclusion is that we are struggling with the consequences, not the root causes of this terrible disaster. Because the main problem and the main root cause of today's distribution of HIV-AIDS is the degradation of the moral, spiritual values of people, the institution of the family, the healthy way of life. Look at what is happening in the media, see what TV shows and what movies our children and teenagers can watch! What is the advertising that life - style is advertised on television channels today? Stocks that are held at the expense of charity and are directed not to the prevention of disease but to the distribution of contraceptives. Do we not push young people to go and live a spiritless, immoral life and then fight diseases? Thus, spirituality, morality, family values — the primary guarantee of the security and health of the nation, the primary guarantee of the safety and health of young people. So I call upon the entire room, all the deputies, to support the program in the first reading. But I call on the main developer, along with the committee, with the members of the Supreme Council to take seriously the very root causes, involving preparation for the second reading and Minmolody very actively, and Minosveti, the State Committee on Television and Radio. It is also necessary to establish rules that prohibit the distribution of immoral ideas through television, the Internet, the involvement of local communities, the involvement of churches, and the involvement of public organizations. It is then that the program will really meet the main task of fighting and overcoming the root causes of this problem. Therefore, the “Julia Tymoshenko Block” supports this program in the first reading and we hope that it will find its real implementation by the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u176	Shevchuk Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u177	Dear Chairman, dear fellow national MPs! A little bit about the history of this problem. When a global fund to combat malaria, tuberculosis, and AIDS was formed in 2000, the Ukrainian State made every effort to interest this fund, which would provide funds, irreparable funds, in order to overcome the AIDS epidemic. Then the heads of government, the Ministry of Health, succeeded. A few years later, a global fund expressed its mistrust to the Ministry of Health for its corruption and denied it the right to manage the huge sums that were estimated at hundreds of millions of dollars. But the question was, when the global fund tranche was completed, what would Ukraine do with the HIV-AIDS epidemic? There were, in fact, several national programs, plans of action. But they were targeted programs that were not properly funded. First proposed by this draft law is a state-wide program that has a bearing on the budget law for the next four years. There were several versions of this program. The Ministry of Health has finally agreed to and submitted to our approval today a draft national program. I'd like to ask you, honourable national deputies, obviously the general idea of the hall is to support it in the first reading, but my suggestion is that your activity should not be completed today by considering it. It's a huge cost, three and a half billion dollars. I can say that the rationality of using these funds is still quite questionable. This program deliberately minimizes the importance of such a chapter as “the fight against drug abuse”. Reduced contingent funding, which we call "children of the streets". Insufficient attention is given to the problem of viral hepatitis, which goes alongside HIV infection. Only prevention and so - called risk groups are given the highest attention. A risk group is a sex minority that really has the highest risk of getting sick. But I'd like to draw your attention, we have to be tolerant as parliamentarians of ethnic and social minorities, but in no way do we agree to have huge funds channeled into those groups that are not known how they conduct prevention. It is better to send them to donate, rather than to direct millions of dollars to children, for those who are called “men who live with men”. The return factor of these costs will be minimal in this case.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u178	Karpuk Vladimir Georgievich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u179	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished national MPs, the faction of "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" supports the adoption of this program in the first reading. And I want to say that it's a really big question, a national security issue, because how fast this epidemic is developing, that the data in the explanatory note are out of date, and there are 135 HIV-infected and 25,000 AIDS patients in Ukraine today. So you can see how much change in the situation in Ukraine has been made in these months. It's really the first national program, a state program that's adopted by law. But without, really, I agree with those speakers who said that without a thorough analysis, why those programs that were in Ukraine did not provide an adequate response to the spread of AIDS in Ukraine. It has also been called that money has been misused both for drugs and equipment and for the general public problem, because there is no understanding of the importance of this epidemic, both in the leadership of the State and in the leadership of the places. It's about funding. In fact, 3.67 billion dollars is only 70 percent of the need. Of these, only 72 percent are funded by the state budget. Another part of the funding is again translated into local budgets and international funds. How rational, how responsible these funds are used is also a big question. So really, this program, this important program, we need to work out. First, do the analysis that we talked about and make adjustments to the digital indicators that are set up. And it's very important, it's a program that applies to virtually every ministry, the Ministry of Youth and Sports, the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Health, although the Ministry of Health is responsible for the program. But with the Cabinet of Ministers, there's a committee of interlocutors that's headed by the Vice Prime Minister on humanitarian issues, and that's exactly what she should be coordinating at Ukraine's level. Unfortunately, this work has not been actively carried out in recent years. So once again, I urge you to vote in favour of this law in the first reading and to correct it to be effective and to really ensure an adequate response by Ukraine to this important epidemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u180	Tomenko Mikola Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u181	Two of these I'd like to say extremely important because we're talking about
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u182	One second, Mikola Volodymyrovich, please. We've got time for the speech. The voice of the deputy head.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u183	Since things have been difficult lately, we have at least three institutions that care for this problem in Ukraine. In 2005, we managed with the Global Fund and with public organizations to agree that we can work and fight this problem and treat it with just one front. It has happened that in the recent period the Ministry of Health and officials have decided that they know the problems best, and in some ways public organizations and international organizations have gone aside. I am absolutely convinced that if there is no one National Council that includes the public institutions of those living with HIV/AIDS and international structures and government, none of this will do us any good. Because in fact everyone is implementing their project, they're getting into conflict and they don't have an integral indicator. So we're not taking the situation down qualitatively. We're looking at statistics, it's getting worse and worse in Ukraine. So I'm convinced that after the first reading of the program, we need to think institutionally about who's going to implement these numbers that are set, these problems that are standing. Once again, this can be done, not by the interlocutors, but by the status of the National Council, where equal rights include government, local self-government, international institutions and public organizations. Then we can talk about the quality of the solution.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u184	The discussion is over. All factions expressed support and approval of the program. I'm voting on Bill 2695 on the approval of the National Programme for HIV Prevention, Treatment, Care and Support of HIV-infected and AIDS Patients. [[2009-2013]] Please vote. Votes in the first reading. [[13:41:44]] For 367 Decision taken. I'd like you to assist the profile committee for adoption as a whole. We begin our next consideration of Bill No. 3061 on the approval of Ukraine's 2008-2012 General Objective Space Programme. I invite you to the floor of Deputy Director General of the National Space Agency, Edward Ivanovich Kuznitsov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u185	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! Dear National Deputies! Your attention is proposed by the 2008-2012 National Science and Technology Agenda. The program was prepared by the National Space Agency, along with the National Academy of Sciences, in line with ministries and departments, and was discussed in public. This program is the fourth in the history of an independent Ukraine, which is much different from the previous ones that have carried out the historic mission of preserving the space industry and science of Ukraine, reforming them in new conditions, resulting from tasks that need to be done in the interests of the economy, science, national security and defence of the state. The main feature of the new programme is its innovative orientation, the full use of the intellectual and technological potential of Ukraine, all of the scientific technical projects correspond to the level of European and global development. In the new program, all rockets, spacecraft, devices, and manufacturing systems are modernized under independent Ukraine. Much of the projects that are included in the programme are international, which speaks of the high competitiveness of Ukrainian missile and space technology, space technology and scientific development in the world's markets. The specificity of Ukraine's current space activity is the significant inadequacy of the level of space technology achieved and the efficiency of its use. With this in mind, it is important to develop a qualitatively new model for the implementation of space activities in accordance with modern conditions and national interests that will enable the implementation of interlinked innovation solutions, and to reconcile the issues raised by the multifunctionality of space activities. These are the issues that are key to Ukraine’s space strategy by 2030. In developing a new space program, we came to believe that space activities in today’s world largely determine the future of the country. In terms of economic globalization and interdependence, factors that ensure the competitiveness of countries, the creation of an effective manufacturing and social mechanism play a critical role. Moreover, the development of high space technologies, as a factor in intensifying the development of internal sources of progress, is one of the conditions of a sovereign state in today’s world. The development of the program, which is suggested by your mind, was taking into account that Ukraine is already present in the world's launch markets, the creation of modern carrier rockets, spacecraft, scientific research. Our Zenit-3SL, Zenit-3SLB, Dnipro, the future “Cylon-4” and “Vega”, the spacecraft “.”, participation in the “Exploration”, “GMS”, “Gileo” shows our high potential. In Ukraine, about 8 percent of the world’s start - up services are weighted, as shown in the brochure that is distributed to all national deputies. By 2008, we had already made seven launches. Our carrier rockets have launched a number of spacecraft. The implementation of these projects was facilitated by the active work of the National Comedy Agency to form a contractual legal base with the advanced space nations of the world. In the last year alone, the signed cooperation agreements with the French, German Space Agency, the European Space Agency, NASA, are being implemented for the financing of the European Commission. This is the first project in Europe in space activities. In addition, for 2008-2009 and the next one, there is a much higher cost for space programmes -- 4 times more than that in 2007. Ladies and gentlemen, early in the 21st century, there was a profound review of approaches to space activities, resulting in a dynamic change in national space programs, structural distortions of the space industry, new approaches to international cooperation, and the expansion of the circle of space nations. Commercialization of space activities, such as space telecommunications, remote sensing of land, and space navigation, were the principal causes and consequences of the changes noted. Introduction of new system and technical solutions, minimization of equipment, use of micro and macros. And nanopaths, project integration, dual-use concept. The aim of the new programme is to ensure the development and effective use of Ukraine’s space potential for sustainable development, to address the urgent security needs of the state, to introduce high technology, and to raise the level of science and education. The program is designed to carry out scientific space exploration, remote sensing of the earth, development of satellite systems, telecommunications and navigation, the introduction of space activities for national security and defence, the creation of new space complexes, the development of promising space technologies and technologies. The development of ground infrastructure. Providing international cooperation and analytical support. The world’s modern space services market provides opportunities for a profitable business. Space telecommunications has become the first to establish space technologies that are to a large extent commercialized. The world's satellite market is going to be 25 to 30 billion dollars for the next 10 years. The volume of services for their launch is estimated at $20-22 billion. The factors noted are evidence that space activity has acquired a new quality. There was a transition from the demonstration stage to the purposeful use of space resources. The space industry functions under the laws of the real economy, and its performance criteria are defined by socio-economic and scientific and technical results. As a result, the space policy of developed nations has now emerged as one of the priorities of public policy. After the withdrawal of nuclear weapons, space technology remained one of the few determining the strategic weight of the state, the availability of means of deterrence. Access to space objectively increases Ukraine’s importance in relations with strategic partners in integration into European structures. Ukraine's space activities can be an instrument of active regional policy, including the Baltic and Black Sea countries. These circumstances require that they be taken into account in the formation of national space policies. What are the expected results of our space program? This is the first: to create a permanent group of domestic space appliances to observe the Earth in the optical range of the “Sic” class, to ensure its exploitation and use. Create a national geoinformation system as part of the European system “GMS” and the world “Geo-SS”. Improve the coordination and navigation system of Ukraine with the participation of the Russian Federation and the European Union in the “Glonas” and “Galileo” programmes. Create conditions for the organization of commercial use of Ukrainian carrier rockets in the “Cyklon-4” projects from the Brazilian alkantar cosmodre, ground launch from Baikonur and Dnipro from Baikonur and Clear Cosmodrome. Create satellite telecommunications networks and general-use speech and special telecommunications networks using national satellites. To ensure the production of Zenit, Cyclone, Dnipro, prospective space rocket complexes and new generation spacecraft, in particular, Ukraine is already engaged in the production of Vega and the American Taurus. Conduct space research in the field of solar-terrestrial connections, astrophysics, cosmic biology and material science. Modernize the technology of the National Centre for Management and Use of Space Resources in Eupatoria Provide military forces, other military formations, and law enforcement agencies with modern space assets and information. Implement educational space projects, such as the Youth Satellite Project. What is the economic efficiency of the program? The brochure we gave out shows that in 2002-2007 we made 8.7 billion dollars worth of products. In 2007 alone, our contribution to Ukraine’s budget in the form of compulsory payments and taxes amounted to 105 million dollars. It was more than the National Space Program. Direct revenue for the State Budget from commercial projects is expected from 400 million to 65 million dollars. Indirect revenue -- through the introduction of space-based activities aimed at strengthening national security, implementing development and innovation -- we estimate 3 to 4 and a half billion dollars. The social dimension is new jobs, it's improving the quality of life of the population, it's increasing the employment of young people in science and technology special projects. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to support Ukraine's law on a state-wide targeted space science and technology programme in Ukraine for the eighth to 12th year as an important document that will ensure further development of space activities in Ukraine, as well as the high international authority and image of the state in the world. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u186	Let's sign up for the question. I continue the plenary session for 15 minutes. National Deputy Karpuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u187	Dear Edward Ivanovich, according to the brochure you gave us, we thank you for the interesting material. And this is indeed an example of a vivid example of the competitiveness of our economy and the existence of a great technological, intellectual potential in Ukraine. If, but we know that the percentage of funding that the National Space Agency has for you is not enough. What prospects would be in these very directions of your work, with appropriate increases in funding?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u188	Thank you for asking. In fact, Ukraine's space sector has a decent place in the world, and that's the 4th, the 5th, among the cosmic states. And of course, the more money is invested in the space sector, the more the effect is going to be. But we understand the economic situation in Ukraine, so we're looking for other methods and ways to finance our space projects and we're relying primarily on commercial projects. It's Cylon-4, Valcontaro, it's Dnipro, it's a land start in Baikonura, it's projects that allow us to make money. And then to invest in the development of space infrastructure and new space projects.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u189	National Deputy Gordienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u190	Dear Edward Ivanovich, Gordon. It's a faction of the Ukrainian Company. We are all, of course, proud of the high achievements of Soviet cosmonautism, where a large percentage of scientific technology was made in Ukraine and Ukrainian scientists and Ukrainian enterprises. You said that the National Program is in line with the interests of our nation for the future. But give me an answer, because we've been discussing here, and you've been a witness, by other programs, that they're not being implemented, that no one is reporting them, that no one is interested in today's leaders of our country. So tell me, do you personally believe that today's authorities are capable of implementing this national program? From the point of view that it needs a considerable amount of money.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u191	Thank you. I think that the National Space Agency is systematically reporting to the public about the activity that it did in carrying out the next space program, and one example is the brochure that we gave you. I want to point out that, despite the complexity of our nation's political life, we will make every effort -- our scientists, our engineers, our designers -- to ensure that the program you are looking at today is fully implemented, and our country's economy has received another positive impetus in the development of such a high-tech sector and other areas related to space.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u192	National Deputy Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u193	Yuri Carmazin. As a representative of the Party of Motherland Defenders, I want to draw attention to this: our neighbors have space troops, we don't have such wars. I wanted to understand. So the whole country understands that we can't stand outside of this, because we've demonstrated at the military parade the obsolete missiles of the last century. We need to go to making others. That's the first question you're going to be doing here. Which makes it like working with you from the Ministry of Defense. I'm asking, why cooperation? Because it seems to me that after buying, let's say, an unmanned reconnaissance aircraft from Israel, a non-space state, far from the best technology that I've ever written about not having to do, can we do anything about it? [[I didn't talk about it knowingly, I just wrote for the service -- everything, but the patient broke down!]] I am increasing the prestige of your work, of your people, to whom I just sincerely want to thank.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u194	Thank you for asking. I want to say the next thing. That the potential of our design offices and scientific research institutions is that we, despite the fact that our space program is completely civil, space-based, we can execute any request from the Ministry of Defense for the creation of a modern missile complex. We have this work going on, we have this whole relationship between the Ministry of Defense, and we're working on this problem. As far as the prestige of our profession is concerned. I want to point out that this is a painful question. Because the average wage of our workers -- both scientists and engineers and designers -- is 1540 bucks a month. It's extremely small, and we're not able to support our businesses, our youth institutions, and it's a disaster. Because if we had a policy a few years ago, we had to reduce the number of employees and.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u195	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u196	And we've taken some administrative measures to reduce the number of workers, so for the last three years, we've been seeing a catastrophic picture, when we've, naturally, been the outflow of our veterans, people of older age from our businesses. Young people who come get 50 percent out of businesses each year.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u197	Thank you, Edward Ivanovich. Have a seat, please. The committee's report is Kuzmenko Peter Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u198	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! The Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, at its meeting on 17 September 2008, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law approving the 2008-2012 General Purpose Space Programme, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The aim of the bill is to ensure the development and effective use of Ukraine's space potential, to address the pressing issues of sustainable security, the introduction of high technology and the promotion of science and education. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in its conclusion of 10.09.2008 noted that the first reading of the bill could be adopted on the basis of comments and suggestions made. During the discussion of the bill, Ukrainian national MPs, members of the committee stressed that the space sector ensured the gradual development of the economy of the state, supported the necessary level of its scientific and technological potential, provided access to international high-tech markets, and unanimously supported Ukraine's proposed space programme. In view of the above, the members of the committee decided that the draft Ukrainian Law "On the Approval of Ukraine's 2008-2012 National Objective Space and Technology Programme" should be submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for consideration and proposed to the Supreme Council to accept it as a basis and as a whole as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u199	Thank you, Peter Pavlovich. Any questions to the co-conspirator? No questions asked. Shall we discuss it? Would you like to say something? There's a wish, please write it down. Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u200	Thank you. Honorable Ukrainian National Deputies, distinguished colleagues, faction of the Party of Regions proposes to vote on this bill both on the basis and in general. Because today the development of science and technology, which is foreseen in the state-wide science and technology programme for the development of Ukraine's space programme, provides that a broad international experience needs to be involved. The program is balanced. The program provides for the development of scientific cooperation in space with foreign states such as the Russian Federation, the United States, the European Union, China. Also, as we can see, the program also supports Ukraine's participation in promising international scientific programs that are most relevant and prestigious in our initiatives. This can be noted as a positive factor, because on the one hand, it allows home science schools to integrate into the world scientific community and conduct scientific research at the world level. And on the other hand, gradually integrate into the world's space services markets and engage in space activities on a commercial basis. Now we know that there are huge possibilities in Ukraine and there are unique scientific tools, this is, for example, a radio telescope in the Epatoria RT-70, a country science school, for example, from the study of the ionosphere by the way, this program provides for the participation of Ukrainian scientists in an international project from the delivery of Mars Fobos satellite land, this is a so-called "Fobus soil" program. In addition, commercialization of space activities is also included here in the program to promote the commercial launch of Zenit-3SL rockets, which is from a sea platform called the sea launch. Zenit-3SLB, Zenit-2SLB from Baikonur Spaceway, is a ground launch as well as the launching of Dnipro conversion missiles. Special attention should be paid to what will be done mainly at the expense of credit costs, as well as the launch of the “Cyclono-4” rocket for the Brazilian Alkantar Cosmodrome. In general, the project is of a complex nature, it covers most of the directions of space activity, it is a complete product of the efforts of the team of scientists involved in its development. The faction of the Party of the Regions of Ukraine proposes to approve the draft law in the first reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u201	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u202	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that these days China has demonstrated to the world how its cosmonauts have come out into outer space. China was, far behind us, today with the funding that we're going to even accept, even provide, we're going to be very far away from China, we're going to be very far away from many of those developing countries, because this is funding, so look, from the 4th year budget, we're predicting 1460 million dollars, that's just a billion 460. It's normal to predict the functioning of the Secretary of the President's Billion 600, and here's a billion 460. I just want you to put together and think simply, think everything! So you have to increase these sums, seriously increase, which is another question, I took for example, I can take funding from the Supreme Council, and where, roughly, I took that as an example. So, dear friends, I strongly oppose the fact that we are strongly opposed to allowing our brains, the most talented people to leave this country and work for other economies today, because 1,500 average wages in the space sector are me and you, legislators, a signal that not everything is good, it's clear that we need to consider the prestige of the scientific work that gives our return and if these intellectual abilities are taken abroad. It's very important, in my opinion, to raise these salaries to the people. And another question that's very important. This is an upgrade to the production capacity of these factories, which are state-owned, in those tables that you've been published there, that these are all state-owned enterprises. We need to ask and ask this question to the government, I'm going to ask the government Timoshenko, what do we do now? And the next question. Our neighbors have space troops, we don't have them. So I would ask you to provide and entrust the Committee on Budgets, to the Committee on Science and Education, on Defence and National Security, to anticipate annually, as long as the Supreme Council, funding and subsidies are provided, I say so, for the development of scientific new complexes. Including the military complexes of missiles, so that we can provide our country's development rather than buy the old man they're using today. I'm willing to accept it in the first and second readings. And our faction also supports this position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u203	The digger, Yuri Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u204	Yuri Prokopchuk, Yulia Timoshenko, Colonel of the Air Force. Of course, the program needs to be supported. And I agree with the previous statement that the cost of space programs has been, well, not enough. That's a soft word. Because space is not just Ukraine’s prestige. It's not just technology, it's not just telecommunications, it's practically protecting Ukraine as a state. And so, of course, they will pay attention to the need for funding. And to support this program as a law as a whole. I'm handing over the rest of my time to my colleague, Haszuk Petra Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u205	Dear colleagues, I'd like to draw your attention to the following. Today, more than 30 businesses and organizations are involved in the administration of Ukraine’s National Space Agency. The total number of people working in these enterprises and in institutions is about 36,000. And there's this point that NCU has, except for those enterprises that are directly involved in the ratio of space activities, there are still non-space enterprises that produce almost 38 percent of the total output. They make combines, they make tractors, they make trolleybuses, and so on. I propose that, as a result, the financial situation improves, and I think we vote in favour of allocating this money to free the sector from these inequitable functions. And I also want to say that today there is a big problem in terms of the average working age of 49 - 52 years. And besides, there's an average of 62.9 percent of the basics. I think the project is quite satisfactory in supporting the proposal to approve the draft law in the first reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-30-m0.u206	Edward Ivanovich, do you need a closing word? None. Is he a co-conspirator? None. I am voting on the first reading of draft Law No. 3061 on the approval of Ukraine's 2008-2012 National Space Science and Technology Programme. Please vote. [[14:10:30.]] For 364 Decision taken. A professional committee and factions of the Ukrainian National Deputies made proposals for the adoption of the program as a whole. Any objections to the national MPs? There's no objection. I am voting on the adoption of draft law 3061 on the approval of Ukraine's 2008-2012 National Space Science and Technology Programme. Please vote. [[14:11:17]] For 365 Decision taken. At this we have the time spent for the morning plenary meeting to come to an end. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow we'll continue our work at 10 a.m.
