ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-02-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies. I'm asking you to register. [[10:04:44]] Registered -443 There are 443 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The morning plenary session is open. Dear colleagues, we don't have the order of the day, as always, so we're going to the meeting now. We hope that this schedule will appear at the signature of three factions, as announced publicly yesterday. Public statements must now be translated into practical action. Let's see what we can do. Honorable national MPs, but life goes on, and of course we have a positive one. Today is Ivan Grigorovitch Kirilenka's birthday, with the leader of the BUT faction. Let's welcome our colleague. [[Applause]] There's no John Grigorovich, nothing, he must have gone to cover the table. Dear colleagues, I invite faction leaders to my office for one hour, as always.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-02-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, it was what was supposed to happen. There were no daytime formations for three factions. The block of Lithuania is not ready to take part in the vote on the proposed agenda. We're taking another hour with a hook for the negotiation process, until 12:30. 12.30, colleagues, 12.30!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-02-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, please take your seats. I'd like to inform you about the progress of the negotiations that took place in the Cabinet of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. First of all, the order of the day for today. Once again, I would like to point out that, unfortunately, this agenda has not been agreed by the three factions, as previously stated, because the Block of Lithuania is not ready to sign under the schedule that was formed. The second is about today's schedule. In accordance with the requirements of the Temporary Rules, two factions, namely: the “Julia Tymoshenko Block” and “Our Ukraine – the People’s Self-Defense” have the right to make decisions on today’s timetable and the corresponding number of these factions. Thus, in this case, if two factions have taken the appropriate decision, the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has the full legal right to ask the questions identified by these two factions for consideration by the Ukrainian Parliament. The situation is as follows. You remember that one of the main reasons for the collapse of the coalition was to vote second in favour of the bills that were agreed under the coalition agreement and which were aimed at changing individual essentially powers that went beyond the constitution. The point is that the two factions have now agreed to consider repealing the legislation adopted on September 2, this year, by voting on BUTU and the Party of the Regions. The five vetoes of the President of Ukraine are placed on the agenda. In accordance with the requirements of Article 20 of the Provisional Rules, such things are not included in the agenda, but the chairman announces and without a vote we consider these five matters. I would like to remind everyone of the procedure for considering these five issues. In that case, if the President's proposals are not supported, the issue of overcoming the President's veto is raised. In order to support the President's proposal, it takes 226 votes. It takes 300 votes to defeat the President's veto. In that case, if even the President's proposals are not taken, and Parliament has failed to overcome the President's veto, such a law is considered to be rejected. That is, under this condition, all the bills will be considered invalid and invalid. I would also like to point out other matters of the order of the day. This is Bill 1374, the draft Resolution on the Cancellation of the Results of the Referendum Act and 1400 on the State Service. These bills need to be included in the agenda, so the next approach is proposed for your consideration. First. With regard to the vote on the President's veto. We will now consider these issues in full procedure and, according to the outcome of the vote, the final decision on the President’s five veto will be taken. I would like to remind everyone that the veto is about and what the bill is about. First. Ukraine Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Bill No. 3085. The other one. Bill No. 0857 The Ukrainian Law on Temporary Investigations Commissions, the Special Temporary Investigation Commission and the Temporary Special Commissions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Third. Bill 2219 of the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. The language referred to the powers of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, the features of the implementation of constitutional appeals and the non-abuse of the right to constitutional submission. The next bill is the Act of Ukraine amending the Ukrainian Security Service Act, No. 3086. The last bill, number 3112, is the Act of Ukraine amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the responsibilities of the heads of local state administrations. This list of bills is completely and completely in line with the number of bills that have been passed in the second issue, without agreement by the Coalition Agreement and without the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". In view of this and in accordance with the requirements of Article 20 of the Provisional Regulation, I declare the procedure for consideration. seal. to re-examine the President's proposals for appropriate legislation. We have a rule, we don't have a temporary one. In accordance with the Rules. Dear colleagues, I invite you to the podium of Schlapak Alexander Vitaliyovich, the First Deputy Head of the President's Secretariat. I repeat five times: in accordance with article 20 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, the President’s proposals are not included in the agenda, are not voted on and are automatically considered by Parliament. Let me hold the meetings, please. These two questions will not be considered unless the agenda is put to the vote. All we're looking at right now is the President's proposals. I ask you to take your place and not to interfere with the holding of meetings. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, where's the reporter? There's no report. It reports according to the requirements of the Temporary Rules in the case where there is no report - this does not stop, sorry, according to the requirements of the Rules, this does not stop the consideration of the bill – co-reporter, Bodnar Olga Borisovna. Please, Olga Borisovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-02-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, distinguished reporter, respected fellow citizens! The Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, held on 24 September 2008, reviewed the proposals made by the President of Ukraine to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Act on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The committee disagreed and disagreed with the Ukrainian President's argument that the Ukrainian Constitution should be violated by the laws adopted and recommended that the President's proposals be rejected and adopted in general. I read you the decision of our committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-02-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, in accordance with the requirements of the Temporary Rules, I put to the vote -- attention, colleagues! - the question of supporting the President of Ukraine's proposals for Bill No. 3085 – the Act of Ukraine amending the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The vote is about supporting the President’s proposals. Please vote. [[12:39:46]] For 224 The decision is not taken. Colleagues, silence, I ask to be shown by factions. Calm down. Region Party – 0, BUT – 156, Our Ukraine – 168 Communists – 0, Block of Lithuania – 0. Now colleagues, in accordance with the requirements of the Provisional Rules, are voting on the issue of overcoming the veto of the President of Ukraine. Once again, colleagues, I recall, in the event that the President's veto is not overtaken, in accordance with the requirements of the Rules, namely Article 130, such a bill is regarded as rejected and the results of the vote are overturned. Understand? I see. Please vote. [[12:40:51]] For 201 Thus, Ukraine's Act of Amendment to the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is such that it is rejected - read - and repealed as a whole. I read Article 127 of the Rules: “The cost. [[B in m in s a l in]] For work? I didn't have to vote. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. As a result, the results of voting in favour of the law as a whole are reversed.” Please show by factions: Region Party - 172, Timoshenko Yulia Block - 2, Our Ukraine - 0 Communists - 27, Litvina Block - 0. Colleagues, I have not prevented you from accepting these laws. Don't stop me from canceling them. The following bill 0857 is announced: the Ukrainian Law on Temporary Investigations Commissions, the Special Interim Investigation Commission and the temporary special commissions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, with proposals from the President. There's no report from the President. Sergei Volodymyrovich Sas from the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-02-m0.u6	Thank you. Dear Arsenia Petrovich, distinguished national deputies! For consideration by the Supreme Council, the Ukrainian Law on Temporary Commissions and Temporary Special Commissions of the Supreme Council, with Presidential Proposals of 23.09.2008, is being passed. The Rules Committee did not consider the issue of proposals. Please put to the vote the issue of overcoming the President's veto. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-02-m0.u7	Dear colleagues, I am asking for a vote on the support of the President of Ukraine's proposals for the Ukrainian Law on Temporary Investigation Commissions, a special interim commission of inquiry and temporary special commissions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:43:32]] For 225 The decision is not taken. Now, let me show you the factions. “BUT” – 156, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” – 69, Communists, Party of Regions, “Block of Lithuania” – 0. Colleagues, I am now putting to the vote the issue of overcoming the President's veto. Please vote. [[12:44:09]] For 201 The results of the vote have been revoked. The law is rejected as a whole. Bill No. 2219 is the Act of Ukraine amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the powers of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, the features of the conduct of constitutional appeals and the non-abuse of the right to constitutional submission]] Is there a reporter? None. Correspondent: Mishchenko Sergey Grigorovitch, please. Please, Sergey Grigorovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-02-m0.u8	Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman! A committee was held on this subject. The committee has decided to overtake the President's veto, but in the session room, each member must make his own decision on the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-02-m0.u9	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the President's proposal for Bill No. 2219 – Ukraine's Act to Amend certain laws of Ukraine. Please vote in favour of the President of Ukraine. Vote. [[12:45:47]] For 226 Coalition results have been restored, colleagues, for the first time on the board in a month. Please show by factions: Region Party - 0, Timoshenko Yulia Block - 156, Our Ukraine-People's Self-Defense - 70, Communists -0, Litvina Block - 0. Dear colleagues, the President's proposal is supported, so the question of overcoming the veto cannot stand. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the last bill, number 3086, the Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Security Service Act. There's no report from the President's Secretariat. I'd like to invite the head of the Committee of Griesenk Anatoly Stepanovich. The designated reporter is Puckshin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-02-m0.u10	Dear Arsenia Petrovich, fellows of honor! We see what is happening in Parliament right now, so I would like to talk about the professional and the political part of this issue. Professional. The committee has supported the veto, and this reflects the inadmissibility of national MPs when there is no Head of the Security Service for two years, when personnel are unlawfully assigned, when the Head of the Security Service is more specifically aware of these assignments on the Internet or on television, and when the Security Service does not perform its functions. Therefore, a normal solution to the issue would be for the President to propose and approve it by Parliament. That was not the position taken by the President in support of the proposal put forward in December, which is why. The second professional part is the role of Parliament in influencing the workforce in the force structures, and it's absolutely right. And that's why it has to be determined: on the one hand, the fate of Parliament, the fate of the coalition, on the other hand, whether we will continue to see this situation. I will vote as I vote. As decided by the committee, each is determined by its own choice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-02-m0.u11	Dear colleagues! I am voting on the issue of support for the proposal of the President of Ukraine to Bill No. 3086, the Act of Ukraine amending the Ukrainian Security Service Act. Colleagues, pay attention! We vote in favour of the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. [[12:48:31]] For 226 Decision taken. The last bill is No.3112. Dear colleagues! Please show by factions: Region Party – 0, BUT – 156, “Our Ukraine” – 70, Communists – 0, “Block of Lithuania” – 0. The last bill, which was proposed by the President, Bill No. 3112, is the Ukrainian Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. Questions about the responsibilities of the heads of the local government. There is no President's report, determined by Stavniczuk. I don't see a reporter from the Omelchenko Committee. Would anyone like a committee? None. Dear colleagues, I am putting to the vote the question of support for the President's proposals for Bill 3112 of the Ukrainian Act amending certain laws of Ukraine, please vote. [[12:49:40]] For 225 The decision is not taken. Return to voting results. Please return to the vote, turn the car on to the vote. Go back to voting for the bill. [[12:50:13]] For 226 We now vote in favour of the President of Ukraine's proposals for Bill 3112. Attention, colleagues, we have a vote. [[12:50:36]] For 226 Decision taken. There is no vote on the President's veto. We have two bills, co-workers that need to be included in the agenda, this is a bill on the draft resolution on the abolition of voting results for the adoption on 19 September 2008 of the decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the adoption on the basis of the draft Law on the Universal Referendum, Decree No. 1374-P1 and the draft decree on the lifting of voting results for the adoption on 19 September 2008 of the Decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the adoption of the draft Law on the State Service, 1400-P2. In order to consider these bills, they need to be included in today’s meeting schedule. I am voting on the inclusion of Bills Nos. 1374-P1 and 1400-P2 on the agenda, please vote. Don't get any sleep, colleagues. Vote. [[12:51:48]] For 227 We grow up, comrades, in the eyes of the Ukrainian people. Please show by factions: Regional Party – 0, BUT – 156, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 71, Communists – 0, "Block of Lithuania" – 0. I'm announcing Bill 1374 before the hearing. Colleagues, there is a proposal for this bill and the next bill to be considered in a simplified procedure. Is it supported? I'm betting on a vote to review these bills for a reduced procedure of 1,374 and 1400, there's a P1, there's a P2. Please vote. [[12:52:40]] For 227 Colleagues, 1374, Viacheslav Anatoliyovich, I invite you to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-02-m0.u12	Viacheslav Kirilenko, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense". Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! We believe that Bill 1374, which was adopted in the first reading, threatens political tranquillity in the country. It opens the way to a referendum on the status of the second state language for Russian and substantially reinforces those threats that may be contained inside our country. In addition, the mechanism for the appointment, execution and implementation of the referendum results is substantially changing, which is also a cause for concern in a large part of the electorate. In this regard, and in defense of the interests and status of the Ukrainian language as a national language, we have made a draft decree repealing the first reading of Bill 1374 on the Universal Referendum. The request to Ukraine's national deputies is to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-02-m0.u13	Thank you. There's no reporter from the committee. Two, two, do you mind? Please. Sign up. Well, colleagues, we have to act solely in accordance with the requirements of the Rules. Please sign up. Andrew Parubius.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-02-m0.u14	I'm very short. I support the position of the head of the Viacheslav Kirilenko faction that these bills should be repealed because they expose to Ukraine things that may shake the very foundation of the existence of the Ukrainian state. Please all support the repeal of these bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-02-m0.u15	Sergey Teryohin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-02-m0.u16	I don't want to talk about this bill, so I don't take the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-02-m0.u17	Gordien.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-02-m0.u18	Sergey Gordienko, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Dear colleagues, honourable voters of Ukraine, you are witnessing today the manipulation by the Chief of the Supreme Council of certain matters when he claims at certain times that he clearly adheres to the Rules when dealing with matters. There is no committee decision on this issue, and everyone sees how manipulation works. Next. We are hearing today about threats to Ukraine if we do not repeal this same law. Today I want to tell the people of Ukraine that all the highest officials of the state and the guarantor of the Constitution, speaking, always says that the people are the only source of power. But we have seen for many years when a veto is imposed and no law is passed on the U.K. referendum, just for one purpose not to hear the voice of the people on any issue that they are concerned about. An example of this is that the 4 million signatures that we have gathered against joining NATO. And the President of Ukraine is not doing the people's will or declaring this referendum. In order not to allow or hear the will of the people and beyond, those political forces that initiated themselves, which called themselves a democratic coalition, just today they want the people never to be heard.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-02-m0.u19	Sergey Volodymyrovich, I fully support you, I told you for a long time, this Supreme Council head is being pushed to the neck. Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-02-m0.u20	Dear friends, dear voters, are now trying to reach out to the holy right of the people as a source of authority — to make their own decisions and dictate, on the contrary, the right way to make strategic decisions. Unfortunately, Ukrainian policies are divided into two parts: one part of the orange is BUT and Our Ukraine, which thinks you know nothing, understand nothing, are free, and you need only one, in order to enter into the power of the Prime, Presidental and Cabinets on your shoulders, and you are no longer needed, they will continue to rule, preach, and, breaking your will, the will of the people through your knees, and make your decisions. A party of regions and a part of other political forces believes otherwise that the foundation of wisdom is not the sedentary men in parliamentary and ministerial robes on their shoulders, but the foundation of wisdom is you, the simple, working people, because your wisdom comes from the sources of life itself, and you have the right to take power in your own hands, as in the Constitution when making strategic decisions determining the fate of the country through a referendum, by voting in a referendum to order your electorate to make decisions. To date, we believe that the step taken by the repeal of the Referendum Act is a step towards ending democratic processes in Ukraine, yes, this return to the totalitarian regime, this violation of the Constitution, which clearly states that the source of power and power is the Ukrainian people. You've got a choice: I'm taking your language, and now they're taking your power. Democracy is the power of the people. And I just can't understand how the position of BUTT changes every day seven times, which, on the one hand, would seem to be saying what they are for to do the will of the people, and now, in fact, they are on the path of bringing about democratic processes in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-02-m0.u21	Dear colleagues, attention, let's move on to the voting procedure. I am voting on the issue of adoption as a basis and in the whole of Bill No. 1374-P1, the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the lifting of the vote on 19 September 2008 by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the adoption of the draft Ukrainian Law on the All-Ukrainian Referendum. Vote. [[12:59:37]] For 225 What, we're not there? Back to voting for the bill. Please show by factions. Attention! Return! Attention! Colleagues, return to voting. I'm asking the question of getting back to the vote. Vote. The green button is "for" and the yellow button is "restraint". [[13:00:14]] For 225 What is it? “For” – 225. [[B in m in s a l in]] Show by factions: BUT – 154, "Self-defense" – 71 and all – zero. Guys, something didn't work out. [[B in m in s a l in]] One last time. About getting back to the vote. Colleagues, pay attention! [[13:00:59]] For 225 The decision is not taken. All of it! All of it! Bill number 1400 is announced. Kirilenko Viacheslav Anatoliyovich. [[B in m in s a l in]] Váchaslav Anatoliyovich, sit down, please. Please, have a seat.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-02-m0.u22	Dear national MPs, distinguished voters! Draft Decree 1,400-P2 is being submitted for your consideration. It is aimed at repealing the 1,400 bill, which was approved in the first reading by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, namely the bill on State Service. We believe that the standard laid down in this bill, which stipulates that, apart from the national language, a civil servant should be required and Russian, is the beginning of a review of the status of the Ukrainian language as the only national language. Such a question is a violation of part two of article 10 of the Ukrainian Constitution. In addition, as the authors of this decree, we still have a whole series of conceptual remarks to the draft Ukrainian State Service Bill adopted in the first reading. In view of the motives that we have set out, as well as in the interests of defending Ukrainian as the only national language, I propose to support the draft regulation of the "Our Ukraine" which provides for the repeal of the Ukrainian State Service Bill adopted in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-02-m0.u23	The committee. Bodnar? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-02-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman! The State Building Committee, the local self - government committee, said before the vote that the bill should be sent to the subject of the legislative initiative for further development. But not because Viacheslav Kirilenko says so, but because we stressed that there are anticonstitutional rules that apply to the limitation of the rights of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The committee therefore supports the repeal as a vote on the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-02-m0.u25	Two in, two in. Alexandrovska.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-02-m0.u26	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Dear colleagues have pressed the Za button just to get a chance to say to the microphone what I think is going on in this room. Arsenius Petrovich, you are very often in the audience, you like to say that for you, the law is above all, in fact, legally and so forth, and so forth. You are now deceiving the people of Ukraine for one simple reason: those laws that were put in place to overcome the veto of the President after they were not, let alone supported or vetoed, you should have offered such laws to the deputies, at least we Communists asked you to do it again. And you should have let us vote in favour of that proposal. You ignored the request of the People's Deputies from the Communist faction. So I want the entire people of Ukraine to hear that, in fact, to you, legally, these are just words. In fact, you are one of those politicians who agrees to break the law, and you agree to do so in public. And I joked here about the faction that I wouldn't be surprised if you were soon assigned the title of the hero of Ukraine. Because, as practice has shown, these are the kind of people who are assigned that title. So once again, stop breaking the Constitution, stop breaking the Rules. If you don't want to, you don't know how to work, get out of this room.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-02-m0.u27	Lilia Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-02-m0.u28	Lilia Grigorovich, "Our Ukraine." Well, Ukraine certainly has and will have its true heroes. So all that we have done and done in many centuries of Ukrainian Statehood will be confirmed today. Today, we intend to correct the errors of a joint vote, unfortunately, the Party of the Regions and the Yulia Timoshenko Block, and we want to introduce this correction into the State Service Act because the status of a civil servant in Ukraine is to be in line with the Constitution of Ukraine. And in view of that, I hope that by this vote we will confirm all of our steps over the 17 years of Ukrainian state-building, and they have been very consistent, principled and unchangeable.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-02-m0.u29	Jaroslav Suhi from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-02-m0.u30	Dear colleagues, I sincerely welcome the orange, pale-hearted, glory to God, maybe just after Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko has accepted all your fat ultimatums, maybe after that you'll be reunited with some political power, but, hell, with you! [[I'm very doubtful of that.]] That's what you wanted, that's what you got today. You don't even know what happened to you! You take responsibility for the whole mess you've created since 2005 in the Ukrainian economy, in the social sphere, in the sphere of cultural and spiritual life. Your flag is in your hands! Look at that, ladies and gentlemen. You don't yell at me, you know that. I'm not afraid of anyone here. So I want you to keep your moustache with you, you've already got your moustache in your glasses. [[Laughter]] I want to ask you, we haven't stopped you from doing this political filth today. Cheers! Please! I don't believe that such a powerful political power as BUIT has deteriorated under your influence. Nothing like that. Something else has happened. Think about other questions. You're a Democrat. You, Democrats, fear a referendum, ask the will of the people. Please tell me, aren't you, the Democrats, cooking all over Ukraine that you fired 20,000 civil servants in 2005? From where?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-02-m0.u31	A little. That's wonderful. Paul, you're so brave now. See what happens to you tomorrow.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-02-m0.u32	Don't be afraid. Don't be afraid. Yuri Bogdanovich, your enuresis is not at risk. He's been with you since he was a kid, don't worry.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-02-m0.u33	Colleagues, first, before the question is put to the vote. Silence, comrades, silence. First. I'd like to reject any lecture about breaking the Rules. In that case, if there are grounds for a violation of the Rules, in the manner established by law, please protest and cancel the acts adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. No one needs these totally premeditated intrigues. The other one. I would like to address everyone so that we do not go back to the stage of personal imagery. On September 2nd, no one was offended? No offense. And today we have to vote it out normally, in person. Comrades, I am putting to the vote the draft Resolution on the Cancellation of the Results of the Voting Decision on 19 September 2008 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Adoption of the Draft Law on State Service, Bill 1,400-P2. We won't vote. Guys, press the buttons, please. Attention! The system's normal. Hands, fingers. Let's have a vote. [[13:09:45]] For 226 Decision taken. Colleagues, please show by factions: Region Party - 0; "Julia Timoshenko Block" - 156; "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" - 70; Communists - 0; "Litvina Block" - 0. Guys, I'd like to thank you first. Would you mind if I spoke after that? None. Please, Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov. If you want to write it down, five minutes, please write it down. Valerius Beales.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-02-m0.u34	I only have one question. Please tell me, if you hadn't called the U.S. State Department this morning, would you have voted as a friend or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-02-m0.u35	They've got the night. They're asleep. That's why no one called. You're an ass.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-02-m0.u36	Please give the floor to the leader of the faction Ivan Grigorovitch Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-02-m0.u37	Dear colleagues, I ask you to calm down. In the hall, every deputy approached everyone and everyone said what everyone was now afraid of from the rostrum. Let's tell the truth: today's vote is about stability in the country -- that's what people are asking us to do. So I ask everyone to congratulate us all on our maintaining stability in Ukraine. It's not a coalition for the sake of stability. Let us all welcome together what we have chosen today!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-02-m0.u38	Alexander Efraemov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-02-m0.u39	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues! We do not want to be quick to assess the situation that is currently taking place in the Hall, but there is alarming information coming in, Arsenija Petrovich, and I ask you to pay attention to it and to give the appropriate instructions that they will enter and manually adjust the vote of the Council system, and that is what is going on in the Hall today. So I'd like to ask you not to step aside from this, but to order you to follow this. Because we will by no means question the vote, it rests on the conscience of the two political forces that have assumed responsibility. We extend our condolences to the members of the BIT faction who have begun to degrade completely since today because they have proved with the same success yesterday that those bills that are being passed are necessary for the country and without them the country cannot live. Today, they are successfully giving up their views, and the political force, which has no opinion, is not.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-02-m0.u40	Let's finish. Let me finish. Quiet, fellows!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-02-m0.u41	A political force that has no opinion has no political personality and has no political future. Therefore, we will see how these votes and joys that take place today in the hall will affect the people who do so tomorrow. But I would like to again assign a mandate and see who interferes with the Council system and adjusts the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-02-m0.u42	I'll answer that question right away. Right now, I'm going to start DSTZI, the SBU, any Ukrainian national MPs who want to take part in the voting test will be immediately launched into the "Council" system -- this is paragraph one. Item two. I am addressing all the Ukrainian national deputies who have just voted and who voted in favour as a result of the roll-call vote. If there is at least one Ukrainian national deputy who writes a written statement that he has not voted in favour and annuls the results of his election, we will put everything to a vote. "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense", Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-02-m0.u43	Viacheslav Kirilenko, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense". Dear colleagues, distinguished voters, I'm not going to give a political assessment or apply any of the apps or to our partners or to our many-year-old opponents, because we're people who are being held back and we're just doing our job. We just stand up for the values that we're being sent here by our Ukrainian voters. And so we just stand for Ukraine, Ukrainian people, Ukrainian people, Ukrainian values and Ukrainian perspective, and we're going to keep doing that, and we have to move on, including today. Therefore, I propose that I officially return to the vote of Decree 1374-P1 and still cancel the first reading harmful to the status of the Ukrainian State Language Act on the All-Ukrainian Referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-02-m0.u44	Nadona's.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-02-m0.u45	Please pass the word to Ekaterina Semenovna Samojlik.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-02-m0.u46	Don't excuse yourself, please, and the agenda, and the vote, all for the sake of the demands of the President of Ukraine. On the day before Teacher's Day, I would like to emphasize, the respectable educational people, because of the position in the Head's paws and the coalition, you will not be able to receive the Ukrainian Pension Insurance Act before your holiday, which is 80 percent. You won't be able to get a law on article 57 and your establishments will be fined again, even though the Vice Prime Minister himself is asking us to accept these questions. You won't be able to accept changes to the budget code, respected employees of extra-school institutions, and you'll continue to be bankrupt and shut down. You won't be able to have the Ukrainian Tax Law on Transporters.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-02-m0.u47	Mikhailo Kosov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-02-m0.u48	Dear colleagues, first of all, I'd like to address our colleague from the NH-NS faction. Well, let's not comment on our motives for voting anymore, your motives for voting. Because if we start to comment on the motives of the vote, believe me, I'm one of the authors of the 96th Constitution, and believe me, I know her very well. But I call you all again and again. Let's get out of the fact that just happened. Let's continue to be wiser, because what we said to each other is that I didn't even believe that today's vote would be possible. But it happened, and thank God. And now let's build our relationship on a new foundation.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-02-m0.u49	Dear colleagues, thank you all. Time's up. First, I would like to say about 57 articles and the Ukrainian State Budget Act. If Parliament continues to work, the first issues of the agenda will be the educational laws and the Ukrainian State Budget Act. The second question. With regard to today's vote. Colleagues, I'm talking to everyone. Remove your emotions. Take it easy. A small serious, on the one hand, small, on the other hand, a serious step. This is the first step. Mega-format didn't come out. But maybe go back to the form of an old and new coalition or a coalition of three. In order to continue the coalition negotiations and in order to complete the process, it is proposed to announce, firstly, the closing of the plenary session now. And secondly, to announce political consultations of the relevant three factions, which are likely to create a coalition. Although the results of the vote show that the return to the old format is not excluded. Dear colleagues, I declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council closed. Thank you.
