ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Enable the “Race ” system [[10:12:13]] They registered in the 288 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, allow me to provide you with information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary session on December 25, 2008. 23 questions of the agenda have been considered. As a result of the review: 12 laws and 17 regulations were adopted, one bill was adopted on the basis of a re-reading of one bill, one bill was adopted on the second reading and a third reading was rejected, two bills and one draft regulation were rejected. Dear colleagues, on the Conciliation Council, which has just ended, we have discussed a list of issues to consider today. [[And I'd like to apologize first of all for delaying the start of our work.]] The first thing I'd like to do is inform. Honorary colleagues, faction leaders, offered unanimously that we, or national MPs, should make a decision and count the one - day salary for families of victims and victims of the tragedy that took place in Eupatoria. I would ask, honourable national deputies, if you agree, for support in accounting to make the right lives. And I'd like to ask you to do it immediately. The other one. It's a sharp reaction. There's no need to vote, it's the will to be every national MP. And I would like to demonstrate this will. I'm sure it'll be demonstrated. Honorary colleagues, indignation by the faction, such as the Party of the Regions, sparked an action that involved two cards of national deputies who were not in the session room to support the Ukrainian State Budget project. We agreed in such a way that from each faction of one representative headed by the First Vice-Speaker, Alexander Lavrinović's First Deputy Chief of the Supreme Council, with the participation of the Committee on Rules, MPs and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council, a comprehensive, comprehensive investigation of this fact was conducted and the results were informed by the Ukrainian National Deputies. And I would ask everyone not to continue to allow ourselves to be humiliated by the Supreme Council and the National Deputies. Raise everything: the video order, the stenographers -- and see why it happened? Also, dear colleagues, we agreed on a meeting schedule. A national MP, a colleague of Smytheuch, insists that we consider today the question of the gambling business. In principle, the Conciliation Council also supported this, so I would ask that we work today in such a way that we can consider all these issues. If not, we will be the first to ask these questions in the next plenary week, which we need to consider immediately, since people are all talking about what should be done to stop the corrupting of young people and adolescents. Dear colleagues, according to article 25 of the Rules on Friday, we have 30 minutes to make inquiries. Let me announce the questions that have come. Please sign up, five minutes. Let me see. Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u2	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear fellow believers, we have the opportunity to work constructively and effectively on Friday. The agenda proposed by the Conciliation Council is objective and can lead to normal constructive work, as it has been for the last two weeks of the Supreme Council today on Friday. I would also like, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to support my colleague, Smitzhuh, so that this bill can be considered today. There, by the way, are a couple of bills that don't just regulate, but bring these games. Play business outside the populace. And not only the cities, but also the villages, as is done in civilized countries, so that really, as you said, the depravity of people does not occur. I offer to work constructively and effectively today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u3	People's Deputy Korge, Timoshenko Street.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u4	Please pass the word to Ivan Grigorovitch Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u5	Ivan Kirilenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u6	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Three questions raised by the faction and asked for attention. It's about cards. We have a fellow fisherman, we have a card, and the card doesn't work, because the duplicate of this card works in a completely different part of the room, and we ask you to count in the next vote that this is our vote. So it's not just one faction, it's embossed, we have exactly the same situation. So we're going to count this voice to ourselves. Next question. Volodymyr Mikhailovich will support the faction of the day-to-day problem of gaming business, it's really a tragedy for our young people. We will be sure to support these bills. And let's add another one. Number 3560 on urgent measures to minimize the negative effects of the financial crisis in the breadmaking industry. We ask that this question be put to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u7	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u8	The situation is critical. I think other factions will support it. We have the most valuable government influence in this field and in connection with the loans received by the farmers today, the situation is indeed extremely critical. We can stay in the New Year without this field. That is why we support the inclusion in the order of the day. And we ask our colleagues to come back again, take a quiet look at the 2009 issue of the State Budget. We must not leave the country without a budget. We therefore suggest that we continue to work today until the issue is concluded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u9	Yuri Karmazin, faction “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u10	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. Ladies and gentlemen, we have brought to your attention the draft Decision on Change in the Calendar Plan, so that we can hold plenary meetings on both December 29th and December 30th and December 31st, because the country is today without an approved budget. And even if a first-reading budget is to be adopted today, all these days need to be worked to then adopt the bill in the second reading. This isn't the first time, and we started this tradition. Personally, I once put a Christmas tree in this room because we then adopted a budget of 31 in the middle of the evening. As far as other questions are concerned. We have a question today: the previous report of the Provisional Commission on Nitzbank, but there's no Security Service report, there's no Finmonitoring report, there's no Henprocurator's report. Ladies and gentlemen, we're holding these organs, they have to report what they've done to stabilize and to stop.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u11	People's MP Landik has the right to speak to Schuffritch, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u12	No, Jaroslav Sukhoma.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u13	Jaroslav Suhi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u14	Vladimir Mikhailovich, now on the street under the Supreme Council, gathered hundreds of members of the breadmaking industry. A bill that agrees with the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, 3,560, Ukrainian national deputy colleague Trinduk is ready to report it. I'd like to include it in the agenda. And I would like to give the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u15	Nestor Schufrich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u16	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! As a result of human negligence — unfortunately that is the cause of the tragedy that took place yesterday in the city of Eupatoria — our citizens were killed. Today, mourning has been declared in Ukraine. I ask that we honor Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u17	I beg you, we did, I beg you, we honored the dead yesterday, I beg you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u18	But the mourning is now officially announced, I would ask that there are, unfortunately, the number of those who have died.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u19	Dear colleagues! You understand this situation now, please, the day of mourning announced, let's once again honor the memory of the dead. Please sit down. Dear National Deputies! We exchanged thoughts about the proposals. There were suggestions: a game business to consider today; a bill concerning the breadwinners. So we have to make a decision then that if we're going to include these issues so that we can make a decision that we're going to work on these issues. I'm putting this motion to a vote. Please vote. [[10:23:00]] For 219 The decision is not supported. Then I'd like us to work more quickly. Dear colleagues! A request was received from the national deputies of Ukraine. Paul SULKOVSKOV, President of Ukraine, on the extension of the honorary title of "Mother Hero of Ukraine" to many children's mothers of the village of Staré Selo, Drozdin, Transgressor and Vežice of the Rokitni district of the Plain region. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:23:45]] For 265 Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[10:24:06]] For 249 Decision taken. Groups of National Deputies to the Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget, Prime Minister of Ukraine on the adequacy of the function and budgetary financing of the Ukrainian Institute of National Memory. [[SYVKOVIC, KLEJEVA. Total 10 deputies]] Victor SUNCHENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the provision of inefficient energy services to the Closed Association of Shareholders of AES Kiivoblanergo in the Kagarlic region of Kiev. GREGORY to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the provision of information on the points of standing for satellites in geostationary orbit. Mr. Eduard PRUETNIK to the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Fuel and Energy of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Head of NAC Naftogaz Ukraine, on the gasification of the village of Proletarska Koropské District of Montenegro and the completion of the conduct of the Athusz Proletarsk Pipeline. Mr. Eduard PRUTNIK to the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Transport and Communications of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Head of the State Road Service of Ukraine, Chief of Roads Service in Chernigiv region regarding the construction of general-purpose roads in the villages of Ribotin and Karilska Koropa region of Chernigiv. Igora KALETNIKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Ministry of Transport and Communications of Ukraine, the Head of the State Road Service of Ukraine regarding the ignoring of the Ministry of Transport and Communications of Ukraine and the State Road Service of Ukraine, the Prime Minister of Ukraine's mandate to provide repair and financing of the road in the Winnitz region. Mikoli Sherschun to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the creation of a working group with the aim of determining the mechanism for granting appropriate status to persons who, during the accident at the Chernobyl AES, were in childhood and who were subsequently infected with thyroid cancer. Alexander ŠEPELEV to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of measures to prevent the closure of bakeries and the rise in the price of bread. Paul SULKOVSKI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Defence of Ukraine, on the abuse by military officials of A1519 in the provision of housing for families of military personnel in the city of Dubno Ravnisk. Tetjana BACHTEY'S request to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the opaque and ineffective use of the funds of the State Budget of Ukraine that arise from the pooling of the resources of the three medical programs in one budget programme. Jury CARMAZINA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Fuel and Energy of Ukraine for the verification of illegal liquidation by the leaders of VAT "Ukranafta" three oil and gas expeditions: Borislavski, Superventive and Ivano-Frankovsky, three bases of manufacturing services located in the East of Ukraine: Kachanovski, Rybalski and Anastasovski, as well as the liquidation of the Eastern High-mounting Plant, which will bring hundreds of millions of dollars to the state and threaten the national security of Ukraine and the use of measures to prevent the destruction of the oil and gas industry in Ukraine. [[Poltava and Suma]] Group of National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on increasing financing of the road sector in 2009. [[COMARA, DEMITA, and others. Total 5 deputies]] Group of National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the Reduction of State Unemployment. [[THE mosquito, the wheat, and others. Total 6 deputies]] Mr. Andria PAVLOWSKI to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the State Tax Administration of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Security Service, the Ukrainian Attorney General’s Office for the verification of corruption and bribery by the head of the Kyiv City Administration, Leonid Czernovecki. Victor BONDARENKA to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for his opposition to the raiding of the Open Shareholder Society of the Sumski Hjrokobinat, for the obstruction of the force structures of the area. Victoria DEMJANČUK to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on numerous cases of abuse of office and systematic violations of legislation by the Chief of Linear Administration of the South West Railway Administration of the Ukrainian Ministry of Railways on the railway transport of Paul Guzola. Victoria DEMJANČUK to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Head of the State Tax Administration of Ukraine, Minister of Health of Ukraine, Head of the State Committee on Technical Control and Consumer Policy, Prosecutor General of Ukraine on the corruption of the Chief of Linear Administration of the South West Railway Administration of Ukraine on the railway transport of Paul Gusola unlawfully operates a number of entrepreneurial structures and "breaking" their criminal activities with a view to satisfying personal and private interests. Mr Vladimir DANILENKA to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine, on the manifestation of vandalism over the monuments of history and culture on the side of the "Congress of Ukrainian Nationalists". Vladimir DANILENA to the Minister of Transport and Communications of Ukraine regarding the unsatisfying service of the passengers of the Kiev-Fastian electric trains. GREGORY to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine regarding the provision of information on legal grounds for the participation of officials of the authorities and departments of the State Automobile Inspectorate of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the forced evacuation of vehicles in Kiev. ZENOVIA CUTJAKA to the Head of the State Commission of Securities and Stock Market of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the refusal of the State Commission of Securities and Stock Market of Ukraine to issue a certificate of registration of the release of shares of the Open Share Company "Zád Radar" from the city of Kramatorá representative of the leading shareholder of the Open Shareholder Society "Beth". Ivan DENKOVIĆA to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine regarding the non-application of measures by the Head of Education and Science of the Lviv Regional Public Administration on violations of Ukrainian legislation and violations in the organization of educational process, selection and placement of personnel, distributed pedagogical effort by the Director of the Upper Yablun secondary education school of the Turkov region of Lviv Region by Ivan Siczak. Katerina Vaškuk to the Head of the Ukrainian Pension Fund on the assignment of the Micheli Black pension in the scales set by the Board of Directors in the Poltava region. Mr. Mikoli KATERINCHUKA to the Minister of Health of Ukraine for the conduct of an examination of the activities of medical and medical institutions in the city of Vinnica to identify possible violations of the current legislation of Ukraine. MICHAEL VOLINCE to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on dissatisfaction with the reply of the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine to a parliamentary appeal regarding the unlawful detention of the Head of the First Professional Organisation, Igor Simonik, in the workplace in the territory of the Open Shareholder Society of the Mariupolska Metallurgical Combine Ilić. Olega MALIČA to the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine on the status of housing for military personnel in 2008. [[on behalf of the Defence Minister of Ukraine Yuri Yehanurov's statement on the issue of the 4500th apartment warrant]] Ms. Aleksandra ŠEPELEVA to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine regarding the failure to tolerate an increase in tuberculosis in 2009 and the need to increase funding for government programs to combat this disease. GORDIENKA to the Human Rights Council of Ukraine, Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine on human rights violations, impartiality, biased treatment of the injured party of the law enforcement and judicial authorities in the criminal proceedings against the murder of Alina Fedkević, a citizen of the village of Novoselovka Calancek district of the Hersonian region. GORDIENKA to the Head of the Court of Auditors, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for providing a legal assessment of the illegal allocation of funds by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, at the expense of the State Budget Reserve Fund, to complete the work on the construction of the first line of the Ukrainian Memorial Remembrance Complex. Mr. Jury KRUKA to the Ministry of Transport and Liaison of Ukraine on changing the criteria for the operation of seaports. LITHUANIA’S Jury to the Head of the State Tax Administration of Ukraine regarding the failure of the State Tax Administration to execute a court decision on the renewal of Vladimir Teslak’s office. VALERIA TO THE U.S. Attorney - General of Ukraine regarding the involvement of the first deputy head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Valentina Natvajchenka, in speculations on the currency market. Vladimir PILIPENKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the involvement of the first Deputy Head of the Ukrainian Security Service Valentina Navejchenka in the illegal removal of information and interference with the work of the Internet server “Ukrainian Justice”. Mr. Vladimir PILIPENKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the involvement of the first Deputy Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, Valentin Navejchenka, in illegal operational and search actions concerning the members of the Central Electoral Commission. BORDIN’S Sovereignty to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the commission of unlawful acts by Judge Shevchenkov of the district court of Kyiv Sergia Zubkova. Igor KALETNIKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the gravity of the investigation into criminal cases Nos.357 and 696 concerning the smuggling of means of transport. Igor SAVCHENKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the involvement of the first Deputy Head of the Ukrainian Security Service Valentina Navejchenka in the disappearance of the ex-head of the Lviv Administrative Court of Appeal, Igor Zvarič. Mr. Mikoli KATERINCHUKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the conduct of a medical examination of the activities of medical institutions in the city of Vinnica to detect possible violations of the current legislation of Ukraine. Mikoli Sherschun to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the removal of the medical and health component from the charter fund of the Open Stock Company of the Ternopil Combin Factory, which serves over 21,000 people in the city of Ternopil. Petra SIMONENKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal actions of officials and local authorities in Cherkasa. Svetoslav ALINIKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the involvement of the first Deputy Head of the Ukrainian Security Service Valentina Navejchenka and former Deputy Head of the Ukrainian Security Service Oleg Sklar to obtain information about the privacy of Ukrainian citizens. Ms. Jurija CARMAZINA and Ms. Oleg LASKA to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the involvement of the first Deputy Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, Valentina Navejchenka, in the appropriation of the budget. Ms. Kostin BONDARIEVA to the Head of the SBU Authority in Zaporezki district regarding the involvement of the first Deputy Head of the Ukrainian Security Service Valentina Nadvajchenka in the theft of cultural values in the Zaporozhye region. Dear colleagues, all requests from the national deputies have been made. Let us turn to the issues set out in the schedule for today’s plenary day. Dear colleagues, yesterday the Supreme Council of Ukraine did not support the conclusions and proposals of the Committee on Budgets relating to the draft Law on the State Budget of Ukraine for 2009. In accordance with the Code of Budget and the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in case of non-compliance with the proposals of the Committee of Budget of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine should proceed to an article-by-article review of each proposal submitted by the Committee of Budgets for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I would like to invite the head of the budget committee, Mikola Ivanovich Derkac, to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u20	Dear People's Deputies, at 9.30 a.m., a meeting of the Committee on Budget Affairs was held. The agenda was one on the 2009 budget adoption situation. We have returned to the issues raised by the members of the session hall, in particular the ferry bridge and the Pavlograd Hymzad, and a number of other issues. Authorized representative from the Government, Deputy Finance Minister Anatoly Ivanovich Merkovsky attended, and decisions were taken on all these matters, and more specifically, the Government's consent. The decision was as follows. To request the Supreme Council to hear a representative of the Government on issues raised yesterday by the deputies and found no authorization. Then vote in favour of the draft budget in general if the members are satisfied with the issues adopted by the budgetary committee. Please give the floor to Merkovsky Anatoly Ivanovich on the decisions taken by the Government. Anatoly Ivanovich! For the time being, wait, we'll turn it on or not.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u21	Anatoly Merkowski, please. Dear colleagues!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u22	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! We had a fruitful discussion on the budget committee yesterday, and we found support for the budget proposals, including the corresponding amendments. And this morning we had a proper meeting, and there's a positive budget committee decision on the adoption of this bill in the first reading and in general, taking into account the amendments that were supported by the government's transcript yesterday, and we've further agreed on a number of changes. This refers to the definition of subsidies for the construction of the bridge in Zaporozhye – 100 million dollars for road fund costs; the addition to the text of 76 articles towards the disposal of ammunition and solid rocket fuels; the changes under 1801300 – a million 200 dollars programme and the transfer to 1801100 programme; and the financing of the National Union of Ukrainian Writers by a separate line under the code of 1801100 for 2.5 million dollars in 2009. Also supported is the proposal to increase public security spending by 15 million dollars, as well as by 2.8 million dollars on PNB. And a separate position based on the funds set out in article 76 — subsidies for socio-economic development in the Zitomir region totaling 12 million dollars. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u23	Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, please sign up, five minutes, please. And invite the national deputies to the session room, and let them work in the session room. I'd like to see the name of the national MPs who signed up. Stojko, “Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u24	Dear Mr. Head, my fellow Members, I have just made a statement by a representative of the Ministry of Finance, and I would like to say that unfortunately, the Ministry of Finance does not see the proposals made by the Committee on Defence and National Security. No bracelet was ever added to the Armed Forces. 6.9 billion is not the 17 we asked for. And that's why I have a request to make sure that the Ukrainian soldier has not only what they say to eat and dress for, but also has the resources to study, to re-supply, and to do everything to ensure that the General Intelligence Directorate, external intelligence, the Security Service, do everything they can to actively protect.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u25	Let them speak, and then the answer will be. National Deputy Skubashewski, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u26	I beg you to pass the word to Turmanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u27	The Turmanov People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u28	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! On 24 December, at a meeting of the budgetary committee, I proposed that pensions be made to coal miners of four billion dollars. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and to the general budget of the Union. delete the industry from the general fund and transfer the funds to the Pension Fund, which pays pensions to all retirees. I want Deputy Minister Anatoly Ivanovich to respond to the transcript today, and at the meeting of the budgetary committee, he confirmed that we will withdraw these funds and transfer them to the Pension Fund. And what we proposed today is not included. And I want to say that the budget proposed by the Government, for the coal industry, I am formally addressing this is a collapse of the coal industry. I already said that you spoke beautifully for the prestige of mining work, so this law you just keep.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u29	Peter Cibenko, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u30	Thank you. The Communist faction, the first deputy head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons. Dear colleagues, the attitude of the Company of Ukraine towards this short document has not changed overnight. I want to emphasize that 10 million. Of the 14 pensioners, the veterans, the disabled, who get a pension between 500 and 1,000 dollars, they won't get a penny in the next year. And the rest of the time, I'm asking you to tell the deputy to Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u31	National MP Vladimir Matthew, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u32	Thank you. Well, you know, there's a mockery of the Ukrainian people's deputies. The changes that have been made under this arrangement have not been in our hands. First. Second. No proposal made by the Communist faction has been taken into account. I specifically say that there is no money to build a bridge across the South Bug in the Nikolayev region, no money to support the shipbuilding industry of 48 million.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u33	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u34	To vote in favour of a budget that has virtually nothing to offer, change, nothing to people, no job increase, no company of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u35	Vasil Fedorovich Shpak, please. It's the Lithuanian Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u36	I'd like to give Vaszczuk to Catherine Timothy.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u37	Vaszczuk Katerina Timofievna
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, we have just received a request from the Agrarian deputies, and the government is giving an additional interest to lend to the APC's loan repayments of about 2 billion dollars. More! I'm just asking the government to confirm this so that we can calmly know how to vote for the budget. And there's more. Please also consider, there is a call by the deputy faction for the acquisition of the “AN” aircraft through the ice-skating process. This is where the sums are given. This is certainly a request that we take into account. Also, dear colleagues, the forests have been cut off, the foresters have asked for at least 90 million to land the forest, otherwise we will have nothing.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u39	People's Deputy Mojcan, faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u40	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Mr. Head! Honorable and Governmental! I urge you to increase your spending on the actions of the All-U.S. Society to 80,000. The point is that we are publishing 8 magazines that can be stopped today, including the “Bachmutska trajectories” and the “Crime Lights”. I would like to ask you to make sure that these costs are included in this line. Therefore, and for the implementation of the children’s collection, the publication of computer games in the Ukrainian language is very important, especially in the Ukrainian language. I ask you very much to anticipate these costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u41	Lilia Grigorovich, faction “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u42	Please pass the word to Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u43	Viachelav Kirilenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u44	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “For Ukraine! ” Dear colleagues, distinguished voters, of course, there is no point in talking about some macro-indicators in this room anymore, because talking about this subject has already become a sign of a stupid tone. Then I'll talk about things that don't set us up. And that's from yesterday, and there's no change here. The expenditures of the Ministry of Defense in the amount of money requested by the Ministry of Defence are largely off-limits and off-limits. What's going to be financed through the Stabilization Fund means zero, because it's a big question of whether or not it's going to be filled at all. The other one. The cost of national cinema was reduced by 10 times for the first time in all time. You know, the Yanukovich government didn't cut these costs like the Timoshenko government. Expenditure on the Institute of National Memory is virtually zero. Twenty-six thousand dollars added. It's not Ukrainian politics. The one taking responsibility for himself, vote. We don't see any possibilities for ourselves yet.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u45	Ladies and gentlemen, time is up. But Alexy the crane insists. If you don't mind, I'll give him my word. And then the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine will have the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u46	A party of regions. I would like Minfin to leave at the 2008 level for disabled persons, 46 million 690 for disabled persons, under code 250.11.20. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u47	Dear colleagues, First Deputy Prime Minister Alexander Turchinov, please. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u48	Dear colleagues, once again, I call your attention to the fact that the budget as a law can only work in one case when it is based on a real income base. The income base of this budget in a global crisis is as much as possible. So to increase another billion, three, five ten, as proposals were, they were considered, by the way, in both the Minfin and the Budget Committee, it was simply to destroy the budget process altogether. Yes, the budget is heavy, but he's real, respected colleagues. And when our nation adopts the budget by the end of this year, it's a sign that we're with you, but we've gone our way of stabilizing our economy. The non-acceptance of the budget is another testimony that political and economic stability in Ukraine is at stake. The following problems were raised by national MPs. According to the agrarians, we're dealing with agrarians and there's been an offer to make a resource that was actually provided in the budget. It's going to be real secure and it's going to be real secure and it's going to be reflected in the budget. That's the first one. Next. There will be a very serious discussion, a very serious discussion has been taking place around the defense problems of our nation. And Viacheslav Kirilenko spoke, and Anatoly Grizzenko, now literally ended the negotiations on the National Security Committee and Parliament, which the proposal is accepted by the government, and I now ask that if we vote, we vote in favour of this proposal. 3.9 billion defence orders are a real resource that will be fully funded from the beginning of the year. And in order for there to be no questions about where resources with a profile committee will be used, it's agreed that it's the profile committee that will distribute this resource. This is true because we believe that the national deputies working on the committee are able to approach this issue objectively and that this resource will clearly enhance our country’s security. I think Anatoly Stepanovich should be in the Supreme Council right now, and he'll confirm that position. Hence, the honourable colleagues who spoke on behalf of the disabled who had been discussed on the Committee of Budgets at another expense. Once again, I want to say for the transcript that all the issues that the budget committee supported, according to the budget committee's transcript, will be incorporated into the law. What's discussed is what Minfin spoke, that is, all of these issues will be clearly recorded both in the transcripts and in accordance with the law, which I very much hope the Supreme Council will support. So, dear fellows, once again, I want to address all the national MPs, no matter what faction or political power they represent, this is the way of stabilizing the country. And I'm asking you to vote right now for stabilizing the economic situation in our country. Thank you. I hope you'll be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u49	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to prepare for the vote and allow me a few words. Dear colleagues, this is the budget that the government has put in, we've been looking at it, what's called, on the move. Obviously, not everything in the budget is taken into account, but I would like, my fellow Members, to assume that the government that has proposed this budget is responsible for the adoption of this budget. Dear colleagues, because the Supreme Council was unable to work because we had no opportunity to work because of the overwhelming circumstances. And I'd like us all to make a conscious decision here. So please, your honors, pay attention. Who? De Gritsenko. Please, let's wait for Gritsenko right now, I'll tell you what. Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you to approach all the factions. Let's say the government is essentially made up of representatives of two factions, either we support the government or we don't support the government. So let's do it this way. Dear colleagues! Can we ask the question of voting, there are no more supplements in the government? That's why I'm voting. Attention, please. – a proposal for a committee to adopt as a basis and as a whole as a law on the basis of the proposals of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Budget Issues to the bill set out in the committee's letter, with the proposals of Minfin, which have found appropriate support. I mean, with the government's proposals. Please vote. [[10:57:29]] For 219 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party - 1, Yulia Timoshenko Block - 155, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" - 43, Communist faction - 0, "Litvina Block" - 20. Please, five minutes. Please log in. Vote, sign up, please. Vaszczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u50	Dear members of the government! Dear National Deputies! We all realize that in one case only one budget can be implemented if production works. If we only hope that people will survive on their own, it will be very difficult. Production that can yield the fastest and can keep all economic indicators, including GDP, is an agricultural sector. But we have to plant it. Today, more than a billion are needed to prolong loans. We're not talking about other articles anymore, we're saying from that special fund, we're going to transfer the loans to the general, but the loans to the peasants, to the extension of the loans, to the credit to the sower. And there'll be more votes in the room.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u51	Alexander Ephraim's faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u52	I ask you to pass the word to Azarov Nikola Janovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u53	Mikola Janović Azarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u54	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished members of the people! The Supreme Council has expressed its attitude towards this budget yesterday and today, so let us stop the abuse of common sense both over the Supreme Council and over the Ukrainian people. Let the Government plan January for one twelfth of a month, that is enough to ensure all social expenditures. During this time, the Government must understand what we have adopted here, prepare a normal bill and submit a proposal to the Supreme Council on 14 January. We must make a commitment here within a week to consider the bill and adopt it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u55	Alla Alexandrovska, a faction of Communists instead of Peter Zybenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u56	The Alexandrian Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Dear colleagues! The communists have repeatedly held both the budget committee and the Supreme Council Hall said that the 2009 budget should be indeed anti-crisis. However, on our question of how many new jobs will be created as a result of the implementation of this law. What would be the wage that would, of course, take into account inflation and price increases? What measures will be taken to protect people who are deprived of their jobs. We have not received a complete answer to all our questions. The budget should be sent urgently to the Government for further work. One month is enough to create a new financial plan in which to finally set up programmes that will create jobs. It's absurd, we're running low on housing and utilities, and there's absolutely no planning on repairing heat grids, sewerage networks, plumbing. That means people will be thrown out on the street and we'll lose the people who work in this industry. We can't decide.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u57	Give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u58	The Government did not plan to solve the problem of the Pavlovrad Hymn. It is we who have just expressed our sympathy to those who have suffered in the Eupatoria today. But it sounds wild that the reason is the most basic, divisive, unorganizational and our Government today exhibits the same diversity and the same disorganization, but on a national scale. We must force the Government to work, so the budget needs to be restored.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u59	Thank you. Roman Tkac, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u60	Roman Tkac, “Our Ukraine”. Dear colleagues, remember how for about a month there was a heated debate in this room about the draft legislation relating to the development of the agricultural sector. All the factions stood for it without exception. Remember how many times the position was that of the government, that we would help our Ukrainian village, and what resulted? We've adopted, let's say, normal laws, but the whole point is, in these days, everything we've done with you is gone. There is no real financial security. I want to tell all the deputies and citizens of Ukraine, the price of milk and meat will rise from January 1st, because we cancelled the VAT and didn't make it out of that budget. Today, there are only three million cattle from the five million - year - old cattle in Ukraine. You can't do that. All the funds that are set up in the stability fund are hollow numbers. And once again, I demand that either the Prime Minister or the Deputy Prime Minister here in this room promise all peasants that 2.2 billion will be removed from the general.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u61	Oleg Belarus, faction “Bloka Tymoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u62	Please pass the word to John Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u63	Ivan Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u64	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Well, perhaps the more vivid the evidence of the formula, the more there can be. As many arguments have been said that 1/12 in 2009 is not 1/12 in 2008, it's completely different things. How many times has it been said that, friends, the adoption of the state's budget at such a difficult time, is a signal to the world that this state normally functions, that it's normal here in power, that economic laws work here normally. The non-acceptance of the budget is a signal of the exact opposite quality, the country's ratings up to zero, no one's going to have to deal with us, colleagues, because we have a balanced financial system, which is exactly the same effect that today in the hall is the worst, the better. Vladimir Mikhailovich, the faction gathered 150 votes to make next week a session week for us to work, once we had the time that we had taken under a tree budget. We're behind the budget this year!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u65	Dear colleagues, we were exchanging thoughts, if you don't mind, Anatoly Grizzenko, head of the committee, asked questions, from place, please. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u66	Dear colleagues, I would like to inform you about the work that was done this morning with the Prime Minister, with the participation of members of our committee. We've found solutions to the problems that make it possible, and at least I voted against it, to vote now. The Prime Minister agreed that we are transferring the amount of 1 billion dollars from the stabilisation fund to the general fund, and this will provide the necessary needs in all strong structures in terms of financial security, employees' salaries, utilities and food for the Armed Forces. We agreed that the Prime Minister would go to a meeting that would sign a supplement to the use of 3.5 billion bracelets that had been put into a stable fund and it would guarantee 100% of its funding, allocated to implement infrastructure projects such as the construction of its own ship of the Corvette class, the multi-functional rocket complex of the AN-70 aircraft, a substantial increase in the management of conventional munitions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u67	Give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u68	solid and liquid fuel, i.e. it's a total of over 2 billion dollars that will allow us to develop our power structures. If this is maintained by the government, I will personally vote in favour and invite the national MPs to support this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u69	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please, what government do you have in mind regarding the number of suggestions and warnings made by the deputies here? Who Will Speak From the Government? Please, Alexander Valentinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, the government can work around the clock in the difficult conditions in which the country is now. I hope the Supreme Council is also ready for a round-the-clock work. And we're all we can count and count, and we'll count, but within that budget, within that income potential that a country can afford today. So within these limits, please, balanced income and expenditure, we can reduce any expenditure and increase by the same amount. The only thing the government will never do is play with unrealistic incomes. Because it's just going to lead to inflation in the country, it's just going to cause a complete collapse in the financial and the imbalance in public financial resources. So, fellow Members, not ready to vote today, let's work on Saturday, Monday, Tuesday, but by the end of this year, Ukraine's budget should be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u71	Yes, there are no more willing speakers? Please sign up for another three minutes, because this is going to be endless. Please have the name of the national MPs on the board. Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u72	He's asking me to pass on the word "Lashka," and I can't say no.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u73	Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u74	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Thank you, Volodymyr Alexanderovich. Dear colleagues! I think we need to support the government's position. Let's work tomorrow, and on Sunday, or in the form of committees, or in the form of working groups, but the budget should be accepted by the end of the year. I think it is absolutely irresponsible to have a working parliament in the country that is unable to accept the budget. A budget that gives people hope for salaries and pensions. Ukrainian citizens should be aware that those who did not vote in favour of the budget today did not vote for the opportunity to receive wages and pensions after the New Year. Because, as has been rightly pointed out, one in the twelfth of 2008 and one in the twelfth of 2009, as our non-budgeted colleagues have suggested, these are completely different categories, these are completely different numbers. So let's do it, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u75	National Deputy Stojko, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u76	Thank you. Dear colleagues, unfortunately, I haven't heard from the Deputy Prime Minister in any way in terms of strength, defense, national security, anything. And so what Anatoly Stepanovich Grecenko said is a wish, but there's no confirmation. But now, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, please pass on the word to Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u77	Viachelav Kirilenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u78	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “For Ukraine” MP. I confirm what Comrade Stojko said. Because I don't know how Prime Minister Timoshenko can guarantee to the Director of the Defence Committee that, through privatization, she'll provide nearly four billion to finance the defense and allow the committee to distribute these billions. Where are these billions? They're gone, they're virtual. And this whole discussion that's in the room right now, because the government wants to take it all in bulk, the unprepared budget to sell. The Ministry of Health calls at the last minute: give at least 120 million more to the first need. The answer is zero, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u79	Ivan Popescu, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u80	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. The great colleagues, what has been said here is that if the budget is not accepted, there will be no pay and no pension, it's absolute lie and no lie. The thing is, if there's 1/12 in January figures, it's going to be more than the average if we're going to accept the bill they're giving us today. This is the first shade. Second shade. People’s deputies had no opportunity to make their proposals. Even the proposals we made through the committees, I'll give you an example, they weren't even included in the table. We offered to put on national minority newspapers even though the government had agreed to it in September. They took and reduced by one and a half million. One second. Here. The culture of national minorities in the Ministry of Culture was one and a half million, and now there are 150,000. The third point, which should also be spoken. If we vote what we have now, the minimum subsistence minimum, the minimum wage is not from January 1st, but from December 1st of the following year, i.e. against people. And we need to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u81	Peter Cibenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u82	Peter Cibenko, a faction of Communists, the first deputy head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons. Dear colleagues, and the First Military Prime Minister, and some of the coalition's representatives today fear Ukraine with 1/12 funding. But I am absolutely convinced that 1/12 of the 2009 budget is worse, worse, I underline, even 1/12 of the current budget in 2008. That's the first one. The other one. The current budget project does not contain any copies of the general fund for the purchase of cars for disabled persons, no copies, although this year there were 114 million. The third argument. There are no 2.5 billion subsidies in this project to local veteran aid budgets, and the point is that they will not actually work in the regions after this budget has been adopted. So, dear fellows, this budget is even worse than the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u83	Sergei Tereshuk, then Yatzenuk. And we'll finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u84	Dear Volodymira Mihajlovich, Honourable Alexander Valentinovich, deputies of the “Lituin Block” vote every time for the budget, because we understand that we cannot enter the following year without accepting the budget. But it's our main point of view. We realize that there is not enough money to meet all the needs. But still, it would have to be more balanced to distribute those small, small amounts that are in the budget today, especially in agriculture. Practically, the articles that were previously funded are funded, although it was necessary to focus on the defining directions on which both agriculture and the village depended. So the suggestion: maybe it's more balanced to approach. And yet, Alexander Valentine's Day, you still haven't answered Katerina Vaszuk's question: is it going to be funded by an article that has to do with bank loans or not? You said so tediously that you would count, and you did not hear a specific answer. We'd still like to hear the answer to your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u85	Arsenium Jacinuk, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u86	Jacinoc. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! In view of the fact that we have already voted twice and more precisely three times on the issue of the adoption of the State Budget Act as a whole. It may be possible to propose a compromise proposal that meets the rules of the Ukrainian Budget Code and the requirements of article 157 of the Supreme Council’s Rules. If we now put to the vote the issue of approval of the conclusions of the Budget Committee, as provided for in the Budget Code, to a recess, then the government has once again considered the matter with the budgetary committee and has put Parliament to the table after lunch, and we need to vote after lunch, in fact, the second reading of the State Budget Act. It could save the situation, I think.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u87	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've already exchanged thoughts. Let's see if we can make decisions, more specifically, about making decisions in this sequence: it's clear that we have to go back to this issue; if the decision is not taken, there are two choices here, I've already been given 150 signatures, we're going to have to hold an additional meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine -- first. The second is clearly what we're going to need, I'm just telling the sequence, I'm not in any way pushing for decisions, or we're going to have a draft decree to have plenary sessions next week on 29, 30 and 31 December. The Supreme Council will support, it will not support, it will not support, it will be the will of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. But let me say my personal point of view. You can understand everything. But you can't understand one thing -- how people, being in government at the same time, representing political power, accept a budget in the Cabinet of Ministers and then don't vote for it. I can't understand it. [[Applause]] Clearly, the right decision must be made. How many can rape a country?Oh, my God! We have to make a decision and get out of the government, and that's the principle of a decision. [[Applause]] You should. Honorable colleagues, and we have to stop this farce in the country. We stopped the political crisis. A lot of people don't like it. They want the country to fall apart. The government took responsibility, let it work. Let's say it's a government budget. And the next session or next plenary week, we'll ask what's going on with the budget. And that's how they want to be there and seven. Look at the people in sight! [[Applause]] That's why. May I have your attention, please? Dear colleagues! I'm voting on a proposal just made by Arsenius Yatzenuk. May I have your attention, please? I am voting on the adoption of a proposal by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from the budget to the bill. Acceptance will be the first reading. Please vote. [[11:17:47]] For 222 The decision is not taken. The factions. The Party of Regions – 1, "Club of Yulia Timoshenko" – 155, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense", Communists – 0, "Club of Lithuania" – 19. Obviously, I didn't vote here. Yes, please sign in, five minutes. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u88	Respectful colleagues, evidently when there is no political will, are better off acting in accordance with the law. And in case of disapproval of the conclusions of the Committee of Budgets, we need to move on to each conclusion and proposal separately. This is what the Budget Code provides for, so that we do not try for the lack of political will and the desire to seek yet another one or two votes for decision-making and all this time exchange of thoughts.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u89	Vladimir Yavorowski, faction of Yulia Timoshenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u90	Vladimir Yavorowski, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear voters, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, I will use this moment to address my colleagues, whom I deeply respect and respect. These are the ones from “Our Ukraine”, from NUNS, who did not vote in favour of the budget. Dear colleagues, Mr. Kirilenko of NUNS, you may not like Julia Timoshenko -- this is an absolute right, someone may not like her, not like her -- you may hate the Ukrainian government, considering it to be more professional or less professional, but you cannot hate Ukraine so much because of your petty ambitions. I'm going to Kirilenko, thank you, what happened to you? Well, you see, we're leaving this miserable state, which is barely standing on one foot, and we're leaving it without a budget. I'm listening to you, and I don't believe you're saying that. I understand, once again, you can hate, you can't take anything. Well, why do you hate this truly unhappy state of ours?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u91	Ivan Vernidubov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u92	Thank you. Ivan Vernidubov, Party of Regions. Dear colleagues, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Yulia Timoshenko, yesterday, was due to present to us the draft Law on the State Budget. But instead of drawing our attention to serious, acute social problems, she actually read us a Nobel laureate lecture on the defeat of communism in a separate country, Ukraine, and ended there. True, he said that there was a crisis all over the world. I would like to address Julia Vladimirovne and those who represent the budget today. Dear comrades, for the first time in the history of our Ukraine, you are good at the genocide of insulin dependent citizens. Not a penny was sent for purchase, for the public purchase of insulin, knowing that these citizens were without it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u93	Give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u94	I'm saying knowing that without this drug, it's a category of patients. It leads to death. So, what are we doing? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u95	Oleg Gumenyuk, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u96	Humenuk Oleg, MP “For Ukraine!”, “Our Ukraine”. Please pass the word to Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u97	Viachelav Kirilenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u98	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “For Ukraine! ” There's a colleague here, the head of the committee, who's been asking questions that aren't appropriate, so I want to ask him and his political power. Why do you not so fond of the Ukrainian army, the Ukrainian cinematographer, the Ukrainian culture, even though you are the head of the committee, the national memory, and many other things? First answer here, then ask questions. I want to address you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to you, so I understood that you were referring to us when you spoke of the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u99	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u100	So what I'm saying is, first of all, you're Jaciny, why did you film why? Since he read morals from the rostrum, he does not read the practice of reading morals from the rostrum. That's the first one. The other one. You've already reached the State Commission, the Crossroad, and you want Mintrans and all of our ministries, which are Ukrainians, take away.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u101	Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u102	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! You immediately touched some part of the MP’s corps, which are members of the coalition, probably fair. But what you've addressed to them, I can address you as a national MP, because that's exactly what you're doing to us national MPs. That's the first one. The other one. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the normal proposal was quite obvious that a draft of the State Budget of Ukraine would not be made today. Let's take a break, let's take a break, let's take a look at what we've stressed, because we need to understand that the income portion of the budget is set up on unadopted laws, let the government, at least for ourselves, not for us, figure out what actually exists today. So nothing will happen in Ukraine if the government takes a break for two weeks, prepares changes for this project, and we can accept a real document, not a mythical one.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u103	Thank you. National Deputy Kravchuk, “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u104	Vasil Kravchuk, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko”. You know, I have before me a draft Supreme Council decision on drafting conclusions and proposals for the draft State Budget Act, put forward by the Party of the Regions. And there are proposals in this regulation that they have made, and I have broken all these amounts together, and the amount has gone out to 100 billion 200 million dollars that the Party of the Regions is offering to clarify the spending. Finally, they suggest, where to get it, and it says, “The sources of such expenditure are the optimization of budget programs, the adoption of legislative acts that increase the budget’s income and the review of projected macroeconomic indicators. And at the same time, they didn't vote for any of these programs, and this draft decree is not written by economists but by populists. I think so.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u105	Alexander Efraemov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u106	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, I think that even you are convinced that this is not a job, but a job imitation. And what you're doing, you're just going through the agony of that power. Now, with regard to Alexander Valentinović's statement on the income part of the budget and his colleague, who now described how professionally he was in the public budget. So I can only give you two articles, the first article by inflation you hid in the income section of the budget today, at least 40 billion grevens, and you hid the same amount from the National Bank. That's why you want to manually distribute the entire budget next year, and that's understandable to the whole state. Therefore, we cannot go to what you are doing to support the vote of the Supreme Council. And if you have a coalition, to your health, vote, demonstrate your imitation further. And let's see what you lead our country to. I'm telling you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to the pen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u107	Dear colleagues! Communication is over. Let me suggest this approach so that the experiment is pure. I'd like to take it easy. I will put the return vote on how it will be supported -- then vote on the conclusions and recommendations. It's not going to be supported, so let's define and decide if we're going to continue working next plenary week? No, that's how the proposal will automatically come into effect, which says that the budget will look at 10-13, when we have a plenary week in January, and work on it. Dear colleagues! I offered three options. First option. Listen again, and don't deny it, because it's a compromise to get back to consideration. There'll be support -- we're looking at it. No, then the proposal is to put the draft decision to the vote and put it in order so that the next week will be plenary. This proposal will not be supported – then 150 signatures. I will give them accordingly to work, and we will hold an additional meeting as we proceed from the Rules. So, your honors, it's going to be just the way we're going to do it here. And the next option. It's an election, obviously. So please prepare for the vote. It will be displayed whether will or not. On the return to the review of the draft Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2009 submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers registration number 3000. Please vote. [[11:28:36]] For 222 The decision is not taken. The factions? Please. Region Party – 2, Timoshenko Yulia Block – 154, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” – 46, Communist faction – 0, “Litvina Block” – 20. Now, dear fellows, if you don't mind, let's move on. I am asking to vote in favour of the inclusion in the agenda of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision “To make changes to the calendar plan for the holding of the third session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call”. Registration No. 3538. Please vote. [[11:29:32]] For 245 Order of the day is on. Please record five minutes out of the procedure. Please have the name of the national MPs on the board. National Deputy Jaroschuk, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u108	Please give the word to Alexander Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u109	Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u110	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! I'm actually surprised how you run Parliament! We agreed with you that the decisions that we would put to the vote in the sessionary should at least be taken by the committees concerned. You have now raised a question that has not been seen in the eyes of the people's deputies, and you have not heard it, even what it is about and have nevertheless put the question to the vote. I am not saying that the committee has not passed, which is a grave violation of the rule of the Rules, for which you have fought so much more than a few weeks ago. That's why I don't know, I don't have a limit on your indignation when you go back eight times to the same question that's not going to work. And then you try to bet what no one knows. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u111	Dear colleagues, this bill was given 23 numbers. All the deputies got it. If someone doesn't read, but... I'm going to give you this document right now. Please calm down. Vlasenko, the faction “Bloka ulija timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u112	Can I have a word with you, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u113	Alexander Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u114	Oleg, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u115	Oleg Lazko, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u116	The citizens, the factions, the Baloga and Yushchenka factions not only voted in favour of the draft State Budget but also in favour of its consideration. They're depriving the country of the future, because what you see, they didn't give it to the movies, they didn't give it to anything else. People eat nothing, people work everywhere, and give them movies. So I think that the idea that Vladimir Mikhailovich put out has a right to life. I'm proposing right now to look at the staffing issues and transform the government, to send to the government professionals who care about the country, who care about people getting salaries, pensions that care about the country being budgeted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u117	Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u118	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear colleagues, the situation is very simple. We've just voted and everybody knows it, we don't have to tell fairy tales, everyone knows what we've just voted for, that December 29, 30 and 31st, the Supreme Council will be working in plenary. And those who say that they didn't know something, they just know the problem is that a man of seventy is already on the tropical islands. That's the problem. And I think that those 245 people who voted to work both 29 and 30 and 31 December are aware of their responsibility, the responsibility of the people's deputies, the responsibility of the Supreme Council for adopting the budget, for amending the Ukrainian legislation, so that in January, not those on the islands of tropical men 70-80, but those who can't even go to another city, because there's no money for bread have this money.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u119	Ivan Stojko, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u120	Ivan Stojko, “For Ukraine”, “Our Ukraine”. I want to talk to the speaker who was speaking from Timoshenko's Block and talking about culture and movies as if it were nothing for Ukraine. For Ukrainians, it's a lot, which means it's our tradition, our culture. But if it's all the same to you, it's not the same for us. I have another question. You know, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, you're talking about speculation, morality, but I would tell you the next thing you know, if you just sat in a speaker's chair, in three minutes you announced a coalition that wasn't there, and while you're accusing Arsenija Yatsenuk, you don't have morals. And the next. This Cabinet of Ministers that works, this isn't the Cabinet of Ministers, this is the cabinet of one, first minister, minister, Prime Minister Timoshenko, no one has a word and decides all one person. That is why such an office is really not necessary!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u121	Leonid Kojara, faction of the Party of the Regions. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u122	Please pass the word to Sulkovski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u123	Paul Sulkowski, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u124	Dear colleagues, there has just been an offer from the BIT to immediately remove today’s government under the leadership of Julia Timoshenko. And it's really going to be a feat and it's going to be by a man, it's to get Ukraine out of this fair! That's why we need to make a budget decision right now, Vladimir Mikhailovich! Vladimir Mikhailovich, just a name after a lack of time. Insulin patients, insulin is not excreted in the body for treatment of tuberculosis! It's practically genocide, you living people today, so-called patriots, to do what in January these sick people do, to order! And whoever votes for this budget is a crime!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u125	People's MP Kamchatny, faction of the Timoshenko Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u126	Dear voters! Dear citizens of Ukraine! You can see with your own eyes and you can hear with your ears this cynicism that is happening today in the Supreme Council Hall. Those who went to Canary today and the rest of the Canary faction, who do not support the budget here, revealed their truths. I ask you very much in the next election to remember who does not want the budget for Ukraine, and he went to Canary today.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u127	Dear people's deputies, we exchanged thoughts. May I have your attention, please? Well, calm down. I will put to the vote on draft regulation 3538 without a committee decision. This is about making changes to the calendar plan for the third session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call. Please vote. [[11:37:13]] For 263 Decision taken. Now, dear fellows, I beg you, is there a need for us to discuss the verdict? You don't? No need? Please write down five minutes, let's just exchange thoughts. Please. On the board is the name of the national deputies who signed up. Please pass. Mikola Dmitrovitch Catherinechuk faction "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u128	The European Party of Ukraine is the faction "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense". Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think the people of Ukraine deserve to hear a lot of advocacy talks here today, because we are now looking forward to a very difficult and very important budget work. As I understand it, the next budget will be very difficult. It'll be handmade. And every month, we will return to it and, of course, it will come to our senses and take something into our debt. Because we're going to have to do this, budget deficit you know what. But today your irresponsible position on budget voting is your political face. And I'm sure there should be a budget this year. So my colleague Karmazin and I made this decision, and we wanted these three days that we voted for the work of the Supreme Council today to be just a budgetary issue. The budget is to be received by the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u129	People's Deputy Pudov, faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u130	Vladimir Mihajlovich, may I have a word for the House of People's Deputies, Oleg Lazko?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u131	Oleg Easy, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u132	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear colleagues, we ask you, we urge you, all national deputies! Instead of resting in the Canaries, let us work on the budget that the country needs. And tomorrow, and night, and day, and Sunday, but to adopt such a budget that the country has confidence in tomorrow. Yeah, he won't, someone said he's worse than 2008 but don't forget that we're living in a crisis, not an abundance situation when there's no money going on. And now, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, we propose to consider immediately the issue of personnel, particularly the head of the Semenyuk Holding Fund and the report of the Interim Commission on the National Bank of Ukraine, which is ready. We insist on immediate consideration, because the market situation and the budget are both direct and interconnected. We need to stop corruption in the Nationals.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u133	Nestor Shufrich, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u134	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I'm asking you not to get excited. If anyone there is referring to the Canary Islands, please, on the right of me, the Canary Islands, in the middle, is the Gibraltar Strait. I invite you to rest with us 29 and 30 and 31. But I have a question, if we go public right now, how many of yours are changing tickets and changing hotels, it's probably gonna be ugly and inappropriate. You have a coalition, you can't vote your own budget. We never asked you to vote for our budget. We've always done it ourselves. And I can't help but support Vladimir Mikhailovich and colleague Lachka. Please, I'm sorry, Alexander Valentinovich came out. The more you contribute, the better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u135	Viacheslav Koval, faction “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u136	Ladies and gentlemen, if we have not been able to accept the budget, the calendar plan envisaged by the Supreme Council of Ukraine should clearly be supported. Clearly, the people of Ukraine are waiting for the budget, the teachers are waiting for the budget, the doctors are waiting for the budget, the agricultural workers are waiting for the budget, the entire Ukrainian people are waiting for the budget. So, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I have a proposal for a draft ruling that we will consider, I hope the Supreme Council of Ukraine will accept it to start working in plenary on Monday at 10 a.m., continue until Tuesday and Wednesday, if necessary. But not starting regular meetings on Tuesday, but starting on Monday. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I ask you to take this proposal into account when voting for the draft ruling.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u137	Sidelnik People's Deputy, faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u138	Who doesn't vote for this budget, I think it's a crime. I'd like to hand over the Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u139	National MP Pisarenko. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u140	Dear colleagues, first of all, of course we need to organize a job so we can have a positive vote on Tuesday, oh, Monday already. I want to ask the government to work with the budget committee on Saturday Sunday to have a document that will give us more than 226 votes. That's the first one. The other one. Of course, we have time to make human rotations in the government. This, of course, should be the quota of “Our Ukraine”, which today is demonstrated not to vote, nor for the budget, nor for us to work. Then let them go to rest. I think we can drop down and count everyone's salary so they can go away for a year and get some rest so we don't see them here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u141	National Deputy Jaroschuk, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u142	Dear colleagues, I, in view of the decision they have made, propose not to be voted for. Why? Because there is no bill on the state budget of Ukraine that is being considered in Parliament. And the Cabinet of Ministers, I think he's going to bring in the same, reckless, unbalanced draft of the State Budget on Monday. Everyone: both in the Cabinet of Ministers and in the People's Committee of the Budget, will normally work for this draft budget and will submit for the sessional week from January 13th to January 17th a normal draft of the State Budget for 2009. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u143	Dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts. Let me put to the vote a draft decision to adopt it as a whole as a decision with one detail: the week from December 2nd to January 29th is the meeting of the Conciliation Council, the 30th and the 31st plenary sessions, the 1st and 2nd of January is the work in the districts. That's what I'm talking about. What's wrong here? I did propose that Monday there be a meeting of the Conciliation Council, as it should be. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I know what I'm talking about. Please listen. If we want to work out the budget, well, I just motivate you by saying that on Monday we usually have the Conciliation Council, we're going to have to agree on all the other positions. On Monday, the Conciliation Council, 30th and 31st plenary sessions. What's wrong with that? [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, we have already exchanged thoughts on all these matters. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine amending the calendar plan for the third session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call. Registration number 3538. With one detail: December 29 – Conciliation Council, 30 and 31 plenary sessions. Please vote. Well, 1st and 2nd is, of course, that we work in the districts. That's where it goes. [[11:46:34]] For 265 Decision taken. The factions? Please. Region Party – 1, Yulia Timoshenko Block – 155, Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense – 64, Communist faction – 27, Lithuanian Block – 18. The draft Law on the National Plan of Action for the Implementation of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child is being announced for consideration until 2016. Just like we agreed. Reporter, please. Eugene Ivanovich. Is there a Suslov? Let's go to the repairs quickly.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u144	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Deputies! On September 30, 2008, the draft Ukrainian Law on the National Plan of Action for the Implementation of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, submitted by the President of Ukraine until 2016. He was accepted in the first reading in the year 23.05.2008. The Committee on Family and Youth, Youth Politics, Sport, and Tourism in preparing the bill for second reading at its meeting reviewed and finalized the bill. 29 proposals were made to the committee by the National Deputies, of which only 6. The adoption of the bill will allow for a systematic solution to the problems of childhood, avoid the spread of the activities of various departments, and make it clear. Monitoring the effectiveness of actions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u145	Dear colleagues, as amended, let's pass quickly. Who insists on repairs?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u146	The only thing that doesn't count is six amendments. The first proposal is the national deputies Krutz and Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u147	Dear colleagues, who insists on their amendments? Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u148	Dear colleagues, this document and I have been working for a long time. And my amendment was that I wanted to divide the strategic document and the document into a practical one. Since both the Ministry and the Committee believe that the Supreme Council should approve the list of actions, in theory I don't deny it, but, well, it looks like -- I think there are few people here who have read 43 pages of this, except for me, text -- it looks like in 2016 we have Ukrainian children living under communism. I think that, God forbid, that we go from capitalism with a non-human face to capitalism with a human face. So if we are consciously going to vote on 43 pages of action that no one will ever do, let's say so, because there will be such conditions for our children that I cried when I read it all. And if we want to make a more real document, there are two ways: either for the third reading to polish these measures that will be realistic, or, as I said, take action, because it's not a job for Parliament to approve measures of this level to learn whether they need education programs. Whether to study the opinions of children or to conduct sociological research. Well, my friends, we can't run this bill to that level. But, I think, in order for Parliament to pass this on to the government and we don't have to be responsible, we have to get out of this coalition somehow. Once again, either we take action, we hand it over to the government, we take a strategic plan; or we vote for a few more weeks for a third reading -- and we're cleaning up these measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u149	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u150	If you don't mind, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Indeed, the committee’s decision was to adopt the bill in a second reading, to send it to a third reading. Why, because there have been quite, well, in our opinion, observations, practical comments that need to be settled. And the second sentence of the committee was that, in order to get this bill to work out not the third reading in December of the following year, and to put it to one another, it would be urgent for us to vote. In January, excuse me, January, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u151	Dear colleagues! The decision of the committee reads: “to accept in the second reading and in general as a law”. If anyone has a point of view, then we will return to it, but the first is to vote on the committee's proposal. Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u152	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear National Deputies! Whatever you call the boat, it'll swim for you. [[boat]] We have called, more faithfully so far, a national plan of action for the implementation of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. I proposed to change the name and call it a state-wide programme of implementation in Ukraine of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. That's clear, it's how it fits the legislative technique, and it's going to be normal. Let's maybe a lot of people really didn't read, as Mr. Tomenko says, what's written here, but if we're going to reduce the mortality rate of children under the age of five by 2016 by two thirds, compared to the age of 90, where two thirds are written on total serious terms instead of a third. I want to ask you how you can do that. That's two-thirds lower the mortality rate, and it's clear that this is a frost and we need to rework this program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u153	With your permission, your amendment was relevant to the name, to the special session of the UN General Assembly for the benefit of the children when signing the summary document “A world conducive to children”, a clear argument that all countries have adopted one single programme where children's problems have been fully integrated. So we can't change that name because it refers to a name that was accepted and already signed by both the President and representatives.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u154	Yuri Anatoliyovich, I would like to withdraw your warning because this is a framework document and within the framework document we must make the right decision. Mountain, please, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u155	Dear colleagues! I would like to draw your attention to this as a very serious document. We've been talking to my colleague, and it's clear that this program is long overdue, but unfortunately it's not finished yet. Therefore, today, on second reading and in general, we cannot accept it, of course, in any case, because there are many very serious points that have not been addressed before. Until the third reading, we will finalize and amend it accordingly. There is a conflict here that, at the same time in the fourth part of the third paragraph, it is proposed to prescribe mechanisms for adoption of children, adoption of children by foreigners, orphans in order to ensure that we do not continue trafficking in children, we have not ratified the Hague Convention. But there are no amendments to section 4.9 concerning juvenile justice, and if these points are not properly detailed there, we will only speed up the points, the questions that children will be deprived of parents, parents'rights and our children will quickly go abroad in an incomprehensible manner. Look, it's not here yet, but it might show up. Therefore, I believe that this programme needs to be further developed and adopted by the third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u156	Thank you. Dear colleagues, such an offer, to put to the vote in the sequence proposed by the committee, first, to accept in the second reading and generally as a law. If this proposal is not supported, then send it back to read again, and when it is done, we can finally accept it. Therefore, the first proposal of the committee is put to the vote on adoption in the second reading and in general as a bill of law on the national programme of action for the implementation of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child until 2016, Registration No. 2564. Please vote. [[11:55:34]] For-59 The decision is not taken. So it's going to be the next thing to vote, the second reading of the project again, the second reading, because we need to go back to the third, which articles to fix. You got it. For re-reading the Draft Law on the National Plan of Action for the Implementation of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child until 2016. [[Registration number 2564]] Please vote. [[11:56:19]] For 349 Decision taken. Please, Minister Yuri Pavlenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u157	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! I thank you for your support, for rereading the second reading. But I'd like to say a few moments. The bill has been under consideration in the Supreme Council for three years. This bill was the last time we voted on the first reading, why we sent it on second reading, actually the Supreme Council. Because there were comments from the national deputies who said that we were ready to work for two weeks. It's been three months. All the remarks, the amendments of the people's deputies that came in this time, the Committee of the Supreme Council, the other committees, the Ministry, the government, the Secretary of the President were very detailed and introduced to the second reading. [[I'm thanking him for that, profiler.]] With regard to the observations made today, what the distinguished national MP from the faction of the Party of the Regions said is not the same in the draft law. Moreover, this is all regulated by the appropriate decisions of the government, where care and care bodies have been approved and orderly, and by the order of adoption, where national adoption is the priority, and inter-State adoption remains. But it is regulated in such a way that there is no hint of possible child trafficking. And this, if you look at the situation, the last three years of no reference, no reference to a possible even violation of a child's rights during interstate adoption. We completely eliminated it by taking control of the state. So, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make the most of this law, because we are the only country in Europe that has not fulfilled its obligation to the United Nations without adopting a national action plan. Three quarters of the world has already adopted this document, a document that regulates State policies for the protection of children’s rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u158	Thank you. Dear colleagues! We're all excited, we need to calm down and understand that we all have to live and work and make those decisions. So I'd like to do it now. During the break, the Conciliation Board will meet with faction leaders to arrange for our next meeting. Work in the coming days and determine the list of issues that we're going to discuss and agree on how we're going to work these two days. I ask the leaders of the MP factions to enter the office of the Chief of Staff of the Supreme Council. The break is announced by 12 hours 29 minutes. After the break, we will continue our work on reviewing the bills that are being defined today.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u159	Ladies and gentlemen, we continue our work. I'm asking you to invite the national deputies to the session room, and I'm asking the faction leaders to inform the deputies of what arrangements we've reached at the Conciliation Council. I'm informing, Your Honor, you. We discussed the organization of our work and came up with such proposals that we are now discussing a proposal for a decision to conduct our work and to conclude with the following questions: first, this is the preliminary report of the interim commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the verification of the activities of the National Bank of Ukraine during the financial crisis; secondly, it is the draft decree on the release of the head of the State Property Fund from office; third is the law on follow-up commissions; fourth is the law on gaming business or slot machines; and. There cannot be an oath of MPs because there are no such people today. The chairman of the Justice Committee informed me that there was no one to take an oath today. So, once again, my dear colleagues, I'm going to put to the vote this proposal that we continue the morning session until the end of this consideration: the preliminary report of the TSK on the verification of the National Bank of Ukraine during the financial crisis; consider the release of the head of the State Property Fund; consider the draft law on investigators and temporary special commissions and determine the decision-making process; and consider the laws that we have on the gaming business. When we make that decision, we will work. The second proposal, which will also be, is today to hold an even evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine if the budget is finalized to return to its consideration. But it's going to be two different votes for us to have a clear understanding of what kind of decision we have to make. What's the procedure? Well, please, Anatoly Matvienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u160	"The Council," faction "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense". Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I'm asking the questions that you'd like to put to the vote if you want to approve them separately, because there are, let's say, some people who will vote for the report or for, or vote for the State Property Fund, and unite the opponents obviously shouldn't. So I would like to propose a separate vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u161	Ladies and gentlemen, I will put to the vote a decision of the Conciliation Council, and these issues do not need to be included in the agenda, because they are included in the agenda, and personnel issues are dealt with automatically. We need to make a decision today to continue working until these issues are resolved, and who will vote in favour of this issue is its choice, its political will. That is why I am voting on the proposal to continue the work of the Supreme Council pending the conclusion of this consideration: the previous report of the Interim Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council on the verification of the activities of the National Bank of Ukraine during the financial crisis; the second report on the discharge of the Head of the State Property Fund; the third, the consideration of the bill on temporary investigators by special commissions; and the fourth, the bill on the gambling business. Please vote on the continuation of the morning session before the completion of the consideration of these bills. Please vote. [[12:43:52]] For 243 We've made up our minds. Next, pay attention! - so that we can make the changes that are appropriate today so that we can have an evening session if there's a draft budget that's worked out, so that we can consider it, given what we've decided and understand the complexity of the consideration, the implementation of the decision that we've made with regard to work for the next week. It's very important, dear colleagues, I'd like us to have a conscious decision here that we haven't made a decision to continue our work in vain. What is the position from this point? Please, Sulkowski, and we will vote. Ladies and gentlemen, we must.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u162	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, Vladimir Mikhailovich! You know, your deputy in your faction said ahead of time that some of them had gone on vacation and so forth. I'd like to deny it. You see, of your 20 deputies from this morning's meeting, there's no half of your little faction from the 20th. First. The other one. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I request you and the leader of your faction, honored by Igor Fedorovich, to note that your one national deputy of the last days is acting extremely insolently, unconscionably. And I want to tell you, and I'm asking you to warn him, because if you listen to what he's saying, he's mentally ill. So please, I would have given him a strange long time ago, understand, to the forehead, but I am a believing man. So please give him an order.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u163	Dear colleagues, I would ask you not to drop the charges against each other, let's work. And as for members of our faction, they're working on the budget. So let's all work together. So I'm putting to the vote the proposal that today, apart from the morning session, we have an evening session to consider the budget issue. Please vote. [[12:46:28]] For 243 Decision taken. Thank you. Announcing the question of the previous. Please, Alexander Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u164	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, we have repeatedly raised this question. We are deeply convinced that in the situation in the State concerning the work of the National Bank and which is being carried forward today, most of the blame lies with the Government. And we would like to invite representatives from the Government to the Hall of the National Bank's Supervisory Board, which we have approved here in the Hall, and which we have not invited here today for some reason. From our point of view, we are doing something here, not dealing with a matter. Therefore, we would like all the agreements that we had previously attended on the Conciliation Board two weeks ago to be implemented today, and not under the tree of 31, to be extended to any decisions by the Government. We understand that the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u165	Give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u166	We understand that the Government wishes to gain access to the National Bank's issue and to manage it manually not only by the State budget but also by directing the National Bank, which we cannot categorically agree with in this approach. Our faction stands ready to take part in the consideration of this matter and, more importantly, to vote favourably on this issue, provided the Government is present and its report is jointly with the National Bank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u167	Thank you. Let's go to Ivan Kirilenko and get to the discussion. Dear colleagues, in the process of dealing with the issue, we are working out all the suggestions that will be made. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u168	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The faction leaders have just identified the procedure, the scope of what laws we are considering, the draft regulations we are hearing. Alexander Sergiyovich, you're simply making it impossible for us to continue working together in this room. We've just arranged for something else. We have a temporary commission of inquiry based on the activities of the National Bank. The government has nothing to do with the monetary policy that is now being pursued by the National Bank and where money is being pooled. And we're supposed to keep this quiet? The next day, the next year we're going to come to room 14 numbers, and the banks are going to work with 4 numbers. Let's keep this poor thing going, what's going on? Four factions said that this should be the mode of consideration. Vladimir Mikhailovich, we suggest we get to work immediately.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u169	Dear colleagues, we've just been asked to invite Alexander Sergiyovich, a representative of the government to address this issue. As far as the head of the overseer is concerned. Head of the National Bank Board, I signed the corresponding letters when a decision of the Conciliation Board was taken, and was offered to invite someone to the hearing. It was done. Today, I was given information that the head of the National Bank is ill. So now we're going to invite a government representative. And with regard to the consideration of this issue, we have agreed in this way, dear colleagues, this is a preliminary information, so I would like, more specifically, this decision of the Conciliation Council to be as precise as possible, because many people are listening and looking at us; so that there are no political moments in the consideration of this issue. For information on the head of the TSK – 15 minutes, on request – up to 10 minutes, for the head of the National Bank of Ukraine respectively 10 and 10. And let's do the discussion. How much do we need? Let's take 15 minutes, the factions of the factions. And that's enough. We'll know where he works, what he needs to do to keep the commission going. Is there no objection? Please, the head of the Temporary Investigation Commission, Yuri Volodymyrovich Poluniev, please. Two members have a special thought. I think we'll give them a chance to speak. How many minutes? No, no, I think one man with a special mind. Let's offer you five minutes, dear colleagues. Five minutes, come on. No objections? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u170	The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the distinguished national MPs, the electorate, the citizens of Ukraine, I would like to begin my speech with such a quote. In 1992, many speculators, and George Soros, the main one, thought about how long fixed exchange rates could resist market forces. They began to take short positions against the pound of sterling, Soros took large loans to put at a lower rate the pound. Britain raised interest rates to involve investors in the country. The government hoped to change the trend of investors from country to country, but with high interest rates, the British government realized that it would lose billions by artificially supporting the pound. He got out of the euro machine, the pound to the mark fell deeply, Soros made at least one billion dollars in currency speculation. [[“Investation” is an Internet source]] In this situation, there are many parallels to the situation in Ukraine. The difference is that there is a collective Soros in Ukraine. The interim commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the verification of the activities of the National Bank of Ukraine during the financial crisis was created on December 18th, composed of 12 national deputies representing all factions of the Ukrainian Parliament. This act of temporary inquiry is intended to test the activities of the National Bank of Ukraine in carrying out its main constitutional function — ensuring the stability of Ukraine’s monetary unit; and to promote the stability of the banking system; and to implement the basic principles of monetary policy during the financial crisis. [[I'm underlining that!]] This is the basic mandate of the interim commission of inquiry. Recognizing the social importance of the tasks we have set before us and the fact that further destabilization of the national monetary unit is a threat to the national economic security of the country, to the well-being of the population, to the capacity of the entire sectors of the Ukrainian economy, the commission has begun to work since the adoption of the relevant decision. And it is appropriate that the previous report, taking into account the situation, is being heard today because it is impossible to wait. In addition to the financial assets and instruments that the Central Bank has as one of the most important instruments for stabilizing the impact of any central bank on the crisis, there is increasing and supporting confidence in its policies, the statements of officials, its decisions and actions. It is on the basis of the high trust in the transparency of decisions and procedures on a balanced and restrained system of external communications that the policy of an effective central bank of any country is based on, and that is not what is today in the policy of the Central Bank of our State. Trust in NBU politics is today probably the lowest in all the years of independence in Ukraine. The Supreme Council of Ukraine, under the responsibility of the National Bank, has no right to leave this situation without its political evaluation. That is why the members of the commission unanimously acknowledged the mission of their work to help restore the confidence of the population and businesses in the banking system, to the national monetary unit of the bracelets, and to the activities of the National Bank of Ukraine by increasing transparency, predictability and orientation of the activities of the NBA in support of the real economy and employment during the crisis. The interim commission of inquiry detailed the direction of its work, identified the main priorities, and formed two working groups: the refinancing or stabilization of Ukraine’s commercial banks and the conduct of Ukraine’s National Bank for Monetary Interventions and Transactions in the Monetary Market. To date, six meetings were held by the commission, which were attended by virtually all members of the commission. The members of the commission shall state the following: The management of the National Bank of Ukraine avoids under the cover of bank secrecy providing the most necessary information on issues related to the transparency of the procedures for the granting of stabilising loans to commercial banks and the sale of individual currency banks in the currency market and in the auctions of the NCBs. According to members of the commission, this creates obstacles to a comprehensive and objective identification of the legality and effectiveness of the NBA’s operations in a financial crisis. In this regard, information of an unofficial and analytical nature had to be used to draw conclusions from the members of the commission. Procrastination in Ukraine’s currency market, where large-scale speculative transactions and money laundering have become commonplace, threatens national security, increases inflation, threatens mass bankruptcy and defolts. Ukrainians can understand the economic need for the devaluation of bracelets, which is associated with objective external economic reasons, but they can hardly accept the speculation of those who earn income from the savings of the ordinary Ukrainian and the income of businesses. On December 25, 2008, the TSK established the following. According to article 99 of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 6 of the National Bank of Ukraine Act, the main function of the central bank of the State, the National Bank of Ukraine, is to ensure the stability of the money unit, the Ukrainian bracelet. Instead of an economically sound devaluation that, including international financial institutions, had to make up not more than 15 percent by the end of the year, which was virtually sufficient to automatically correct the country’s balance of payments deficits and increase the price competitiveness of Ukrainian exports, the country received a national currency collapse of more than 60 percent. As a result, according to the international analysts we had to turn to, the loss -- and I ask your attention -- of the purchasing power of the national currency in the dollar equivalent of $9 billion to $13 billion. The profitability of the so-called dollar bracelet schemes, the dollar griffin, the dollar bracelet, and so on was 120 percent year-on-year or even more. How to combine the situation that is today with the constitutional function of the NBA in terms of the stability of the national monetary unit is probably only known by the management of the National Bank. The Commission was interested in the presence of a clear plan of systemic measures to reduce speculative pressure on the bracelet -- all the leaders of the country said about it everywhere -- which would include increasing transparency and economic justification, lending to banks, establishing a tight market order, and having a strategic vision of how to solve the problems of the so-called problem banks and their assets. Regrettably, the commission notes that there is no systematic action and a well-designed long-term policy of the National Bank in the area of monetary settlement, although the main parameters and orientations of such policies have been set out in the main monetary and credit policies for 2008. According to this document, the main focus of the NBA was to focus, and I quote: “The improvement of the monetary adjustment system in the direction of progressive liberalisation, progressive liberalisation, taking into account specific macroeconomic and financial conditions. In the direction of monetary exchange rate policies to ensure the projected exchange rate dynamics depends on the balance of payments and the non-admissibility of significant fluctuations. In the use of monetary reserves to ensure monetary policy flexibility and improve its effectiveness in ensuring the stability of the national monetary unit. Building confidence in national currency, reducing the level of economic equity and regulating it through monetary policy measures. Enhancing the effectiveness of the percentage policy of the National Bank of Ukraine.” None of these positions have been implemented. Instead of liberalizing the monetary regulation system, a number of administrative restrictions have been imposed on both business and physical entities. The change in October-December this year is virtually every week the rules of currency market behaviour, the artificial reduction of access to currency and the constant rise in additional conditions, which due to recklessness have been reversed, altered or deferred, resulted in increased speculative pressure, demand for foreign currency and destabilization of the currency exchange rate. The projected market formation of interest rates has therefore been adjusted far from always justified reserve standards, which have made it impossible, even though monetary lending has significantly worsened the terms of the lenders. As a result of this significant scale, Ukraine has now become virtually new, the emergence of so - called black lending, when business is no longer credited to banks, but through individuals of other businesses and so on. This is particularly true of Ukraine’s category of small, medium - size business. Under these conditions, the NBA policy implemented in Decrees No. 319, No. 415 has been loudly announced by system-wide measures, which can hardly be considered. On the contrary, they caused a large amount of speculative pressure on the bracelet, which could not help but lead to its uncontrollable collapse. According to the commission, special attention should be paid to the basis for the decision of the NBA to revalue the bracelet in 2008 and to the government's protocol of decision to overcome the NBO veto. The interim commission of inquiry could not obtain the relevant documents, although the assessment of the activities of the NBA could be made without it. Neither in 2005 nor in 2008, there was no economic basis for the revaluation of the bracelet. Both times in the economy, the state saw different processes, worsening external trade balance, slowing down industrial and agricultural growth, rising compared to previous periods, the producer and consumer price index. I mean, under all the laws of the economy, the bracelet was not going to be dwindled, but it was going to be weakened, but very slow, and I want to emphasize at the projected rate. It can't handle the criticism and the thesis that the government's hand was trying to hold back inflation. It is common knowledge that this can only reduce inflation in the short term, since the overestimated national currency in the medium term leads to an increase in imports and decreases in the position of national producers and exporters. And the National Bank of Ukraine had to know that in an export-oriented economy like Ukraine, the exchange rate strategy should be, first of all, currency forecasting and gradually evolutionary devaluation. This gives reason to conclude, not the economic, but the speculative nature of the review of the bracelets, which was observed during a special meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in May 2008. One of the most serious systemic calculations of the National Bank of Ukraine is the level of dollarization of Ukraine's economy, which is increasing both in dynamics and in comparison with the countries of Central and Eastern Europe and Russia. It increased from 27 percent by 1 January 2007 to 29 percent by 1 October 2008. There's nothing really done to reduce the dollarization. The regulator did not limit the activity of Ukrainian banks in currency lending to customers, which is now, given the deep devaluation that the NBO has prepared with its own loans, a threat to the massive defaults of bank customers. The second task of the TSC is to promote the stability of the banking system. The members of the commission set out the following. A particular concern is the important area of the National Bank’s activities, such as banking supervision, that it has failed to anticipate and prevent the accumulation of risks to the banking system and to ensure the stability of the banking system. The NBA surveillance mechanism is still designed for normal market conditions and has proved to be unprepared for systemic and operational response to emergency crises. So far, the early warning system is virtually out of place to store problems in the balance sheet of banking institutions. Such a test. The assessment of the level of bank capitalization is imperfect and too formal. It does not take into account the willingness of bank shareholders to support the bank with additional capital in the form of a subscription to shares or a subliminary. Vladimir Mikhailovich, please continue, please continue my speech for five minutes, if possible. [[Is there a chairman?]] I was counting on 20.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u171	Is there no objection? Is there no objection? None. Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u172	Bank supervision created a situation where large so - called system banks were too counting that the regulator would always come to the rescue and would not allow them to become bankrupt will help resources, as their fall would threaten the country’s financial stability. That is, regulators, as well as large banks themselves, were trapped in false imaginations. Surveillance would have to be more demanding for banks of systemic importance. One of the largest banks in Ukraine has proved to be very vulnerable to the risk of reputation. The start of panic and the rapid outflow of client costs showed that the bank’s managers and shareholders are not able to support the bank with their own resources but are relying only on the support of the NBA. Bank supervision was unable to effectively prevent excessive credit risk increases in banks. The NBA has failed to achieve the necessary level of transparency in the work of supervision, including with regard to the procedures for refining and stabilizing banks. During October and December 2008, the National Bank actively provided commercial banks with so-called stabilisation loans. The distribution of funds for banks is carried out by the National Bank of Ukraine, in our view, with numerous violations of the same approved acts. Yes, according to unofficial sources, since the official information of the NBA refused to grant to the Interim Investigation Commission, two private banks: “Nadra” and “Rodovod” received a total of five -- 7.1 billion dollars and 5 percent -- 2.2 billion dollars of total money on 15 December. At the same time, the state bank Ukreximbank received a refinancing amount five times smaller than the bank Nadra – 1.4 billion. And the Reserve Bank received 4 billion dollars. Even the financing of Prominestbank, which has been on the verge of bankruptcy for a long time, is much smaller than the refinancing amount issued to Nadra Bank. In the tender for liquidity support, Nutzbank issued only slightly more than 4.7 billion dollars in November, while the “Other Loans” categories are in the same period, issuing loans of about 16 billion dollars for a period of up to one year. The rates received by individual banks do not exceed 15 percent. Refunding without tenders is a direct violation by the National Bank of paragraph 4.1 of Section 2 of the Resolution of 26 September 2008, which states: The National Bank is refinancing banks by means of a quantity or percentage tender. If under the category “others” consider the stabilisation loans that are also granted to banks to maintain their liquidity, there are also questions about the compliance of the NBA with the conditions for granting such loans. The National Bank of Ukraine has failed to provide information on the granting of stability loans in the section of individual banks and documents that would demonstrate transparency and impartiality to the National Bank of Ukraine for the benefit of individual banking institutions. Article 1 of the National Bank Act states that it is entitled, however, to grant loans to the bank if it does not entail risks to the banking system. In accordance with paragraph 1 of section 2 of the National Bank's Ordinance on the Approval of the Regulation on the Support of the National Bank of Bank Liquidity of 26 September, the National Bank is supporting bank liquidity through appropriate refinancing instruments, if the bank complies in particular with such requirements as the availability of assets that may be accepted by the National Bank as collateral. In addition, such security can only be provided in the same Regulation for the types of securities and guarantees of another resident bank and property rights, and according to the same Regulation, only a uniform mortgage can be offered by the bank under the provision of credit. Members of the commission raised questions as to where some banks received disproportionately large amounts of refinancing came into existence in a qualitative way, I emphasize the quality of the collateral. No answer has been received. A mandatory refinancing condition is foreseen in a letter from the National Bank of Ukraine of 22.10. The requirement that a refinancing loan is granted to maintain liquidity.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u173	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u174	Wait a minute. It's an extremely important question to hurry and make a resolution here, and I'd like your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u175	Yuri Volodymyrovich, please conclude.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u176	Dear colleagues, to the NBA for information on what liabilities have been made by banks for refinancing loans and whether the National Bank of Ukraine has been carrying out a continuous review of the implementation of such commitments and the targeted use of funds received by banks as instruments for the stabilisation of the official response has not been received. Such, the actions of the National Bank of Ukraine on the unwarranted granting of advantages to individual commercial banks compared to other banks in Ukraine, in particular state-owned ones, as regards the extent of the refinancing and the manner in which it is obtained in a transparent manner in the market.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u177	Yuri Volodymyrovich, please draw a conclusion. You conclude, please, and complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u178	Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u179	Turn off the tribune, please. Have a seat, please. Please sign up for questions. National MP Smytheuch, question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u180	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. The honourable reporter, in principle, what I have personally heard is, in principle, the terrible things you call, I don't know what is in your next report. Of course, the entire population of Ukraine does not know what happened to the population of Ukraine, which were frozen by the decision of the National Bank. Accordingly, these people are poor or less protected, and they have been executed. I have a question for you, two questions. First question. Was it possible for your commission to investigate where the Ukrainian Reserve Fund is? That's the first question. And the second question. According to some information, this currency fund of Ukraine or much of it is located outside Ukraine, that is, it was located in the United States in such a way that it could not be returned. So the National Bank has not been able to use and intervene in a timely manner on the foreign exchange market in order to stabilize the exchange rate. And one more question. Whether the commission examined or required active legislation has fulfilled its functions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u181	Complete the question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u182	Whether the Supervisory Board, headed by Peter Poshenko, has performed its constitutional and legal functions in order to exercise its rights in a timely manner and to make it impossible for the process to take place in Ukraine’s currency market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u183	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry you didn't give me a chance to read the conclusions, because here. Read it, you read it, and the people of Ukraine do not read it yet. So I'd like to give you a moment's attention. This is the report that is being broadcast today. [[B in m in s a l in]] Who are you? You are a representative of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u184	Yuri Volodymyrovich, please answer the question. Formulate your thoughts in a concise way. Because you have one minute to answer the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u185	The answer to that question. Information on the location and structure of the gold reserves, which is a state secret, was provided to the commission. The commission is studying them. Today I can't divulge any information on this issue, because this is extremely sensitive information, it needs further study. The International Monetary Fund has made the audit of the gold reserves and has declared them satisfactory. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u186	Bezv Valeriy Ananiyovich
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u187	As far as the second question is concerned.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u188	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. I have a short question and the same answer. Dear Yuri Volodymyrovich, in the media, reported that Ukraine’s own assets increased by 42 percent during the 11 months of the current year and accounted for 853 billion dollars. Is it true or not? In addition, the bank’s own capital increased to 103 billion, and profit, an honest profit, amounted to 10 billion 100 million. Is it true or not? Condemn or confirm, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u189	Information about the state of the banking system is very easy to get when you go to the NBA website, it's there. And in particular, the information on the profit of the banking system is true.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u190	Wooden Basil Timothyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u191	Please pass the word to Oleg Laszko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u192	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. I want all citizens of Ukraine to know that the interim commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council proposes to recognize the work of the National Bank during a period of financial crisis as not ensuring the core function of the NBA, the stability of the monetary unit, which has created a threat to national, economic and sovereignty of Ukraine. To recognize the refinancing procedures that the NBA carried out were opaque, corrupt, and resulted in massive and sharp destabilisation of bracelets and inflation. Express distrust for the head and government of the National Bank. Requesting the President of Ukraine to submit an application for the release of Stelmach from the position of head of the NBA, as well as to submit to the Supreme Council a nomination for the position of head of the NBA. In the absence of a President’s submission, this will indicate his relationship with the corruption of the currency market that the National Market is carrying out.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u193	Victor Terrence, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u194	Thank you. Pass it to Pisarenko, please. He worked on the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u195	Thank you. Dear fellow citizens! You know, it's a big professional approach right now, but it's incomprehensible. In fact, the commission proved that the management of the National Bank did not ensure the stability of the monetary unit — the bracelets. Moreover, the commission found that the head of Stelma National Bank, his first deputy, had been abused in the currency market. And not only should these people be left without their posts, but they also have to answer according to existing legislation. And I think the criminal road is open to them. Besides, I want you to pay attention, the honourable chairman of the commission, and tell us what to do today to cooperate with the National Bank, which actions are proposed. And please re-emphasize the results of the work, on the resulting part. And more than that, I would like to remind you that without the President's involvement, no action by Mr. Stelmach could have taken place. And that's why we need to look for a collective responsibility in this.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u196	Is that a question? Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u197	The Commission concluded that this was the result. In accordance with the manat commission given by the Supreme Council, it is to provide you with previous information on whether or not the National Bank of Ukraine performs the basic constitutional function of ensuring the stability of the national monetary unit. [[It's just a function of the National Bank of Ukraine.]] We're going to answer -- no, this function isn't done. And you can see it in your own pocket, just like all Ukrainian citizens. That's the first one. In this regard, we understand that the National Bank and its management deserve to be expressed distrust of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u198	Arzhevtin Stanislav Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u199	Yuri Volodymyrovich, I'm sorry, but I have the impression that you're reporting, not to the Supreme Council, but to the National Bank Board. The question of the dollarization of economics, capitalization, Soros. I don't think that's the subject of your research. And most of all, we had to investigate how the National Bank worked during the crisis. So here's a question for you. First. Please tell me, does your commission know that in accordance with article 9 of the National Bank Act, the National Bank Board recommends the policy of exchange rate formation, monetary regulation? Please tell me, have you considered this question? The National Bank Board sat down the only time a commission of inquiry was set up, as you wrote in the report? That's the first one. The other one. Please tell me, did your commission analyze the memorandum signed with the National Bank and the Cabinet of Ministers, and I was there this year? That's the second question. Third. You can comment, you wrote: “The Commission can translate the diplomatic language of the head of the National Bank as a matter of fact.” So please give me the answer to that question.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u200	I answer that question. The Board of the National Bank, I can say this as a member of the National Bank Board, which has been working there since mid-September, I think it's reacted inadequately, including those errors, the National Bank estimates, and that's why there's a shared responsibility. On the other hand, the National Bank Board is not responsible for the operational performance of its mandate by the National Bank. All the important, all the tools, as well as the recommendations made by the National Bank about. [[Don't interrupt me, please, Stanislaw Mikhailovich, I'm answering your question.]] The Council met three or four times during a period of crisis, making decisions, such as the expansion of the first monetary corridor, and then its abolition. The last meeting on the demand, by the way, was called today when these phenomena had already been so unforeseeable. And that's when the National Bank Board decided to consider the National Bank's report on all the issues that are being considered today that its actions were inadequate. A memorandum from the point of view of government action and from the perspective of the National Bank was implemented by the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u201	Katerinczuk Mikola Dmitrovich, a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u202	The European Party of Ukraine, the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". The Commissioner-in-chief of the commission, from the previous report of the interim commission of inquiry, I have come to understand so much that you suggest that the Attorney-General's Office should be required to establish a criminal case. I'd like you to state the grounds for the criminal case. The other one. Don't you think it's necessary for this draft decision to make a supplement, a supplement that would specifically apply to ensuring the stability of Ukraine's monetary unit? This means reviewing the Natzbank Act, the Banking and Banking Act, so that the subjective factor cannot affect the money system itself. I'm talking about increasing the functions of the NBA by controlling or licensing the financial system of Ukraine. And the second. Limitations on banks, national banks, commercial banks on speculation. Because today, as I understand it, they were speculating absolutely on legal grounds.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u203	Thank you for your question. Why does the commission recommend that the Supreme Council address the Attorney General to file a criminal case? We have unofficial reasons to believe, unfortunately, that we cannot use official information, unofficial information, facts that have been received, including outside information that has been officially provided by the National Bank, talk about the possibility of corruption, speculative action on national currency, so these facts can be established or rejected if criminal cases are violated. It will enable the Attorney General to obtain all the necessary information that is now classified as bank secrecy. That is how we can establish the truth. And the task of our TSC is not to cast a shadow on the National Bank, but to establish the truth. Unfortunately, today we cannot install it with the tools we have. We don't cast shadows! You didn't listen, I said it was our job to establish trust in the National Bank.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u204	Yagoferov Anatoly Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u205	Kirilenka, please give me your word. Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich, please. Bondarenko?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u206	Bondarenko Volodymir Dmitrovic. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u207	Dear friends! I'd like to contact the board manager and the entire committee. Do you not feel that under the cover of the so - called bank secret, real corruption is being covered up? Today, there are no issues in our country that are taboos for the Supreme Council. We're a higher legislator and we need to know what's going on, including in the currency market. This affects every citizen, our electorate. The people were left poor, destitute, and thrown away. Today, investors don't know what to do, they run from this market. And someone under the cover of a mystery gives information that he can't provide. Where is the President of the country responsible for constitutional guarantees of citizens' rights? To know what the government is doing. Where is the Secretariat that's looking for Soros's guilt here, instead of looking around for those who were giving Stemma's commands and he was doing them? He doesn't listen to anyone except the President and the instructions from the Secretariat. So let them answer, let them give, through the prosecutor's office, through international audit, but let them give the materials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u208	Zabzaluk People's Deputy. One last question. Zabzaluk People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u209	Dear reporter, it is clear from the ruling of the previous Interim Investigative Commission that the Prime Minister of Ukraine has raised the issue sharply and objectively. After all, before all, your findings are specifically based on the head of the National Bank: have you come to the conclusion that it is necessary to withdraw it?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u210	We have come to this conclusion that the National Bank, its leadership and government have failed to meet the basic constitutional requirement of maintaining the stability of the national monetary unit, that is to preserve the confidence of the population in the banking sector, which is the main function. As far as the charges are concerned and so forth, they need a prosecutorial review, a prosecutor’s action. This is what is stated in the decree. But that conclusion now is sufficient for the Supreme Council to express its mistrust. I don't see how we can restore it to the banking system today. We could lose her. And the National Bank plays a key role here.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u211	Thank you, Yuri Volodymyrovich. Please have a seat. Sit down, please, thank you. A separate thought from the committee. Igor Mikolaiovich Skin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u212	Ladies and gentlemen, I can confirm that the work of the Commission is difficult, the documents of the National Bank are virtually basic, resonant, those on which questions are asked are not provided. That's the truth. But the special opinion of me and some members of the Commission is that we have the impression that the Commission has sent its work with only one result: to remove the President of the National Bank of Ukraine. Moreover, to appoint him solely responsible for the financial and economic situation in the country. We have repeatedly insisted that the Commission's previous report should include a paragraph in its decision that, along with Stelma, the President of Ukraine and the Prime Minister of Ukraine, who is responsible for the economic situation in the country, as well as ministers: the Minister of Finance, the Minister of the Economy and the head of the Customs Committee, as export-import operations have a significant impact on the currency market. [[and I agree with the People's Deputies who have made this proposal]] We therefore insist on this proposal, and we want the Hall to take this amendment into account in its decision. It is not only the head of the National Bank of Ukraine, as well as the President of Ukraine, the Prime Minister of Ukraine and the two ministers I have named, the Minister of Finance, the Minister of the Economy and the Head of the Customs Committee, to be held accountable and accountable before the Hall. And I want this matter put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u213	Dear colleagues! We were scheduled to speak as the head of the National Bank of Ukraine, Vladimir Mikhailovich Stelmah. He's gone. Secretary Vladimir Semenovich Stelmach reports that he is currently at a meeting with the President of Ukraine. [[B in m in s a l in]] Should we discuss the report without making a previous statement? According to the Supreme Council secretariat, the head of the National Bank Board, Peter Poroshenko, is ill. Please log in with the procedure, please. Moisik Vladimir Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u214	Please pass the word to Arjevetin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u215	Mr. Chairman, I ask you to ask the question so that we can discuss it, because what we've heard, I don't know if we can say it was a report. So I'm asking you very much, let's discuss this and give advice to the commission of inquiry.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u216	National MP Taran, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u217	Give it to me, Baby.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u218	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. I think that not being in the current sessional hall of effective leadership, so far, the current leadership of the National Bank, shows not only that it is despised by the Ukrainian Parliament, but also that it is ignoring the interests of millions of Ukrainian citizens, the savings, the assets that depend on this corrupt leadership. I think that in the report that the head of the interim commission of inquiry, who is distributed in the courtroom, has announced from the rostrum, everything is clear and there is a suggestion that we stop the discussion and vote. Every hour we give today's leadership the opportunity to continue to destroy national currency, reduce people's savings, take up their last assets. In times of crisis, idleness is a crime, so let us vote and make decisions about mistrust, and the resignation of Stelmak, and rule.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u219	Bev Valeriy Ananiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u220	Thank you. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, there's really no way out, I'm asking questions to the head of the commission, and he's sending me to the Internet, inviting the head of the National Bank, he's gone, inviting the head of government, he's not here either. Listen to this circus on the wire, not the country's responsible representative body, the country's higher legislature. In this consideration of the issue, I think that it should be taken off the agenda at all -- that's the first. And secondly, if it's a sensitive topic and a problem then let's listen to it in a closed mode. Then it will be serious and responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u221	The Tikhov People's Deputy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u222	They will pass on the word to Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u223	You know, distinguished colleagues, I'm listening to our discussion, which is and is remembered by Mikhail Bulgakov, who was talking about the crisis actually starting in his head. That is why I think, first of all, the crisis in our country is in the head of the ruling coalition. Let's see what's happening real. We have a guest from the rostrum here and a member of the National Bank's monitoring board. Then I have a question: did they, as representatives of the Supreme Council, not see or see or see what was going on there, or did they do it at the direction of the Government? I have a question: why, in the ruling coalition today, all the accounts that were previously transferred to Brokbizbank in the State Bank today. It's not because the ruling coalition there is dealing with the issue. And I can also give you dozens of such examples.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u224	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u225	Alexander Vladimirovich, here's a question for you. Did we even throw out the Rules? Well, I understand the speaker put you in this situation, but this hour, we actually have to make statements from the deputies. If there is anything in the other factions, we have enough questions to discuss today. And I would like to point out that the majority of the National Bank's monitoring board are representatives of the Government and the authorities and the Parliament and they are equally responsible for what is happening. Therefore, we ask that representatives of the Government, the President's Secretariat and the National Bank be invited here instead of having a one-way circus when there are no defendants.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u226	Vaszczuk Katerina Timofievna
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u227	Dear colleagues! We'll be treated the way we'll allow it. In the history of the Ukrainian Parliament, there has never been such a thing as to keep the head of the National Bank from coming. But you and I let it happen by adopting laws that the bankers lobbied. Because there are more bankers in our room than peasants, miners, workers and everyone else, including teachers, doctors and so on. So what do we want? Of course, interests are being protected, and we've created a state in the state. Once the head of the National Bank reported to Parliament each year, we evaluated, approved the program and report. And then you could know what to expect from fiscal policy. Today we have what we have. So we have to make tough decisions, make respects.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u228	People's deputy Matvienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u229	Ukrainian Republican Party “Cobor”, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. Dear colleagues! I want us to be responsible for the claims that we make and that we are demonstrating to society today. We don't want stability, we really want a "cirque on the wire". I'm from that document that's presented to us and given out of that report that sounded from the rostrum, and it's funny to talk about conclusions in general today. What's more, we're talking about the previous report. I think, of course, that Stella should respect the Supreme Council. But I, Mr. Alexander, doubt that he was invited in accordance with the procedure. Because the order of the day was formed today. We have to respect the National Bank. And so without answering the question why Stella didn't come, we don't have the right to make any decisions if we want stability. I call on all my colleagues! Listened to an irresponsible report, let the temporary commission continue to work, and let it present a real report on which to make decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u230	Thank you. Discussions were concluded on procedural matters that violated the national MPs. Questions that Anatoly Sergiyovich Matviyenko asked. I can't tell you whether Mr. Stelma was asked or not, because I denied that this issue was on the agenda for today's session due to a number of reasons for the preparation of this previous report. He was put up without my participation and the invitation was or I don't know. All I know is that we've been duplicating the invitation to the Ministry of Finance and the leadership of the National Bank. We don't have a presence right now, and that's why the people's deputies asked questions about the continuation of further consideration. The national deputy Behves suggested that we not continue to consider and withdraw. Did I make the right proposal? That's right. So according to the proposals of the national deputies who are coming, I'm going to put each of them in the session room. Then we have a well-established order. I beg you not to scream. All the suggestions are written down, and they will all be put into the session room. After we've finished this, we'll have a record of the MPs for the speech and discussion, as we voted in accordance with the order in which we're considering the matter. It's a bill of lading for Behwa's. [[B in m in s a l in]] What happened? Please, what's the problem? A word? Please re-enter the procedure. Vaszczuk Katerina Timofievna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u231	The presiding officer was the first to report here to the commission’s head and the commission’s decision had been made, so it should be put to the vote first. You should respect the opinion of the people’s deputies, not just the one you like, but the one that will be supported by the majority in the hall. I think that all the national MPs today can't give an answer in their constituencies to why we've allowed this situation to happen with monetary policy in the state. Everything needs to be taken care of. So we're voting for the conclusion and the decision of the commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u232	Thank you, Katerina Timofievna, because you came to me and told me that I liked something, I tell you, in this case, we haven't discussed the commission's report in accordance with the approved procedure, we've stopped because the Ukrainian National Deputies have asked questions about the procedure for examining the absence of two co-reporters from the National Bank's head and the head of the National Bank Board. When we hear further discussions, the first one will be put to the vote by the committee. So please be careful with my words. National Deputy Skutak, please. Arjovitin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u233	Stanislav Arjewitin, “For Ukraine!” Dear, oh, great, yes. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the applause of the “For Ukraine!” group, and now essentially. Ladies and gentlemen, regarding the report. I want to make one more point, we didn't listen to the report from the rostrum, but the lecture that we have on our hands in the materials is a copy of the instructions from the National Bank and some reflection. I don't think we have the right to make any decisions on the basis of temporary materials. That's two. Third. I think there's really a lot of comments to the National Bank, but we have to give the National Bank the right to protect even what is written and invented. So I suggest that we not make any decisions today, allow the commission to work and make a normal decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u234	The Turmanov People's Deputies, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u235	Please give the floor to Pecklusenko Aleksandro Nikolaevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u236	Dear colleagues, the Supreme Council must be solid in several matters. First, there is no secret that can place the country and people on the brink of survival. All acts that make the people and the country bankrupt can only be characterized by one crime against the people and the State. And today, again, you want to draw the Supreme Council into this most serious issue of your eternal dispute: who is more to blame? We can tell you on behalf of the people: the guilty and the Government, and the National Bank, and you will be responsible together. Therefore, do not become a farce so serious. Let's work professionally, professionally.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u237	People's Chamberlain, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u238	Please pass the word to your colleague Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u239	Oleg Laszko “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, the chairman of the plenary meeting, should put them in order. The first proposal was for me to stop the discussion and vote on the draft regulation 3565. And then my colleague Beavez made a proposal in private mode and so on. I mean, it's okay to make suggestions. I propose to vote on the draft ruling. And to those colleagues who say they're behind Ukraine and therefore ask for more time to keep the National Bank doing its black work, I'll tell them that they're not for Ukraine, they're for the rubble of bracelets, for the impoverishment of people and for making billions of individual people close to the President and those in the Hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u240	Ladies and gentlemen, we can't stop this discussion because we haven't started it yet. Please, the national deputy of Vyezovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u241	Burlakov National Deputy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u242	I'd like a word with Chechtovo.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u243	Dear Alexander Vladimirović, but there were indeed reasonable rational proposals. It is not possible, however, to turn into a circus, an issue that is crucial to the country and concerns national security. If there is no head of Nazbank, if there is no head of Oversight Nazbank, if there are no representatives of the financial and economic bloc of the Government directly linked to the disgrace that was on the currency market, there is no reason to open the debate. What are we going to take? So if someone wants to make a trendy decision, it's just stupid, and you can't do that. A perfectly reasonable suggestion was made. End the discussion, postpone the discussion to Tuesday. On Tuesday, invite the head of Nazbank, the Supervisory Board, the Minister of Finance, the Prime Minister, to hold a discussion and take a decision. Now let's draw the line and move on to a different one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u244	Dear colleagues, the time for consideration of the procedural matter has come to an end. There are two suggestions. The first suggestion that we should give up the previously approved procedure and not discuss the matter. Am I right now to formulate your opinion? Because you're being a little out of line. And vote on the draft ruling without discussion. The National Deputies Bevells and Chechtov proposed to move the matter to Tuesday, with the participation of the Head of the National Bank and the head of the National Bank. Are there any other proposals? There's more to offer. Please, Deputy Greenewecki.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u245	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u246	Wait a second. Do you have a lot of suggestions? Raise your hands. Who's got the offers? We're talking about procedural proposals. There are eight hands again. Please only write to make specific proposals for further consideration. National MP Illashov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u247	The word of Ephraim, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u248	Dear Alexander Vladimirović, I think all colleagues will agree that the first proposal we have made has indeed been recorded as the first not to organize a circus, to invite representatives of the Government, the President's Secretariat, when questions arise to this body, to invite the National Bank in the face of its leader and the Supervisory Board, and, if we want to get the truth, to come back to the discussion of this issue calmly on Tuesday, to get answers to the questions we have and to make an objective decision. At the same time, I am pleased that the representatives of the Party of the Regions will vote in favour of the draft which has been prepared, but we will add our views on the Government and vote or not to vote in favour of it – it is already your conscience and your attitude in this matter. And you want us to close this subject today without discussion and cover up your sins that go on there.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u249	Grenevetsky Sergey Rafailovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u250	Thank you. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, the conscience was discussed here. I would like to say that “your conscience is clean, you have never used it.” And secondly, we're looking at the previous report today, so logic is saying there's going to be a final report. So let's vote on the previous report and it'll be a good incentive for everyone to come to the final report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u251	National Deputy Gordienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u252	Sergey Gordienko, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Dear colleagues, I think we've gone into a deadlock, and let's still listen to all those previous reasonable suggestions and transfer them either to Tuesday or not, to this evening's meeting. And I'm just a proponent of not looking at it in a closed regime, it's extremely serious things, and our people need to know their heroes who've been dealing with courses and all these issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u253	People's deputy Tuck.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u254	Deputies for Ukraine. Please pass the word to Arjevetin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u255	Parliamentary Group “For Ukraine”, Stanislav Arzevetin. Mr. Chairman, I also share the idea that we should allow the commission to work in a professional manner. There's emotion here, there's some conjecture here, and there's the fact that they haven't gotten a lot of more material. As far as I know, the National Bank has prepared for them today and has placed on the tables a lot of the materials that they have ordered, but somehow the commission doesn't want to consider it. So this is a very important question. There are claims to the National Bank, but let's give this job a professional opportunity, listen to the head of the National Bank Board, also from the government about the implementation of the memorandum and then make a joint decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u256	People's MP Mokchan.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u257	May I have a word with Tomenka?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u258	Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that there are many national deputies here that we haven't seen in months. Apparently, their banks, who have received help from the National Bank, demand that they take the right honest position. I would like to draw these right honest bankers' attention to the previous conclusions, and the previous conclusions are that they stole 50 percent of their savings in Ukrainian people within a few days -- that's the previous conclusions. [[Applause]] So, in order for these previous findings to not become a complete robbery by the Ukrainian people during the New Year, you have to transfer the documents to the Attorney General's Office, you have to listen to the House of Auditors, and you don't have to wait because the President is on Tuesday. What if the President calls Natzbank's head and the minister of finance back to him? Are we going to wait until the Ukrainian people are completely robbed? That's why I'm proposing to vote on this document today. And what's more, if we don't have some white and black people here, as a result of the vote in the Voice of Ukraine, we print out who's the previous findings in the Attorney General's Office, who's looking forward to justice, and who's afraid to find out who's been in this trouble. Therefore, we must vote without delay.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u259	Chechetov National Deputy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u260	Dear colleagues, respectable Alexander Vladimirović! Well, I'm reading today's agenda, but it's starting with the fact that we're playing with the Rules: the latest report of the Interim Investigation Commission on the question of checking Nazbank's activities. Reported to the head of the Temporary Commission of Polunjev Yuri Volodymyrovich. I reported it. They're informing us, the head of Nazbank Stelma, the head of Nakradi Banka Poroshenko. Where are these two people? How can a decision be taken by considering on the one hand? Our proposal remains valid, there is no need to take responsibility, and the Prime Minister must also stand here on the rostrum and tell us how it was. How the dollar was dropped, as our entire export potential was put on its knees, and then 15.5 billion IMF loans were taken under cable conditions! That is when we will make an objective assessment, make an objective assessment and make a decision for the country. The proposal remains valid until Tuesday. And without the Prime Minister, head of Natzbank, and powder.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u261	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, it's time to make proposals. The following procedural proposals have been made. The first sentence of the People's Deputy Lazko is not to discuss the previous report and determine how to vote on the draft decision. The second proposal is that we should invite the head of the National Bank and the Ministry of Finance here, and I confirm that we've invited them right now. And the proposal of the National Deputies to move this issue to Tuesday. [[Bevs and Gordienko]] And the offer of the Chechtchev People's Deputy is the same. These are essentially two proposals made by the Ukrainian people’s deputies. Do you have any other suggestions? Well, I asked you. Turn on MP Klimenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u262	Alexander Volodymyrovich, as a member of the Committee on Finance and Banking, I can testify to the fact that, over the year, the personal insistence of our head, Azarov Mikola Janović, and all the members of our committee have never been heard in a year and no one has even come from the National Bank of Ukraine. When was the last time we registered a draft Order to create a commission of inquiry, instead they came out demonstratively and didn't participate in the discussion. About yesterday. I mean, yesterday I was like a member of this Temporary Investigation Commission next to Lukyanov sitting across from Stelmach. Give God good health, but what is happening in Ukraine today must be answered. And I can tell you for information. It sounded like a bank called Nadra. Yesterday, we ourselves saw Firtas with another representative of the Rescue, his head, who was communicating in the office with respectable Vladimir Semenovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u263	There are no new proposals. No new proposals came. I am voting on the proposal of the Láška People's Deputy to cancel the earlier decision to discuss the matter. Please be determined. [[13:57:24]] For the 18th. Your proposal is to vote so that we don't have to discuss it right now and move on to making a decision. Please have the microphone of the People’s Deputy Lazko clarify his offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u264	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, do not "breed" the leadership of Nazbank, for the billions they have earned.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u265	Turn off the microphone, please. I would like to remind you that you voted in favour of the timetable for this matter. And they saw their vote recorded and discussed for 15 minutes. And I'm putting your proposal to the vote now so that we don't have to discuss it and make a decision. Please, I'm putting the People's Deputy to a vote. [[13:58:41]] For 204 The decision is not taken. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm asking the people's deputies not to shout. If you know that this is a procedural decision, the regulatory rules are laid down for us in the "Council" software. And where there's really procedural, it's being highlighted. So please, if there's no objection, we can now go to the record for a discussion, 15 minutes, that's all we have. I continue my morning plenary session for 15 minutes. Let's sign up for a discussion. I apologize for the second suggestion, which was that the national deputies Gordijenko, Bebelz, and Chechtov should be moved to consider the matter. I'm voting on this proposal, please. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:59:43]] For 168 The decision is not taken. Let's sign up for a discussion. The factions, please. The Party of Regions - 165, "Clock of July Timoshenko" - 0, "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" - three, communists - 0, "Clock of Lithuania" - 0. Let's sign up for a discussion. I continued for 15 minutes. National MP Tereshuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u266	May I have a word with you, Catherine Vaschuk?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u267	Dear National Deputies! Today, we are really discussing the issue that concerns all citizens of Ukraine. Ukrainian citizens today want to hear the answer to how to live on, what will happen to the bracelet, what will happen to the currency? What hope is there for the State to protect them in the event of difficulties with the payment of loans also applies to the entire Ukrainian economy? The banking system is a very responsible system for the viability of the entire economy of Ukraine. Without the banking or the system acting as a time machine, the economy won't work, we all understand that. Nor can we talk about stability, nor can we talk about development. So today is a very responsible mission in the Supreme Council, to restore trust in the banking system, to make it transparent, accountable and one that is not in the banking system, but in the interests of the economy and the citizens of Ukraine. From the point of view of the People’s Deputies, what must we do? First of all, to bring the issue that we have begun today to a logical conclusion. We have to make a serious, strict decision, make respect for the Supreme Council, we represent the people here, not everyone. Second, we must review all the legislation that applies to the banking system and return to that good tradition when the head of the National Bank was accountable to the Supreme Council. When that happens, we'll avoid a lot of misunderstandings, be protected by both citizens and our economy. Today we can face a situation where businesses, farms can't get credit back, they won't get long, but the situation itself will be for people, people will suffer, they will get the things they bought for credits, and there's no fault of it, it's the fault of the course game. We're for making a strict decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u268	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u269	A faction for today's decision to run the National Bank of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u270	People's MP, Arzhevtin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u271	Stanislaw Arzeviteen. The deputy faction “For Ukraine”. Deputies! I think our main task should be to restore trust in the banking system, to restore trust in power. And believe what we're doing with you right now, it's a show about the National Bank and the banking system, it doesn't suit or restore trust. So please, and especially to the government officials, especially the Prime Minister, don't call the MPs, please, the banks. Because your word depends on how many people go to the ATMs tomorrow, they're going to go to the checkout. It's very thin stuff. You know money loves silence. So I'm asking you very much, let's do everything we can to restore confidence in the banking system. Now it's about the work of the commission of inquiry. First, I would like to remind the members of the commission that the Board of the National Bank on Equal Rights is responsible before the rule of the National Bank for the basic principles that it approves. And I would like to highlight article 9 of the National Bank Act, which states that the Board of the National Bank recommends the administration of exchange rate and exchange policy, monitoring and regulatory measures. It is the National Bank's board that analyses the impact of monetary policy on the country's socio-economic development. I think that this committee should consider what recommendations the National Bank has made, including those members of this special committee who are members of the same supervisory board. The other one. I would really like the commission to consider how a memorandum signed between the National Bank and the Cabinet of Ministers has been implemented. And I think I would blame the National Bank the most because it went to the government and started shutting down inflationary measures at its own initiative. And now he has a problem with that. I think if I talk about the substance of this conclusion or this temporary commission, notice that every paragraph says: “We have not received, we have not considered, we have not looked.” Then there are rumors and 80 percent are instructions from the National Bank or instructions from the National Bank. I don't think that's the commission's job, let's focus on that. And most importantly, I think the National Bank should have the right to say what's written here. So I propose not to approve this report today, allowing this commission to work. As for the Association of Commercial Banks, among other things, it expressed its dissatisfaction with the activities of the National Bank. Similarly, it has addressed us, the national MPs, as well as the government, that only by working together should we fight these things, not in the way we do today. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u272	Bondik Valeriy Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u273	Dear colleagues, Your Honor Alexander Volodymyrovich! It's a really good question as a report from the Interim Investigations Commission, but unfortunately, I respect Yuri Volodymyrovich Poluniev, but he's put a lot of emphasis on academics. Because he's an academic, not a lawyer. Because there is no letter to the law, to the article of the law. You know, Yuri Volodymyrovich, the Criminal Code, this little red book, it provides for article 352 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. So if, as a national deputy, someone is in your way, please contact the Attorney General's Office. But I can accept the position of our faction. The report needs to be heard at the Supreme Council, there can be no restrictions. But in view of the fact that there is such a requirement as a commercial bank secret, I would suggest this report, Alexander Volodymyrovich, I propose to put to a vote and listen in a closed mode, to continue the work of the TSC, on the weekends they work, they demand, with reference to the rule of law, they require the necessary information and listen to the head of the government of the National Bank, the head of the National Bank's observation board, along with the Prime Minister, with the Minister of Finance to listen on Tuesday, but in a closed mode. Because we actually have a lot of calls from investors, simple investors, employees when we work in the districts. You will recall where bankruptcy and chaos began in the banking system when the closed stock company Prominestbank began to collapse. That bank that has a lot of capacity, but it's somehow due to some sort of raids that some MPs in this room might have mentioned when their names were mentioned in the report by Nativajchenko. That is why we do not need this report. You know, we've been talking to him on a procedural basis today. So I suggest that this report in closed mode return to the hearing on Tuesday on the sessional board. The rest of your time, please hand over Hellshenko to Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u274	Dear colleagues, let us return to the essence of what the Chairman of the Commission has reported today. He said that the Commission had formulated questions and said that there were no answers to those questions. Are you going to tell us what we're talking about and what we're going through? I therefore believe that we must formulate these questions today on behalf of the Supreme Council, vote them, send them to the National Bank, give them twenty-four hours, and if they do not respond, the entire Supreme Council will go to the National Bank as Winter. They'll give us answers, there's no secret that the people don't need. These numbers are needed by the people. And the second question. You're trying to do the following today, because the bracelet course started to collapse and started its destructive action not when it became 7-8-10, but when you were yelling at the whole country at 4.50. That's why you want to take the other half of this cup off your hands today and not give it to each other.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u275	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u276	Our next proposal is to formulate questions to the National Bank, 24 hours and the responsibility of all stakeholders, the National Bank and the Government report.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u277	The national deputy Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u278	Vladimir Yavorowski, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. Dear voters! Mr. President, who's probably watching with Stelm right now, looking at our faces and waiting for what it's gonna be. First, I want a replica for Mr. Arzhevtin's deputy and banker. He has a very nice saying about money loving silence. Mr. Arjevitin, Ukrainian money loves shadow and you know it. The second question. Give me more time to ask your colleague, Hellhound. What's the matter? Something's not there yet, is it, boys? You still have to, yes, how many more days do you need in order to get it all set up, so that your three at the head of the root Firthash can get it all done. Because, I'm sure, we don't have time anymore, every minute that we're doing a discussion here, the debates are being robbed by the Ukrainian people today, let's say that this is what it is and it's not different. Colleagues, let's imagine this ordinary Ukrainian today, fear of crisis, crisis in Ukraine didn't knock, she kicked open the door with her boot and entered here today, the budget isn't accepted, we're being heard by people today, 450 wise people are sitting here, they can't find in the middle, 226 votes to give the people a budget that they're not rickety, fair, but they need it, without it at all in crisis -- it's a crime. The other one. Today, we know everything and understand everything, the world, the nations are lending money to mitigate the impact of the crisis. They gave this money to Ukraine, and they didn't go to support an ordinary Ukrainian person, to support an enterprise, and they were all soaked in banks, and the extraordinary huge funds were put in their pockets, and the completely destroyed Ukrainian currency that we're talking about with you, what we're talking about. The Commission of 18 has asked them to give the necessary documents, they have been ignored completely, it's not just the commission, it's ignored, we've been ignored for nothing, so maybe even your pride will work, our reverend regions, maybe at least it'll work out that we're just being wiped out by boots! Because again, if anyone asks for 24 hours, I say again, during this time the Ukrainian people will still be robbed and that the bank “Nadra” that was supposed to be lying there today and they could have forgotten about it and it was going to be a bankruptcy, today is one of the richest because that money was stuck there. Because of this, please, I am addressing you, let us give the Ukrainian man any hope today! Although let's prove that we're a viable body that can vote today and yet, let's just let people know that we're capable of something. I believe it! Come on, with God!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u279	Schmellow Svetlana Alexandrovna
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u280	Adam Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u281	Dear colleagues, national MPs, but I'd like to speak more to those who are currently overseeing the work of the Supreme Council. Now, when we consider a very painful issue, we face again those who defend the interests of bankers and who want to protect the interests of those who are obliged to serve them. Once again, I want to remind you of the situation that was involved when the leader of our faction reported an appropriate bill to protect the investors. Sadly, the bank lobby won this session hall. We have once again protected banks that have 182, and we have denied our legal protection to more than 20 million investors. Because we offered to clearly and clearly ban banks from arresting mortgage assets before the crisis. We suggested that we not allow the transfer of monetary and monetary loans at a different rate than the one set up by the National Bank, and we offered to fill the budget in order to actually get out of the crisis, to raise our economy to identify the leading sectors and to give these leading industries, to businesses with credits of not more than 3 percent. Did we make a bad offer? You know that part of the foreign states now are even giving zero percent to get out of the crisis. Sadly, another thought prevailed in this session hall. Now for what we are discussing. I don't know how we all go to people and explain why we don't evaluate what's going on. Are we satisfied as nationals with what is done with the course? We're happy that we went down to 4.5 first and then up to 9 or almost 10? I fully support the regions here, because it's not just the bank's fault, and the government has made an effort, and the government is guilty. But today we are discussing a preliminary report from a temporary special commission. I don't know what's in this resolve, what's in it to be afraid of? Let's turn to the President one more time, shall we? He may not even read our address. So I remind you that we should act in a constitutional way. The appointment and release of the head of the National Bank may be solely on behalf of the President. We won't make any other decisions with you. The only thing you're talking about here is the Attorney General's Office. We can't write it like we wrote in number seven. We cannot direct anyone to a criminal case. It's not our business, it's not our authority. That's why I'm offering the seventh point. Let me finish, Alexander Volodymyrovich. There's, there's, read the seventh point: get the case started and so forth. Therefore, the seventh paragraph should be written as required by article 88 of our Rules, which requires that the materials of the interim commission of inquiry be sent to the Attorney General’s Office for study and appropriate response. The D.A.'s gonna do it right. So let's figure it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u282	People's MP Pecklesenka's replica, please. People’s deputies, Pecklusenko and Arjewitin, have the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u283	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! I want us to take another look at everything that's going on. What is our challenge? It's not a question, you're the one who's at your party convention. We have to make an objective assessment. There's no material. What we give on the Internet, how we feel. You must insult all my colleagues. We asked for materials, and we didn't get any answers, we invited people, and they didn't come here. Even if we don't get to the first and second, we all have to go to Horticah to catch the butterflies.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u284	People's MP, Arzhevtin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u285	Stanislaw Arzewitin, “For Ukraine”, is a group in the Supreme Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to remind you once again what a bank is. The bank is an institution that now has 500 billion deposits of Ukrainian citizens, deposits, I call the word "deposits" that are invested in the economy. Today, the banking system handles three state budgets if its assets are taken. I very much ask this institution to be treated quite differently. And I ask MPs not only to think about those who have to pay off the loans, but to think about those who have deposited deposits, because 40 million today are depositors. Once again, don't call specific banks. You don't know what they're doing, what their liquidity is, what their stability is, don't call them, please, I'm asking you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u286	The discussion is over. I'm voting on the basis of draft regulation 3565 on the previous report. I'd like to make up my mind. [[14:20:27]] For 308. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, proposals were now made during the discussion. The factions, please. The Party of Regions – 77, "The Block of July Timoshenko" – 154, "Our Ukraine" – 31 Communists – 27, "The Block of Lithuania – 19. Please make suggestions now. People's Deputies of Ephraim, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u287	Dear colleagues, as we spoke, we have done so. We said we'd vote for the part you're trying to pass on right now. But we ask you very much to support the other side of the matter. There is the responsibility of the Government and this responsibility must be stated. In due course, Timoshenko, speaking to the country as a whole, said: "I, as Prime Minister and as a person who knows what's going on in the financial and monetary systems, say that the most reliable currency will be the money!" And then most people did! And this is a transcript of that question. We therefore ask you, if you are honest people, to consider further the responsibility of the Government in this matter. And if you're protecting only your party uniforms, then you don't have to talk about the people of Ukraine, then you're talking about the personal interests and the banks that your oligarchs have in submission.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u288	Alexander Sergiyovich, please make up the paragraph you are talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u289	We propose to introduce, hear and hold the Government accountable for what is being done in the National Bank.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u290	The National MP Martinyuk also proposed a revision of paragraph seven. With your permission, I bring my proposal to you regarding paragraph five, since the authorities of the State cannot make a request within their jurisdiction. Therefore, instead of the word “requirement” use the word “proposal”, if you do not deny it, and please, if there are other suggestions to the text of the decision. If there are no other proposals, I am the first to put the proposal to the vote on paragraph five: the words “to address the President without delay” should be replaced by the words “to contact the President of Ukraine with an immediate proposal”. I'll bet you a vote, please. Mine. [[14:23:20]] For 186 The decision is not supported. In this case, I'm telling you that you allowed yourself to write non-constitutional rules in the Supreme Council's draft decree. If you think that unconstitutional steps will make something good, please. The next offer was to the 7th. Where it is written: “to request a 10-day deadline to resolve the matter of a criminal offence”. Do you insist on keeping it that way? We vote in favour of the proposal of the National MP Martinyuk to send study and response materials according to the rules of the Rules. I'd like to make up my mind. [[14:24:16]] For 371 Decision taken. And the final proposal made by Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov to introduce to the text of this decree the paragraph “to hear the Cabinet of Ministers regarding its conduct. Financial policy.’ This is a proposal made by the People’s Deputy Ephraim. Please identify yourself. [[14:24:49]] For 190 The decision is not taken. The factions? Please. Region Party: 160, Timoshenko Yulia Block – 0, Our Ukraine – 4, Communists – 26, Litvina Block – 20. So, yes. One amendment to paragraph 7 concerning the application to the Attorney General's Office is supported. I now put to the vote in general, taking into account. What? [[B in m in s a l in]] I put to the vote in general, taking into account the amended draft regulation No. 3565. I'd like to make a statement. [[14:25:42]] For 380 Decision taken. Question completed. The factions, please. Region Party – 149, "Julia Timoshenko Block" – 154, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" – 31, communists – 27, "Litvina Block" – 19.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u291	What, what? Dear colleagues, you and I have decided that we will be working in the morning until the issues we have identified are resolved. You voted for it. Therefore, the draft Ordinance on the release of V. Semenyuk-Samsonenko from office of Head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine, registered 3466, is being announced. Is Valentina Petrovna here? We sent an appropriate submission and a request for participation. Then, please, the committee. Please, Alexander Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u292	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! According to article 85, part 12, of the Constitution, paragraph 12, of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is the issue of the release of the head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine. According to article 207 of the Supreme Council’s Rules, according to the commission of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the committee, which includes the issue of the release of the head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine, prepares and concludes on the proposed appointment. According to the subjects of the Supreme Council Committees of Ukraine's sixth vocation of the issue of discharge from the post of head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine, the Committee on Economic Policy is put on board. In the absence of a committee head, he has assigned me as the head of the Supreme Council Committee on Economic Policy, which is aware of the privatization and activities of the Holding Fund, to inform you of the Economic Policy Committee’s decision. On January 23, 2008, the Committee on Economic Policy considered the submission of Prime Minister Timoshenko of Ukraine on the release of Seminouk-Samsonenko Valentina Petrova from the post of head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine. And by a majority of the members of the committee: 9 – “yes”, 5 – “against” – he decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that he support the proposal to release Seminouk-Samsonenko from the post. The committee also pointed out that the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the release of Semenyuk from office of head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine, which the government had introduced, did not determine the moment when it would become effective. Therefore, the National MPs suggested that the draft decree should be supplemented by paragraph two: “This decision takes effect from the moment it is adopted.” So the Economic Policy Committee proposes to support proposals for the release of Seminouk-Samsonenko Valentina Petrovna from the post of head of the National Property Fund of Ukraine and to vote in favour of the draft decree. I want to say, for the sake of the economy of time, that this issue is long overdue, it's almost a year in Parliament and needs to be addressed immediately, because the tasks that have been put into the fund next year do not allow today's leadership to do them. Thank you for your attention, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u293	Would you please write that down for three minutes? Please. People's Deputy Caplienko, factions of the Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u294	Please give the floor to the national deputy Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u295	Oleg Lazko. "Julia Tymoshenko's Block." The issue of the management of the holdmain Foundation is not just mature, but mature, it needs to be addressed immediately. I would like to remind you that more than nine billion dollars were planned in this year’s budget from the privatization of state property. All this money was to be directed towards a return to Ukrainian citizens of savings, in the former savings of the Soviet Union. As a result of Semenyuk’s policies, the privatisation issue has been blocked, and nine billion have not come to the budget. The citizens did not receive their blood money, which they had been awaiting for 18 years. The same budgetary situation next year, the privatisation revenue, the privatisation income plan will not be implemented when led by Mrs. Seminouk-Samsonenko. Therefore, it is necessary to make immediate decisions regarding her release from office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u296	I'd like to confirm my colleague Lazko's words, with that kind of information. Throughout the term, Semenyuk held two competitions, Komsomol Rudouf, Lugansktepłow, are the worst examples of privatization in history. You can believe this, because it's the D.A.'s office that special review boards have been looking at. In addition, 18 percent of the hotel in the center of Yalta have recently been sold for only 19 million dollars. The cost of this package is estimated by experts at $10 million. So the question is really clear, and I think it needs to be solved today.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u297	National Deputy Tikhov, faction of the Party of Regions, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u298	Please pass the word to Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u299	Alexander Ephraim, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u300	Dear Alexander Nikolaevich, you have been the leader of this organization, and I do not want to remind and slander anyone who has done privatization, even though I know very well what was going on during this period. You tell me how a man is and as a former leader, you're considering the matter on the committee without even inviting the person to consider the matter, if you deny it, that's not the case. I talked to Semenyuk and asked her a question, she said no one invited me anywhere. Vladimir Mihajlovich, now to you, we are considering the previous issue without inviting people and we are making a political decision, we have voted for it, but we have looked at the conscience of those with whom it is clean. And I really agree here with my colleague that they probably don't have that conscience. So the question is, do you think it's right?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u301	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u302	Do you consider this to be the correct way to view the matter as if it were a sum of accounts on your part?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u303	I want to say that at a meeting of the committee that I represent, along with the special review committee, the head of Marmazov will now be speaking, there was Semenyuk and we listened to her, and we made a decision in her presence. The meeting of the committee was attended by Semenyuk. For today's Parliament meeting, I know that Valentina Petrovna is also invited. Now with regard to my release and Chechov's, I made a personal application for release, when the new government came and offered me a discharge, it was done to me by the Yanukovich Government, I did not resist or sit down, I did not wait until I was released by the Supreme Council. Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov was released without hearing reports from the Supreme Council when the government of Timoshenko arrived and did not set up a circus with an appearance or an appearance in parliament. We acted in accordance with the Constitution, according to our tasks. This can be confirmed by me and Mikhail Vasilovich. The fact that Valentina Petrovna has been in office for a year after the government has resigned tells of her personal attitude toward being in office. I don't think the head of the institution can be a year in office, not once without the Cabinet meeting. She doesn't go there and she doesn't go there. It's not normal.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u304	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues! Just a minute. Head of the Special Commission of the Supreme Council on Privatization of Eugene Marmazov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u305	Dear colleagues! Semenjuk-Samsonenko has been head of the Statehood Fund for over 3.5 years, and we have been hearing her statement of enormous personal achievements in the promotion of public interests all the time. But the Commission's analysis of the results of its activities showed that no real improvement had taken place in the management of the person or in the manner in which the privatization had taken place at the time of its imposition. On the contrary, in no time will I stop at three moments. First. The results of enterprise activities under corporate rights managed by the Fund have deteriorated. The profits in these enterprises are 4.5 times lower than the average in Ukraine. You'll think, the amount of dividends per principal bracelet is two kegs. A quarter of the enterprises are in bankruptcy, the total profits of enterprises managed by the Fund have been reduced in the first half of this year compared to the same period last year twice. And what huge losses the State is suffering from because of staff selection, the criterion of non-professionalism and party ownership. Over the past three years, Valentina Petrovna's one-parties were occupied by the heads of regional offices in a number of fund departments. Unlawful dismissals are not allowed to work even after a court decision. The work of the Chair of the Fund has become a practice. Or an example, the head of the Turboatom was appointed as the Kharkiv Communion of the Socialist Party Victor Subotin. Who, before that appointment, had damaged Turboat to tens of millions of bracelets. Turboatom's money was more than 229 million bracelets placed on a deposit in Megabank, co-sponsored by Subotin. That's why the loan. At a rate of 1.4 per cent, however, the bank issued loans to Turboatma at market rates. And the Turboat State listed only the procurator's orders, where is the control of the fund? As a result of the uncontrolled corporate governance fund, a number of enterprises have not collected shareholders for years, resulting in the laundering of the assets of the enterprise. Second. I forgot Valentin Petrovna about her promises to normalize the normative framework for privatization. We have never seen a new privatization programme in the sessional room, but the issue of sale of facilities along with land has not been addressed to date, which has significantly reduced the flow of funds in the budget. And third, we cannot help but say that the deliberate dissemination of false information by Valentina Petrovna is rare. Thus, she claims that Lugansktebrova received one and a half billion grevens from the sale of Lugansktebrova, compared with 300 million grevens under the contract, and 292 million grevens. Or it is repeated that the Odessa Porting Plant lists 450 million gross dividends annually, although the total amount of dividends from all enterprises managed by the Fund amounts to less than 264 million in 2007. The Fund Manager stated that three thousand and 700 hostels had already been returned to the management, although only one thousand and seven hundred hostels were included in the statutory funds of privatized enterprises. The Semenyuk application for the establishment of a register of State ownership is also not valid. This work began before Seminouk-Samsonenko was appointed Chairman of the Fund and was carried out not only by the Fund but also by other executive bodies, and the establishment of the registry has not yet been completed. The members of the commission noted that Seminouk-Samsonenko was not acting as a professional manager, but rather as a populist, a politician, replacing real government work with pear-actions, by the way, on a public account. Therefore, after considering the activities of the Housing Fund and the implementation of the State privatization programme in 2007, the Special Monitoring Commission on Privatization decided: the work of the Chairman of the Statehood Fund is to be considered unsatisfactory and to request the Supreme Council to consider its compliance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u306	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, First Deputy Prime Minister Alexander Valentinovich Turkinov, please this is the Cabinet of Ministers project, the Cabinet position. Let's get out of here.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u307	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, honourable national deputies, I would like to say that we are acting within the Constitution and in accordance with article 85, paragraph 12, of the Constitution. The Cabinet of Ministers is filing for the release of Semenyuk-Samosenko Valentina Petrova from the post of head of the State Property Fund. You know, I could talk a lot about both the violation and the joint ventures and the opaque forms of privatization, and I'm stressing the complete failure of the privatization programme in the current year. But I just want to say that this is not the first time that this question is brought to the Supreme Council, and several times the Supreme Council has passed on this question, because Mrs. Semenyuk has not found time to come to the Supreme Council. And by the way, I would like to emphasize that the Supreme Council has made a protocol decision that, in the event of Mrs. Seminouk's non-existence, the issue is no longer being put off. So, dear colleagues, let's not waste time, I ask you to vote on this issue and release Mrs. Seminouk from her position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u308	Thank you. Dear colleagues, now before the vote, I'll give you my word, to be exact. I would like to report that when the Conciliation Council adopted this decision and agreed to the inclusion of this issue in the calendar of meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a written invitation was sent to the head of the apparatus, as I was informed, and had a telephone conversation with an appropriate invitation to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Obviously, here's the point that would apply to a person would be good if there was a presence of Semenyuk-Samsonenko directly. But since there is no and there is no decision by the Supreme Council to deal with this issue in the event of no participation, without the participation of an official, we have good reason to put the matter to the vote. Five minutes out of the procedure, please log in. I would like to see the name of the national MPs on the sign-up table. Eugene Marmazov, Communist faction. Then Roman Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u309	Dear colleagues, well Semenyuk-Samsonenko is not that simple. Dear colleagues, Valentin Petrovna, is not such a simple and naive person, and she is certainly holding onto her chair, not always modestly in all available and inaccessible ways. [[Applause]] She even stated that her release was a crime against Ukraine. So she's already been invited, as I recall, for the fourth time and for the fourth time, she's not predictable. I'm telling you, she'll be on vacation. You know, when she's invited, she's either on vacation or sick or she's on a mission. You remember when we invited her to listen, she was in Turkey and she was giving an interview. The Constitution therefore provides that this is 85 articles, which the Prime Minister introduces and the Supreme Council decides that it is not written, that it is desirable that it be and that we invite it. So we have to make a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u310	Roman Zvaric, faction of our Ukrainian People's Self-Defense.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u311	Please pass the word to Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u312	Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u313	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “For Ukraine” MP. Dear colleagues! Honorable Voters! We usually vote in favour of the removal of Valentina Seminouk, and we were never impressed by her activities. So those who are nervous about it, please calm down. You'll make more money. The other one. We're very interested in what will be the next policy of the State Property Fund? Dear colleagues, if we release Semenyuk now and then assign Semenyuk squared and all privatisation will be divided into two between the beat and the communists Turboat and the Priport and other objects, it will be even worse than it has been before. Therefore, the “For Ukraine” group usually takes off Semenyuk, but when you assign a coalition to the new Semenyuk, then we will look very carefully at the privatization programme and your real political practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u314	Bondik National Deputy faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u315	Dear Volodymyr Mihajlovich, Reverend Alexander Valentinovich. Indeed, when the parliamentary nomenclature, that is, the headship of the holding fund was approved here in Parliament, we need to report at least. I don't want to ask about the vote or not about the vote on the withdrawal of Valentina Seminouk, but as a lawyer, I can tell you that this is our decision, if we are now, not us, and you will be able to vote will be blocked in the District Administrative Court. Alexander Valentinovich Turkinov knows that there are calls that have not been considered and are praised both on the one hand by the BUT faction and by Valentina Samsonenko. And maybe there's some sort of resolution at this point. So I would ask, Vladimir Mikhailovich, not to run, not to put the horse in front of the visa, not to run so quickly at such a pace. Listen to Valentina Semenyuk here in Parliament and then the results of the report make the right decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u316	Volodymyr Bondarenko faction “Blanket of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u317	Dear friends, and I would like to be reminded of this by the radio audience and by those who can see and hear us. First of all, Valentina Seminyuk's figure in the destabilisation system of the situation in Ukraine, implemented by President Viktor Yushchenko of Ukraine, does not play a role. He personally saved her several times from this consideration and from being removed. Why is this being done? First of all, the goal is to break the budget in Ukraine, to implement the budget, since privatization was a major part of the budget program, which was to be done at a time when objects were still expensive. Then he winked at everyone and told them that she was absolutely needed by the head of the institution. We saw what that led to. So I would like to point out that today, I think, everyone is mature, even those who represent the President's interests here, that this clown around this office should eventually end. And I want to make a note. There is no need to dictate to the courts how they should deal with the matter. They will decide in accordance with the law and the Constitution of Ukraine, I am sure of that.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u318	Alexander Bondar instead of Catherinechuk Mikoli. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u319	Alexander Bondar, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". I want to say that no document that regulates the Fund's activities and privatization defines the need to listen to the report of the Fund's head or his statement of dismissal. I've already given examples of my release and the release of Chechtov, which I didn't foresee, we didn't. That is why there will be no court cases. Regarding the report. We discussed it on the review board, made an unsatisfactory assessment of the Fund’s activities, and recommended that the Semenyuk Supreme Council be released. So her presence as a report will simply confirm the decision of our special review committee. I mean, let's not take this process too long, not pretend it's new, the Supreme Council hasn't prepared it, because we've tried to solve it several times. All these times, when the day was in order, Valentina Petrovna did not come to Parliament. And her attitude toward the work of the special review committee she headed has been confirmed by a colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u320	Mikhail Papiev, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u321	Please give the floor to the People's Deputy Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u322	Nestor Shufrich, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u323	You're strange people in the coalition, to be honest. And who appointed this outstanding expert on the privatization of Mrs. Semenyuk? Who created an appropriate coalition with such a paphos, there were flowers, fireworks, and now you're begging her to be released? You know, this is definitely your position. We may support you, but we have some integrity. We cannot release a person, vote for the release of the person we worked with, regardless of the fact that he was imposed on us by your previous orange government. But today we observe and do not prevent you from making a personal decision. If you have a coalition, and we will see who votes for it, do so accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u324	Replica, Adam Martinyuk, and we move on to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u325	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, one of our colleagues once again gave a false thesis that Communists are privatizing something, should share it with someone, and so on and so forth. Regrettably, quite often, even at the highest level of office, it is said that the communists are allegedly stimulating the process of privatising the Harkovsky Turboatoma. It's totally not true. Please, I do not recall the number of the ruling, but please see, for about six months now, our database contains a draft decree by the head of the Temporary Special Committee on Privatisation, a member of our Marmazov faction, to prohibit the privatisation of the Turboatom. So please do not speculate, for this does not beautify our parliamentary corps.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u326	The honourable national deputies, the deputies who made their proposals, had, please note, a deep sense. The point is, for a normal civilized way, if the Supreme Council were to appoint a person, it would have to listen to or thank, or make critical remarks. But I have to say that the decision was taken repeatedly by the Supreme Council, the issue has been postponed because of the absence of the head of the State Property Fund. Then the Supreme Council decided to consider cases of absence. With regard to the appointment of a successor. Here I fully share the view of Viacheslav Kirilenka that we will then need to discuss in principle on the Conciliation Council, express our position and vision, and feel the program that will be done to make a decision that is clear and that is in the best interest of the country. So, dear fellows, the only question that is now being considered is the question of liberation. I'm voting on a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the release of Semenyuk-Samsonenko from the post of head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine to adopt it immediately as a decree, and I'm reiterating the registration number of 3466. [[Registration number 3466]] Please vote. [[14:51:30.]] For 259. Dear colleagues, please calm down. It's not a budget. For 259, the decision is made. Now, pay attention, fellows of honor! We have two bills to consider at the morning session. Therefore, the proposal is made that we consider them as a reduced procedure. I'm putting this motion to a vote. This is a bill relating to the draft Law on Temporary Commissions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, draft laws on gambling under reduced procedures. [[Registration number 3250, 3250-d]] [[1016, 1016-1, 1016-2, as well as 3535, 3535-1]] Please vote. [[14:52:41]] For 313 Decision taken. The draft Law on Temporary Commissions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, registration numbers 3250, 3250-d. The reporter is Sas Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u327	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! For your consideration. First of all, since the adoption of the Constitution of Ukraine in 1996, it has been 12 years, and all these years the Supreme Council of Ukraine has been trying to accept it. adopt the Law on Temporary Investigations of the Supreme Council, as required by article 80 of the Constitution of Ukraine. You probably don't need to remind you that almost every session we either adopt this law, or we overtake the President's veto, which has taken place over and over and over and over again over and over again. The Committee of the Supreme Council on Rules at its meeting on 24 December, at the invitation of the Ukrainian National Deputies, returned to the need for the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Temporary Investigations Commissions, a special commission of inquiry and temporary special commissions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and decided to bring such a bill to the attention of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the initiative of the National Deputies. The draft law was drafted on the basis of the Ukrainian Law on Temporary Investigations Commissions, a special interim commission of inquiry and temporary special commissions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which was re-adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 2 September 2008, but was not supported by the President of the veto on 2 October 2008. The main purpose of this bill is the legislative regulation of the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to determine the status, order and organization of the activities of the interim commission of inquiry, the temporary special commissions, the special temporary commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please support the prescribed bill, registration number 3250. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u328	Dear colleagues, the report is complete. Please sign up for discussion. Alexander Sergiyovich, please. As chairman of the committee, Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u329	Dear colleagues! The Committee considered this question on 24 December. And you know what's good? That we have voted unanimously on this issue, regardless of who is in a faction. I believe that if the Supreme Council votes on this issue and we continue to look forward to the veto of the President, and if we overcome this veto of the President, we will make a considerable step or contribution to the development of our jurisprudence and take a step in that everyone must be accountable before the law. And if even the main person is a State in some way violating it, that is, an instrument, how to react. I beg your pardon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u330	Dear colleagues, Paul Costenko. Please turn on the microphone. The faction of the Yulia Tymoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u331	Thank you. Please give the floor to the People's Deputy Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u332	Please, Pisarenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u333	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I want to remind you that the fate of this bill is, unfortunately, over a few years old, we are seeing how the Supreme Council cannot approve this bill. Every president and every party that supports the President is constantly trying to block the adoption of this bill, because temporary special commissions are not only helping to fight bribery and corruption at all levels of government, but also opening the way to impeachment. So I think that what we now call ourselves a democratic rule of law -- and we have not only intact, but not touching, you know, squarely -- so today's issue of the adoption of this law is not just the question of the Supreme Council finally starting to do one of its main functions, namely the control function. The control function allows Parliament today to fight corruption in the government system. If you ask today: who can file a criminal case against the Attorney General, against the head of the President's Department, against the President of Ukraine, I want to tell you that you will not find an answer to this question. And this is the most important question: can the authorities themselves be accountable to themselves? So today, we need to see this law on board, not 226, not 300, but 450 votes. This will mean that Parliament will be ready to lead the fight against corruption in the system of public authorities. And that's what I call all the political forces, be with two hands, for.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u334	Jaroslav Suhi is referring to Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, a faction of the Party of the Regions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u335	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! I cannot help but recall in 2004 when it was at your head that we were considering this law. And you know, I've already mentioned this story, and I'll remind you again. Of course, Mr. Carmazin, we fought together for this law, I can't say that we fully supported it then, but after I was personally approached by such a normal national deputy, Viktor Andriyovich Yushchenko, and asked us to vote this law for the people of Ukraine, we couldn't deny it. He then said such “prophetic words”:“This law is not against Kuchma, this law for Ukraine.” Indeed, in 1996, when the Constitution of Ukraine was adopted, our previous colleagues were then taken, and many of them are now present and represented in the Supreme Council of the Sixth Calling to Vote the Law. The time has finally come to repay our debts and our Constitution, our Basic Law, and certainly the people of Ukraine. You know, I could say that this law isn't against Yashchenk, but I'm going to have to do it in terms of the latest information and the circumstances, but it's definitely the law for the people of Ukraine. And that we in favour of this law are returning a debt that Parliament could not repay to the Constitution, both to the Basic Law and to our people for 12 years. I am absolutely convinced that there must be more than 400 votes on the board right now, because we all know that this law must be passed and voted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u336	Thank you, fellows of honor! The discussion is over. I wanted to clarify Bill 3250 of Sasa Sergey Volodymyrovich, registered by National Deputy Alexander Feldman, he's been revoked or he's staying, we're voting for him, you've reported on this issue. Please, Sasu microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u337	Thank you, Mikola Volodymyrovich. The thing is, my colleague Feldman is now in a hospital in Kharkiv, so he had no opportunity to report his bill. Today, however, we have no objection to considering the bill that I have reported, since it is not registered as an alternative to what has been introduced and is known from this issue. Not as an alternative to what was introduced by the National MP Feldman, so today we can easily adopt this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u338	Dear colleagues, we have two points of view and two proposals, to vote in favour of the bill on temporary commissions in the first reading and to vote in the first, and in general, I would like to ask you not to tear down the hall, let's take three minutes, let's rephrase how we're doing. Please sign up for three minutes. Please explain. Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u339	I propose to adopt this bill in the first reading and generally as a law, and I ask you to stop the discussion. From the point of view of the deputies, it is clear how people want to vote. Please allow the MPs to express their views by voting, to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u340	Thank you. Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u341	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, we have a constitutional duty to perform with you. The Law on Temporary Special Commissions is one of the requirements of a constitution that, unfortunately, we have made a dozen approaches to its implementation, but so far there is no. This is one moment. One second. I don't remember which time I'm speaking as one of the authors of this bill. Thirdly, believe me, this bill has gone through so many experts dozens of times since the two presidents came back to us, and we've been looking at it very carefully on every side. No second reading will do any better. So I propose to support the proposal that we have now voted in favour of this bill as a whole in favour of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u342	Thank you. Illiac. Party of regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u343	I give the word to Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u344	Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u345	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues! I address Ivan Grigorievich Kirilenko with great fears that this bill is being played again. We agreed to take first reading, and generally. If you're on the road again, it's only on first reading that you can adopt a bill that everyone already knows. And everyone understands the essence of this question and continues to put it on the market. Then let's not participate in this circus. Either we take it, or then we can move on without us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u346	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u347	Yury Karmazin Party of Motherland Defenders. "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" I think everyone with a good memory remembers that Carmazin has been developing since the year 98. My real name's not there. That's what I'm saying. I'm talking to my colleagues. That's the first one. The other one. Since 1998, when this law was passed, it has only deteriorated. What do you think in these situations the bank is currently presupposing the actions of the commission of inquiry? Not foreseen. And there's no such authority. It's okay. It's not normal. The law needs to be strengthened in a situation where the Constitution of the Law has to be strengthened. So I'm going to ask you to come in on the first reading today. I'll take it to the other on Tuesday. Although we would like to make some suggestions about strengthening this law because it has been weakened so far. You want to believe it or not. Look for yourself. So I would ask you to do it this way. And I don't know what games I'm referring to here, I'm always only going to go to law school with a reduced procedure like that. Only by the law of professionalism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u348	The national MP, Serbian, passes the word to Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich, please. It's a Cyrillic microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u349	Dear colleagues! Everyone, please calm down on the Conciliation Council, the decision was taken that we are adopting this law, we are considering and voting today, but absolutely right of colleague Carmazin, look at this bill in 1996, 1998, 2001, now cooled down, it gives absolutely nothing compared to those previously written. And he gave an example of the National Bank where there's nothing we can do, and look at the other parameters. By Tuesday, strengthen, see the 1996 and 1998 editions and vote in general. First reading now and all!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u350	Thank you. Dear colleagues! We'll make decisions. I, in accordance with the proposals that have been made, will first put to the vote in the first reading, and then we will determine. We have the only thing that I'm looking at, that the committee recommended that we take as a basis the total of 3259-d. Are we still voting 3250 and then 3250-d? Dear colleagues! I then vote on the committee's proposal, and I propose to vote in favour of Bill 3250-d in the first reading. Please vote. [[15:07:23]] For 363 Decision taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 136, “Timoshenko Yulia Block” – 154, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” – 27, Communists – 27, “Litvina Block” – 19. Dear colleagues! I still have to consider the position because it was the position and factions of BUTU and the representative of "Our Ukraine – the People's Self-Defense" when there is a denial, I cannot put to the vote in the second. If it were possible to offer Karmazin that we could work on the committee and ask questions on Tuesday. Tuesday’s first offer? I ask then to support the proposal of the committee's national deputies to work on the strengthening part, as I have heard, the responsibility and the first one on Tuesday to put on second reading, please vote in favour of the draft bill on Tuesday the first since the statements by the MPs and factions. [[15:08:37]] For 362 Decision taken. So on Tuesday we'll go back to the second reading of the bill. Dear colleagues, as we have decided, we have five bills in part of the problem of settling gambling and the gambling business. We're looking at all of them by a reduced procedure. The 1016 Gambling Bill, a bill of the national MP Smithyuch, is therefore under review. Please, Grigory Yudkomovich, report. Two minutes, I'll remind you again, under a reduced procedure, then we'll discuss it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u351	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address you and I hope that you are familiar with my bill, which, unfortunately, has a three-year history in the walls of the Supreme Council and, unfortunately, has not yet been considered, even though I consider it to be one of the basic laws that Ukraine should have adopted today. Unfortunately, there are very few people in the room and the reduced procedure does not allow me to express to you all the pain that I've been taking from our population as a result of the vacchanal that is being created today in the field of gaming. I'm going to give you some literally statistical data, and unfortunately, it's not complete, because no one has formal and official statistics full in the state. Thus far, the players of the gaming business in Ukraine have more than 5,000 organizations. The number of jobs they created is 150,000. Think only of the figure, 150,000 people who have a frequent higher education, who are often young people who have a completely different specialty, forced, not forced, but involved in this process, and you know that when a person is an engineer or a teacher, or another specialty comes to work at a casino, he will never return to his own. The entertainment sector provides income annually, and there are no statistics to complete, it's floating, but it's about 1 billion dollars. About 1 billion dollars is what the state and budget of Ukraine forms at the expense of Ukrainian citizens. That is, by picking people, by lying to people, and these funds are being channelled to the budget. I'm counting on the state for today and we're with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u352	Give me another 30 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u353	Well, unfortunately, Mikola Volodymyrovich, you can't give me a bill like that for three minutes, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u354	I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u355	So I'm addressing you as national MPs, and please, Mikola Volodymyrovich, I'm speaking in principle with one position: to ban the gaming business in the Ukrainian community, to allocate a special zone, a depressed territory or other way of deciding the Cabinet of Ministers and to propose to those who distribute the game business and those who want to play there, to stay and play there, but not to involve our young children, young generations, people, all independence from age in this insane, shameful, anti-national, anti-State process. So I would ask you not to discuss a better law, not a better law, not a set of rules, not a set of rules. I ask the Supreme Council today to support this bill in its first reading, though, to ban it as an anti-social phenomenon. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u356	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you once again, because here all of you, all MPs, I think that in order to deal with this disgraceful phenomenon, all you have to do is find the mechanism and do it as soon as possible. That's why our colleagues, who have registered other bills, I think they're in the same position. So I ask Valery Volodymyrovich Pisarenko to report his bill 1016-1. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u357	Dear colleagues, in fact, today we see the presentation of four bills. And you know, what we're all fighting today is this negative phenomenon that we need to speak to what extent Parliament is willing to vote today in order to remove the unprotected levels of the population, especially from gambling. In fact, we see a few bills that each of them has a good idea. This idea is not just to eliminate gambling, but to limit the participation of children, adolescents, socially vulnerable groups, people who suffer from gambling from this negative result. In fact, it can be said that my bill is the most stringent of all these bills, because it provides for the complete withdrawal of all gaming facilities, slot machines, gaming halls from the localities, from the administrative offices of Ukraine. Then it's proposed to create a game zone that needs to be removed from all the slot machines. And whoever has a wish, the money to play with such expensive toys has to be able to go and play in his “Lasvegas” in Ukraine. Moreover, the proposal is appropriate that lasvegas really need to be built not where we have fertile land, either there is a capital, or there are other cities. This needs to be done in deserts, depressed areas, where there is no other way to support the local population. In fact, for today we need to understand one thing: gambling is a disease that is worse than alcoholism. Igmania is a disease that is now draining money from the pockets of socially vulnerable people. Today, immigration destroys individual classes in Ukraine. I propose to support any bill that can open the way today to fight.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u358	Thank you. I invite you to the author's report on the bill, Oxana, Volodymyr's Bilozer. [[1016-2]] Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u359	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! I am very glad that after my appeal on December 19 to the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, with the bills being considered in Parliament, today is under consideration. And in that, I'm sure, a great credit to Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvin himself. I would like to emphasize to each of you, honourable deputies, that we have two bills to consider today. Because of the Bill of People's Deputies of Burlakov and the Government Bill, they are registered with a violation of the Rules. They were registered a year after the basic bill was introduced. One. And secondly, imagine a government bill, it's in the walls of our Parliament with you, introduced, registered, the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority and the conclusions of the committee held in one day. So these two bills don't have the right to be considered in the hall today. Only after the corresponding two bills, this is the Smythech MP and mine, will they be rejected. I mean, I want us not to manipulate that. With regard to the bill that I submit, which was signed by representatives of four factions: the "Julia Timoshenko" Block, "Litvina Block" and "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense". The bill is the only one with a positive conclusion from the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. And that's why the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority is proposing to accept it as the basis for the first reading. And on the second reading, let's work together with you, take into account the proposals of all our deputies, and we will adopt a bill by Parliament alone, and answer to our society that Parliament sees those challenges, those problems. You know that the key problem is children and older people. Children with unstable mentality on these machines lose everything they can, and pensioners quit their pension in three days. There is no public organization to raise these questions. And since these bills are in the hall today, I'm just addressing all of us, let's just reject all political ambitions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u360	Let me finish. Speak up, Oksano Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u361	I ask that the time I spent on the Rules is not enough for me to count. And now the key positions of our bill. It's the only system bill that defines what a casino is, what a bookie office is, what a slot room is. It gives them the characteristics. It tells you what parameters they're supposed to work on. But of course, the key, most problematic part of this bill is moving the gaming business outside of cities and population centres. And so I suggest, let's take at least one bill on the first reading, and then make it what it's going to be for both of us and our citizens. Come on, let common sense win at last today. This is the only piece of legislation that has, once again, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Administration of Positive Conclusion. And one more thing. And the Ministry of Internal Affairs supports, the Tax Office supports. And most of all, he was supported by the Blessed Vladimir, the Blessed Guzard, and the Blessed Philaret, and they read and sent me letters. Well, we won't be against our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u362	Thank you, Oksana Volodymyr. Welcome to Deputy Finance Minister Fudashkin Denis Alexandrovich, Bill 3535. And while he's going, I want to say that, friends, either there are good things to do in the Ukrainian Parliament, or there are no. There is no fight here, which of the deputies is wiser, and more fighting for the people, if we make a decision, it will be a good thing for Parliament. So I wouldn't want us to fight here for names, but let's fight for it. Please, Fudashkin Denis Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u363	The honourable chairman, honourable national MPs, is presenting a bill on state regulation in the field of gaming. Today, those instruments that provide regulation are not sufficient to ensure that the market is adequately regulated. The Licensing Act does not actually provide for proper regulation of gambling after obtaining licences, since it does not have a very rich institution. The bill clearly defines the terminology of gambling; defined permitted gambling; prohibited television, radio games that provide payment for participation, including telephone fees, which have become the norm for today; established rules that prevent the legalization of proceeds obtained by criminal means; introduced indicative regulation; introduced production licensing and import retail sale of gaming equipment; established an annual license fee of 400,000 instead of 30,000 euros; introduced statutory capital requirements for casinos, virtual establishments and bookmakers. Requirements are made for the net assets of such entities and statutory capital. There is a provision for the reporting of licensing entities, which is not currently established by any law that makes it impossible to control any indicative parameters. The licensing regime is changing instead of the fact that today, if irregularities are detected, the time limit is fixed and most of the violations related to gambling are of a single nature and are impossible to eliminate. Local patent boards are expected to increase as an economic regulator of application restrictions, enabling local budgets to increase by nearly one and a half billion.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u364	Allow me to finish Dennis Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u365	An increased responsibility has been established both administrative and criminal, removing criminal responsibility as to the basis for violating existing high incomes, which in most cases cannot be established if the subject engages in unlicensed activities. This bill is accepted by almost all authorities, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Taxation. Please support this bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u366	Thank you. Dear colleagues, as I was informed here by the leaders of the faction of the Party of the Regions, Bill Burlakov Pavel Mikolaiovich. What? Dear friends, study the material part: we will get to the procedure when all the bills are presented. Mikhailo Chechtov submits Bill 3535 or Burlakov Pavel Mikolajovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u367	Today, business in the field of organization and gambling in Ukraine has gained quite a degree of development. In some locations or regions, the abundance of gambling facilities is too high. This leads to significant economic, moral, and other negative consequences for society, especially in the upbringing of the young generation. That is why legislative regulation in this area is essential. The bill provides, inter alia, for: First. In this regard, it is proposed that gambling licenses be granted through auctions. At the same time, gambling organizers have the right to obtain a license for every type of economic activity in the area of gambling for only one locality or region. The other one. Establishing the requirements for granting a licence to conduct a gaming business requires the granting of permission to the relevant local authority to place a gambling establishment. Third. The suspension of the licence, including when the authorities grant local self - government, is motivated by a negative conclusion regarding the activities of the gambling organizer. And the fourth. With a view to preventing overcrowding by gambling establishments, it is suggested that they be limited depending on the number of people living in or in the region. Asking for support in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u368	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm informing you and I'm asking you to pay attention to the decisions we make. The chairman of the Supreme Council, who held the meeting, informed us that we are considering all five bills as one subject of regulation. No one made a warning, so there was usually no need to vote. Thus, all the national MPs who have introduced these bills care equally for the Ukrainian people, the children, and the gaming business. So let's not have a championship in the game business. I would like to ask the head of the Committee on Industrial Regulatory Policy of Royal Natalia Jurijovna to report on the position of the committee on how to act in a situation where there are five bills. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u369	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Respectable voters! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Enterprise has considered all five draft laws on the game business submitted today in the Chamber. Our task today is to regulate the gaming business. For all the years of independence, we have not been able to create any legislation that could regulate this area of business, and we all here in this room must understand today that the gambling business is interested in not passing any bill today and that further consideration of this issue should be postponed, so that the total uncontrolled distribution of slot machines, casinos that are not opened in schools today are still being carried out at the same rate in hospitals. Today, we, the people's deputies, who in 17 years failed to overcome lobbyism in the Supreme Council and were unable to adopt a bill to resolve this area of business. State control is not fully in place today. No mechanisms have been developed, no mechanisms for accountability have been developed. Today, the disease of “foolishness” is on its way to Ukraine, and 33 per cent of people are involved in the game business. And today it's unacceptable. Game business, by the way, is one of those types of business that thrives in times of crisis, because people are looking for an opportunity to support themselves in some way. And that's unacceptable. Today we do not have certification of equipment, today there is no responsibility for the fact that these pillars and machine guns stand at every step. And today money is being made on human weaknesses and on human vices. First of all, we need to solve the problem today.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u370	Let me finish. Natalia Juryovna, to tell you the position of the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u371	The Committee has therefore considered all five bills. As they were considered separately, the Committee decided: to establish a working group, to support draft 3535 in its first reading, the Cabinet Bill, on the basis of first reading and until second reading, to take into account all the proposals made by all the authors, the working group in the Committee to finalize and prepare, as necessary today, taking into account the social needs of society in the first place and our responsibility. Then consider a single bill on second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u372	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we'll consult with you as we speak. But I only think that, of course, it would be fair and right to go after. To take into account the committee's position, but to follow the procedure for the registration of drafts, because we have almost a year's legislation lying down, so it would be fair for us to go in order of registration. Is there any objection? Guys, let's keep pushing, let's do it. That's a lot. Let's write down the procedure for three minutes, then let's write it down by procedure, three minutes by procedure, please, women require, Adam Ivanovich, I can't. Come on, three out of the procedure. Oksana Bilozer, get ready, Gordienka.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u373	Mikola Volodymyrovich! You see there's a God in the world, you haven't given me a word, but I'm the first one to press the button and talk. Mikola Volodymyrovich, you need to study the Supreme Council Rules, because the Rules clearly state that an alternative bill, and today there were two of them that were not reported by the author, cannot be submitted more than a year after the introduction of the main bill. [[Government and Burlakova]] I'm not talking about the rest of the stuff that's been filed. We did not vote in parliament today in favour of the adoption of these two bills: the government and national deputies of Burlakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u374	Thank you. Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich, Gordijenko gives him the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u375	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues! And I'm addressing the honourable Oksana, it's no big deal that we've considered all these bills, each of the authors has the right to have these bills considered. And on the right side of the session room, determine which bill he will vote for. Whether we are considering whether we have considered one or the other, this makes no difference at all, we really need to follow the Rules as the chairman said that he would not put the committee’s decision but would put it in order for the coming. So in this order, as we talked about, they're going to be set up in this order. The only thing I'm afraid is that we're driving the situation on our own, and we're doing our own kind of emotional speech, that none of the bills are going to be adopted. We talked, we talked, we sat down and we cried. So let's calm down, I think I insist that at least one of the bills is adopted today.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u376	Thank you. Bondik, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u377	The honourable Chief, honourable colleagues, indeed an urgent need, the laws must be adopted, but according to the regulations, since they are alternative and are governmental, such an area of the game business, it needs a license, it's a profitable part of the budget. So you have to look at, for example, our Russian neighbors, where all of the gaming facilities are already out of town and they're built in separate zones. We need to develop cities that are in decline. But I suggest that, according to the regulations, that I vote for the law in the first reading of Smith and Bilozer, then they can create a working group and prepare the committee for the second reading, all of it. I propose to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u378	Thank you. Oilynik, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u379	Dear colleagues, there is no doubt in all of the drafters of the bill who have reported that the subject of concern that is being addressed today is a matter that needs to be addressed as quickly as possible. And I, for example, to be adopted by the most radical bill, and to be fair, now to divide the bill into those who have already submitted or have been registered, I propose, let's put it to a vote in order as they have reported from the rostrum of the Supreme Council, and the deputies call on them to support them all, who will win most of the votes, who will be accepted as a basis. The rest will be added to the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u380	Yuri Carmazin, we'll finish. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u381	Yuri Carmazin. Party of Protectors of the Homeland, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. Dear friends, I have all five bills in my hands, justice in my hands, to say that the first was the Bill of Smith, the second Pisarenko, the third Bill of Horbal, and then the fourth Bill of Bilozer, then the fifth government. And on a large scale, the rule of law has long since been broken for two weeks, so if we're all five discussing it, I'm in favour of accepting one today but determining the direction. What we want is because the name, for example, in Pisarenko is written, it says "on the legal regulation of organizations and the conduct of gambling." The government only provides for state regulation. That's not the name, it's not very well written. In Smith’s case, gambling is not strictly legal. So I'm in favour of voting until we take one, but the best thing for every project is to make them all co-authors. Let's make a decision that whatever project we're going to make, based on everyone, and they're all going to do a little bit later.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u382	Thank you. Anna Hermann and we'll finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u383	Dear colleagues! There is a very serious problem, and Parliament, and no one else should put a stop to this problem. Parliament must decide on the transfer of the game business beyond the population. For this there are many interesting bills we need to create one working group, unify this bill not to pull the blanket on each other, but to show that the Ukrainian Parliament has spoken its word here. I propose to make this decision now: bring together Bills of Bilozer and Smituha and who else is there for taking out the game business for the city and showing that the Ukrainian Parliament can solve this terrible problem. Thank you for giving us the opportunity to express ourselves.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u384	Dear colleagues! Let's not say a word, let's fight the game business. So I'm voting on Bill 1016 on Gambling by the People's Deputy Smythuch Grigori Evdokimovich. Please vote. 1016 – Smith's Bill. Please vote. [[15:34:54]] For a hundred and Dear colleagues! I beg of you were very good ideas one suggested that two be united with four, and the other five with one. Let us do as the Rules say if no one chooses to think of anyone to associate with. 1016-1 – Pisarenko Bill. Please vote. We're voting on 1016-1 of Pisarenko's bill. [[15:35:30.]] For-167 Bill 1016-2 is Bill of Bilozer and other groups of national deputies. Please vote. [[15:35:52]] For-75 Bill 3535 is government. Please vote. [[15:36:13]] For 249 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! Taking into account the discussions and proposals that have been made, all the bills that have been made here, the national deputy of Smitush, Pisarenko, Bilazoraz and Burlakov, I would ask the committee to take actively into account in the work, and perhaps if there are no warnings that we will approve the decision that before the second reading of this bill we have considered at the sessional week from 13 to 17 January. Unless there's any notice to make us. Please, head of the committee, Royal, please. Turn on the royal microphone. A royal microphone, please. Natalia Yuriovna, don't shout I can't hear you, sit down and tell the microphone your proposal as committee heads, because you need to work on the bill and do everything you can to get Parliament to vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u385	Dear colleagues! I ask that we be in January, until the end of January, because we must now take into account the proposals of all of us so that we do not agree here and we have not begun to translate this into a political plane. Please request all amendments, all members of the people on the prohibition of gambling business, on the transfer of gambling business, on the restriction of the location of the gambling business, on criminal liability for the violation of licensing conditions, on the cost of licensing conditions. I ask that all these amendments be made to the committee so that by the end of January of the month we can submit a single version of the bill. Because this question is very and very, very much, it has now gone into political space, and indeed from a moral-ethic plane. Please make it through the first week.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m0.u386	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I think we should make a decision already, I think that if we want and are as active as the national MPs here, I've demonstrated that half a month is enough to pass this bill. Because it seems like we've been actively agitating each other and reading each other, and we don't want to vote in general. So if you'll excuse me, I'll use the chairman's right and put my proposal to the vote. If it is not supported, then we will work as prescribed by the Rules all the terms of the complete procedure to prepare for the second reading. So I would like to support my proposal, and for the sessional week from January 13th to January 17th, the committee will report this bill on a second reading. Please vote. [[15:38:55]] For 339 Offer supported. So I asked the committee to prepare for the second reading of the bill for January 13-17. Dear colleagues, according to our decision, we will hear information from the head of the budget committee at 4:00 p.m. and we will adopt decisions on how to move forward during today’s work. So I'm going to call it a break until 4:00. At 16 o'clock, we'll be back to work.
