ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u1	Good morning, dear colleagues! Please register. [[10:00:17]] There were 394 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. Opening the morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, we have a lot of nouns today. Let me welcome Olenna Leonidovna Lukash with her birthday, Boris Mikolaiovich Pudova, Pavel Yakimovič Unguryan and Vasil Fedorovich Spak. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, today's agenda is given to you, which was approved yesterday. I would like to point out once again that a decision was made yesterday regarding the information of the Attorney General of Ukraine, Medvedzka Aleksandra Ivanovich, regarding the presence of information in the prosecutor's office regarding the illegal activity of individual national deputies of Ukraine, as well as criminal cases involving Ukrainian national MPs. I would like to welcome Alexander Ivanovich Medvedzk, who is now in the Parliamentary Hall. [[Applause]] Also, a number of questions that have been brought up to date are given to you. Dear colleagues, I propose that you record a statement under the 25th Rules from the Ukrainian National Deputies. Please. There's not another faction, is there? Please, Andrew Mikhailovich Pavlovski. Sergey Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u2	Mr. Chairman, Your Honor, I think that yesterday will enter the history of the Ukrainian state as a day when a unique event has taken place -- the President of Ukraine, the head of his secretariat, has actually done everything possible to finally ruin Parliament's work. And if they thought they were dealing with Arsenius Petrovich Yatsenuk, when the voices of the only centre led by the Secretary of the President, Mr. Baloga, were adding the necessary votes to remove the Supreme Council, I think that we all realized that it was not the removal of Arsenius Petrovich Yatsenuk, it was an attempt to finally destroy the Ukrainian Parliament when, following the resignation of Arsenius Yatsenyuk, these positions of Parliament Speaker were already proposed to at least three representatives of the various factions of the Supreme Council. I don't know, someone might have a unique idea of creating three chambers of Parliament, so there's an offer for all of these people who made these promises, to go to the sixth chamber, and then we'll solve all the issues that exist in our country. What happened yesterday? In fact, trying to remove the Head of the Supreme Council is an attempt to destroy Parliament as such. Because to date, the only island that is still working on a permanent basis that makes it possible to make such necessary decisions about the fight against the financial crisis that gives all the possibilities for further implementation by the Ukrainian government is the Ukrainian Parliament. With all the differences that exist in this room, at the end of the day, the law that we passed allows, first and foremost, agriculture, the real economy, the financial sector, to find those mechanisms that can start a difficult but necessary stage of recovery from the global financial crisis. That's why we have every opportunity today to do what all the factions in this session hall have insisted on -- to create a majority that will not serve the President, not a separate politician, but that will really serve the people of Ukraine. That is why we must unite and make the necessary decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u3	Ivan Kirilenko. Bondarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u4	Vladimir Bondarenko, Timoshenko Yuli Block. Dear friends, and our television viewers, and Ukrainian citizens! Do you remember how interesting the day began yesterday? We voted in favour of a dozen bills that the country needs very much. We supported everything that was constructive and that was done by the entire hall. This was certainly the cause of the fright that arose and the rapid response to this horror, although the cooking, in my opinion, had been done before. What is the urgency of this fear? If the Supreme Council had begun to vote on those bills that were not politically colored, but were indeed economical, would there have been a question, or would it have accepted these bills in conditions where Parliament was, indeed, suspended or not? And so a group of people who are constantly looking at one person's mouth -- the head of the President's Secretariat -- and they're doing all the teams, and they're doing the president's team, they're doing an interesting metamorphosis in this room: they're starting to vote in favour of resigning the speaker who represents the political power that got them here. It's not just metamorphosis, it's metamorphosis, which first of all shows absolute Byzantineism in Ukraine's politics, the sales of individual people, that these people are willing to turn left to right, and head to third or second to speak. I think they're dealing with other issues in parallel, and I've had the privilege of publishing some of the material about what enriches these people through the play, including the castles -- palanquins, the ground under Kiev, and so on. I am confident that yesterday's coup attempt is a great plan for the destruction of Parliament. And if that were the case, and one of those dreamers would come, once again, the second or third time, then it would be possible to work with one hand. And the newspaper says that the President has changed his position, he says, "he believes that the Supreme Council can work effectively without a coalition." That is, yesterday or yesterday, and it was still said that this is simply impossible, it is not constitutional, and today you see 219 votes appear somewhere with a group of traitors. If you form a coalition, please form a coalition, but you do not want to form a coalition, you do not want to lighten your ties and long - standing relationships, and play with Ukraine on one hand, and you want to play with the people, play with the crisis, with the choices, with the quiet method of such bites, and sometimes with the excuses that took place yesterday. I want to tell you, dear friends, Parliament is really capable of working both without coalition and with coalition, but we need someone who is manipulating Parliament today to finally calm down, Ukraine, not just his election. And we need to think a little bit about the people, about the state, and not just about the conversion to the second term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u5	Yavorowski Wolodymir.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u6	Dear voters! Vladimir Yavorowski, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, town of Kirovograd. Yesterday, the whole world celebrated a unique event -- the beginning of the first. the end of World War I. The Ukrainian Parliament, as always original, marked yesterday the beginning of a new political war in our Ukrainian Parliament. It seems to me that the Ukrainian society could have breathed yesterday and thought that the Ukrainian Parliament would finally start working in a calm, pedantic, and normal way. The timing of the election went somewhere beyond 2008, right up to that side, and we could really work, and that was really the hope. I literally came back from Kirovograd, met many people, and they really had the opportunity to transfer the spirit. But it turns out, a small group of political insolences, or I can't call them, those people who actually destroyed the coalition that existed, are those people who didn't go through the elections as a political power on their own, but, in fact, on the shoulders of “Our Ukraine”, known people from “Our Ukraine” and the People's Movement and “National Self-defence” came to Parliament. It turns out that yesterday they “made this mess” which can really lead Ukraine to the last limit. The point is that, indeed, if there is no Supreme Council head tomorrow, no law will be signed. If no law is signed, Parliament, as such, is not and cannot be. Because of this, I am addressing you traitors again in the worst sense of the word! Because you betrayed your President yesterday! You're out of this "presidential nest" and you don't know what to do! As a result, we are convinced that there are healthy forces in Parliament, it will never become “Paragraph 6”. Because of this, please make up your mind! If there really is a game that allows you to create another coalition, create! What else do you want from the “Julia Tymoshenko Block”?Oh, my God! I don't understand?Oh, my God! We've given up everything, we've won the election, you've won a small number of votes, we've given you 50 percent of the government, please work with the same government! What else do you want?Oh, my God! We've given up all ambitions! Julia Timoshenko has stated that she is ready for any coalition she has! What else do you want from the “Julia Tymoshenko Block”?Oh, my God! Because of this, - I conclude - there is a beautiful phrase: “Some come into politics with a beautiful future and come out of it with a shameful past!” That's how it's gonna be with you!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u7	Other Godsisters.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u8	Dear Ukraine, dear Ukrainians! 78 percent of Ukrainian citizens believe that the country is broken up, 82 percent of Ukrainians believe that the country needs to be saved. That is the judgment of today’s authorities! This is the price of people for believing in fairy tales and a year of bullying by the Ukrainian authorities. They promised thousands of dollars, and they took hundreds of millions of citizens' deposits, which are now frozen and no one can take them. They promised to cancel the military appeal, and today all soldiers are hungry. It was promised that there would be no crisis, and the crisis began the next day after this power had sat in its seats. Promises and calls were made to unite all the time, but each other will be tempted every day and unable to find harmony even among themselves. And today, sadly, a young man, a politician with whom many people have been associated with the hope that politics of a new species will appear in Ukraine has become the same way of lying and political fraud. Our distinguished speaker began his career as a speaker by signing a “list of three” to NATO outside his own people, secretly, in the dark, but everything secret becomes manifest. But this continued because of the counterfeiting of the law. For the first time in Parliament’s history, an article appeared in a non - voting text in Ukraine. An article that today actually affects 20 million Ukrainian citizens who, thanks to this small article, will lose their income by billions. This fraud has ended by demanding a change of speaker in parliament. But even today, no matter what the question of voting was decently asked yesterday, this person went back to cheating, casting a vote that was not. So today, unfortunately, we can say that our citizens are being followed: The authorities have become immoral. Those who hoped that two votes of advantage in the Supreme Council could give peace and stability to the country deceived, and today we need to restore peace, stability, mind and effective governance to the country, and start with parliament. That's why the speaker has to go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u9	The school of Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u10	Dear national MPs, distinguished radio audiences, respected TV sets! Of course, it was difficult enough to speak after Cassandra, who was Cassandra in the Osima generation, who was Cassandra in other situations, that is, talking about disaster. It was just the story of the ancient Cassandra that she called, called, and when the disaster came, no one paid attention to her. So don't start a crisis. There is a crisis in the world, and unfortunately, it is also reflected in Ukraine. So please do not encourage the fire to be extinguished in vain, for in principle you can set the whole country on fire. So I'd like to take a moment to stop at actually a very important situation that happened yesterday. Yesterday, for the first time, it was demonstrated that there was a coalition in Parliament, a coalition of not factions, a coalition of several factions and individual MPs who joined together into such a beautiful structure under a poetic enough name as the EC. That's why the Communists entered, the Party of the Regions entered, and a "Block of Lithuania" and a group of deputies came in, thanks to the charisma of "Our Ukraine", thanks to the support they had at the time. which the President of Ukraine then had, they came to Parliament and are now doing everything they can to destroy both the Parliament and the President and the Ukrainian authorities in general. They have a responsibility and will be responsible for everything that is happening in Ukraine because they stand in a position: the worse the better. I don't understand why they're playing the role of opposition right now, I don't understand because they're exercising power now, they're a party of power, well, true, such a small party of power, the Secretary of the President, but it's still a serious power. So I would like to return here to all rescuers and rescuers. You know, when we're talking about saving the state, we're very often speculating about it when we came in, when the Yulia Timoshenko Block, when the Prime Minister came here with a proposal to save the country from the national crisis that came out of the world crisis, there were conversations, there were calls: let's check again, let's look again. Then there were amendments from the Party of the Regions that had entered and been voted on, and later the Party of the Regions honestly, courageously, as always, did not vote in favour of anti-crisis legislation. And then he claims there was some kind of forgery. That's not how you voted for it, is it, gentlemen? What difference does it make? What difference does it make to you? So don't be silly. You want to destroy parliamentaryism. You want to destroy the Ukrainian principles of parliamentaryism. That's what you're gonna say. Because no authority costs democracy, and believe me. That's why you're here.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u11	Thank you. Olena Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u12	Thank you. Dear Ukrainians! Respectable compatriots! And here's the ugly return to our country in all of the democratic world censorship. In Ukraine, the most popular Russian television channels — ORT, RTR, andRenTV — have disappeared from cable broadcasting. On October 1, the National Television and Radio Board of Ukraine made such a foolish decision. She banned cable operators from broadcasting these channels because they're Russian because they're critical of Ukrainian power. The Ukrainian viewer was left with alternative information, and the main holy right to choose, a right that the democratic state always respects more than anything. The so-called Democrats and, in fact, the nationalist concerned nationalists from the National Council have done what the great grandfather Lenin, Generalissimus Stalin and dear Ilic taught, have simply dropped the information iron curtain. Poor rusephobes found nothing better than to explain their anti-democracy decision by as though these channels were in violation of Ukrainian advertising and moral legislation. The funny thing is that other foreign channels, according to the logic of Nacsoveta, don't apply at all, even to porncanalsSpice and Adult. As far as advertising is concerned, Nakrad’s arguments are pitiful. Members of the Nacsoveta believe that there is so much broadcasting and advertising in our information space that is paid for in Ukraine. What, then, about the advertising that is broadcast on the television channels Euronews and CNN? Does that not apply to them? Obviously, this circus was played out for one reason — to deprive Ukrainians of access to alternative sources of information, which in itself is banal censorship. Obviously, orange packs are far from European standards. And it's also clear that democracy is being replaced by demagogism. And ordinary rhosphobics are covered in intense love for their homeland. I am deeply convinced that such woeful officials as the members of the Nac Council are the greatest threat to national information security. And it is very precise: the hanging on the front of the Nakrad building should long be changed to the Nakrad. We go back to the President and ask him: “Get your representatives from Nacrada.” We are addressing all parliamentarians: “We must respond to some of our representatives and delegate them to the National Council of Professional States.” And we turn to our fellow countrymen: "Faith, orange nationalism and white-hearted dilettism will come to an end in the next parliamentary elections.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u13	“Julia Tymoshenko’s Block”, Kravchuk. To the rostrum, please. Do you want to get out of here?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u14	Vasil Kravchuk, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko”. To hear what they think about yesterday's events of the faction “Our Ukraine – the People's Self-Defense” I give the word to Taras Steckov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u15	Taras Stacks, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable voters, yesterday we are all witnesses, and today, I think we will once again witness a perfectly well-thought-out scenario, the essence of which is to create meaningful chaos in Parliament. Later, the same will be done in government, and later this chaos will be transferred to society. Without first trying to push the early election scenario, the initiators launched a second, no less destructive scenario, namely to paralyze parliament. The authors and performers showed their growth yesterday: this is the Party of Regions, this is the Block of Lithuania, this is the Communists and the so-called only centre. And if it's the only center, it means the head of the President's Secretariat, and so does the President. And for those of you who think that the President didn't seem to know, I suggest you ask: where, then, is the President's order to resign Balogah? What do the initiators want? I think it's very clear that some people have the illusion of taking power, and in this your wishes are consistent with the President's intentions, some are tired, others are tired of being peacemakers, and they want jobs, and for others, there has been a long time of destruction and destruction of this state. But the main problem is that the essence of Ukrainian politics in the last year is only personal opposition. What gives the speaker’s resignation? It gives a lot of options, I'd call it just two: the first option is to put away the speaker, not choose a new speaker, and in this way make it impossible for Parliament to work, and then the prospect of a timely election. There's a second option: if someone doesn't want to go to the elections, then the government stays one by one with a paralyzed parliament that doesn't have a speaker, and according to the economic crisis. The fact that such policies have nothing to do with the national interests of Ukraine, the initiators, of course, are not concerned. They're worried about something else -- they're concerned about power. So instead of acting on the consolidation of parliament, government, society and business, our leaders are fighting for power. They think they want to think they're going to get this power, and they're actually going to get burned. The destructive course of events, to my deep conviction, must be stopped. And we have to act in some way, and much depends on the national MPs. It would be easier and faster to create any coalition in Parliament's walls, a better coalition of the "Julia Timoshenko Block", "Our Ukraine – the People's Self-Defense" and "Litvina Block", but to do so requires the wishes of President and Vladimir Lithuania. We can appeal to them, but I don't think there's much chance. There's a second option, and it depends on the MPs. A new majority can be created on the basis of the personal statements made by the national MPs if you rise above powerful ambitions, affections, and antipathies, party divisions, and act on a precedent. Who wants to deny it, I send it to the Constitution and to the Constitutional Court. Then partially reshape the government and jointly develop a national program of crisis recovery. Such an approach would be governmental. And our slogan: “Coalition and Responsibility!” Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u17	Alexander Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u18	Alexander Stoyan, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear compatriots, the honourable ones present in this Hall! A unique vote took place yesterday: 50 percent of the members of the Counting Commission, with the blessing of Mr. Yatsenuk, voted in confidence with Mr. Yatsenuk. And I want to ask you, Mr. Speaker, where were the other 50 percent of the members of the Counting Commission that I belong to? Why didn't you listen to us? And we had a different idea: We had the idea that we had to vote first for the decision to vote with cards and then with ballots. But you wanted to stay. And what did you get, Mr. Yatzenuk? You got 110 votes, two votes against you, and 108. Why didn't Block Timoshenko support you? Why did “Our Ukraine” not support you? Here's your estimate: 108 people support you, and everyone else doesn't support you. If you keep this up, if you think 50 percent is more than another 50 percent, you have 225 deputies. And vote, and make your decision. But we also have 225 deputies, opposition. So where do we get to? So what I'm saying is, Mr. Yatsenuk, unfortunately, you're the main brake on why the Supreme Council works so badly. You don't know how to run Parliament. And let me remind you, when in 2004, in a turbulent year, he was the speaker of Litwin, he was able to consolidate the entire parliament, and you can't do that. You're all forging. You forged it when you signed it and said that Ukraine wanted to join NATO. You falsified article 5, Mr. Yatzenuk, where the fate of the Ukrainians. Why do you not love the Ukrainian people so much that you have done so? You've frozen the salaries of the teacher, the doctor, the pensioner, you've frozen the minimum of living -- that's a crime before the Ukrainian people, and you have to be responsible for this criminal offence! We're about to file a lawsuit and we're going to bring you to court that you forged a very important article and drove the people into such an impasse. What are you still doing? Yesterday I read your address to the Prime Minister, where you write that solving the crisis, you have to, it turns out, allow employers to cut jobs, let employers reduce their pay and let people go to work, do you know where? Free vacations. So now I want to go to "Our Ukraine," so let's go back to the vote of Zarubinsky, where we want to cancel this fifth article and give the first push for social protection. And I want to tell you, Mr. Yatsenuk, well, be a man. You filed an application, 229 you put it in the order of the day. That means 229 doesn't trust you. Your colleagues didn't vote for you yesterday. Free Parliament from you and believe us, we will work properly, and Ukraine will work without you!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u19	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u20	Presumptuous, the Communist faction. Respected Ukrainians, with regard to yesterday's events, the Head of the Supreme Council wrote his own statement; it was his personal wish. And, by the way, the coalition also broke itself. And it is you, the distinguished representatives of the orange government, who are to blame for today's events. It is you who have disregarded the trust of the people and have lost it more and more every day. At that time, there was lawlessness throughout Ukraine. The events that took place in the Bahchisarai district of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea caused by land raiders who deceived and looted farmers who owned land rations were widely publicized throughout Ukraine. The four-year standoff reached its climax. The Christians are determined to fight for their rights to the end by defending them at various levels. Despite the fact that the Supreme Court of Ukraine had adopted a decision effectively depriving one and a half thousand peasants of land pows, which ultimately called into question the eligibility of a farmer's land ration in any corner of Ukraine. It is approaching 1 January 2009 when the moratorium on the sale of agricultural land ends. This issue, somehow modestly silently, is overshadowed by the global problems of bank rescue and, however, poses a huge problem in which the people, in particular, the peasants, who, to this day, are like the owners of this land, have a sole role as a statistician. On the basis of the vast number of flagrant violations of land law and the violation by the authorities of the land rights of the owners of pears, the All-Crime Autonomous Republic of Crimea has been established by the All-Crime Committee for the Protection of the Land Rights of Citizens. The main objective of this committee is to protect citizens' land rights, regardless of their ideological positions, ethnic, religious and social affiliation. Combating land abuse as a negative social phenomenon that threatens civil peace and harmony in society, social justice and economic development in the region, monitoring the rule of law and transparency of land allocation procedures, countering land raids and arbitrary land captures, initiating social reforms and removing corrupt officials from power and direct participation of the population in the discussion of critical issues of local life. We cannot stop today, stop now, lose our rights to the earth forever, the right to our future. The land is the last that remains unsold today, and our task is to preserve it as a means of production, and most importantly, as a Family. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u21	Cranberry, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u22	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! I want to make a statement that people with disabilities are being bullied in Ukraine today. There is little corruption. I'm riding on a cart like this. Everyone knows very well that no wheelchairs are produced in Ukraine today. Wheelchairs are made abroad. But if we make money on the disabled, it's a sin at all. This is done by BUT in the face of Valery Mihajlovich Suškević. But what happens next? He is becoming the hero of Ukraine. That's the worst part. And these women are being desecrated by the Ministry of Social Policy. Now, this man must have been brought to justice long ago. And I'm telling you, if this goes on in Ukraine, there will be no orange power. Today, the Cabinet of Ministers is expected to resign. And the disabled will stand up and prove that you don't belong, the orange power. That's what I can tell you. Next. What you're doing today is wrong. At least you have a conscience. Who do you make money on? Sixty million went nowhere. With each wheelchair, two and a half thousand bracelets were made. I appeal to the Attorney-General's Office, the Ministry of the Interior, to the President who issued the Ukrainian Hero for two million dollars to bring criminal proceedings against these people today and to find out how the people with disabilities are still making money. And you're saying you're in power? You're not in power, you're thieves. You need to be judged. [[Applause]] Because you've already brought me here. You're in the middle of nowhere. I'm still on my knees, and you keep putting me on my knees. And they put the whole country on its knees. You're way out of Ukraine, I can tell you one thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u23	Dear colleagues, before the announcement. [[B in m in s a l in]] . Really. Please, one minute of the line, Suskevich, MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u24	Thank you, Arseny Petrovich! Dear colleagues! You know, for such a statement to be made, you probably need to have a conscience or not have a conscience, because it's real to say that whoever stole it needs to see who stole it. And after that statement you have to look at yourself, I don't want to mention specific names that have something to do with this situation. That's the first one. Second of all, what's touching the wheelchairs. Really, I called Valentine's Day myself yesterday and asked what specific facts were on this issue. So far, there's no information on this issue. And the accusations made today by a national MP are on his conscience. Let him see what he's actually done while he's gone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u25	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u26	Just to see what he did for the disabled in Ukraine himself. Anything. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u27	Thank you. Colleagues! Dear colleagues! Before the announcement of the break requested by the two factions – “Our Ukraine” and “BUT”, I would like to point out once again that the voting procedure for the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine needs to be completed. It didn't happen yesterday, it was in every capacity, I understand there were no people. If there is no support in the Head of the Supreme Council, the voting procedure must be completed, but as provided for in the Rules. I know you brought people, it's normal, the same story is going to be head-on, it's just to be normal and human. No offense, no falsifications, this room knew, indeed, falsifications when 45 million people were sleeping somewhere in the Budget Act. But it has to be honest, frankly, so that's all I'm asking you, by law, by regulation and within moral procedures. Sometimes most win better. I'm calling a 30-minute recess.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u28	Dear colleagues, I ask you all to take your seats. Mikola Volodymyrovich, will you? Please, Mikola Tomenko after the break.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u29	Dear colleagues, I'd like to inform you of the position of those factions who took the break. The situation looks like this. Yesterday's events, as you can see, are random, is a general strategy for how the country will develop further. And two key policy leaders of the country, Viktor Yushchenko and Viktor Janukovic, have determined that Parliament will form within the new coalition. This is the clear position of the President and the leader of the opposition. We respect her and respect her. But our request is that all of us are politicians in this country, all of us are citizens of this country, I hope all of Ukraine's patriots -- and so from under the silence of great, serious things we will not allow. We do everything openly, publicly and legally. When a coalition was formed in this session hall, half the hall convinced us that we should work honestly and legally: vote ballots, check for fraud, then listen to the candidate, listen to his program of action. Because in fact, you know, the program and responsibility are more important than jobs. So I want to say that our political forces will not interfere with the legitimacy of the new coalition created by Viktor Yushchenko and Viktor Janukovich. It's their right, they have to take responsibility for the situation in the country and lead the country on. As opposition, we will control every step. So once again, there are voices, there are no voices, there are no voices, there are people who are coming from abroad, who are from within Ukraine. Let's ask questions about the release of the Supreme Council Head, we vote in ballots. The new Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is proposed, he will speak, we will listen to him, we will vote in ballots. A new coalition has been created, bills are being voted on, and the country is moving on. You know, there was one classic -- a Russian decabrist, so he complained to the Russian Empire that he would hang a human being. I would like us not to embarrass Ukrainian Parliamentarianism in this session room and to release the Head of the Supreme Council in a human way, to elect the Head of the Supreme Council of the new, and that Head of the Supreme Council of the new, on behalf of the new coalition with pride, said that I represent the Ukrainian Parliament and the Ukrainian State, and not from under the silence, to hide and vote for one or another. So once again, you have a suspension order, it's going to be voted out. But whether it will be run by one deputy or another, once again, I would like to say that the vote will take place as provided for in the ballots, with full responsibility and as it corresponds to the high-ranking name of the Ukrainian national deputy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u30	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like everyone to be very careful. Yesterday, I put to the vote all the questions that affected the changes in Parliament’s leadership, and I continue to do my duty honestly. You have three factions, a decree, a faction of the Party of the Regions, the Communist Party of Ukraine and the Block of Lithuania, a decision to remove the chairman. So there's a completely unbiased process. [[th m in s a l i]] Motherfuckers, don't yell! Don’t scream! In order for the process to be impartial, so that the vote on both the Supreme Council's Head on its removal and the election of the new Head of the Supreme Council would be legal and fair, so that there would be no charges against you that occurred yesterday, absolutely illegal, I ask you to vote on the basis and in general Order No. 3357. [[Speak after the vote]] Calm down! I ask you to vote on Decree 3357 on the removal of the Head of the Supreme Council, which has been introduced by the three factions. Please vote. [[11:10:10]] For 231 Alexander Volodymyrovich, please show by factions: The Party of Regions – 175, BUT – 1, "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" – 8, Communists – 27, "Block of Lithuania" – 20, please hold meetings.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u31	Ladies and gentlemen, we continue our plenary session. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, we continue our plenary session. As the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine announced, we had an unfinished discussion yesterday on the appeal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please don't scream. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear People's Deputy Carmazin, the motive is when a specific question is being considered. And you have a procedure or a motive. We have now concluded our consideration of the matter that has been proclaimed by the Head of the Supreme Council. [[B in m in s a l in]] This question has been considered under the headship of Arsenius Petrovich. Please take the job. Ladies and gentlemen, I see the hands of those who wish to speak on the question of further holding of the plenary. Please, five minutes, check in. Please, National Deputy Hassuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u32	Peter Haszuk, “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko”. Please pass the word to Mr. Sass.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u33	Thank you, Petrovich. National Deputy Sas, Timoshenko Street. Alexander Volodymyrovich, I want to comment on what just happened. Well, first of all, in order to include, consider the decision, it had to be included in the agenda. That's one question. It's a draft decision. Now, here's the thing about the decision itself. The subjects of the Supreme Council’s decision as an act should be deputies, written here: factions. In the form of a decree, the first deputy, as indicated in the draft, cannot sign acts of the Supreme Council because, according to article 88 of the Constitution, the acts are exclusively signed by the Head. And look what we've accepted, dear fellows! This is one moment. And the acts of the Supreme Council, according to the 91st article, refer to the ruling, including. And there's a reference in the text to the Temporary Rules. The provisional regulations in the Supreme Council are already in place.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u34	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u35	Yeah, I told you about the time limit on which there's a reference. Honorable colleagues, therefore, are in gross violation of the Supreme Council Rules and such a decision cannot be legitimate appellation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u36	Litvin Volodymyr Mihajlovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u37	Zarubinski. Please give it to Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u38	Yes, thank you. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues, we are now witnessing what we can get to, ignoring the Rules all the time. Vladimir Litwin, when voting for today’s presidency, warned: Do not change the form of the vote, step out of what is behind the statute. Here, too, a colleague spoke beautifully of the fact that something should not be changed in the form of voting and method. How was he chosen? Forgot? Did you forget that the cards were selected? This leads to disregarding the rules, ignoring the rules of Parliament’s work. So now, Your Honor, you don't need double standards. Remember how you chose your own deputies as the Head of the Supreme Council, cards, and not ballot papers. You have won, so reap the fruits.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u39	The people's representative of Alexandrovsk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u40	Please pass the word to Martinjuk Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u41	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, in front of all the voters. Don't let them fool you, nobody will free the head of the Supreme Council. We are pleased with his statement, already in the Supreme Council of September 17. He didn't call her back, she needs to be satisfied, that's the first. Secondly, I would like to be very careful about what I am saying right now and, in particular, please let the Chief Listen. Article thirty-ninth part of the Sixth Rules states: “Secret voting is considered to be such that it has not taken place if ballots for secret ballots are obtained by national MPs less than is necessary for the decision to be taken.” There was no secret ballot yesterday. What does the Supreme Council do next? In such a case, a vote shall be taken unless otherwise provided by law and the law has not otherwise been established, or if the majority of the votes of the national deputies from the Supreme Council’s constitutional composition have not been adopted.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u42	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u43	We have every reason, based on the 39th part. Part six is making a different decision today, especially that the proposals for a change in voting methods were given to the people's deputies yesterday. Therefore, I ask that this ruling be put to the vote, and everything will be within the framework of the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u44	Larin Sergey Mikolayovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u45	Please pass the word to Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u46	Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u47	Dear Alexander Vladimirović, distinguished colleagues! First of all, I would like to support Adam Ivanovich in his statement. And frankly, I can't understand a statement from the ruling coalition. Your columnist, the speaker of Parliament, who was a speaker of Parliament just a few minutes ago, has now been removed for the many violations he has committed, has put the question, as you say, wrongly to vote. We have not once warned you that Yatsenuk, when holding a Parliamentary meeting, is in violation of the Rules. You have to give justice, you have agreed, but you have not taken any action to establish order on this issue, which was ultimately the result of the decision that the deputies made in the Hall. And let us, honourable colleagues, return to the respect of the law that we are enacting, respect for each other, and return to the right that MPs have the right to ask questions in the Hall and they must.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u48	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u49	And they should be considered, not rejected, as the previous speaker often did. And the second question. If factions raise questions, they should be considered all the more. And thirdly, let's not talk to each other about the ultimatum method, that if it doesn't, it will be different, because we all know that other force actions always take place. We gave you yesterday a calm demonstration of the farce you put on the ballot with the so-called ballots. And that was the final chapel, when a person who positions himself as a lawyer took part in this farce, it was not entirely constructive and productive for us to allow the leadership of this person to continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u50	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u51	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to what has now taken place. We were given a decree in which there is absolutely no specific fault of the Head of the Supreme Council, and the ruling is not motivated. And today, the 234 men you're not supposed to be, I'm the one who's yelling. You didn't fire him, you fired him for preconceived plenary meeting, improper organization of questions, other charges. There is just no charge that he eats babies, and everything else is. So, dear friends, you didn't include this decision in the agenda. That's a good start! This is about the attitude toward the Head of the Supreme Council. It's not included in the agenda, it's not properly presented, it's not passed the regulatory committee. And I'm surprised at why the head of the regulatory committee should be on guard for that. Hence, those who voted take responsibility for the chaos in the country. That's what I'd like to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u52	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u53	Dear friends, I'd like to ask you a question about voting and to put it into the agenda first. [[B in m in s a l in]] As for the pre-vote change and the way, there are no people in Parliament today. There are no people in Parliament who want to. That's why you want to do this rape today and do things that aren't like this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u54	Thank you to the distinguished people's deputies. I would like to point out that we have one faction that somehow thinks it can interfere with the work of the "Council" system. I'm asking you not to do this. Parliament should work in a civilized, peaceful manner to address the issues that have brought about the order of the day, as defined by the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I would ask that we behave in an appropriate, civilized manner. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with part five of article 25 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, are concerned with the order of the day plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[B in m in s a l in]] As the National People's Deputies of Ukraine are now out of the Council system, the Members of the Yulia Timoshenko bloc are breaking up, I ask the Prosecutor-General to observe this event, to document it, because the MP's mandate does not relieve him of responsibility for the bullying that is currently being done in the public body. I continue to hold a plenary meeting. According to part five of article 25 of the Supreme Council Rules of Procedure, the issue of the agenda for the day plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which remained pending in the plenary session, is being considered by the Supreme Council first at the next plenary meeting of the Supreme Council. As you have just heard in the statement by national deputy Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich, part of the sixth article 39 tells us that when the issue was not completed yesterday, it must end in the way that the Supreme Council will determine by vote. And the Ukrainian national deputies have the right to determine what voting should be like. This is also noted in the first and second parts of article 50 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which explicitly foresees a change in voting. So I'm asking for a review of the question of change, of the definition of the type and manner of voting when calling off and electing the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Draft Decision No 3351-P. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear National Deputies! In connection with those hooligan actions that were carried out by members of the "Timoshenko Block of July" the "Council" system is now out of order, in response to this.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u55	In this connection, a 30 - minute break is announced. We continue the plenary session at 11:53 p.m.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u56	Ladies and gentlemen, the break is over. The "Work" system is ready for work. I thus reiterate that, in accordance with part five of article 25 of the Supreme Council’s Rules of Procedure, the issue of the agenda of the day’s plenary meeting of the Supreme Council, which remains pending in the plenary session, is being considered by the Supreme Council first at the next plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This is a regulatory requirement, and we have to meet it and now continue to consider the question that was announced yesterday. In view of the way it was discussed yesterday, part of the sixth article of article 39 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules gives the people’s deputies the right to adopt decisions in accordance with the change in voting methods, as provided for in the first and second parts of article 50 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules. According to part two of this article, a decision is taken without discussion. That is why I am now putting to the vote the question of the inclusion of the draft Supreme Council regulation 3351-P, on the definition of the type and method of voting when calling off and electing the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please vote. [[11:51:57]] For 230 Decision taken. Are there any who would like to make a statement on the basis of the vote? Please, five minutes, check in. Please, Ivan Stepanovich Plush.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u57	Please pass the word to Roman Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u58	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, I cannot agree with your logic, since the language of the Rules is quite the opposite. I would like to draw your attention as chairman of this plenary session for part five of article 37 of the Supreme Council Rules of Ukraine, which refers to the fact that the Supreme Council can make procedural decisions, including changes in voting procedures only in cases where the voting method is not established by law and by this Rules. I also draw your attention, Your Honor, to article 72 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This article makes it clear that this matter can be settled and that it is up to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u59	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u60	Only by secret ballot. Therefore, you do not have the right to put this procedural decision to a vote, since the Rules clearly determine how to take a decision on the matter, namely by secret balloting. So I'm not asking, I demand that you open up a procedure for secret balloting on this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u61	Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u62	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, believe me, I know nothing worse than Roman Mikhailovich. He said the right thing, but he said something about other things. And so I ask you all to pay attention once again to the 39th article of the sixth part, which says, however, that yesterday's vote on this question did not take place because they didn't take the required number of ballots. Today or yesterday we were to continue with you in two ways: either we hold a secret ballot again, or the Supreme Council by a majority determines another way of voting. We have a decision that suggests determining another way of voting. Therefore, I ask the chairman not to refer to other articles of the Rules but to refer to the article of the Rules on secret ballots, article 39, part six: “The Supreme Council has the right to determine how to vote.” Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u63	Hell-bent Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u64	Dear colleagues, we have two sides of the matter. The first question is content. The content is clear and clear: man wrote a statement. Why are you torturing him? He doesn't want to work, he wants to work exclusively. Yesterday, 110 votes confirmed that he had no support in Parliament. Now, about the form. We have proposed a way to vote. If you think he's illegal, you're wrong, there's a procedure, a regulatory committee, courts. Therefore, colleague Lavrinović, put the matter to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u65	National MP Kravchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u66	I gave my voice. Martiniuk spoke, I gave up my vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u67	National deputy Kaskiv, please. Kaskiv, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u68	Please pass the word to Knyazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u69	Knyazevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u70	Ladies and gentlemen, I have volunteered and I have urged you to read more carefully part of article 39, because this is about the possibility, indeed, of the Supreme Council taking a decision on the question of voting, not about the change in voting. The question is whether or not to vote can be decided by the Supreme Council. It is not about how to vote on a question that has been voted on at least once. Therefore, let us be clear about the requirements of the Rules, not manipulating the consciousness of at least those deputies who are now standing by the rostrum and who are unable to read clearly the sixth part of the 39th article. On the other hand, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there is no way that the 50th article foresees the possibility of a single deviation.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u71	National MP Hara. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u72	Respectable colleagues, listening to the orange speakers from our Ukraine and from the U.K.U.T., are eager to cry as they are experiencing everything under the Rules. Let us remember how they voted in favour of the Prime Minister in favour of the President of the Supreme Council, what they had done to the Rules throughout that time. What's the Rules for them? Even today, bullies have broken down the voting system in barbaric ways, and their advertiser, “Ukrainian Truth”, reports that members of the Party of the Regions allegedly had a fight with members of the secretariat. Well, a lie is a lie, and it will become clear to all, and it will become the truth. I therefore propose to put Parliament to the vote and to clean up the mud and to allow it to work properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u73	National Deputy Laszko, Timoshenko Yuli Block. Give me a chance from the rostrum, he doesn't have a card. Allow the National MP to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u74	Respectable citizens of Ukraine, honourable voters, what I have today, I don't just have a card, is no way to speak. Our partners took our cards. Today. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, you're not interrupting, you're interfering with the Ukrainian people and your faction. Today what's happening in Parliament is, well, to say the truth, it's not to say anything. Of course, most of the parliament that today is part of the Party of Regions, Communists, the "Block of Lithuania" and part of the "Our Ukraine" faction ruled by Balog and Yushchenko, they have the right to take the head of the Supreme Council, to choose, it is their right. It is the majority of parliament that has the right to do so. But in the Constitution and the Rules, the way. What are we now proposing in this draft decree, which is proposed for us to choose the Head of the Supreme Council? Without discussion and without listening to the report. So the “cat in the bag”, the “cat in the bag” we're asked to choose what the Head will be, which one is chosen as the “cat in the bag”? I mean, how to get to power.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u75	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! I would like to point out that in all the discussions on regulatory rules, we need to look at all the articles and all the parts of the Rules in general. If we read carefully the second part of article 50 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, it says that a decision to reject the procedures provided for in this Rules is not allowed if such a procedure is a one-time deviation from which it is proposed to be based on the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine or the law. In this case, neither the Constitution of Ukraine nor the laws of Ukraine define the voting order of Ukraine. Therefore, there are other rules that provide for a change of procedures, what has been done in this session room repeatedly, and no questions have been raised. Therefore, I now ask you to prepare for the vote, I place the draft Decree 3351-P on the definition of the type and method of voting when calling off and electing the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:01:58]] For 231 Decision taken. Please show by factions: Region Party - 174, Timoshenko Yulia Block - 1, Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense - 9, Communists - 27, Litvina Block - 20. Thus, we continue to consider the issue of the satisfaction of the statement made by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Yatsenuk Arseny Petrovich, concerning the composition of the powers of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, in view of what we've been doing for 30 minutes now, I have a request not to interrupt the consideration of the matter now, to finish it and then take a break. Is there a denial? Please, I'm putting to the vote an extension of 15 minutes, now until the question is closed. Please make up your mind. [[12:03:15]] For 232 Decision taken. Please, there's a request from the factions. Region Party – 175, “Timoshenko Yulia Block” – 1, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” – 9, Communists – 27, “Litvina Block” – 20. The honourable national deputies, in accordance with the ruling that we have now approved with you, are being considered without a report, and the Supreme Council of Ukraine can determine the time to discuss the matter, if so desired. Is there a need for discussion? Please, if you're willing to speak, let's have a discussion in 10 minutes so we can be there in 15 minutes. Please sign up for the discussion. Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u76	Please give the Zarubinian the right to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u77	Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u78	Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, fully understood the situation in the Ukrainian Parliament. Let's face it, in Ukraine, there were tougher times in Parliament: during 2004, later, but never before did Parliament come to this state when it was called a circus, and when those or other acts in Parliament were more like clowns. Today we see the facts of outright banditry, simply basic banditry. We would very much like the Attorney-General of Ukraine to finally submit to the Supreme Council an application for the removal of the inviolability of those deputies who are bullies and bandits in their nature. And so it seems to me that we have less to discuss right now, and we have to understand that the Supreme Council needs to be organized, we need to systematize its work so that this is a meeting of people working for citizens, not for their own interests, so that the agenda can be day-to-day so that the sessions can start in time for the circus not to be discussed. And that's why I think those initiators of the decision that made it came out of actual positions, for real reasons, from real facts. And the thing is, it's not about personality right now, it's about the fact that the Supreme Council hasn't been working for a year, they haven't been able to organize it, it's work. And so I think the decision is absolutely clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u79	National Deputy Donny.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u80	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, the Supreme Council is becoming less and less a legislative body and the fault lies, on the one hand, with very large players -- the Party of Regions, the Yulia Tymoshenko Block -- who have occasionally blocked the rostrums. But the instrument of blocking was, and that sin of tait, and that of the Head of the Supreme Council, who very often manipulated regulations. One such manipulation took place during his so - called resignation application, which simply proved to be a pianist, for the Provisional Rules clearly regulate the resignation of the Chief of the Supreme Council. You know, from the day Arsenius Yatsenuk filed his resignation application, it's been more than 30 days. Although Article 76 clearly states that paragraph 4 states that the decision to include in the agenda of the Supreme Council's day session the question of the resignation of the Supreme Council shall be taken at the plenary meeting the next day of the proposal. So the next day, this issue was to be considered in the Supreme Council. And after that, and this is already Article 77, ten days is given to the Supreme Council to vote on the matter, ten days. It is also clear that article 76, paragraph 6, states that the question of the withdrawal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from office does not require preparation on committees. So Arsenius Yatzenuk should not have applied to the Regulatory Committee. With the same success, you could make your application to the UN. So in this case, there was deliberate manipulation and it was quite often, unfortunately, in Arsenius Yatsenuk. And you know, I think the mistake that's now being asked is to remove and withdraw from this position by opposition factions. It should have been removed by the factions "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" and "The Block of Yulia Timoshenko". But it's a shame that they've been switched places now, obviously, as a result of some sort of back-to-back culinary arrangement or a run-in of one or the other politics in one camp or another, and now the opposition is, in turn, also trying to unfairly change the way that the Supreme Council heads do. Why I say that in an unfair way the Party of the Regions is now doing so, because article 77 clearly regulates paragraph 4 “the decision of the Supreme Council to recall the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from office is adopted by secret balloting by means of a decree of the Supreme Council”. So Arsenius Yatsenuk, unfortunately, was one of the weakest speakers in the history of Ukrainian parliamentaryism. He deserved that we should choose the better Head of the Supreme Council, but this cannot be in an unrighteous way. Voting by cards, not by ballots, is not provided by the Provisional Rules. You can't like Arsenius Yatsenuk's behavior right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u81	Schmellow Svetlana Alexandrovna
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u82	Please pass the word to Kilinkarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u83	Kilincarov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u84	Respectable people's deputies, respected voters, once again have failed to allow Parliament to work in a normal environment in Parliament, in the face of BUT and Our Ukraine. It would seem simple, the Head of the Supreme Council has written a statement requesting his release from his post. Parliament would seem to have to vote, satisfy this statement and put an end to it. You know, the English don't say goodbye, and Mr. Yatzenuk doesn't say goodbye. I am very sorry that today the Speaker of Parliament is the destructive link of all the work of Parliament, and the success of any organization, including the Supreme Council, is 70 per cent dependent on who is leading the Supreme Council today. I am very sorry that Mr. Yatsenuk, having been through stages in his life, has not worked in any institution for more than a year. And today he happened to be in Parliament by accident, and his ears were extended and planted. Let it grow to the level of the President of the Supreme Council and then hold such high posts. And the last. You know, what happened here today in the presence of the Attorney General, I think it should be appropriate for the Attorney-General to bring in those people's deputies who have broken the Council today and, I think, the Supreme Council should show the whole community that the banditry that is in Parliament, we must put an end to this and criminalize the violations that are taking place in Parliament, if we are to make peace in the country. Orders must be made, first and foremost, in Parliament, and for this to happen, all those who today prevent Parliament from working on a landfill, on a political site and at that point. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u85	Please, Hellhound Alexander Mikolayovich instead of Scudara.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u86	Dear colleagues! Respectable voters! There are different times, difficult times, very difficult times, but there are times like this, no more difficult times. And especially hard for our constituents now, they think every day about whether or not there will be work and if there be work, whether there will be pay, and if there is pay, what can be bought for it tomorrow. And the answers to those questions, they're waiting for us, they can only do this because there will be a majority in Parliament, it's like a machine, a technical passport. You're not going anywhere on a car without a technical passport. The country and Parliament cannot be turned into solitary confinement. That is why we are saying today that it is imperative to open the debate on plurality today. We don't ask questions about choosing a speaker today. We're talking about opening a debate. That's why we're done talking. Let's vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u87	Philenko Volodymyr Pilipovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u88	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! By rephrasing the famous political classic, I want to say that today we have witnessed a coup d'état in Ukraine, which has been discussed for so long by the region and President Yushchenko of Ukraine, in the Ukrainian Parliament. We have witnessed the gradual surrender of all the all-conspirators on the part of President Viktor Yushchenk of Ukraine. Having signed the universals and memorandums by giving guarantees under the authority of the Party of the Regions, he purposely pursued in Ukraine a policy aimed at gaining power over this particular political team. First, after the course, he gave up all political thinkers, then he abandoned the government of Timoshenko in 2005, his associate in the field. Then his immediate surroundings, which we used to call dear friends, became the next victim. Already in this Parliament he has given up and dumped under his foot his support faction “Our Ukraine” because he does not need it either. He has had enough of these nine votes of the One Center for Parliament’s coup. And these events in Parliament have become possible only for the direct direct direction of President Viktor Yushchenk of Ukraine and his only political support, the One Centre. The last one he betrayed was Arsenius Petrovich Yatzenyuk, his faithful brother and companion. We will be witnesses, perhaps the next day we will see Baloga’s resignation, or something else. And then he will remain under the authority of the Party of Regions led by President Viktor Andrievich Yushchenk of Ukraine. Too bad this is happening in the face of a severe financial economic crisis in the world. Sadly, though, the President’s commitment to the region works in good conscience. The only thing that usually won't help him with any other term is that when he lost his remaining political conscience, he finally lost both respect and a corresponding social support rating. We'll live to see. I can't wish him anything good in the political arena. The Timoshenko bloc will consistently continue to implement its political platform and to fulfil all the promises we have made to our voters. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u89	Ladies and gentlemen, the discussion is over. Please prepare for the vote. I am putting to the vote the question of calling off the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Yacenyuk Arseny Petrovich, from his position in office, according to his statement. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:16:34]] For 233 Decision taken. A break of 30 minutes is announced. By factions, please show me. Region Party – 175, Timoshenko Yulia Block – 1, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” – 10, Communist faction – 27, “Litvina Block” – 20. Extension of the morning plenary meeting at 12 p.m. 47 minutes
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u90	Ladies and gentlemen, we continue our morning plenary session. According to the approved schedule for today, we have the following issue of information from the Attorney-General of Ukraine regarding the availability of information in the Prosecutor's Office regarding the illegal activity of individual Ukrainian national deputies, as well as criminal cases involving Ukrainian national deputies. I'll ask Alexander Ivanovich Medvedzka to the rostrum. We have a 20-minute procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u91	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! I'd like to build my performance out of two parts. In the first part, let us inform you of the state of the fight against corruption, the State’s bribery, taking advantage of the opportunity. And the second chapter of my speech is about the specific comments made by the Ukrainian Security Service. The Ukrainian Public Prosecutor's Office, in carrying out its constitutional functions, has carried out prosecutorial supervision and has consistently taken measures aimed at securing and obtaining the requirements of the law in the conduct of operational and investigation activities, knowledge and judicial investigations by all the State's law enforcement agencies, including the Ukrainian Security Service. Plans have been developed and joint actions are being taken to address systematic corruption and bribery in the judiciary, education, law enforcement, anti-trafficking and customs violations. During the year, 1517 criminal cases of corruption have been brought before the prosecutor’s office. In the course of the pretrial investigation, the damages of 70 million dollars have been compensated. The law enforcement agencies have greatly strengthened their opposition to bribery as one of the most dangerous corruptions. I would like to point out that more than 2.5 thousand of these crimes have been detected in the current year. In 10 months, 1,300 criminal cases were brought to trial. And the lawyers who are sitting in this room know that these are the many things that are happening in the afternoon. And in doing so, only 10 criminal cases have been closed, and the vast majority of these cases have been cases in the past few years. Therefore, criticism of the public prosecutor’s office about the mass closure is simply a lie. Such crimes are usually committed by officials of executives and local governments, who are given considerable powers by law, especially in the field of land law. Leaders include the heads of rural, village councils, and other officials. Although these officials are part of the grassroots, the amount of bribes they have recently taken does not fall below $100,000. In view of the above, the loud allegations of “small” bribery at the local level that are being heard by law enforcement officials are to some extent unfair, and more than that, this work needs to be intensified. [[in quotes]] For example. This year, the head and deputy of one of the villages of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea have been criminalized for demanding and receiving a bribe of $5 million for renting land. Both have been arrested, and this month it is planned to complete the investigation and referral of the case. In the work of law enforcement authorities in this regard, there are sometimes difficulties with the apparently illegal decisions of individual judges to overturn procedural decisions. As an example, I want to do the following. A criminal case involving the head of the Brovarsky BTI for receiving bribes worth more than half a million dollars was filed by the Prosecutor’s Office of the Kyiv region’s Department of Internal Affairs. However, after that, the caver’s court overturned the criminal record and refused to take action against the briber. I think there's too much comment. The District Attorney’s Office appealed against this decision. It should be noted that law enforcement agencies pay attention to the delinquency and investigation of crimes in organized groups and criminal organizations. This year, 143 organized economic groups were destroyed, 16 of them using corrupt connections in government structures. One of the priorities of law enforcement is to ensure the constitutional rights of citizens to free education, to detect the facts of bribery and corruption in this area. Today, 134 criminal cases have been investigated in institutions and educational institutions, 98 of which have already been brought to justice. Increased attention is paid to anticorruption in the judicial branch. As a result of coordinated actions, 42 criminal cases involving corruption-related crimes have been investigated by the Office of the Prosecutor's Office for Operational Development. Taking into account the social resonance of the listed category of cases, the most complex of these are in the conduct of investigators at the Attorney General’s Office. In general, 16 criminal cases involving judges with signs of corruption have been brought before the prosecutor’s office this year. I would like to point out that because of the corporate court's decisions by individual judges, 12 criminal cases have been annulled by the prosecutors, and appeals and appeals have been filed. I would also like to draw attention to another problem that has arisen about drawing a judge to criminal responsibility. Yes, the Attorney General’s Office is investigating a criminal case for accusing the deputy head of one of the Odessa District Courts, whose illegal decisions have resulted in the theft of property worth four million dollars. Yet, by abuse of the guarantees of the integrity of the judges, the accused is evading the investigation. In this connection, on January 17, this year, the Attorney General’s Office was disturbed by the concern of the Supreme Council of Ukraine over its arrest, which was supported by the Supreme Court’s head. Nevertheless, the matter has not yet been resolved in substance in Parliament. Especially shameful are the cases of corruption committed by law enforcement officials themselves. To date, 525 law enforcement officers have been brought to criminal responsibility. The suspicious leadership is held by police personnel – 398 persons, the Tax Administration – 102, customs officers – 21 and four staff members of the prosecutor's office. In general, more than 700 corruption cases have been dealt with by Ukrainian courts this year. While 20 percent of the total population has been sentenced to actual deprivation of liberty, the vast majority have been sentenced to conditional terms on the basis of article 75 of the Criminal Code. The Public Prosecutor’s Office in such cases is open to appeal. For example, as an example, the prosecutor’s appeal against the Kyiv Court of Appeal of the Chief of Police’s investigation unit was sentenced to five years ’ imprisonment for not having the right to hold positions in the internal affairs office for two years with the confiscation of property. This decision annuls the unlawful, overly mild judgment of the district court regarding the conditional penalty. Some work has also been done to prevent and prevent corruption, and administrative measures have been taken actively to combat corruption under the Ukrainian Anti - Corruption Act. In particular, nearly six thousand reports of corruption have been referred to the court by law enforcement authorities in 10 months of this year. According to the records of the prosecution authorities, 1,579 people were attracted, the Ministry of Internal Affairs 1747, the BSC 1431, and 263 according to the materials of the tax police. I want to point out that this year there has been an improvement in the quality of the built-in protocols, in the courts less closed down, on different grounds, by 3 percent. In case of closure, prosecutors reacted actively to illegal court decisions and protested 25 percent more than last year. It should be noted that the number of government officials in the third and fourth categories has increased from 865 in the past to 986 in the current year. In addition, 336 internal affairs officials, 240 tax collectors, 64 customs officers, and border guards were called to account. In order to remove the causes and conditions that contribute to corruption, prosecutors have made more than a thousand submissions and other response documents, after which 414 illegal legal decisions taken as a result of corruption have been called upon to account for 1,286 officials. Prosecutors this year have examined the legality of the closure and suspension of criminal investigations in criminal cases involving goods smuggling, the status of compliance with the requirements of effective legislation when acknowledging the transfer to responsible storage, preservation and implementation of evidence in criminal matters of the category indicated. In general, 250 illegal criminal orders have been annulled in the current year and have been investigated by the Security Service. As a result of a review of 151 of the prosecutorial response document, 216 Security Service staff members were drawn to disciplinary responsibility. The authorities of the Public Prosecutor's Office pay considerable attention to ensuring that the law is complied with by the Security Service in the conduct of operational and search activities. Prosecutors have examined the legality of more than 5,000 operational-investigative cases and 144 illegal orders have been revoked to remedy violations of the law. Now a few words about information published by the head of the Ukrainian Security Service and the appeal of the national deputies currently being tested. On all occasions, this is Moskal Hennaday Hennadiyovich, and other national deputies, organized appropriate tests. To date, I can report on the activities of organized groups and criminal organizations called “Vrobys”, “Good”, “Brega”, “Brega”, “Brohard” and others involved in the movement of goods across borders. The test for this time is ongoing, at the same time, in the operational-search work that has been done. no such cases have been identified in relation to the Ukrainian National Deputies in the process of prosecutorial supervision. In connection with the bribery of the deputy head and the judge of the Suma Economic Court of Appeal and information about the influence of the National Deputy of the Ukraine of Sidelnik on interference with judicial activity. Indeed, the Suez District Attorney’s Office is investigating criminal cases involving the First Deputy Economic Court of the Suma Region and the same court judge, according to the fact that it has not been reported that there have been allegations of bribery or embezzlement. Today, there is no record of the involvement of Ukraine’s national deputy to crime in these criminal cases. According to the Security Service, which came on November 6, this year to the district attorney’s office in Suma on the possible involvement of Sidelnik in the raiding of enterprises, an ongoing inspection was organized. With regard to the National Deputy of Ukraine Shepelev and the destruction of the financial stability of Prominestbank. To date, there is no record of the involvement of the Ukrainian national deputy Shepeleva in these actions. Regarding the Ukrainian national deputy Moskal Gennady Hennadiyovich and the issuing of war veteran certificates. Indeed, there was such material that came from the Ukrainian Security Service. He was sent to the public prosecutor’s office in Kiev, where he was denied a criminal record on October 15. Then came the appeal of the executive head of the Security Service, the responsibility of the head of the Security Service to verify the legality of the decision taken. Now we need this material and we're studying it. Then we will give a proper legal assessment. As regards the resignations of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy to the Ukrainian National Deputies. As a result of a review of the materials at the Ukrainian Security Service, criminal cases have been dismissed by the Attorney General’s Office. Regarding the illegal recalculation of $35 million of VAT by Dnipropetrovska Banka “Financial Union Bank”, the verification is carried out by the Security Service, which is not completed. And to sum up, I would like to say that criminal cases involving Ukrainian national deputies in the conduct of law enforcement authorities for this time are not warranted, and therefore, as some insist, there is no need for the Attorney General to make appropriate submissions at this time. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u92	Thank you, Alexander Ivanovich. You've saved a lot of time. Please register with the Attorney General of Ukraine. Stoyan Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u93	Dear reporter, I understand from your report that the names of the national MPs who spoke from the mouth of the novice are as if they were slandering Moskal's national deputies there and so forth. So, please tell me, should you not invite here and let him tell you whether this was a political order, or whether these really are the deputies involved? The second question. You know, in recent weeks, the representatives of BUTU have been obstructing the work of the judges, breaking the tables, and beating the judges, many other things, will they be held accountable? And the third moment. You happen to be a witness when the guys from B.U.T. broke the server when. The Radi system is broken. And they really, really went into Bandit, Ham, that's the criminal authority they represent. Will you violate a criminal case against those who really interfered with the normal work of Parliament? Here are the facts of what these people have done. Not only have they broken property, but they've broken gangs, criminal acts against MPs, against their colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u94	Thank you for asking. Well, about the head invitation. the acting head of the Security Service, it is up to you to decide. I published what I was supposed to publish, that there is no documentary confirmation of either criminal matters or other material of the involvement of national MPs in these events. As for blocking the Administrative District Court, the CBC, you know, I've already informed you that there are three criminal cases that are currently being investigated and that a proper legal assessment will be given upon completion. Well, as for the actions of the BET, I didn't get it, but I was or wasn't the BET that the national MPs did. [[Applause]] As we speak from the Supreme Council, we will then conduct a test and give an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u95	Stone Valery Grigorovitch, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u96	Kamchatny, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko”. Please give my word to my colleague, Oliynik Svetoslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u97	Thank you. Dear Alexander Ivanovich, also from your answer, I am literally five or six points, which you have stated are not on this case, there are no operational data on the deputies, there is no such name, it is denied. I mean, in a series of ways, we went through everything and got the actual answer that today all the statements that were from the television-executing duty of the Security Service have not actually been confirmed, as have those that have previously spoken at the Prime Minister's address of treason. So, first of all, what I'm going to ask you, please, and this is the subject of education, which is the final decision on treason. Does that match the information I received from your deputy that there are no criminal cases? Ah, the others. Then the question goes to the Attorney General, and how much of this is going to happen in the Security Service itself. We're watching a briefing yesterday. There are three persons who are one of them.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u98	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u99	It's literally short. One of them is called the responsibilities of the head and says that it is his other head that has been appointed, neither you nor I know, by the other deputies. The second is the deputy, which the court has already ruled is that it is illegal. And the third is a lawyer at all. How, then, can we be the Security Service, allowing ourselves to stain the name of both the deputies and the officials and others, and how can we respond to this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u100	Thank you for asking. The issue of personnel security agencies is not the Attorney General's prerogative. But I said that through all the materials that we now have, all the appeals of the national MPs who came to us, and these are the materials of the Committee to Combat Organized Crime and Corruption, and the appeal of individual national MPs. We're doing a test now, as I've already pointed out, and we're also going to give a proper legal assessment. With regard to the materials of treason you have asked. The Office of the Attorney General did not receive such material on treason. There was a letter from Valentina Alexandrovich Navejchenka that we should set up joint groups to verify the legality of individual decisions and actions of individuals of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. When I got this letter, we saw that actually on all of these issues that were asked in the letter, we were either doing checks or doing tests. Well, it's like that.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u101	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u102	The Prikrechen LTD, where we protested and the Kabmen refused, we went to court and there was a trial. And also in “Naftogaz Ukraine” there was also an appointment to investigate, there was a violation of the criminal case. And that's why I gave Valentina Alexandrovich an answer on September 8th about what was done. And we, in my response, stressed that I don't see the basis for creating some kind of investigational, investigative and operational test group right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u103	Tereshuk Sergey Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u104	Please pass the word to Catherine Vaszczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u105	Dear Alexander Ivanovich, I have such questions and requests. In Ukraine today, agricultural land is so extensive that it is being embalmed. Many lands are being bought in a fraudulent way, and sweats, although all legislation on the side of preserving agricultural land, are being transferred to non-agricultural ways, at different levels, until the courts are sometimes completed. How can we make sure that your body, which we respect, helps to protect the interests of the law, the peasants and the Ukrainian land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u106	Thank you for asking. I've already said in my speech that the most criminalized land relations, where we have hundreds of criminal cases, and believe me, almost 90 percent of these criminal cases are being brought to justice. More than anything else, these are related to bribes, and I have already given specific examples of this. And so there's a lot going on in the prosecutor's office to minimize the criminalization of these land relations. But at the same time, I'd like to say that we're only repressive methods that we're never going to put order in this area if we don't make, adopt, make no changes to actual legislation or adopt new laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u107	Please, National Deputy Perestenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u108	Please give the floor to Alexander's Alla Alexandrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u109	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Alexander Ivanovich! In other words, the Public Prosecutor's Office has the primary function of standing on the watch for the rule of law. Yeah? Whether or not there were any events, whether I was acting by officials, would be two questions. The head of the BSS has been in charge for a long time, which goes beyond all the law. Should the Public Prosecutor's Office respond to a violation of the law on the facts? I have to. As far as we know, he's not responding. First. Second. We understand that no one has the right to characterize events and give them a legal assessment in public, all the more so to assess the actions of any person, person, citizen, etc., legal evaluation, pending a decision in court. However, what you have described today concerns such facts when it comes to pre-trial evaluation is a violation by officials of Ukrainian laws. Should the Public Prosecutor's Office respond to these facts?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u110	Thank you for asking. I would like to say that the appointment of the Acting Head of the Ukrainian Security Service is the prerogative of the President of Ukraine. He was appointed by Decree and the Public Prosecutor's Office did not oversee the implementation of the President's decrees. Next. With regard to the early evaluation that you believe was made by the incumbent Security Service, I have already said that we have conducted the tests and that we will provide an answer and a legal assessment upon completion of the checks.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u111	Dony Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u112	Good afternoon. I would like to discuss your administrative violation, the violation of the law on the status of the national MP and the Code of Administrative Offences, such as the improper consideration of parliamentary appeals and even of parliamentary requests at an inappropriate time or the sending of letters. Yes, especially on the issue of the removal to the Poltava community, the Poltava Children's Library, the parliamentary address that I addressed to the Henprocurator's Office in September, instead of the 10-day deadline for the 32nd day came a letter from Mr. Kudriavtsev, where he argued that it would take another 30 days to review. I don't know what your relationship is with the Supreme Council Secretariat led by former Speaker Arsenius Yatsenuk, but the Supreme Council Secretariat, to which I have filed three applications, unfortunately, has not drawn up a report on the administrative violation on your part, and has not submitted it to the Pecher District Court. I hope there is no corruption between you and the Supreme Council Secretariat, but I would like you to appreciate it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u113	Let me finish the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u114	I would like you to assess whether you are properly considering parliamentary appeals and questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u115	Thank you for asking. What I'm saying is that there are complaints from individual Ukrainian national deputies about the inappropriate consideration of these appeals and what is the main complaint that we are sending to the areas. But believe me, physically, physically, to check with the Attorney General's Office for national MPs and requests, and they come in more than 10,000 a year, just physically impossible. And that's why we're forced to assign this to the D.A.'s office on a case-by-case basis. In some cases, we're handing over the D.A.'s office. As far as the Poltava area is concerned, this is a specific case, and I'll deal with this situation and then let you know.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u116	Bondarenko Olena Fedorovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u117	Please, can I have a word with you?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u118	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear Alexander Ivanovich, it is a pleasure for you to look objectively at the materials forged by the Security Service and give them the principle of evaluation, and we will expect that the prosecutor’s authorities will continue to operate only within the framework of current legislation. And not give in to the political provocations initiated by any authority. But that's my question. Notable events in the CLTC, when government officials, led by Mr. Hellet himself, blocked the work of the CLTC, hindered the activities of the national deputies, and used physical violence against them. Instead, we hear nothing about the violation of this criminal case. But we do know that a criminal case has been committed as though it were a matter of minor bodily harm to the 12 employees of the State Security Department, which these bodily harms seem to have been inflicted on them by two or three national deputies. Well, obviously it's a forgery: two people beat twelve.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u119	Let me finish the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u120	Two were beaten by twelve men armed with teeth. Well, clearly that doesn't fit the reality. When you finally respond to the illegal actions of the Department of State Protection and its head, Mr. Hellet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u121	Thank you for asking. Indeed, the events that took place in the Central Electoral Commission, the Attorney General's Office, at the request of the employees of the Department of Public Protection, have violated the criminal case “because of the fact”, not about specific persons, but because of the fact. It's done intentionally, it's a criminal, factual criminal case, to give a proper assessment of both actions on one side of the law enforcement team and on the other side of the national MPs. And the appeal of the national deputies was not, but only the petitions of the officers of the guard, but not of the twelve, but of the six who suffered bodily harm.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u122	Please, the People's Deputy of the Underworld.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u123	Please give the floor to Deputy Suškević.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u124	Thank you! Alexander Ivanovich! I'm here, please. I'm talking to you about the fact that, in all the chambers of Parliament, I've been working on, and I'm going to be dealing with, disability issues, unlike those who use the MP's mandate and the disability status, they're making money. So I'm asking you to ask if you have any material in the Attorney General's Office today regarding the abuse of wheelchairs and whether there has been an investigation on this matter, on the part of the Attorney General's Office, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u125	Thank you for asking. Such materials are not available in the Attorney General’s Office, and these materials are not subject to verification. There was a material that I had already sounded, it was in the back of the ministry that I called, which I thought was also about the national MPs. The investigation was carried out and the criminal case was dismissed. There's no more material.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u126	Olinik Viktor Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u127	Dear Chairman, please pass the word to Kožemjakina Andrija Anatoliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u128	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u129	Dear Alexander Ivanovich, in yesterday's speech by the former deputy head of the Ukrainian Security Service on the issue of combating corruption and organized crime, is Mr. Durdinec, you know why he was, because every court has canceled the President's decree on his appointment. This man named many deputies yesterday, including not only from our political power, but also from the Party of Regions, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense," and no facts were presented. So I have this question, Alexander Ivanovich, please tell me that you share the point of view that the request of the National MP to the law enforcement authorities, state institutions for the illegal actions of the employees of these organs, is already a sign of corruption or can at all prevent the people's deputies from making inquiries to avoid it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u130	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u131	In order to avoid further charges against such Durdinians who may be sitting somewhere in other institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u132	To say that the very fact that a petition or a request is made to the National Security Service is illegal contradicts common sense and current legislation, as it is provided for. People's advocates are referred to as averages, basically citizens, and that's why we have to look at these submissions, and I've shown them that every year more than 10,000 people's MPs, questions come to the Attorney General's Office and we solve these materials. And that's why I heard Durdinec's statements, in his opinion, in his opinion, I'll tell you right now, we've organized all these tests, in his opinion, that the very fact that people's deputies are being approached is already interfering with the activities of the law enforcement agency there. I don't think such a sharp conclusion can be made, you have to look at this situation in every case, you have to do a proper test. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u133	Volinec Mikhailo Yakovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u134	Dear Alexander Ivanovich, you and I all know that Ukrainian mines are the world's worst injuries. As a result, since 2002, Ukrainian governments have consistently allocated funds to secure the safety of Ukrainian mines and to develop the UTAS system of unified telecommunications control over all mine and activity performance. At the same time, I received a statement from Petrovsky's plant, a team of Petrovsky's plant, that the Ukrainian Security Service is blocking the implementation now at the final completion of the implementation in the mines of this facility, which is already installed at 15 mines. And on the basis of that statement, I wrote a letter to the head of the Ukrainian Security Service, signed 27 other national deputies, and I asked that I consider this question. At the same time, yesterday Mr. Durdins made a statement that I was involved in.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u135	National Deputy School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u136	Pass the word to Volin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u137	Yesterday, Mr. Durdins was said to have been involved in corruption and to have prevented legal investigation by the National Deputy Wolinec of the Petrov factory. All the television channels confirmed this information yesterday. I would like to ask you, Your Honor Alexander Ivanovich, do you have such information, or have you been approached by the Security Service?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u138	Thank you for asking, distinguished national MPs! So we didn't get any security material from the Security Service. That's what I heard the first time yesterday, just like you, about these materials. I know that there is a call for the use, the illegal use of more than 80 million dollars of budget in the Petrovian Coal Engineering Plant, allocated to ensure the safety of miners. I know it's a test. We also conducted appropriate tests, as I have pointed out at some point that we will give a proper assessment when the test is completed.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u139	The seat of Ivan Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u140	I am pleased with the Attorney-General's response to the assessment, the misjudgement of the indictment, the application to the court, and I give the floor to Mishchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u141	Dear Alexander Ivanovich, well, I'd like to ask you a question, not as a national MP, but as a former prosecutor. Well, you and I are seeing that operatives publish data that has a public secret. So they're using intelligence, and through the media, they're publishing it in this nation. I think it's necessary for the Attorney General's Office to carry out an urgent inspection, firstly, by distributing this classified information and by misappropriating everyone's official status.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u142	Let me finish the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u143	Thank you. Should the Attorney General's Office, in the order of article 97 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, promptly carry out a review of these operational personnel, who are both the Deputy Head of the Security Service, and the Acting Head of the Security Service as to the facts as I consider them to be a crime of service? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u144	Sergei Grigorovitch, thank you for asking. Immediately saying that this is a service crime I will not, because, as I have already stressed, we have organized and conducted a review and a legal decision will be made after it is completed.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u145	Kenzior Jaroslav Mikhailovich. Conovaluk Valérie Illich, please. Bondik, please. Wait a minute, I'm sorry, Konovaluk Valery Ilchi. I'm sorry, since there is no national MP, there is now a denial of other national MPs. The following question is raised by the People’s Deputy Philippeenko. National MP Philippeenko, please ask me a question. There is no People's Deputy, Philippeenka. Thank you, Alexander. Ah, one second, please, the last question of Tomenko Mikola Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u146	Dear colleagues, as one of the initiators of today's debate, I would like one question and one suggestion. The question is that Alexander Ivanovich, as far as I can see, when it comes to serious things like monitoring people's deputies, I'm talking about listening to phone conversations, watching video of officials or national MPs, they're only possible under court or prosecutor's orders. I have a question: these are the material of the hidden camera that showed the duty of the Security Service, you had the opportunity to check, it's authorized listening to conversations and, say, video, because, well, it seems like we can't go out here anymore, every politician is being watched. And my proposal concerns the following. When you have a TV show like this and there's a representative of the Attorney General's Office, maybe you can advise your colleagues at the TV station that you better get together in a quiet working environment and don't have to broadcast, I don't think, this is a disgrace to all of Ukraine, because the Attorney General's Office is becoming an accomplice to this situation. And the third. I want to tell you how simple it is to be a citizen and a national MP that once you are in line with chapter 35 of the Ukrainian Rules of Procedure, I am convinced that there will be no MPs in this room that will interfere with the debate. And if this evidence is legitimate and serious, the MP's integrity will be removed. I'd like them to stop this hunting for the national MPs in the Security Service. And my request is that you be a spokesman, so to speak, to that person, because you make such a responsible decision under the law, and that journalists know that until the Attorney-General has addressed the Supreme Council, there is nothing for the Security Service and other officials to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u147	Please, Alexander Ivanovich. Alexander Ivanovich has no answer to this question. I thank the Attorney General for the information. Dear National Deputies, the next question to be considered, we cannot consider, we do not have a report on this issue, and we have a head of the fund. And we're running out of time. I have a proposal for us to consider the issue now 3333 – the draft Resolution on Recognition of the Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 15 January 2008 on the holding of parliamentary hearings. Please invite Haru Vasil Georgievovich to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u148	Dear colleagues, on 15 January of this year we have decided to hold parliamentary hearings On a very important topic: “The status of constitutional guarantees of labour rights of citizens”. It was decided in January. But that's what happened today by the 12th. But in September, you and I decided to transfer the sessional week to committee, and the Rules say that “parliamentary hearings are held at least once a month on the day of the week for work on committees, parliamentary factions. [[Article 233]] There is nowhere to put this very important issue before the end of the year, although it must be said that it will be the most relevant one in the month of March. But what will happen in March is hard to say. The Committee therefore proposes that the decision on the appointment of parliamentary hearings be revoked, and that, closer to spring, if Parliament is to work, it would certainly be very important to consider the issue of the economic crisis, the closure of production, the closure of enterprises, the reduction, free leave and so on. We're going to have a lot of interesting stuff to consider. The Committee therefore requests that the ruling that has been scheduled for today be repealed — the holding of, well, de facto, the holding of the parliamentary hearings.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u149	Any questions for Vasil Georgievich? Is it? Do you have a question? If there are no questions, are they willing to discuss this proposal? There are those who wish, I'm sorry. Then please sign up for the discussion. Please, National Deputy Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u150	Request to give the floor to national deputy Karpuk Volodymyr Georgiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u151	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u152	Ladies and gentlemen, we know how difficult it has been to overcome proposals for parliamentary hearings, and the Health Committee has repeatedly insisted on parliamentary hearings on health financing, the adoption of legislation on insurance medicine, and so forth. Yet all these important issues were considered irrelevant for the country. And it seems to me that it was the people's MP who had spoken before that that acted irresponsibly because the question was involved. How can this be considered — not to submit, not to prepare, not to be carried over when they are comfortable? The question is relevant, and it is good to listen, not when there is mass unemployment, but how to prevent that mass unemployment. And so once again, I would like to point out that before the question of parliamentary hearings is brought forward, we have to take a rather responsible approach.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u153	A piece of Yuri Alexanderovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u154	Please pass the word to Stoyan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u155	Stoyan Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u156	Dear colleagues, this is not about politics, this is the technical side of the matter. Once again, we had to consider this issue today, November 12. And we have ready materials. But given the shift in the work schedule of the Supreme Council, we say: or let's cancel that I don't really approve either -- why, because the theme is: to hold parliamentary hearings "To uphold the constitutional guarantees of labour rights of citizens, then let's vote now: let's postpone it somewhere in mid-December, let's pick a time -- and listen to this question. The committee is ready to report. What's more, the government's fault now is that we have mass unemployment, the unions aren't doing anything yet, they're not asking us to somehow protect people, we're willing to do it. The language is, once again, about what: that today is the Constitution, is citizens' rights, and these rights of citizens need to be protected, especially the right to release people without agreement with the professions, and they're generally freeing, reducing jobs, the right to what the recent, an hour ago, former speaker Yatsenuk, who, you see, in order to save jobs, turns out, has to be allowed employers to lower their wage levels. In a situation where such a crisis, when gas prices rise, electricity prices decrease wages. Moreover, he offered to allow many to go on free vacations. And yesterday, I heard something that doesn't go into the mind of a simple person: a young businessman says: “We have thousands of workers, we have reduced 400, and we have saved 600, so we keep our business.” I would like this employer to be unemployed for a month alone and not hear what a shortcut is, at least, to one working person behind the family. That's why I want to say it again. If we don't want to cancel -- and this will probably be quite appropriate -- then we ask from the technical procedure to move this issue to December. We will prepare and show that in Ukraine there are massive violations of human rights, mass violations of the Constitution, the Labour Act, the Labour Code, the Trades Act, the Law and the Guarantees of Their Activities, we will invite the general public, we will discuss this issue and we will make a decision. That's why it's my resume. So let's not cancel, let's postpone the consideration of this question of public hearing for a later period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u157	Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u158	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, honourable voters, there is no doubt that we must make a decision now. And I hope that we will make, as always, a wise and balanced decision. On the one hand, we can no longer hold these parliamentary hearings, because we should have them today -- November 12th. Clearly, the regulatory norm and the reporter has spoken of this requires that we be required to have parliamentary hearings not on a sessional day, but that they take place at a time when the work of the National Deputies on the Committees is going on. And I think it's perfectly right for those of my colleagues who raise the problem differently. In view of the situation in which Ukrainian society is now in existence, in connection with the rather negative consequences of leadership, the executive structures of power, in view of the fact that we are now faced with you, even though we have been promised a month ago, that we will not be affected by the crisis, we feel the effects of not just the economic crisis, the financial crisis, and you and I feel the consequences of the most dangerous, most of all what affects our people, the laborers. They are affected by the fact that today, tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, they will be thrown into the streets, which, in fact, in connection with the crisis, in connection with the inability to rule the state, we have reached such a situation as mass unemployment. Regardless of what they promise us, the Unemployment Support Fund will do its job, but I have great doubts that they can protect these people. And I fully support my colleagues who say that in today’s conditions such parliamentary hearings are essential. Therefore, I, Alexander Volodymyrovich, propose a change in the content of the decree, not to write that it has become invalid, but simply to amend the decision of 15 January 2008 on the holding of parliamentary hearings on "On the Status of Respect for Constitutional Guarantees of Workers' Rights" and to establish that such parliamentary hearings should take place, I looked at the calendar plan, we can hold them on December 10th. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u159	Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u160	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. You know, according to a large account, parliamentary hearings concerning the guarantees of working citizens should not have been held today, but months should have been two or two and a half ago, when everyone felt that there was an internal economic and social crisis in Ukraine and when the depth of the crisis was already increasing in addition to the impact of the global economic crisis. So I think this question is extremely relevant. It's simply, without exaggeration, extremely relevant, because the constitutional guarantees of the labour rights of citizens are not working today. There are no guarantees of labour rights of citizens de facto. Labour rights of Ukrainian citizens are now, more than ever, being violated, including in connection with the state of the economy to which the country was led. And so I would like to agree with both my colleague Stoyan and Adam Ivanovich in that we cannot but consider the matter. We can't help but discuss this issue, because the call for parliamentary hearings is not just a little bit about setting up and not just saying what I said is that the labour rights of citizens are being violated, are being massively violated today, but to produce, if you want, recipes, to make proposals, which are in the form of parliamentary hearing conclusions, in order to prevent a further exacerbation of this really very topical problem. So you don't have to put it in a long box. And if we're starting to work properly, thank God, and if the daily order, thank God, I think it's going to be normal to form, to confirm, and all the national deputies will be as good a week as they used to be, and for two weeks in advance to know that when they're being considered, they'll be hearing in Parliament on Wednesday. I think this is going to happen eventually, so we have to schedule these parliamentary hearings not later than at the end of November or the first decade of December. I want to say again that we have to do it in time. We're already too late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u161	Thank you, Oleg Alexanderovich. I invite you to the closing statement of Vasil Georgievovich Haru. And I ask that you also answer the question of Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk's proposal on the possibility of holding parliamentary hearings on December 10th.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u162	Dear colleagues, I agree with our colleagues' proposal to do so in December, only on one condition if we work. That is what the previous speaker said. Why did we decide to cancel? Six months ago, you and I held parliamentary hearings on our cabinet, on the implementation of the European Social Charter. To date, we cannot accept recommendations based on the mess we had before today in Parliament. I have repeatedly addressed the meetings of the Council of the Supreme Council, which has considered the agenda, and has always criticized the leadership of Parliament. We gave 15, 20 bills for consideration in the sessional room on social issues. This is also the question of the employment of the population, which would help under the current conditions, this is also the Labour Code, that is, State health insurance, and benefits in different categories. And they've always come to the end of the agenda. Therefore, when the committee considered the bill in November, on the basis of the conditions that had been, it was proposed that it should simply be repealed, since we were unable to consider it before today at a meeting of Parliament. Because the situation has changed today, and it is rightly said that there is a chance to work properly. I am pleased to accept the proposal to hold this 10 December and ask that, as soon as possible, the adoption of the recommendations of those parliamentary hearings on the European Social Charter, which we have considered with you six months ago and have adopted, so far, have not been approved in order to give it up for implementation. I therefore invite all to vote in favour of the changes proposed by Adam Ivanovich in the draft decree on the holding of these parliamentary hearings on 10 December 2008. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u163	Thank you, Vasil Georgievich. Dear colleagues, there will be a denial that we will change the drafting of the ruling, but instead of the loss of validity, we have changed the date of the hearing. Is there a denial? If there is no objection, I put to the vote the draft Supreme Council Regulation on changing the date of parliamentary hearings on "On the Status of Respect for Constitutional Guarantees of the Rights of Citizens" on 10 December 2008. Please vote. [[13:53:38]] For – 214 The decision is not taken. Please log in with the procedure. Please, Chef Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u164	Dear colleagues, of course, our faction did not vote in favour of this issue, because we would very much like to protect the constitutional rights of workers and we still cannot understand why the Party of Regions does not want to defend the constitutional rights of workers. It's like this, fifth and tenth. We are generally interested in how you think this decision will take effect because it requires the signature of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine. So if you don't have a standing candidate for the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and it's the fact that we're dealing with this issue that shows that you don't have it, then all that happened this morning is an adventure that I'm congratulating you on!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u165	People's deputy of Kilinkarov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u166	Dear People's Deputies, revered Alexander Vladimirovich! I think that we need to go back to re-voting on this issue and I am addressing the representatives of the Party of the Regions, and there are 12 people who have not voted. I understand that, technically, because this bill was proposed by a member of the Party of the Regions. With regard to those political forces that do not vote today, I think it would be necessary to make the results of the vote sound so that people can see who really wants to see through these parliamentary hearings, and who doesn't want to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u167	Upstairs Sergei Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u168	The burning faction of Yulia Timoshenko. I would like to say that what happened in the morning probably noted the fact that a coalition had taken place. The coalition would like to first legitimize, among the communists, the Party of the Regions, the Block of Lithuania and the Single Centre of Yushchenko, and then take all decisions when it is fully legitimate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u169	People's Party, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u170	Stoyan, please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u171	Stoyan Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u172	Dear voters! Dear colleagues! See what happened, see what double standards and what political speculations from BUTO and “Our Ukraine”. A representative from “Our Ukraine” is speaking and says that we cannot cancel parliamentary hearings, because it is very important for people, it has to protect people, protect their labour rights, it just hurts them when they cry for people. And when we asked the question to vote, to postpone the term, because we really do have a match, this person, this faction doesn't vote. Here are the double standards. Moreover, I recall that when the law of Zarubinski was to abolish that fifth article, which cut off payments, paid the minimum wage to millions of people, they did not vote for it either. At the same time, there is a populist law on changes in the pay system. That's why I want to say, our dignitaries from "our Ukraine" and the BJT. If you care for the people, you want to protect constitutional rights, let's go back and vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u173	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u174	So let's vote, and you should have gone, say you see a party of regions representing someone there, and you don't want to vote. There is a second representative, I will not call his name from “Our Ukraine” and he says “some have not voted here”. Yeah, really, there's not enough people in the room, but that doesn't mean that we're against this, you have voices, you add votes, and we're about to vote in favour of this important parliamentary hearing.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u175	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u176	Yuri Carmazin. The Party of Protectors of the Motherland “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense”. Ladies and gentlemen, I have not voted in favour of this ruling right now, because in this case everything that has been done today has unfortunately been in breach of the Rules and I do not want to continue to violate the Rules. If we're saying that we have to carry a number, let's be clear, let's write a number. Let's motivate why this number, you know, all of this in your proposals, unfortunately, is not there. And the second. Let's reconcile this issue with the government, someone likes it, doesn't like it. Because the government needs to know whether it's ready for this number or for this, because we want the main reporting agents to be government representatives.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u177	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal came about the possibility of holding parliamentary hearings on December 10th, because this is the only day we have the opportunity to hold parliamentary hearings here in the session room. If this proposal is not supported and there is no insistence on December 10th, then the issue will be removed and such parliamentary hearings will be held only when the next initiative is taken. You didn't vote just because you didn't know on what day or you had other motives, Yuri Anatolyevich, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u178	I did not vote because I wanted to know the position of the government and others who would be preparing this meeting. If it's ready, I'll vote if you ask me, you understand? I say again, we don't see anyone from the government, we don't see anyone from the government! Today, November, and let us speak in a way that we must do so and do so urgently. Waiting for December is very, very late.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-12-m0.u179	Thank you. The project was introduced today because we were simply changing the calendar plan and we had a sessional week. So the suggestion came that since there was no obvious lack of hearing about the date, the proposal was to return to the date of these parliamentary hearings on December 10. I'm voting on the proposal to go back to setting the date of these hearings on December 10th. Please vote. [[14:00:49]] For 227 Decision taken. Please, I now put to the vote the amendments to the draft Ordinance on Parliamentary Hearings on the Status of Respect for Constitutional Guarantees of the Rights of Citizens on 10 December 2008. I'd like to make a statement. [[14:01:19]] For 227 Decision taken. At this morning’s plenary session, I declare closed. Tomorrow morning the plenary meeting will begin at 10 a.m. I'll see you later.
