ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-23-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, let's register. [[16:18:48]] There were 252 national deputies registered in the hall. Colleagues, attention, I want to inform you about what will be put to the vote and whether it will be effective or not is up to you. So first, the question of the return to the vote on the inclusion in the agenda of Bill 3283 on amendments to the 2008 Act on the State Budget is about countering the financial crisis and financing the elections made by the People's MP Lapin. The second bill, which deals with the vote on inclusion in the agenda, is Bill 3309, the draft Act on minimising the impact of the financial crisis on the economy of Ukraine. This is the bill that the government has considered today. I'd like to point out that I just had a conversation with the leader of the Victoria Yanukovic faction and he's informed that the opposition government has also prepared its bill, which will now be introduced. So at the faction leaders' meeting, we made the right decision to view these bills as basic and alternative. In view of this, when I put a bill on the inclusion in the agenda of the daily law on financial crisis resolution, it will be said that it is included in order with the alternate and is being considered tomorrow at 10 a.m., regardless of whether a decision is made by a professional committee. Did everyone hear that? Then, Bill No. 3308, this is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Budget 2008. This is the bill introduced by the Ukrainian government this morning as well. This is a block of questions that can be included in the agenda and will be considered tomorrow. We heard. That's why. Attention! I put to the vote the question of the return to the vote on the inclusion in the agenda of Bill 3283, the draft Act amending the State Budget Act introduced by Laupin. Please vote. [[16:21:00]] For 233 Decision taken. I now put to the vote the question of inclusion in the agenda and consideration. Please show by factions. Region Party – 171, "Our Ukraine" – 42, "Block of Lithuania" – 0, "Block of July Timoshenko" – 0, "Block of Lithuania" – 20, Communists – 0, "Block of July Timoshenko" – 0. I now put to the vote the question of the inclusion in the agenda of Bill No. 3283 on amendments to the State Budget Act. Please vote. [[16:21:45.]] For 234 Decision taken. Now I'm betting, colleagues, I'm asking you to show by factions. I now put to the vote the issue of the inclusion of Bill No. 3309, a draft law on minimising the impact of the global financial crisis on Ukraine's economy. Attention! I'm on it. Say what, Ivan Grigorovitch? Ah, you want to insert the cards. Okay. Please show me the factions again. Region Party – 171, BUT – 0, “Our Ukraine” – 43, Communists – 0, “Block of Lithuania” – 20. "Julia Tymoshenko Block" ready? Tell me when you're ready. Is it? Yes. Attention! Attention to voting. I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of Bill No. 3309 of the draft Act on the minimisation of the impact of the global financial crisis on Ukraine's economy, introduced by the Government of Ukraine with alternatives, introduced by the Party of Regions and other alternatives, and the consideration of the bill tomorrow in plenary session even if there is no decision by the professional committees. That is, if profile committees fail to make the right decision for Parliament today, such bills shall be considered without the committee's decisions. Did you hear that? Colleagues, we vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[16:25:43]] For 436. And the last decision, which is included in the agenda, is Bill No. 3308, the draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for 2008 and amending certain legislations of Ukraine. This is a bill tabled by the Government of Ukraine, which is also put to the vote for inclusion in the agenda and for consideration at tomorrow's plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the absence of a committee decision if such a decision is not submitted to the plenary tomorrow. Please vote. [[16:26:34]] For 237 You want motive? Please give me a minute of motive. You want to sign up, sign up. By the faction, if you'll excuse me for one minute, please sign up. Taran, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko”. Is Pisarenko going to perform or Kirilenko? Identify yourself, colleagues, who come from B.I.T. Pisarenko, please, from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-23-m1.u2	Dear colleagues, first of all, we have just shown by the last vote that we can vote 450 votes in the hall, we can be united for Ukraine's sake in the face of the global financial crisis. But let's talk now about the fact that we've just received information about the registration of deputies. Unfortunately, because we see a lot of things here today, but we don't have a party of regions today, 97 votes on the basis of registration. I'd like the speaker to check that information. In addition, the same situation in “Our Ukraine” and in other political forces. Because of this vote for someone's card, let's not do it at such an important time. That's why we think we need to go to the Cabinet Bills in order to overcome the crisis, stop the politics, and stop this mess. We can't keep doing this, let's walk and work, and if we don't, then all those who want to pay people their wages during the financial crisis, let them do it. You don't have to go and vote for someone. Let's work.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-23-m1.u3	Vladimir Litwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-23-m1.u4	Dear colleagues, our faction has shown a sequence. We believe that we should include in the agenda all the bills that relate to the issues that we need to discuss to determine how to make a decision by voting. And at the same time, I'm making a proposal to our faction when we're considering legislation, especially on minimizing the impact of the global financial crisis on Ukraine's economy, so that the vote is not going to take place in general, but in every position, at every point. Why am I stressing this? There are a number of proposals that need to be supported, but at the same time there are a number of unacceptably unacceptable types of money offered that people are trying to solve the problems of the economy and the inaction of the Ukrainian authorities, particularly with regard to freezing the minimum wage and the minimum wage. These are totally unacceptable suggestions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-23-m1.u5	Olena Lukash.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-23-m1.u6	Ephrem, please pass it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-23-m1.u7	Alexander Efraemov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-23-m1.u8	Dear colleagues, I think we have been having an unprecedented discussion over the past two years about the vote, whether it's a card or not. And there is an interesting situation where it benefits one political force, and at one point she says one thing, and at another point she says the exact opposite, and that's understandable to everyone. We don't have a mechanism, and the speaker doesn't have a mechanism to turn off the MP's vote card if he doesn't want to. We all know that, so let us not deceive our constituents. And, Arsenija Petrovich, as I understand it, there is one issue on the agenda, but we have left behind one more question that we agreed on in the Conciliation Council and did not include in the agenda: the second reading of Bill 0916, 0917, to consider the same tomorrow at the meeting. That would make sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-23-m1.u9	Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-23-m1.u10	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “Our Ukraine”. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! For the third day in a row, we urge everyone to concentrate on the work because both the government officials and the prime minister have called for the rapid acceptance of the anti - crisis package. That faction of theirs for three days was blocked for no reason. We said in the morning: “Colleagues, there are voices, and there are voices under the approval of the anti - crisis package, and there are voices under the resolution of the political crisis. From now on, 16.31. We lost six and a half hours of precious parliamentary time with you. From the outset, we said that the economic crisis could not be solved separately from the political crisis. Both first and second crises need to be solved. So tomorrow, or we can start today, let's all of these bills that we're going to talk about in the daytime order, vote, make the right decisions, and we're going to go to people to keep them under examination, because otherwise we're not going to solve the parliamentary crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-23-m1.u11	Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-23-m1.u12	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues! Dear voters! You probably haven't heard such a phrase and abbreviations as the IMF, the International Monetary Fund. During the last days when government officials reported immediate relief efforts, they said that the International Monetary Fund would extend our wide helping hand. A crisis in the world, and someone will help us! We ask, What are the merits of Ukraine for? What must be done to help the International Monetary Fund? No answers were received. But anyone who wants to get an answer, please look at the anti-crisis measures they're offering us. This is what the International Monetary Fund wants: to take, cut, punish, give nothing for two years, all at the expense of our voters! That's what it's like.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-23-m1.u13	Dear colleagues! I'm going to say again that we have tomorrow. 3283 is a draft law amending the Ukrainian State Budget Act, introduced by Xeniya Liapina. 3308 is a draft law amending the State Budget Act introduced by the Government of Ukraine. 3309 is a draft of the Act on minimising the impact of the global financial crisis on Ukraine's economy, introduced by the Government of Ukraine and the alternatives thereto. We voted last time in 3294, this is Olena Lukash's project to amend some of Ukraine's legislative acts. And insists the Party of Regions on 0916, 0917. Now, about the job. I have the next suggestion that we don't now claim who's the best Caller, so let's close the meetings and tomorrow we're actively working to adopt this package of legislation, because non-effective voting on these laws can be very expensive for the economy or for a number of them. Another question is the form in which these laws will be adopted, but they must be adopted. I think if tomorrow there's no agreement on the draft law on minimizing the impact of the global financial crisis, it's in the basic law of the government and the opposition government, I'll also try to make my own proposals to find consensus in the hall for the adoption of this law. It's not a law for political power, it's a law for the state. In view of this, I declare a closed plenary session until tomorrow morning.
