ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m0.u1	Good day to you all, the country's distinguished deputies of Ukraine! I'm asking you to register. [[14:17:41]] -421 registered. I would like to repeat my registration in connection with the fact that the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine has not been able to turn the system on. They've asked again. [[14:18:14]] Registered -446 There are 446 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, I declare the plenary session open. It's hard to say whether it's early or evening, but it's finally happened. Dear colleagues, I'm going to brief you on the run of what's actually been going on over the last month. Thankfully, it happened: ‘ The Memorandum of Understanding” shall be signed, which shall take effect after the vote on the decision on NATO. There are signatures, there are some warnings, but the main thing is that there is a general will to support this idea. There is a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which was introduced by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which has just been handed over to you: the question of Ukraine's accession to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. [[NATO]] I propose to include in the agenda draft regulation No. 1402-2, introduced by Yatzenuk, on the question of Ukraine's accession to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. Please vote. [[14:19:46]] For 311 “For” – 311 national deputies of Ukraine. Please show by factions. I'd like you to consider, Your Honor. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please use fractions: Party of regions – “for” – 174, “Block of July Timoshenko” – “for” – 95, “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense” – “for” – 22, Communists – 0, “Block of Lithuania” – 20. Ladies and gentlemen, I am putting to the vote without discussion the Supreme Council Order, registration number 1402-1, on the question of Ukraine's accession to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. I'd like to make a statement. In general. In the first and second readings and in general, of course. [[14:20:38]] For 248 “For” – 248 national deputies of Ukraine, the decision has been taken. Please show by factions. The Party of Regions – “for” – 175, “Block of July Timoshenko” – “for” – 34, “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense” – “for” – 19, Communists – 0, “Block of Lithuania” – 20. Thus, the honourable colleagues, the question of the final acquisition of membership, and the corresponding decision, have been decided. Ladies and gentlemen, we have arranged for a meeting of the Conciliation Board of Heads of Deputies that anti-Natarian symbols will be taken away from the Ukrainian Parliament, and I will honor this decision by the faction leaders, this is paragraph one. Item two. At 15:15 we have a meeting of the Conciliation Council, which should determine the schedule of meetings, taking into account all matters of the agenda that are included in the “Protocol of Understanding”, as “the Protocol of Understanding has become effective. The Supreme Council worked systematically according to the calendar plan. Thank you, everyone, for that. [[B in m in s a l in]] For reasons of vote? There's no objection. Three minutes out of the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Now, colleagues, for reasons of vote. Colleagues, just a minute. Let's vote for one minute. Come on. Well, why? Okay. Peter Mikolaiovich, you. Please write down the reasons for the vote. Please. Tuck, “Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m0.u2	Please pass the word to Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m0.u3	The word Viacheslav Kirilenko
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m0.u4	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. I'm not talking to fellow MPs, I'm talking to voters. We regret that because of this one-second vote, Parliament lost four weeks of possible fruitful work for some reason. So now that the Chief of the Supreme Council opens the Conciliation Council, we're going to call on our colleagues to bring today and start a 16-hour review of the country's basic issues. But you have to start with yourself. Therefore, we urge that at the evening meeting the Supreme Council begin the process of amending 80 articles of the Constitution on the abolition of parliamentary immunity.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m0.u5	Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich, Party of Regions
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m0.u6	And after that, we are. I'm not done yet.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m0.u7	Excuse me, excuse me. Please. Please turn on Kirilenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m0.u8	In doing so, we publicly state that all voting documents are ready. And this procedure can start today in a roll call. Then we insist on putting all the Presidential Bills in place as urgent. And this will be a structured agenda that will solve a whole range of civil, social, and economic issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m0.u9	Thank you. Vorotnjak Igor Borisovich, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m0.u10	Please pass the word to Ivan Grigorovitch Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m0.u11	The word of Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m0.u12	Dear Arsenia Petrovich, fellows of honor! The vote took place, we flip the page. Of course, there would be a desire for more votes, but there is more. We've made a decision on the faction: free voting, how many votes there are, let's settle for what there is. In the Understanding Protocol, I wrote down this phrase on behalf of the faction: “No matter the number of votes given ‘yes’, in a positive decision we have forgotten about the blockade and we are starting to systematically work for Parliament. Systematic, switching pages, and considering extremely relevant issues for society, including those for which my colleague Viacheslav said. There'll be a Conciliation Council. I think there may now be a much faster process of reconciliation between those or other issues that deal with the order of the day. I would like to welcome you to the work that we have just demonstrated and the leaders of the parliamentary factions, and this room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m0.u13	Thank you, Ivan Grigorovich. Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich, Party of Regions
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m0.u14	Please give the floor to the leader of the faction of the Party of the Regions, Victor Fedorovich Janukovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m0.u15	Janukovich Victor Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m0.u16	Thank you. Victor Janukovic, Party of Regions. The faction of the Party of the Regions in the Supreme Council declares its consistency in defending the exclusive right of the Ukrainian people to take decisions on Ukraine's accession to NATO by holding a national referendum. At the same time, as supporters of the work of the Supreme Council productively, the legislative solution to the most important socio-economic development issues of the state and the willingness to compromise with other political forces, today we have proposed a draft decision of the Supreme Council, which has just been adopted and, in fact, has unlocked the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. There's a project.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m0.u17	Turn on Victor Fedorovich's microphone. True, the Yatzenyuk project was, but nothing. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m0.u18	The appointed, honourable colleagues, the project is a testimony to the fact that we always have the opportunity to defend the interests of the Ukrainian people together. And we are grateful to our colleagues for supporting this project. At the same time, this regulation provides for the possibility of any action by the Ukrainian authorities regarding the signing of international treaties, including with regard to Ukraine's NATO membership, solely on the basis of the outcome of the All-Ukrainian referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m0.u19	Thank you, Victor Fedorovich! Marina Volodymyr, I understand, Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich. Please, Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich. Do you want Peter Mikolaiovich from the rostrum? Okay, okay. So we agreed for three minutes, please, Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m0.u20	Dear voters! I'd like to inform you about the position of the Company faction on the voting issue. First, in this draft decree, the Supreme Council voted in favour of an absurd thing at all. We don't have a law on the All-Ukrainian referendum and it's a know-how right that the Supreme Council started: it refers to a non-existent law that doesn't exist. This is the first time. Secondly, for those who tried to hide their intentions, I explain, the President will never sign this law. And everything you had hoped for today was echoed during the vote. Now for the meaning of what's going on. Dear voters! The development of events in Ukraine last month shows that the letter of three is a pre-planned provocation whose purpose is to discredit parliament, to usurp power on the basis of nationalistic dictatorship, and this threat is real today, and it forms the basis for the practical destruction of both the economic and political sovereignty of our state. The decision is made.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m0.u21	In three minutes, I said turn it on. Please Turn on.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m0.u22	The adoption of this decision as a conspiracy of political forces that did not approach the electorate and did not have the right to consider the matter at all. I emphasize, honourable voters! You were once again deceived by the Supreme Council vote, and the national deputies in the election did not promise you that they would vote in favour of joining Ukraine in NATO. Thus, the voter position was widely falsified, which was expressed in the elections. Next. I'd like to draw attention again and again to the fact that there's another disgraceful side to our history, because this vote supports the letter of three, that's what this is about. Letter three is actually supported. And so Ukraine was involved in the NATO membership plan. The plan of action is supported because letter three is a reference to the Secretary-General of NATO to join the NATO membership agenda. Thus, this vote confirmed that it was the people's deputies who opened the door to Ukraine's 90 percent implementation of the NATO entry plan. Thus, we today, Communists, warn society that Ukraine has become on a very dangerous path and thus is exacerbated, first and foremost, by the social, socio-economic and political situation in the state. It will continue to divide in Ukraine, and this will in the first place lead to a tightening of relations with our neighbors from the Russian Federation. This will lead to fewer jobs in the military and industrial complex, which will certainly lead to Ukraine participating in military operations, including those conducted by NATO in Afghanistan. The Communist faction has categorically stated its position “against” and insists on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m0.u23	Thank you, Peter Mikolaiovich. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! We've survived with you, sorry, we've still got the Lithuanian Block, comrades, half a second. Tereshuk Sergey Mikolaiovich, “Block of Lithuania”. Litvin Volodymyr Mihajlovich. From the rostrum, Litvin Volodymyr Mihajlovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, the Honourable Chairman, you know the position of the faction, we have always acted to abide by the Constitution and abide by the rules of the Supreme Council. “Do not be afraid until it is quiet!” That's the first one. Secondly, we agreed that there would be a consolidated vote, unfortunately too, a consolidated vote, I warned you that, it didn't happen. This gives us reason to blame one side today — the other. Such a parliament would not work productively. And one more thing, your honor, is whether or not they signed the protocol of understanding. I'll read what we signed, we drank it. The faction does not support the practice of replacing the Constitution and the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine with various protocols and agreements. Moreover, they do not, according to practice. The faction did not create or continue to create reasons for misunderstanding, confrontation, and inaction of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. People need specific, practical solutions that we need to agree on today, to hear about gas, wages, inflation, prices, and so forth. Don't try to get in the way of anything else. (O p l s c i) And to the end. Dear colleagues! I'd like to calm down. Our faction was not involved in signing, even under certain conditions of the Universal, keep your mouth shut for now.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m0.u25	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! You and I have experienced one of the longest crises in the Ukrainian Parliament in all of its history. And I hope that we have come out of this crisis only stronger. I'm asking you to remove the anti-Natov rhetoric. At 3: 15 a.m., we meet at the Conciliation Council, and at 4: 00 a.m., we begin the plenary meeting. I'll see you later.
