ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u1	Good morning, colleagues. Let's register. [[10:01:19]] There are 318 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. Colleagues, the faction leaders are invited to come to my office and try to agree quickly on the schedule for today’s meeting. Is there no objection? And then let's move on to the performances, to everything. Okay, thanks. We take an hour, we always say 30 minutes, but we get at least an hour. I'll take you to my office.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, I report. The faction leaders are now in session. The following agenda is proposed: 30 minutes – statements from MPs; then – Bill 3195, introduced by the Chief of the Supreme Council of Yatzenuk, on the establishment of the Temporary Special Commission on Disaster Management. I, by the way, think that when we consider this bill, we're going to have to raise the question of what's now going on in submerged regions, because there's another threat of submergment and again the threat of disaster. It would be interesting to hear the Ministry's position on emergency situations. Next. Bill 1452 is the Presidential Bill amending certain laws of Ukraine, which is the State support of the families that adopted the child. Next. 0928 is a bill that has been in the walls of the Supreme Council for a very long time, but has not been considered for five or six years, a list of cultural heritage that is not subject to privatization. In fact, it is a stop to privatizing objects of national cultural heritage. Next – 0920 – about the agricultural census. The bill follows: 1449 is a change of borders in the Andruschevsky and Korstoševsky region, 1450 is a change in the borders of Baranovka, 2629 is a change in the borders of Novoyavorysk, 2646, 2646-1 is a reference to the Baturin village to the category of cities and to the assignment of the name of the newly created settlement of the Simferopol district of Vajerka. Next, 2646-2 is a decree to specify the designation of individual population sites in the Dubrovnik and Ddolbunovo regions of the Plains region. The next one is 2567. This is a new edition of the Law on Joint Investment Institutions. An interesting bill, important, something like what we've been taking on stock companies. 1418 is about amending certain laws of Ukraine. This is improving financial mechanisms, making investments in housing. 2562 is the first reading of the Ukrainian Law on Physical Culture and Sports. And ratifications: 0059, 0055, 0067, 0094. Everything offered for today. Is there a desire to make a statement on the schedule or not? No wishes?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u3	Give me three minutes then, sign up. Kostenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u4	Thank you, Your Honor Arsenius Petrovich. Is the day - to - day law of adoption in order?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u5	Yeah, it's on, I said it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u6	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u7	We will offer it to you as a whole. It's Christmas Eve.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u8	Thank you. It's Christmas Eve. I propose that the proposed agenda be approved and voted on.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u9	Thank you. Alla Alexandrovska.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u10	Alexandrovska, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Arseny Petrovich, we understand the position. Regrettably, the drafts, which are now pending discussion, raise questions. This is particularly true of the privatization of monuments. You know, it's such a complicated question that you don't have to rush him. Here we go on second reading today, and there is already a lot of information from places. We have not been able to obtain, process and submit this information to the committee, and the Committee is submitting it to second reading. I don't think we need to rush here. I would like to either withdraw today from the agenda or at least leave it on the third reading, because there are a lot of comments. Well, there are a number of comments under other laws. I think we'll be discussing them in the process.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u11	By the way, we planned for a third reading to clarify the list. Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u12	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Arsenija Petrovich, a respected colleague, it is clear that it is impossible to continue working as the Supreme Council does now. At 10 o'clock, they're going to take an hour off, and what, at 9 o'clock, you can't get together with the faction leaders? What can't be determined yesterday? What changes, why replace work with vanity? I urge you, let's go back to the book. This is unacceptable, Arseny Petrovich, such a job. The second parameter, we have a serious change to the budget that needs to be taken, we need to listen. We have to work on the budget, be very serious, planistic, the state will not hold preparations for. And another question, on behalf of the faction "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense," was the proposals for a new coalition. I want to make it clear that these proposals were made on behalf of one Party of "Our Ukraine" and I hope for the very rapid formation of a new coalition in the form of BUTO, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense and the Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u13	Valerius Beales.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u14	Thank you. In principle, Alexandrovska said what I had to offer, so we're taking the questions down.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u15	Thank you. Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u16	Welder.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u17	Roman Zvaric, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u18	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues, at the meeting of the faction leaders, we have again and again, in principle, asked the Supreme Council to consider a bill amending the Constitution in part of article 80 of the Ukrainian Constitution with the aim of eliminating parliamentary inviolability. Arsenius Petrovich, the faction insists that this issue be included in the agenda. And on this point, I'm introducing this as a formal proposal, and I ask you to put the vote on the agenda of the day's issue of cancelling the parliamentary immunity.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u19	Comrades, the discussion is over. Is there any objection to my listing? You don't? None. Thank you. Please vote in favour of the approval of the timetable proposed by the Head of the Supreme Council. [[11:08:06]] For 345. Now, with regard to Roman Mikhailovich Zvaric's proposal. Roman Mikhailovich, I ask you to form a bill in accordance with the law, to submit a written bill to all the faction leaders. 1375, if I can't remember, his number? And tomorrow we'll put 226 for prior approval. And then we pull, we pull, and there's no way we can make a decision. Colleagues, first order is 3195. Oh, excuse me, please sign up for the factions. I thought we'd get to work right away without talking. But if there's a wish. Eugene Volintz. Peter Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u20	Respectable voters, respectable colleagues! Developments in Georgia and illegal transfers, criminal transfers of weapons from Ukraine show that it was in Ukraine that a new kind of business flourished; it was business that dealt with death. The illicit arms trade and what we have in Ukraine are, of course, under the control of senior officials. And this is the encroachment of the army, this is the enrichment of individual dealers, this is the exacerbation of relationships in the world, this is the exacerbation of relationships with our neighbours and much more. We are witnessing with you that, as a result of the concealment of crimes on illicit trafficking and arms transfers, the people of Ukraine are suffering. I want to remind you of the explosions in the city of Artemovo, the suffering of the city, three times in Novo Bogdanovka to conceal its crimes by those who smuggled illegal weapons. As in Lozova, 61 arsenals have been doing so. I say these words with this concern because we have over 2 million tons of ammunition in 34 arsenals. And the main reason for what is happening to us is, of course, the concealment of crimes. But for us people's deputies, the main thing today is to save ourselves from the negative effects that can happen when these criminals are dealing with exactly this deadly burden and figure out what's really going on. I'd like to give you two examples of what's really going on. Forty-eighth arsenal. The disposal of missiles and ammunition is located 3 kilometres from the town of Kalinovka Vinnitsky district, 22 kilometres from the town of the regional importance of Vinnica. This arsenal is located at a total area of more than 1,000 hectares. There are artillery, mortar shells and elements, rockets and grenade launchers, as well as a large number of small arms ammunition. Contrary to the existing storage capacity of 111,000 tons, 113 is stored, that is, 2,000 more. That's about 9,000, of course, cars. Including 30,000 artillery shells, over 800 tons of missiles, 15,000 tons of mortar shells, 33,000 tons of rocket launchers, over 500 tons of grenade launchers, and 32,000 tons of hand grenades, etc. It should be noted that in the arsenal, due to the lack of storage facilities, most of the rockets are in open storage sites without the direct effects of sunlight and atmospheric precipitation. Ammunition storage sites are not littered with piles of soil, there are no access to fire water in selected locations, the protection of the territory is carried out, listen to the HCRO units of women of the age of 60 to 70, who are retired. In the event of an emergency, especially in the event of an explosion specifically to cover up crimes, that is the extent to which 15 settlements — 60,000 — fall into the area of virtually total destruction on the arsenal. I would also like to give an example of that in the same residential area of Kali. A military section of the heptyl and melange rocket components is located along the 48-arsenal road from missile disposal and ammunition. Most of the reservoirs in which these components are stored are manufactured in 59, 63, 66 years. As a result of the long-term exploitation and the impact of the aggressive environment, these reservoirs do not provide a leaky storage of nuclear rocket fuel components, which in turn could lead to these hazardous substances being placed on the ground and resulting in a technological catastrophe of a serious level. For the neutralization of the heptile, 50 cubic metres of solvent are required, and components are not available in the military part. The lifts to the reservoirs are carried out through a railway branch, which is also largely out of service. Such a criminal, irresponsible storage of missile fuel components, combined with a dangerous neighbourhood of the same substance, can lead to an emergency disaster and a very high-level disaster that has not yet occurred in our country and God forbid it to occur. I am talking about these examples, and once again, I would like to emphasize that we have a difficult situation today in the Pavlovgrad chemical combination. And what is not funded is a project that must have been funded for the same nuclear missile fuel cut-off facility, which is an overstatement that we do not have a development strategy or a solution to any of the issues. It's a very difficult situation. In this situation, we would like to emphasize that questionable commercial structures are engaged in the disposal of ammunition. Today, the State has paid it back to individual businesses.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u21	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u22	given to individual commercial dealers, who only naturally use a color fracture, and everything else, they are new threats to our people. Thus, we, the Communist faction, today and propose: we must take a decision immediately and adopt the law on the establishment of special investigative commissions so that the special investigative commission established by the Supreme Council for the Investigation of the Crimes of the current regime in the Transfer of Arms to Georgia will be seriously involved today, and these are the issues I have already mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u23	Lilia Grigorovich. Viacheslav Kirilenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u24	Viacheslav Kirilenko, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense". Dear colleagues! Dear voters! The third week of the day is formed by a virtually functioning new majority: Party of regions, Timoshenko Street. Our faction makes its offerings, of course, but only one of these offers goes into the order of the day. This means that Parliament is working in a way that does not take into account the proposals of those factions that did not join the new prokrem majority. This is bad, which means that Parliament is not inclined to constructively work, but is inclined to consider the positions of only two factions. Of course, it can't go on like this for long. We are in favour of creating a new coalition in Parliament as soon as possible. That's what I'm talking about. But what I'm saying right now is that we're insisting on a day-to-day review of the elimination of parliamentary immunity next week. It's ready. The Constitutional Court had long thought and had finally reached a positive conclusion. The Constitutional Court said that the deputies at any moment of their work can press the buttons and remove the parliamentary immunity. But the MPs from the faction of the Party of Regions, the Block of Timoshenko, the Communists and others are looking for reasons not to press these buttons to remove the MP's immunity. This is bad, for it is a breach of the commitments made by most factions to the electorate. We honor our responsibilities to the electorate and therefore insist today, and tomorrow we will insist until this issue is put into the order of the sitting room. It is the duty of the deputy corps to vote down the law on the abolition of parliamentary immunity. Now let's move on. The new majority print laws that in many cases damage the country’s normal development and complicate the future in the near future. When the Party of Regions does that, it's their choice. When Block Timoshenko participates in this, we do not cease to be surprised. Colleagues from the “Timoshenko Block” voted in favour of the Referendum Act. Why did they open the way? They opened the way to a referendum on Russian status as the second state, and they opened the way to others, totally politicized and resonant referendums, which will be argued among the Ukrainian people. Moreover, the desire to abuse referendums is characterized by authoritarian regimes. Those regimes that came to power in Europe in the 1930s came to power in the past century by popular will, and so speculation and abuse of referendum mechanisms leads to a dictatorship that is no better than the worst of its patterns. We warn about this, not as much as the Party of Regions as the Block of Timoshenko, because it still calls itself a democratic, political power. Next. Our colleagues from the “Timoshenko Block” voted in favour of the Janukovitch Bill on State Service and supported the Russian implementation in this text, in fact, as the second state. We understand when these proposals are made by the Party of Regions, we've always seen them by our opponents, they have this idea. But we are protesting when the buttons behind this rule are pushing MPs from the "Timoshenko Block" and telling voters that they are Democrats and Patriots. 25 votes in three weeks have already shown that unfortunately, from our former partners with BUT, this is not the case. It's about the coalition. Yesterday, as the head of “Our Ukraine”, I officially handed over the “Block of Lithuania” and “Block of Timoshenko” to the programme principles of the new parliamentary coalition. Someone has already baptized them with an ultimatum, but this is just a search for a reason to reject our proposals. Because these proposals contain three chapters: first, the protection of state sovereignty, second, the protection of democracy, third, the protection of Ukraine's European choice. Any Ukrainian politician who works in national interests, not in a foreign country, will sign under all principles, and we think that they should be our colleagues in the discussion in the near future, and they will be offered their views on how to account for them or reject them. In addition, I would like to point out that no negotiations with the Party of Regions and, more importantly, with the Communists, “Our Ukraine” does not lead. The one who claims the opposite of the camp should state the facts, the testimony, the surnames, and if he cannot name them, let him not mislead our voters, for the voters of “Our Ukraine” know that we will not deviate from the Ukrainian views, from the protection of national values. And we're basically the only ones left in this position right now. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u25	Mikola Azarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u26	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! The Party of the Regions is deeply convinced that in today's economic situation in the world, in the country, no branch of authority has the right to engage in such political manoeuvres. First of all, because the world economy has been plunged into the biggest economic crisis since the great depression. It must be understood that our economy is totally dependent on the world, energy markets on the one hand, markets for Ukrainian exports on the other. What's going on? As early as yesterday, the world financial system's irresistible colossus is on its way to global money trafficking. The world's leading economies, primarily in the United States, have been generating money from all over the world to tackle the lies that have been created. The depth of the financial failure is measured by trillions of dollars, equivalent to tens of Ukraine's annual budgets. Stock market collapses, sharp fluctuations in oil prices. The Government of developed countries is channelling massive budgetary resources to stabilize domestic financial markets. This means that the rest of the world and, above all, the developing countries to which Ukraine belongs will not receive the required resources. In large measure, it is a matter of saving everyone as much as possible from national economies and national governments. The response of the Government of Germany, note that yesterday's American plan for the rescue of the world economy makes that clear. Unlike all over the world, our Government is reporting on unique successes without doing anything to prevent and mitigate growing problems. This reminds me of Pannikov's unforgettable episode with iron bars calling out, "Pilite, Shurah, and Pilate. We have every reason to believe that Ukraine has become as vulnerable and vulnerable as our Prikarpathian, Dodunay villages before the growing wave of crisis. The Government has not prepared the country for the loss of money in external markets and for more than one and a half times the increase in domestic production costs compared to the same period last year. Moreover, the Government is going to raise more than two billion dollars next year. This is at a time when the cost of loans for our country has increased by more than 7 per cent in eight months! I mean, we're going to do more than we did after the 2000 Default. Our country drove 12 billion dollars more than it exported in seven months. So far, a positive balance of payments, despite such a negative significant balance, has supported foreign credit and investment flows. But soon this method of balance of payments will have to be forgotten. At the same time, the Ukrainian economy is not in a position to replace imports and increase exports. The rate of growth in industrial production has dropped twice. Construction showed an absolute decline of 5 per cent. There is braking in the basic sectors of the economy. And the worst part is that stagnation in the basic industries, against the backdrop of the rapid rise in producer prices, creates a negative trend in economic development for the future. Our people are concerned about the threat of currency instability, the threat of galloping price increases, the threat of bankruptcy and possible unemployment, the disruption of business activity, the freeze on the lines we see now. All of this is because the domestic economy has been virtually out of credit since the beginning of this year, and there have also been massive budget payments at the same time. Two months ago, not only did we warn the Government about the consequences of the lack of sound economic policies, but we proposed a set of measures to prevent today's situation. Do you remember the Prime Minister's memorable response to our report? The faction of the Party of the Regions insists on the unconditional depoliticization of economic issues. We urgently need to work together to adopt anti-crisis measures. Such anti-crisis measures could include the State budget, as well as urgent measures that would provide for the establishment of a stabilization national reserve fund to respond quickly to the crises of the financial stock market, and cost-effective budget spending.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u27	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u28	Budget support and promotion of domestic production; strengthening public investment policies agreed between the Government, Parliament and the National Bank of Monetary and Monetary Policy to stabilize and stimulate economic activity; and implementing flexible exchange rate policies that ensure an acceptable balance of payments and liquidity of the banking system. Once again, I would like to emphasize that those who today are concerned about unity by losing power must realize that they can lose not only power but the whole country as well. No chair or chair is worth the economic security of the country, no political loss or victory of any political force is worth the economic well-being and well-being of the people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u29	Oleg Zarubinski. Vladimir Litwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u30	Dear colleagues, as we look at what is happening on the street, what is happening in the session hall, again, we mention the famous words of the classics that we have learned: “Swimming boredom, floods of hopelessness, and a verse gushes sadness.” We pretend that nothing is happening to us by imitating the violent activities of the Supreme Council. First, we've amended a little bit of the Constitution, and now we're filing transit documents that don't give anything. Many mistakes have been made, including the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I will not speak for those outside the Supreme Council and assume these mistakes. What should we do next, evidently? Do not make mistakes, and the situation will change for the better. The other one. If we cannot resist the processes that are taking place in Ukraine, and they let us know about ourselves to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, too, and not always because of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, what should we do? Obviously, do everything you can to direct these processes to a constructive river. This is happening, I think we can say that it's not happening at all. Please tell me, Your Honor, why aren't we looking at the 2009 State Budget? We should have considered it and accepted it, that is, accepted to work by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Why are we suspending this document? Obviously, the calculation is that the situation will change, the configuration will change, and then there will be a new budget? But the budget is needed for the country? Clearly, the budget is not needed for any political power. Please tell me, dear colleagues, we have talked a lot about the situation in the country. Why are we not looking at the change to the 2008 State Budget in general, and especially in the rural area? We're in the middle of a competition right now who's going to make more laws. Let's introduce one bill, let all factions sign, we'll vote on this document. Let's do this job. Why not consider the problem, such as the problem of Kharkiv, an airline. Everyone agreed that it was necessary to save the company, and they agreed that it was necessary for all the factions to contribute. This bill has not been passed until now, and those who are have no desire to consider it. Last week, committees were instructed to make a draft decision to support health care facilities for people with disabilities. The project that was proposed was a friendly block, no new one, and made it look like the topic was closed. And there's one more thing I'd like to say. Honorable colleagues, a eloquent example, a eloquent example. In the Chernigiv region of 32 villages, there are no people; in 72 villages, there are up to five people. Obviously, this problem, the problem of the extinction of the nation, should be a topic for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And we're talking about international processes, we're talking about the events in the Caucasus, we're ensuring the release of steam, we haven't considered any of the issues here. Please tell us that we must respond to the price factor for food. The country is groaning. Let us hear this question and make appropriate decisions on wages. Everyone knows very well that wages in the country are underpaid three times. The relevant bills have been failed, new ones have been introduced, and no one wants to look at them. Who are we putting in place? We put Ukrainian people in their place! Absolutely. What are we talking about now? Change Bridge Borders? This is absolutely necessary! Accepting other documents? It's absolutely necessary. We told you that we would eventually make a decision about traffic. We had to take him in on Friday. Friday was not accepted. Now, obviously, we won't be taking him again. And what's happening on the road, we're all seeing. So our proposal remains clear, clear: not to close the eyes that children are doing this, think that the problem is going to pass, and we need the President of Ukraine, the government, the Supreme Council, to finally have a serious conversation about what's going on in the country. The second is to move away from the ultimatums on how to further organize our lives. I'm talking to our colleagues: we need to talk about how to organize work today and tomorrow, and you want to bring us back and make us do ultimatums. It's not a constructive path, it's not a path to understanding. Let's talk about what they're worried about.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u31	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u32	And the last. Dear colleagues, we have yet another chance to correct our attitude toward the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Today we have a wild situation: as if the Ukrainian people are sending their representatives to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, that is, us with you, and their representatives hate bitter hatred. With this approach, Ukraine has no prospect with such a mutual understanding. So let's talk, and above all, let's act in a practical plane. Our position was and remains constructive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u33	“Julia Timoshenko Block”, Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u34	Dear Head, colleagues, voters! We agree with political scientists and experts. In fact, you and I are in charge of this very defining week. All parliamentary forces have a few days to negotiate, evaluate the basic principles of potential partners, and actually make a final decision. Our position is simple and clear: we are for a stable economy and politics, for a stable and strong state, so definitely against the elections as a way of resolving the political crisis. We want Parliament to agree in any format that will ensure sovereignty, the integrity of our borders, national identity, national Ukrainian language, good relations with neighbours, European perspective. These are the values we don't trade. Next. There will be a new coalition or a new election, but no one will say anything, no prescriptions or diagnosis, and three things need to be determined immediately. Otherwise, as they say, everything will be in vain. First, it is obvious that the country is in danger of a deformed vertical of executive power. Those who form and implement it, namely, according to the Constitution, the Cabinet of Ministers is actually being removed from it. His head has all the responsibility, and his rights are zero. Don't touch it, don't call it, a lot of the decisions are blocked. That and all authority. This is considered to be the right thing to do, since we need to get as much salt as possible on the acting prime minister. How sweet of this country and people is the secondary question. In the last days against today’s head of government, accusations, general criticism, insults, attacks are pouring out of the water. This is what I would like to say: “Lord, don’t overdo it, for there has always been such a thing in the Holy Russia: Whomever is most beaten, the people are more sorry.” People see everything, from all angles now they're inciting the resignation of the government. Someone really wants the country to finally fall into someone. There is no need for the budget next year, nor for the euro-2012, nor for the reform. In general, nothing is needed except a new battle in the form of an early election. It is thought that someone in this situation will win, especially if he or she is lucky enough to neutralize BUTT and its leader. To all those who dream about it, we have one answer: Don't worry, gentlemen, nothing will work out for you. It's too bad there's a country and people in these plots. You ask me, where's the exit? Let's say that's where the entrance is. The law must be clearly enforced, where clearly defined and differentiated functions between the principal authorities. And we need voices in the room. to ensure the political will to implement these rules of the game. Does this require an early election? Second, we do not deserve an overestimated role as a coalition. Someone's already thought of putting such a hard requirement into the basic law: there's a coalition -- it's all good, it's not -- the whole state's paralyzed. There is no such thing in any country of the world. The coalition is, but their role is to create a government and provide it with loyal support, and everything, no crises. What happened to us? On these two sheets, a brief decision made by two factions forming a democratic coalition. Two points that did not match the estimates of events that took place far outside the home of Ukraine’s niece, the coalition collapsed. As a result, there is a complete collapse in the country, and failed investors are fleeing, and the bracelet is infuriated. Who's gonna make a gas deal? That's not a lot of people who care. In a wave of emotion, they slammed the door and walked away. Is it not too frivolous a decision to look at the fate of a vast country, especially those generations that have laid down their lives in choosing the independence of the present? But that is not all. At the same time, with the tragic events in the Caucasus, a great tragedy has been experienced and is experienced by its own people. Not thousands -- millions of our fellow countrymen on the coast have been left homeless because of natural disasters. Will people have shelter, warmth, and light before winter? There seems to be little interest in geopoliticals. In those days, when the government literally rescued people on Prikarpatha daily, our colleagues lovingly watered us at a meeting of the Georgian Parliament. When an unhappiness is nearer than the grief of its own people, it is no longer a paradox. But as the train is said to have gone, the precedent is created, tomorrow someone won't like it again, won't they get up on that leg and again -- the collapse of the coalition, the new elections? Today we set foot on these rakes, tomorrow in these conditions, someone else. What new choices are needed to resolve this obvious issue? Oh, no. You need the right law and voices in this room. And not to terrorize the people or to surprise the world with alternate coalitions. Third, overcoming or treating will require another, typically homely chronic disease, a crisis of deep mistrust, and constant suspicions of all and all. It seems that this disunity has taken us seriously and for a long time. And the electorate literally requires one thing — not election, but agreement and unify efforts for the sake of the state and people’s interests. There are no differences in the first paragraphs: a strong state.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u35	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u36	a strong state, more rights to the local level, social problems, pensions, education priorities, health care. So let's say it's in the common denominator, let's say it's in parentheses and it's not particularly relevant today. This week began with the release of platforms and requirements. We don't put any ultimatums, we have extremely simple and clear conditions. That's what I said at the beginning. On the basis of these, we offer to unite, or even better, to return. And get to work now! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u37	Dear colleagues, the factions of the factions have come to an end. The only comment, with your permission: The existence of a coalition is a condition defined by the Ukrainian Constitution. Period. In this case, if a new coalition is not formed in the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament after the collapse of the coalition, the President of Ukraine has the right to decide on the early termination of the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And it's important. The coalition is the instrument of responsibility for the government formed by this coalition. There is no coalition, there is no government. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the day-to-day issues. 3195-1. Will you allow me without a full procedure? There's no objection to me briefing you on this bill, and we voted? Is there no objection? Honourable National Deputies of Ukraine, this bill is intended to implement the final provisions of our Act amending the National Budget Act when we financed with you the consequences of natural disasters in submerged regions. In the end, there was a direct mandatory rule for creating an appropriate commission to control the use of funds. I propose to your consideration of Bill 3195. It's on your hands. If Vladimir Vladimirovich Makenko does not object to such an approach, I propose the next order of consideration. Now we're going to vote for the basis. And as a whole, we're going to change the head of the commission, and that's what the faction leaders decided to do. Will you support me, Vladimir Volodymyrovich? Thank you. Please vote on the basis. And now we're going to talk about the second reading. Please vote on the basis of 3195-1. [[11:41:04]] For 414 Colleagues, for second reading, first thing proposed. It is proposed that our colleague, Alexander Pecklesenko, be the chairman of the commission. Is there no objection to the second reading? And the next one that's proposed. At number seven, the report is no later than December 25, the monthly report. Colleagues, by December 25, God knows what will be there. And in a month's time for the commission to work, the more all the materials are, starting with the accounting room and finishing with the materials of the CRU, they can easily handle these tasks. Do you support such suggestions for second reading, comrades? Anyone who wants two minutes, please sign in as amended. Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u38	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, we have no doubt to comply with the rule of law, but I, Arsenius Petrovich, support your proposal that before voting, let us vote more precisely, but also listen to what is being done in places, because everyone who is in places sees that the great regret is hardly done. I met with voters in the Lviv region on Saturday, and I was told quite an interesting fact. There is a public school number four in Borislav. The roof was slightly leaking, and they were promised to help, including a faction of Communists. When the local council found out, she said, “Well, the commies will be repairing the school. Nothing at all!" This object has been included in the list of flood repairers and repairs. The repairs ended with the opening of the school’s premises. And the four - story school facilities today are constantly leaking during this rainy period. This is how flood recommendations are implemented and those are implemented.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u39	Eugene Volintz.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u40	Adam Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u41	Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u42	Here, please, is one of thousands of certainly examples of how this is done and where huge multibillion dollars of revenue are coming from. So it is very necessary to create this commission, and I think we need to support your proposal not to stretch the report of this commission. Because since July 31st, it's essentially going uncontrollably. If we control only in December, everything will freeze and nothing will be visible. So let's support this proposal and I'd like to go to a commission that will actually work in a way that we have full information and take the necessary measures.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u43	Thank you. Katerina Samuelk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u44	I also want to support that proposal that just came out. What I'm saying is that right now, really, it's going to be a disaster, and including in Western Ukraine, it's making the situation that happened to us this summer. And that's why I don't think there's any political power to support this decision. What's more, we're concerned that even on the headquarters report, where we had to report, what was done after government decisions were made, the President's decree was issued, what was done? I was impressed that the heads of the district authorities felt it was simply an honor not to show up or report back. This should also alert us to the fact that government funds that support people are not intended. We will support this proposal. And the proposal is to put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u45	Thank you. It's over. Yuri Prokopchuk asked for an application for a second reading. Please turn on Yuri Prokopchuk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u46	Dear colleagues! National Deputy Prokopchuk, Equine, Timoshenko Yulia Block. I would like to include in this decision, I would like to remind all my colleagues that, in addition to the fact that the Zakarpathian and other areas took place in Prikarpata, more specifically, in the Chernivites there were these natural events, they also took place in the Plainland, Volinsk, Hmelnitsk region. And there's an appropriate government regulation on partial cost compensation, where costs were provided and in these areas. [[Number 1010-R]] I claim that these funds are used disproportionately, with violations, not objectively, and they also require control. [[So, for example, in Equinox, 20 million]] So I ask you to make this decision, including the Plains region. And I want to remind my colleagues, including in Parliament, that it was a proposal that control of these funds should be borne by the one who issued them, the Cabinet of Ministers. They're in place today.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u47	Colleagues, report. Your proposal has been understood, but unfortunately, it may be subject to regulation of another decision, because this ruling comes directly from the text of the Law that we passed on the financing of the consequences of disaster management. So if you make another decision that concerns other expenses that were financed, not in accordance with this law, but that were financed under individual decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers, then we will consider in a generally established order, a completely different subject of legal regulation. Colleagues! I am betting on the vote in the second reading, taking into account the head of the commission, colleague Alexander Pecklesenko and in the seventh paragraph, not “no later than 25 December”, but “no later than a month after adoption”. Please vote. Colleagues! We vote for the second reading as a whole. [[11:47:32]] For 376 Decision taken. While we were voting with you, we brought me operational information, show me factions, bring us operational information on submerging in the regions that were affected then and what is happening now. In principle, there is a problem in the Lviv and Odessa areas: three settlements in Odessa and in Lviv, five districts and two settlements are being submerged again. So if you want to know, I'm going to give this information to the Ukrainian people's deputies, or I'm going to ask them to hang up on the site. Colleagues! Let's go to the next bill. This is Bill No. 1452, the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine, introduced by the President of Ukraine. [[on the State support of families who adopted an orphan child or children deprived of parental care]] Reported to the head of the Committee’s Subcommittee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport, and Tourism, Katerina Eugene Lukyanova. It's a second reading, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u48	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Draft Law 1452 amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the State support of families who adopted an orphan child or children deprived of parental care]] Nineteen amendments were made to the bill, of which sixteen were taken into account in full or in part. I would also like to point out that the structure of the bill has been changed in relation to the codification requirements. First, the Labour Code is amended, then the Vacation Laws and State Assistance for Families with Children. As for the amendments that were rejected. Amendment 4 of national deputy Tereshuk Sergey Mikolayovich is rejected because if adopted, the law of the right to help adopt a child is meaningless. Amendment 9 of National Deputy Anatolia Ivanovich and amendment 10 of National Deputy Tereshuk Sergey Mikolaiovich are not included because the amendment of 8 of National Deputy Tolstoy Anatoly Volodymyrovich and 4A, assistance for the adopted child, has been excluded. The committee's decision is unanimous, recommending that the Supreme Council of Ukraine support the bill as a whole. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u49	Thank you. Colleagues, I'd like everyone to take a closer look at the comparative table that you have on your hands. There are some adjustments that you can insist on, some of which are included. Some of which are unaccounted for. Whether there are Ukrainian national MPs who insist on considering the amendments they have made to the committee but who are not counted or counted by the relevant committee of profile. Is there an amendment that is rejected, Deputy Tereshuk, Deputy Olijnik, you have no objection, colleague, to the committee's decision? None. Thus, the honourable Ukrainian national deputies, I am voting on the adoption of the second reading and in the whole of the Ukrainian Act amending some of the Ukrainian laws made by the President of Ukraine as urgent. [[on the State support of families who adopted an orphan child or children deprived of parental care]] Colleagues, please vote. [[11:50:59]] For 392 Thank you, distinguished national MPs. I propose that after such a vote, a brief statement be made with a motive for giving us a clear signal for which Parliament has just voted. Please sign up for three minutes, Comrade Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, I wanted to draw attention to the very ideology of the bill. We had an active debate on the committee and a major, principled warning, which was that we had to encourage adoption not only through funding and social assistance. This bill, which we worked on in the committee, led to the level of aid that we were helping children to have a baby, even though we had a bill with higher standards from the President. For example, the president offered us a 90 - day vacation when we had 56 days of maternity leave. So, in the committee, we ask the experts of the President’s Secretariat and the Ministry to think about what, obviously, friends, we need to give more attention to families where children are born and raised, not by leaving the social standards for raising a child in the family, making them higher standards for adoption. What this can lead to. Now we've voted, now we're going to pay for adoption just as much as for the first child, and we're going to be paying for monthly aid by the time we're 18 years old. The idea of adoption, which when a family lives safely and has normal incomes, wants to take another child. We never had the idea of adoption, that it was income, that we wouldn't allow social standards to be turned into a means of making money. So, friends, our proposal is for the Ministry to examine and see how these social benefits affect the adoption process itself, who adopts children, how you grow up in these families, maybe cows feed or sheep feed for this money, not raise them. We better, first, simplify the adoption procedure, do an educational work on the weight of adoption, not just stimulate and stimulate money. So we decided on the committee, we support it, we raise these standards to the level of parenting in the family, but now we have to stop these laws, analyze the state of adoption, and only then make the right decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u51	Peter Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u52	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, the faction of Communists unanimously supported this bill because we consider it necessary to remove the paradoxical situation. And the paradox of the situation is that the more and louder we declare democratic slogans, the more it turns out that we have children staying in maternity homes without parental care, the more acute the problem of adoption becomes. That is, we need to compare the parents who adopt children with the parents who gave birth. Because, well, it's really a perfectly normal mechanism, we really need a child to grow up in a family so that it doesn't get deprived of family care. And it is appropriate that parents who have made such a responsible decision to adopt a child should not be subjected to any kind of impairment. That's why it's the right thing to do. We voted for it. And I think that's a step.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u53	Mikhail Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u54	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the faction of the Party of Regions supports this bill. And we predict that this bill will increase the social protection of Ukrainian children, reduce the number of children adopted by Ukrainian non-citizens today, and still their fate is unknown. At the same time, we would like to draw attention to some other bills that also apply to children. There's Bill 1416. It's a bill on State social assistance for low-income families. In order for all of us to have children in equal conditions. And to cancel article 45 of the draft State Budget Act, where such an archaic indicator is set as a minimum of living. So that we do not end up with a single child from the state amounting to about one and a half thousand dollars, and assistance to a child from a low - income family amounts to 187 dollars in the supplementary mechanism. We need all these questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u55	Mikola Catherinechuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u56	Mikola Catherinechuk, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense", the European Party of Ukraine. The faction will certainly support this bill, because the humane view of the social protection of children who are adopted, or children of orphans, or children who are deprived of parental care, is a certain and major responsibility for today's state. That's why the president introduced such a bill, initiating a raise in the relationship between children and the state, children without parents. I think that this may be the first step that may continue to be a major step in the fight against abortion. I'm sure the issue of abortion is also a matter of state importance. I think that the very civilized attitude towards children that we today demonstrate by our vote has its sequel.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u57	Dear colleagues, the time for the performance is over. There is no objection to giving the floor to the minister of youth and sport, Yuri Alexiyovich Pavlenko, a colleague? None. Thank you. Yuri Alexiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u58	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine. Let me thank you for voting for all the factions for supporting the President's initiative to support national adoption. No doubt those questions and those problems that have been raised now in the debate of the Ukrainian people's deputies, particularly Nikola Vladimirovich Tomenk, are under constant control in the Ministry, there is constant analysis and we will be ready for parliamentary hearings, which I know are foreseen in the work plan of the Supreme Council to give a full report on how adoption takes place today. But most importantly, I'll tell you that today we were able to break a situation that was four years ago. If four years ago about 70 children lost their parents and only 30 children found a new family, orphans, children deprived of parental care, of which a third of them were 10 children, adopted by foreign citizens, the picture is now quite different. Today, about 50 children lose their father and mother each day. At the same time, 46 children today find a new family each day. Of these, 27 children are taken into care and care. Seven children are adopted daily by Ukrainian citizens, seven children are taken into foster care and family homes, and only five children are adopted by foreign citizens. I'm convinced that if we keep this dynamic, and after the adoption of the law, we can strengthen, increase the number of adopted children, that will no doubt lead us to have no disgraceful phenomenon like an orphan child without a father and a mother. And we will fully implement the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child and provide every child with a family. So I would also like to go to the Supreme Council and look at the system law in the near future, which is the National Plan of Action for the Implementation of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child by 2016, which clearly regulates the entire system of protection of children's rights, as well as the draft law introduced by the President of Ukraine on support and social protection of a multi-child family, which is also very relevant to our country today. Thank you all again and I am convinced that this level of cooperation between the Ministry and the Supreme Council will continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u59	Yuri Alexiyovich, we've given you all the opportunities for the incredibly efficient and active work of the Ministry you run, and we hope that the more you work, the better we will have, both the sporting achievements and the higher the index of birth. Colleagues, break.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u60	Colleagues, we continue the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. A review of the draft Law on the List of Cultural Heritage Monuments, which is not subject to privatization, is being announced. According to Vladimir Aleksandrovich Yavorowski. It's a second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u61	Dear Ukrainian Parliamentarians and even more respectable voters! The law in the second reading, which I'm going to report to you, has been going to this point, until the second reading, for a very long time. You are well aware that Ukraine has a wealth of historical, cultural, and natural monuments. This is our colossal wealth, which is not yet started today, this wealth that does not give us for today's profit day, I will not explain why and how, because we have a very busy tourist business, and we lack a normal infrastructure. We've banned the privatization of any memory of our time, but it can't go on indefinitely, because to keep the state all these monuments are huge funds that are not in the budget today. To avoid their destruction or disappearance, it has long been planned to prepare a list of sites that are not to be privatized. That gives what? The first is that we fully account for our historical and cultural monuments that are not privatized, and, on the other hand, we very precisely determine for our government which monuments must be kept by the state itself, because they are priceless and in no case are they subject to privatization. There are very few changes and amendments to the second reading, there are only two of them. This was one of them who was brought by the National Deputy of Arjevitin. He listed two churches, the Church of St. Michael and the Church of Christmas. All of them: one in 1780, the other in 1818. Both the Ministry of Culture and our committee have accepted this amendment. The same was true of the amendment: there is a palace in Lviv along the street of Sichowy Sagittarius. The thing is, there's a library and six families. As a result, let us say, until the issue of housing is resolved, this monument is privatized. By the time the second reading was ready, several amendments were made to Odessa’s national deputies, but for good reason we were unable to include them here. I think -- and this is a proposal from the "Julia Tymoshenko Block" -- we would suggest that we adopt the bill in second reading today and maybe move it to third reading, because the question is very delicate and we should think about it. And, people's deputies, protect what you have in your constituencies.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u62	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u63	I am convinced that the third reading will solve this. The most plausible question in the second reading is this bill: that we oblige everyone who rents cultural monuments to make a commitment before that: that the preservation regime should be very clearly laid out, that it, as it can repair, and that it has the right to change and that it has no right to change. That's why I'm asking you to vote. All the amendments are taken into account. And please vote on the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u64	Vladimir Aleksandrovitch, if possible, is a clarification. Today, we have long debated on the board of factions’ heads on this matter. See: We have two alternatives. This bill contains 2,464 monuments. This is the price of the question: Either today we are warning these two and a half thousand monuments from the point of view of national protection, and let’s say, if we are 5 - 6, we better make a separate decision, make a five - note change, or we hang 2.5 thousand. So we had this discussion that we're better off supporting the committee's decision today, which was and we're going to put a dot on "and": two and a half thousand memories to protect, and then we're going to make changes, 5-10 monuments. Because, God forbid, we're on third reading, something in our country is going to happen, and it's going to be hanging again. That's why I think, Vladimir Alexanderovich, what do you think? Maybe we'll take it from here today. And you would quickly prepare the changes for us, and we would like to report and make changes, these few monuments.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u65	Mr. Mikola, you're absolutely right. And that's what we thought on the committee to accept it today on the second reading and then on the second reading. The law is not airtight. And we don't close it. It is only natural that a situation may arise after a certain period of time, and there is one monument, for example, if the local authorities pass through the government and make some suggestions, we can change. This list isn't dead, it's not iron concrete. And we planned, of course, to accept it in the second reading. But we are living people, and we know very well that there are different interpretations, different reasonings. Because of that, so that, let's say, I don't take any chances with that, and I'm talking about that version. But if the hall would now agree to vote in the second reading and adopt this law so that later, literally, some short term could make some adjustments, take into account, so let's say, one thing or another, we could vote for it today and I would vote for it. But what will be the will of the national deputies?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u66	Thank you. Please, Adam Martinyuk. Adam Martinyuk, Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u67	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, you are wrong, Mikola Volodymyrovich, absolutely wrong. And the reporter tells you that today there is a law that prohibits any cultural memory from being privatized. All cultural monuments are under the protection of the State. We have no right to privatize them. That's why there's a law being drawn up to make it clear that part of you can be privatized, and here is a warning being made on what terms and part of you can't privatize. Before this law is passed, any monument has no right to privatize. And that's why I support the idea of reporting that it's really too big a question, because nothing can be privatized because nothing can be privatized, it doesn't have to be rushed. Let's really put together an exact register of what it's worth to take the state for maintenance and what it's possible to let private people keep. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u68	Adam Ivanovich, of course you're right, but to what you said, I would add another important argument. The fact is, yes, we have banned the privatization of all of today’s monuments, but, frankly, it has been going on for about six years, preparing these lists, preparing incredibly difficult, and some local authorities have been doing this for a long, indiscreet period. different interests, too different interests. As a result, these monuments, which today are not subject to all privatizations, unfortunately, are being destroyed because they lack funds. And you just can't go on with it. That's why you decide, once again, it's your will, it's your will, it's your will, it's your choice, it's yours.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u69	And what's added here is, unfortunately, even when there's a rule on non-privatisation with silence, it's a quiet thing to stretch everything. They make fictitious documents, remove them from the register of national cultural heritage objects, and plant papers. And when we adopt the law, we find that there is nothing left to protect. Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u70	Adam Ivanovich, I would just like to ask you very much, really let's vote on the second reading. All the adjustments we need will be made later.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u71	Dear Vladimir Aleksandrovitch, you're right, he's right. His radio is that, in fact, between the second and the third readings of our work can be a fairly serious distance. And I think a lot of people who wanted to privatize already know the list that's on the table. Bills. And this could be an extremely accelerated process -- privatize it as quickly as possible, perhaps even with a rear number. But in this case, Mr. Volodymyr, I want to support your proposal: really, we can't say today that by 100 or at least 90 percent we've counted all positions. That's impossible. Can not create folder lock on %s: %s On condition. Let's agree with you on the condition that between the second and the third readings there will be a shorter deadline for your committee to be able to re-examine and we accepted as soon as possible, as you suggest, on the third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u72	Arsenius Petrovich, decide whether to place a rating vote on or how to get out of this, because there are different thoughts.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u73	Okay. Valerius Pisarenko. Then. Excuse me, Alexander Bondar. Then – Valerius Pisarenko, then – John Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u74	Alexander Bondar, "Cobor" RP, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" faction. I want, knowing very well the practice of privatization, to fully support Mikola Volodymyrovich, that now that they know that these objects are listed, they will urgently privatize the local authorities. Indeed, there is a fifth article of the Privatization Act, which prohibits the general privatization of cultural objects. But what is included in these objects is very well manipulated at the local level. So I fully support the proposal made by the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, we need to take a second reading today and in general, and then make changes. Changes in the list are made all the time, and we will never make the final list once. I urge everyone to support it in the second reading and in general this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u75	Valerius Pisarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u76	Thank you. Arsenius Petrovich, you said almost a lot what I was going to say. It's extremely important today that any list that the Supreme Council now sets up and prohibits something from privatizing, it never again, no one is looking at it, and the Maintenance Fund has even forgotten that there is a ban on privatizing certain objects. We are now working on a number of items in the Special Control Commission, which, despite being banned today, are partially sold out by individual objects. So it's very important today and about this bill to adopt it in general and after that, and then let us make an emergency change to it. [[I think we need to support the author.]] But in any case, we will not order until the management of the State Property Fund takes care of its private interests there, rather than actually manage public property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u77	I want to add Arsenija Petrovich. And, honourable Members, on behalf of this proposal. There's only one amendment. These are several objects in the city of Odessa. By the way, the Committee on Culture and Spirituality has rejected them, they need to be checked. Because we can't take it out of our ears even from the suggestion of such a high - ranking man as a national deputy. This is to be decided by local authorities, and so is the Cabinet of Ministers. Because of this, there are very few amendments for today, literally only in the city of Odessa.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u78	Alla Alexandrovska.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u79	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction. Then I'll have to give the floor to Danielenko, my faction colleague. But I would like to respond to those proposals, here is Tomenko and the rapporteur, who said that it was necessary to adopt this list more quickly in order to end the illegal privatization. You know what's wrong, it's the wrong position. If today we know what Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk said, that the law prohibits the privatization of monuments. And if we are to know that this process is going on, then we need to beat the crap out of it, we need to start criminal proceedings, and we need to punish everything for it. But let's figure out something else. At the same time, it was also said that let us quickly adopt the Privatization Act, creating a list of facilities that are or are not subject to, factories and so on. Supposedly, the owner will take better care of them. And today it sounds like, I remind you, they privatized the factories, what did they make? They were cut on scrap metal, received millions of bracelets and ceased to exist, particularly our sugar factories. Therefore, it is not generally possible to adopt this bill today.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u80	The only way to beat hands is by law and by law.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u81	Ivan Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u82	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Your Honor, I propose and our faction supports voting for this bill. That's the first one. The other one. To invite the committee to consider changes to this law by the end of the year to work. And to point out another problem, the fact is that many of the cultural monuments in their time were nationalized and transferred to the military, the military. And for today, there is such a problem that the Armed Forces are starting to sell apartments for officers. I'll only bring one fact. In Chernobyl, the former palace, the National Cultural Palace of Romanians, belonged to the army, is the home of a culture of officers. Now he's being privatized to buy apartments there. I think we need to check these moments and check them on the military line as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u83	The committee accepts such a proposal and, indeed, by the end of the year.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u84	Please, the Communist Party, Danilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u85	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address you and once again with one request and because, yes, this question has not been studied at all. And when I did, I recently came to the Supreme Council, I went to the district council, we started to study this question, I got a lot today, and I got a lot of other suggestions that are consistent with the local authorities. So I'm asking you, and let's make this decision again. We accept in the second reading. Secondly, we're going to give a small period of time so that we can still submit our comments and additions to this bill. And let's take it on the third reading. I'm just saying, he doesn't agree with the local authorities and they're talking a lot about this address that I got today. Look, there's a whole bunch of supplements in every area of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u86	Well, then, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u87	Arsenius Petrovich, allow me a brief line and I am leaving the rostrum. I just want to say. Let us consider, then, that both the end and the end will never come. I think that we should address it a dozen times, and I very much ask you, my dear colleague, a national deputy, to speak of this list, which the Ministry of Culture, the Cabinet of Ministers, has worked on it for several years, to say that it is not agreed with the local authorities. You know, you're demeaning the work that's been done. I'm leaving the rostrum, and I'm asking you, society, let's think about what might happen, don't give it to me, Lord, a "warm on my tongue" that Parliament will be dissolved and that question will again depend on. Let's put a dot in it, and then there'll be a logical extension that Popescu suggested. And once again, I ask the deputies to vote in the second reading and in full.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u88	Colleagues, before the vote, I will ask Vladislav Viktorovich Korneyenka to answer one clear question: How has this list been updated, and how much does it now fit into reality? Turn on the Corney microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u89	Thank you. Dear Arseny Petrovich! Dear National Deputies! I wanted to inform you that the proposed bill began with the gathering of information for the submission of local authorities, a decision was made by the local authorities under each subject. And it started, this process, in 2000. I'm not going to count how many times he's considered, that's how many times he's come back to work, the last piece of work, the first reading he's been accepted, the government developer, the Cabinet of Ministers. And today, when we introduced it in the second reading, I added only two objects between the first and the second readings. These suggestions came from local authorities today. The Ministry of Culture, as a developer, is ready to consider and put in order to make changes. Now we'd like to support the position of the profile committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u90	Yes, comrades, now I'm going to tell you a real picture about this list. An advisory board was held at the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This list is designed and validated by the decision of each district council. So when this list was formed, we got the consent of all the local governments. That this list is perfect, I am far from that approach, but there is nothing perfect. If we do not adopt this law today, regardless of the Ukrainian Act on Privatisation, where it is forbidden to privatise objects of inheritance, it is de jure prohibited, de facto it will soon be completed. Therefore, it would be logical to follow the rules. First. I'll take the vote, my fellow officer! On acceptance as a basis and as a whole, forgive me, in the second reading and in the whole of Bill No. 0928 on the List of Cultural Heritage Monuments, which are not subject to privatization. Colleagues, we vote! [[12:51:08]] For 359 Hooray! Comrades! “For” – 395, the bill was adopted for the first time in six years. I think that the protocol commission of the committee in the event that there are some disagreements is first the technical and legal drafting of the bill before the signing of the Supreme Council. Second, with regard to making changes, if there are disagreements, we quickly vote on three or five objects. Thank you, comrades. Let's go to the next bill. 0920, Sergey Mikolaiovich Ribuk, second reading. The draft Law on Agricultural Census, please, Sergey Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u91	Ladies and gentlemen, you have a draft of the Agricultural Census Act, second reading. Let me remind you of the purpose of this bill. The purpose of this legislative act is to harmonize and harmonize national legislation in the structure of agriculture, namely, to use censuses for the statistical study of agricultural activities of the population. I want to pay attention and emphasize that it's people's farms, which, unlike agricultural enterprises, do not provide statistical reporting. The draft agricultural census law is designed to determine the legal and organizational principles of the agricultural census in Ukraine, which will allow for objective information to be obtained and necessary to produce effective public policies in the agricultural field. This includes species, reasons, periodicity of census, material and technical, organizational security, and so on. In accordance with article 93 of the Constitution of Ukraine and the Supreme Council’s Rules, twenty - four proposals and observations were received from national deputies. We want to say that the absolute majority, nineteen of them counted, is five rejected. We want to thank the people’s deputies Lukyanchuku, Petrenka, Sidelnik, Smitsuhu for the constructive suggestions that have been taken into account. Those who are not included in the five comments are not that they do not conform to the general concept of this law, and they refer to another sphere, to agricultural enterprises that report and thus, in another way, to another law and they are determined by the level of agricultural activity, for example, when it is proposed to add to the agricultural census such forms as remote, there is no space survey, because it is impossible to do so from space there, for example, to know whether there is a cow in a barn or a pig or so. That is, if the MPs insist on their remarks, we will explain and vote. If not, we ask as well as the Main Committee to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of the prescribed bill in second reading and generally as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u92	Yes. Thank you. Comrades, let's look at the comparative table. There's a lot of amendments that aren't counted, not counted. Who among the national deputies insists on considering his amendments? Don't you insist? One question I have to ask Boris Karabayovich Supihanov. Boris Karabayovich, tell me that as a result we will change once we adopt his bill in part of a real household report? That's the first point. And the second point. Have you worked with the State Department on this bill? Who will deal directly with the question?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u93	Well, first of all, I'd like to point out that it's really the purpose of the law that Sergey Mikolayovich was talking about today to know the real state of the household situation in Ukraine. Considering that 39 percent of agricultural production is produced only in organized agricultural enterprises and everything else in the population, it is certainly important to have a real structure of agricultural production in the country. And secondly, the question. We have certainly worked out this bill in the Ministry of Agrarian Policy, and it clearly supports it, and this will be done by the authorities of state statistics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u94	That's why I'm asking. Sadly, no one from the State Department participates in the draft. Two questions. First. Where did you get the money for this census? I mean, we can make this decision, but for any action by the State to be financed. Who knows the answer to the question? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u95	First. The bill was passed by Derzkomstat. And he reported, and that's the first. The other one. With regard to the public's comments on funding, this law will be followed by a separate decision of the Cabinet of Ministers every time and a determination of the sources of funding allocated by the State Department in accordance with the law on the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u96	Got it. Comrades, there's a proposal to finally put order in the state statistical report on households. Because we don't have it to this day. Do you have any corrections? All right. Alla Alexandrovska, and I vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u97	Arsenius Petrovich, Alexandrovsky, Communist faction, town of Harkov. You've asked the right question and the right one. The point is that you and I in this room are approving bills when we know the financial component. That is, whether it requires the introduction of the bill or whether it affects the State budget. You and I are now launching a household accounting mechanism, and we're launching a mechanism. And Arsenius Petrovich asked the right question, and where did the financing come from? There is no funding. So the question is that the law will not work. That is, we are creating a legal conflict when there is a legal norm that cannot be implemented because there is no funding under it. I am surprised at all because I work on the budget committee, and we pass through our committee all the bills and give them an assessment in terms of whether or not the bill has an impact on the budget. This one's got an effect. Because it is mandatory for execution. There is no norm in this law, which I want - whether I keep track or not - I don't keep track. This law is a binding norm. Then the question arises
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u98	Comrades, then.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u99	I'll explain again, let me explain. That by other efforts, by what means the forces of the State Department will not be able to do this work. Only the official civil servants of the State Department system. That's the first one. And the second. We are not entering it right now, since the day of our adoption, but since January 1st, the ninth year. This is how the budget will be considered. The Cabinet of Ministers, Mr. Derzkomstat, will make proposals and determine, in general. Funding, how much will be allocated for this.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u100	Colleagues, there is a proposal to move on to the voting procedure. I think it's protocolly right when we assign Michael Ivanovich the Ripper at the time of adoption, more precisely, when we consider the Ukrainian State Budget Act on a separate examination of the State Committee's budgetary request to ensure that these statistical observations are financed. Colleagues, there is a proposal to vote in the second reading and in general bill number 0920 on the agricultural census. Vote. [[12:59:32]] There's a thing like that, for -- 279. Ladies and gentlemen, there are now several bills to establish and change borders and to change names. How do you view these bills without discussion? You've heard, not by a reduced procedure, but by no means discussed. Did you hear that? No, no, it's about the border and the name of the cities. I'll read and we'll just vote. So, colleagues, we vote 1449, 1450, 2629, 2646, 2646-1, 2646-2. I would like to vote in favour of a special procedure for the consideration of draft laws, namely, the procedure without discussion. Please vote. [[13:00:34]] For 308. Colleagues, in that case, if there's any objection in the Communist faction, I'll be able to express myself. Guys, don't worry. [[B in m in s a l in]] 300 votes. You don't have to do this. Everything's gonna be just as good as ever. 1449. Colleagues, the draft Decision on the establishment and modification of the boundaries of the Andrušev and Korostišov regions of the Žitomir region, introduced, reconciled, no questions asked, the committee passed. It is proposed to vote on the basis as a whole. Vladislav Volodymyrovich, do you have anything to add to this? You don't? Is there no objection? Well, come on, Vladislav Volodymyrovich, word one.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, one point. There is no special discussion here, because these lands belong to the city and so on, it's just about setting boundaries. So there's no land distribution going on here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u102	Yeah, now I have a question. Why is it written in the committee’s decision to take it as a basis? Vladislav Volodymyrovich, why it is written in the committee's decision to take a stand.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u103	In principle, the committee won't deny it as a foundation and as a whole, just so that there's an opportunity for discussion, I think, no more. The committee can't make decisions differently by procedure. And I propose to support the draft ruling as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u104	I draw the attention of the committee to the correctness of the legal drafting of the acts that are being submitted for consideration by the Ukrainian Parliament. Colleagues, I'm the first to put the vote on the ground. If there is no objection, then we shall vote in general. I'm betting on a vote on the adoption of Bill 1449 as a basis. [[13:02:47]] For three hundred Is there a denial to be accepted in the second reading and in general? You don't? I'm betting on a second-reading vote and in general. [[13:03:12]] For 374 Decision taken. My colleagues, I'm paying attention to everyone again. The problem is I'm reading the papers you're giving. Are you so busy? Can we prepare a normal committee decision? The same story now follows the second bill. It's based on what's wrong. In that case, if it's written "on the basis", I have only the right to base. That's not how it is. I vote 1450 in the first reading. [[13:03:56]] For 376 Copy that. Now, is there a denial of acceptance in general? You don't? We vote on the adoption of the bill as a whole. [[13:04:18]] For 382 The next bill, number 2629, on the establishment and modification of the borders of the city of Novoyavorysk in the region of Lviv. Here, the committee offers a basis for the whole as well. Colleagues, I'm voting for acceptance as a basis and as a whole. Vote. [[13:04:50]] For 377 Decision taken. Now the next bill, 2646. Wait a minute, I'll just take a look at the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u105	On the basis and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u106	On the basis and in general. Hold on, colleagues. Show me where the committee's decision is. I'm betting on a bill of 2646 on acceptance as a basis. Don't scream! Based on the base. Sit down! On the basis of the vote. [[13:05:39]] For 315 Who has the objection? Please, Alla Alexandrovska and Catherine Samuelk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u107	Dear colleagues! Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Is it possible to make such decisions without discussion and so forth, if you will excuse me, if you do not get the point of the problem? Indeed, the adoption of a positive decision on this issue, i.e. the re-qualification of the populace into another category, would deprive the benefits of very many citizens living there. You know, teachers, doctors living in rural areas have certain benefits. If it turns out that they live in the city now, they're deprived of these benefits. This question needs to be examined, and we need to see how many people like this are the local councils. Is such a question generally acceptable? It's about people's fates. I categorically object to the adoption of this bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, I will comment briefly. You can discuss this subject, but the full procedure for making this decision was carried out, including the decision of the territorial community of the city. So, in other words, there was no objection on either side, including on the part of the territorial community. The decision at all levels is positive, including the committee's decision. So I don't think it's necessary to discuss it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u109	Please, who else? Katerina Samuelk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u110	Thank you. Vladislav, please look at me. The population is not yet the whole population of Baturin. Well, of course, it's probably going to be the city's status to have the smallest population point. But I want to talk to the teachers and the doctors. You're staying completely. Half implementation will be 57 articles of the Education Act of Ukraine. You won't have the right to an extra home, you won't have the right to an extra. Moreover, in rural areas, the price of electricity, which is., tariffs, more loyally, twice as much as in the city. And that's why I don't know if they've studied that and whether people have agreed to that. Therefore, I would like to ask you to consider this law in the second reading, after we have passed regular readings.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u111	Vladislav Volodymyrovich, explain the situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u112	Thank you. Thank you, Mrs. Alla. Well, first of all, there's no change in these numbers in terms of making these decisions. And secondly, with this decision taken, Baturin will be able to expand its budget funding capacity.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u113	Colleagues, Vladislav Volodymyrovich, I have a question for you: are there representatives of the Communist Party of Ukraine within your committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u114	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u115	Second question: How did representatives of the Communist Party of Ukraine vote in the decision-making committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u116	As far as I can remember, they held on.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u117	Third, has it been decided that the committee should vote on the basis as a whole?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u118	Yes, the decision is made on a whole basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u119	Fourth, will it change anything if we go to the second reading now? What's there to send for second reading, tell me?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u120	Nothing.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u121	So, what do you want me to do here?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u122	I think so. Dear colleagues, I don't think this discussion needs such hot emotions. It is a completely objective decision that has no political coloring and is completely biased. I ask you to proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u123	Colleagues, then, do what they always do. Two votes, now I'm asking the question of going to second reading, if supported. Then we vote in the second reading. If not supported, then we do not vote in the second reading. I'm betting on going to second reading. [[13:09:54]] For - 323 people's deputies. I'm betting on a second-reading vote and in general. [[13:10:14]] For 333 Three hundred and thirty - three Ukrainian national deputies, more than the constitutional majority, supported the bill in the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u124	Thank you. Welcome to the Baturians.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u125	Next bill, can you imagine what we have? 2646-1
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u126	Tyre One, oh.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u127	Colleagues, the committee's decision, Vladislav Volodymyrovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u128	The committee's decision is to take it as a basis and as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u129	On the basis and in general. Colleagues, the committee's proposal is to vote. Is there no objection to accepting 2646-1 as a whole? I won't. Vote. [[13:11:02]] For 380 We have the latest bill, 2646-2, on specifying the designation of individual locations. The committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u130	The committee's decision is on the basis and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u131	On the basis and in general. Is there no objection to supporting the committee's decision? None. We vote on the basis as a whole. [[13:11:33]] For 381 Colleagues, by the constitutional majority, all acts are accepted. Thank you, please sit down.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u132	Can I have a comment?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u133	Tell me.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u134	Unfortunately, there was another issue in the technical procedure, which belonged entirely to this package, 3133, and I also suggest that we look at it because it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u135	No, it doesn't. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u136	Put it in order.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u137	Released. Once released, everything is not caught. The next day will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u138	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u139	Dear colleagues, a very important bill has been announced – 2567, Prasolonov Igor Mikolaiovich, draft law amending the Law on Joint Investment Institutions in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u140	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues! You have before you a draft law amending the Law on Institutes of Joint Investment. [[Paev, corporate investment funds]] The law on joint investment institutions has been in force since 2001. The financial market in Ukraine has changed significantly over the past seven years. In the law in force, there are sufficient rules that are obsolete or not in conformity with the rules of the Civil Code and other laws. There are issues that have not been resolved by law at all. In very short terms, the main changes relate to: the first, improvement of registration procedures for ISIs, including corporate investment funds; the second, improvement of the rules on the diversification of ISI assets, including the expansion of the list of liquid fund instruments. Finally, thirdly, the strengthening of investor rights and interests, in particular the ability of closed-type ISI investors to present such ISI securities for redemption in the short term. I would particularly like to stress that the adoption of this bill will have a positive impact on Ukraine's stock market, which is now experiencing not the best moments in its development. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in its opinion of 3 June 2008, argues that the bill can be adopted as a basis, taking into account the proposals made by the Administration. In view of the above, the Committee on Finance and Banking reviewed the draft Act amending the Law on Joint Investment Institutions of Ukraine at its meeting on 4 June 2008 and unanimously decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the bill as a basis. [[Financial and corporate investment funds]] Dear colleagues, please support the decision of the Committee on Finance and Banking. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u141	Question-answer, please, five minutes. Yuri Carmazin. Just one question.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u142	Yuri Carmazin. Dear reporter, please tell us how much this bill can solve the issue of halting construction in Ukraine right now and practically destroying it, because we did not approach the issue systematically to see why there was such a situation in construction today, what we need to do, what legislative acts. I agree with the documents that I have adopted from this government plan, but you realize that they are not sufficient, they are not laws, and they are not mandatory for all cities, villages, and territories in particular. So, please tell me, how much better does it do? That's the first question. And the second question. How and when will we come up with other bills that will address housing and housing problems in a comprehensive manner? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u143	Thank you for asking. This bill is not directly related to the issues you have just discussed. As far as I know, today there is an issue on the agenda where it is sufficiently comprehensive to address all the problems related to construction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u144	Colleagues, we're signing up for the factions of the National Deputies. Please sit down. Colleagues, we have one speaker, Yuri Prokopchuk. Please, Yuri Volodymyrovich, will you be from the rostrum or from the rostrum? You don't want to come in? Thank you. Colleagues, does anyone have a wish to speak, or has anyone forgotten to sign up? Comrade Sulkovsky asks, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u145	Thank you. I don't think it's in vain that the people's deputies didn't want to discuss the bill. Because someone who has been familiar with this bill will practically only help investors to work more confidently and easily and not to be afraid of these racketeers who are present in Ukraine today. And that's why this bill will only benefit Ukraine, and that's why the people's deputies have this desire. I offer to accept it, since it is not against, in general. And that's it, it'll be okay. The faction of the Party of the Regions calls on all national MPs to support this bill. And thanks to the author for the work they have done and introduced such an important document to the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u146	Colleagues, it's about the adoption of the actual new law, and it's about the formation of the stock market, which in Ukraine is present on paper, and it's not actually there. There are, in fact, specific things like there's no stock market, and there can't be a stock market crisis. So it's not that bad. But the formation of sources of investment and the adoption of this law in the first reading is essential. So I suggest you do the following for your consideration. Let's vote 2567 on the basis, send it to the committee, let the committee work with the market, with the experts, with everyone, and then we'll look at it in the second reading comprehensively and thoroughly. Please vote on the adoption of Bill 2567 as a basis. [[13:19:25]] For 344 That's the thing. For 344. The act was adopted in the first reading. 1418. The draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine is about improving financial mechanisms for investment in housing construction. Yuri Vasilovich Karakai reports, says co-reporter Alexander Ivanovich Klimenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u147	Dear National Deputies! Dear Chief! You have before you Bill 1418 on amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts. [[on improving financial mechanisms for investment in housing construction]] It should be noted that he serves as an exemplary example when the three largest factions of Parliament have been able to abandon politics and, together, prove to the citizens that the Supreme Council can work and can work in the name of Ukrainian citizens. The bill is the result of a joint unification in one document of three separate laws introduced by representatives of the Yulia Timoshenko Block, the Party of Regions, and Our People's Self-Defense. The purpose of the bill is to strengthen the protection of the interests of investors who finance housing; to establish a more stringent responsibility for all participants in housing construction, financial companies that raise funds and developers from investors; to strengthen the State's supervision and control of operations related to the inclusion of population costs in housing for non-admission to future schemes by Elita-Centre and its followers. The main tasks of the bill are: clear division of responsibilities between builders and financial companies, managers, and in the process of transferring apartments to the property of investors, clarifying the composition of the contractor, the manager and the investor after entering the building into operation, more detailing the responsibility of the developer and the manager, and streamlining the relationship between the manager and the investor. It can be long foretold that there is now a market share of population funds for housing construction. If you have two words, it's a complete mess. The law, in its present form, gives citizens only one right to give money to a financial company. And then, if it's all right, the possibility of getting housing: in the promised term, or the late, promised quality, or, as it turns out, with the promised equipment, or what happens to builders at arm's length and virtually without being able to defend their rights, because the financial arguments and legal possibilities of the builder and the manager will always be weighty. Above all, investors were virtually deprived of information about all operations related to the use of their funds, where they go, how they are spent, and who they are, and what they are building, and what they are doing at a certain point. As a result, even after seeing the unsettling, “get out of this train” without significant losses would be virtually impossible, the rules of imperfect law have been developed creatively by the manager in the rules of the building finance funds and contracts when the funds are involved, expanding the already almost unlimited rights of builders and financial companies as a result of the narrowing of citizens' rights. The bill you have proposed provides for appropriate amendments to the Ukrainian Civil Code, extending the list of essential terms of the property management contract. Ukraine’s Code on Administrative Offences, based on the available experience, has been introduced into the Code by all the currently identified types of violations in the process of involving public funds and has been established to be responsible for their conduct. The largest changes have been made to the basic law on financial and credit mechanisms and property management in the construction of housing and real estate transactions, including the clarification of the content of all types of contracts with citizens, the orderly settlement system for citizens' rights, the acquisition of their future housing, the introduction of the minimum size of the statutory fund of structures involving citizens, the expansion of the list of limits for the fund manager and the establishment of additional responsibility for it, the establishment of the maximum size of commissions that citizens pay to the administrator for various services, the basic direction of public oversight and control of managers and trustees. Changes to this law and securities law and the Funding Market have clarified the procedure for issuing the issue of certificates in the Real Estate Fund. Amendments to the insurance law provide for mandatory insurance for citizens who invest their money in housing. This is important because after the adoption of the law, if the house is not put into operation in a timely manner, the inadequacy of the technical characteristics of the object promised to citizens, the absence of technical documentation for equipment installed on the facility, the failure to provide citizens with information on the progress of the building, and all the circumstances that may cause additional investor spending, citizens will not lose their expenses as they do now. A new public document is being introduced, a project declaration to be printed in the press. Any citizen, before he invests his money, will have the opportunity to learn everything he needs about the structures that operate with his funds and the object that he wants to invest them in. The bill will minimize opportunities for fraud in the real estate investment market, reduce the risks of all participants in the investment and construction mechanism, increase public confidence in banks and other financial institutions, as well as the construction organizations that contribute to the public's investment costs. At the same time, the adoption of the bill is an urgent issue in view of the need to strengthen the protection of citizens' interests in a difficult situation in the Ukrainian construction market. What touches on the comments and refinements of the bill can be taken into account in his preparation for the second reading. Thank you for your attention and ask all factions of Parliament to support this bill, which will really protect the interests of Ukrainian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u148	Five minutes of question-answer, signing up. Unguran.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u149	Thank you. Hungarian Paul, National Deputy, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Yuri Vasilovich, of course, refers to this bill as one of the most relevant and important, since recently there has been an increase in the number of cases where people remain deceived and, of course, the risk insurance rule, it is one of the most important ones that improves this system today and protects our people. But I have a question of the next character. Today is a very special day, especially in the city of Odessa, which I represent, when there is not even a permit documentation in the building, but there is a full campaign going on, running boards, advertising shields. How will this bill address the issue of advertising?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u150	Well, the bill can't prohibit any advertising, but I've already told you in my report what it will be, the builder has to be, absolutely have to publish, the press will have the right requirements, the declaration about this object, so citizen accordingly, if he even, when he looks at the advertisement, comes up with papers, he's going to need those documents that we've talked about, if there's no declaration, if there's no other permit papers, then, well, let's say it would be extremely unwise to put money into this building. It's man's choice.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u151	Polacko Volodymir Avrumovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u152	Thank you. I don't have a question. I'd like to say that this is the first time that this law is met by one reporter, and there were three laws. It's probably the first time the committee of three laws combined into one. In one law and you see how many co-authors there were all separate laws. So I would ask today and I would believe my experience that this law is balanced, that this law will work for a reduction, I can't say that it eliminates 100 percent, because no law will do that, but what it will do to inadequacy to the inadequacies, I can tell you that word as a man who works for 46 years in construction. So I would ask if the fundamental issues were not to adopt this law in the first and as a law in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u153	The sand.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u154	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Yuri Vasilovich, the fact that your bill proposes to insure the risks of investing in housing construction and that all the proposals of the three bills have taken into account give grounds for us to stop the discussion and to go to the vote, we have accepted the whole. So that we don't have to repeat the elite centers and so on, that kind of affair, and we're not being approached. We need to have a legislative basis to solve these problems. I propose to go to the vote and support it as a whole, and thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u155	Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u156	Please pass the word to Catherine Semenovni Samojlik.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u157	I'm a self-sacrifice.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u158	Of course, every law that limits people in any way from deception, we support, the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine supports. Although, of course, we consider it necessary to develop a national housing programme for the population of Ukraine. Because I want to tell you, Yuri Vasilovich, you know very well everything that is being built today in Kiev and in the large district centers. It's practically a building for rich people. And for those who need housing first, but unfortunately they don't use the support of our country, the issue will remain unresolved. I want to ask you this. Please tell me, Yuri Vasilovich, how does your law protect the chief investor? These are the people who want to get the apartments. Because they primarily invest in this home, along with their families, grandparents, grandparents, and parents. So how does the law protect itself?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u159	The law creates conditions, more faithfully, it eliminates all the gaps in legislation that are at present and used by the elite centers and similar to them, or smaller frauds. So he's protecting interests, he's creating a transparent housing market, he's not going to be able to repeat any of these today. In the future, I think the crooks will find some other options. But this is the historic battle of evil with good.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u160	She's a blacksmith.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u161	Alexander Blackwolf, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense." Dear reporter! It seems to me that you, well, shouldn't say that crooks will still find some sort of crease. From my point of view, if this law had been passed five years ago, it would not have been "Elita-Cetra". Do you support this? First question. And the second. Are we in agreement with the suggestions that have been made, which I join in adopting this law as a whole?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u162	I'd only be happy if no leaks were found. What's more, you, an honorary colleague, are one of the authors of this bill. I support your proposal and my colleague's that you can accept it in a second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u163	Discussion over. Please sit down. Klimenko Alexander Ivanovich, please, head of the subcommittee. The Secretariat, please find Baluka. Baluk was supposed to be there.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u164	I want to say the following in my report. Indeed, this bill appeared instead of the three bills of 1045, 1045-1 submitted by the national deputies of Chernobyl, the national deputy of BUT there and Ljášk, and Pisarenko, also the national deputy of Karakaya. And our committee on April 2nd at its meeting reviewed the bill and a working group was set up. And it was the Working Group that engaged practically all the professionals, including those who could observe the activity today by the regulator, that is, the Committee on State-Financial Services. We also included representatives of banking institutions who could invest. And insurance companies were involved to take us into account in 10 parts of this bill in order to make it impossible for all possible and property risks today, and the risks involved in running an improper or qualitative bill, or in time for investors to find such compensation in this law today. In our opinion, this bill is going to make a major breakthrough in the construction of both social housing and housing at the expense that people can take either through mortgage loans or through securities and so on. That is why we propose because our committee unanimously voted in favour of this bill. We invite you to support him in the first reading. If that happens now and it's an opportunity to accept it in general, I could also report that the bill meets all the requirements. There is agreement, and not only the Cabinet of Ministers, but also the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, and there are no substantive observations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u165	Three minutes is questions, answers. Carmine Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u166	Yuri Carmazin. Dear colleague, I share your opinion that the bill is necessary, but I do not share your opinion that in the six bills we can make changes. What is more, it is dangerous for the Civil Code to make the changes you are proposing. The Science and Technology Administration is not suggesting that we don't. And look at this, please. I agree with the findings of the science department. We had adopted a civil code for three years or four years. And now you're one mach, bah, without all the committees, without anything, five pages of notes, all to be accepted in the first reading and in general. Let's forget about that approach. Let's take it first. You want to, let's shorten the deadline for then processing it on the committees. We have the right to do so under the Rules. But we don't have the right to make props. Because there are still changes to both the administrative code and the Financial Credit Mechanisms Act and there are very serious things, including the right to fine, including other things, including the transfer of ownership rights. You can't climb a hammer in such laws. I'm asking you to do it in a balanced way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u167	Sulkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u168	Thank you. I think in contrast to the previous speaker who just spoke, I think we should first thank the speaker in the rostrum, who actually made the right decision from the committee. And second of all. I would like to say that this bill was long ago, the previous speaking MPs talked about it, Ukraine is waiting for it. And it would be much easier to deal with all these situations, both investors and builders, and those people who are waiting for long ago to live and put in a lot of the money that was being abused. This was in the capital city of Kiev. And that's why Yuri Karakay needs to really thank you today, who's been working on it a lot and convinced the committee that this project is absolutely necessary. And the second. Today I would like to address the national deputies in this room, which we need to listen to most.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u169	Giga.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u170	I now give the floor to the People's Deputy of Sulkovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u171	Thank you. And that's why we need to listen to a man like Vladimir Avrumovich Polachenko today. I don’t think we should be convinced today that this person has brought Ukraine into his life in construction. And today he also calls for this law to be passed, not to be put off there just to talk to the populists in Parliament for a few more days. I join these recommendations by Vladimir Avrumovich Polachenko, and I appeal. Our faction, I am convinced that it will fully support this bill to be voted on today as a whole! And it's only for Ukraine's sake. The sooner the better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u172	Thank you. Yes, colleagues, the questions have come to an end. Please, have a seat. From the factions, from the national MPs. Let's sign up. Alexander Blackwolf.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u173	Thank you. Dear friends, I would still like to urge you: no matter what warnings Mr. Carmazin has made, which is always very careful to follow every detail of current legislation, but I would like to say that the law is very carefully worked on the committee. I want to say that not only is the result of the creativity of three groups of authors and three different factions, but the work of the entire committee. It worked for almost a year on the committee, from February to month, very elaborate, very elaborate. Obviously, there are changes to other laws -- this is the normal practice of any process, when one law cannot cover all problems. Indeed, this law is in force. And those changes that are made to other laws only improve these laws and thus pose no threat. So it seems to me that accepting it in general will enable me to quickly solve all the problems related to the guarantee to investors — first of all, private citizens — in that their investment can be carried boldly to investment funds that invest their money in construction. It's on the one side. On the other hand, it will improve the housing of citizens. And thirdly, it's going to grow a sector like construction, which is now in very difficult conditions, and it's a locomotive for other sectors of the economy. So by putting this law down for second reading, we risk not even being accepted in this summons. We risk leaving our citizens alone again as one of a variety of fraudsters who will earn criminal money on their trust and imperfections. Hence, this law was to be passed many years ago. And it will be a great success for the House of Assembly if we now adopt this law. So once again I urge him not to have “elite centres” more in Ukraine, to be accepted in the first reading, in the second and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u174	Peter Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u175	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, of course, have to spend on building housing, in this area of activity really have to be kept in order, but I am absolutely convinced that all of this needs to be done after the elimination of various kinds of criminal schemes that unfortunately exist today in this area of activity. The faction of the Ukrainian company will certainly support this document in the first reading. But I insist that we accept it in the first reading. Why? First of all, dear colleagues, think about it, today the committee has made three bills one, and this poses some threats to the integrity of this document, first of all. Secondly, there are a number of warnings from the scientific and scientific authorities about those, to the text of the law itself. And a third argument that I would like to make. Dear colleagues, we remember that two weeks ago you and I made changes to the current legislation in part of the promotion of the prestige of mining. Come on, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go. A day later, we returned to this document. We have all the tools in our hands to work the document properly. We can shorten the deadline for the preparation of the document for the second reading, and so the faction of the Ukrainian company insists that this document really needs to be accepted, that people are waiting for it. But we need to accept it in the first reading, work hard, so that it does not happen as often as we do, unfortunately, too often. We wanted it as good as ever. We therefore vote in favour of the reading of this document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u176	Yuri Sergiyovich Serbin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u177	Of course, respectable colleagues surely need this law. And not only is it necessary to protect our people and those who want to build apartments, but it is necessary to raise the profile of the construction profession. You know that some of us went to the polls with a daily slogan: “And I stopped the object there and I stopped the object there, I stopped the object there, I stopped the object there.” So it's already become a publicity increase, or a rating of whether or not it's a policy. So we need to do everything we can to ensure that the prestige of builders and builders is raised. And to do that, we must ensure the safety of our people, our citizens who invest. I agree with my colleague Blackwolf about what needs to be done, considering the conditions that have now arisen in the world with real estate and what is now in Ukraine. This will improve our citizens' trust in the builders, increase their security. And that's why the law is necessary. I'm sure, and our faction has decided to support it. And I ask everyone to vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u178	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u179	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! I've been asking questions about my position that I'm against that approach when we're not looking at these committees in a comprehensive way that's very good for this kind of adoption of laws. Is the Civil Code Building Committee a profile, or is it an amendment, to the Civil Code? Is this committee profiled for the Law on Administrative Offences? Well, agree with me that these aren't professional committees at all. Obviously, and that's why I'm saying that obviously we have to do what the Rules of the Supreme Council stipulates, because all the simplifications lead to what we have today in the state. We can only simplify the order of the discussion. I fully agree with the enormous conclusion of the scientific and expert department of the administration, which says that it is totally pointless to make changes to article 1035 of the Civil Code, there is absolutely no need. And when you look at the Civil Code, you open 1036, you'll see what you want to change in 1035. I mean, it's just, well, students will laugh about it. When you look at what we're doing in whole separate articles, this table right now I've been studying, sitting, looking, before I say I'm seriously studying documents, it's I'm telling one of the colleagues who from all the questions to be asked not to be so. And I'm telling you that we're responsible, we're introducing the concept of a special central authority of executive power, this is article 244 with a 16 badge, and there's going to be mass involvement in administrative responsibility. And there will be human rights. They too will be broken. They too will be broken. That's why, I don't think I'm going to prove a lot of the evidence here in this bill, because it's, in fact, made as a sunflower. He's got a good goal, a very good goal. But let's take it literally in a few days, by making a decision, I'll ask the chairman to put it to a vote, to shorten the deadline for preparing this bill for the second reading. All of it. And then we're going to take and consider the same proposal from the Science and Technology Administration to article 1030 of the Civil Code, where they're going to add a new part to the fourth. It's a normal offer. The property acquired as a result of the management of the property is included in the composition of the property transferred to the administration. It has written this amendment. It can be included, absolutely clean and flawlessly done in law, but it will meet some legal standards and rules. In general, such a law is necessary. We just don't have to push things around. A few days later, we can accept it in our second reading and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u180	Polacko Volodymir Avrumovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u181	Thank you. Perhaps my colleagues see that I am not so often speaking and lobbying a law. I have great respect for the opinion of my fellow Communists that there is no hurry. But this law has stood tens of times in our novel of days for a year. This is not the law that has been passed on to miners today. For a year he stood still and behaved. During this year, when there was a desire to make changes, time was enormous — a year. That's why it's for your own good. If it wasn't for the situation that is now, this law has stood tens of times for a year, I emphasize. There was no time, no political situation, no tribunes, and so on. So I would still ask, based on what the law is necessary, I want to say that the crisis in construction is now raging. And I would ask you to support it as a matter of fact as a matter of law.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u182	Fellows, now look what I'm going to offer you, and you make your decision. At the faction leaders’ meeting, we decided to make the decision only on the first reading. If you look at what are the proposals for this bill, except for those put forward by the people's deputies, but also by the scientific and scientific authorities, there's a lot of them. What's my idea? If we now adopt the law, and unfortunately it is Syrian, it should not happen that after the adoption of this law it will be miraculously returned to us from the veto of the President of Ukraine. May I offer you the next turn of events. Attention! We now accept it in the first reading, as agreed at the faction leaders ’ meeting, and we decide not only to shorten the deadlines but to review the bill on Friday’s second reading. If you have everything so clean, you will be given it for a second reading by Friday. Can you pass? You've given in. And we don't write nonsense. Why? Because right now I'm looking at the State Commission for Market Settlements and Financial Services, and this law is a customer of this commission, there's no one here. Well, let's do it, comrades! I'm offering you one thing, make a decision, but let's not take any of the raw laws so that we don't vote or get over the veto. Got it. Puts to the vote on acceptance in the first reading of 1418. Vote. [[13:49:59]] For 378 It is now up to the vote to cut the terms of the bill twice for submission for the second reading and consideration of the bill on Friday if it is prepared by the committee. Vote. [[13:50:22]] For 390 Thank you, dear friends! 2562. Victor Petrovich, please. It's a bill on physical culture and sports. I'm going to continue the session for 15 minutes, please, I think we're going to make it. Questions. Stop, before consideration 2562. How do you support this first reading? I'll bet on a shorter procedure of 2562. Vote. [[13:51:01]] For 354 Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u183	Dear Arseny Petrovich! Dear colleagues! Today, it is no secret that the current edition of the Ukrainian Law on Physical Culture and Sport, adopted in 1993, does not correspond to the modern, social, economic foundations of physical culture and sport, nor does it contribute to the creation of adequate conditions for its further development. The existing contradictions and shortcomings of the existing laws and related legislative acts require a legal settlement and an immediate solution to preserve constant trends, increase the level of movement among the population of Ukraine and further develop the sphere of physical culture and sport. On the basis of an analysis of the legislation of the world's leading countries and taking into account the best international experience, the draft legislation was based on the creation of legal, organizational, socio-economic principles for further effective activities in the field of physical culture and sport. Allow me, Your Honor, to focus your attention only on the main ones. The bill sets out the basics of Ukrainian legislation on physical culture and sport and the rights of citizens regardless of their origin, social and property status, race and nationality, sex, education, religion, kind and nature, place of residence and other circumstances to engage in physical culture and sports. A separate section of the project presents subjects in the field of physical culture and sports, defines the legal status and basic principles of their further activities. Physical and health activities are given great attention among the rural population, at the place of residence and work, at the Armed Forces of Ukraine and other military formations, rescue services, pre-trial detention facilities, as well as among persons with disabilities. The bill sets out organizational and legal principles for the effective development of child-to-child reserve sport and higher-performing sports. The question of the formation of the National Assembly Team and the legal status of professional athletes has been addressed. Particular attention is paid to the legal status of physical and sports subjects, the further adjustment of national, sports federations, physical culture and sports institutions, and so forth. The project also outlines the basic physical and health standards.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u184	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u185	and sports facilities are prohibited from retraining, eliminating and alienating active physical and physical health and sports facilities without creating and operating more quality and effective, with its functionality. For the first time, to ensure proper control of activities in the field of physical culture and sport and to bring them to existing international standards, licensing for activities related to the organization of training and sporting activities and competitions of professional athletes is introduced. In order to provide adequate social protection for professionals in the field of physical culture and sports, it is envisaged that pensions will be granted for years after a suitable traineeship is available, allowing them to balance this category of professionals with the rights of teachers in public schools. Dear colleagues! The adoption of this law will ensure that the necessary conditions are created for further effective activity and development of the physical culture and sport sphere, contribute to the proper preparation and participation of Ukrainian national assembly teams and the introduction of modern mechanisms for the harmonious development of our fellow citizens. Thank you for your attention, and I'd like to support you. We've been working with the P.I. committee, please support in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u186	Please, Paul Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u187	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues! The author, one of the authors of the Viktor Petrovich Korge bill, has detailed both the purpose of the draft and the adoption of the bill has stopped at the main stages of the work on the project, its main positions and norms. Indeed, there has been a rather serious and stressful work in today’s consideration involving both national MPs and scientists and leading specialists in the field of physical culture and sports, prominent athletes and professionals in the field of mass sports. It is worth noting that a valid law was passed back in 1993, after which a huge number of various economic laws entered into force in the country, a new situation of social relations was created that made it impossible for the rules of the current law on physical culture and sports to work properly. Obviously, he's working his time, he's really out of date, and he needs urgent changes that have been made in the form of a new law that we've brought to your attention today. So the committee at the meeting made a unanimous decision, recommending that you consider the bill and take it as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u188	Please sit down. Colleagues, there's no request, no, no two, no two, no? Yes. Sign up, two in, two in. Katerina Samuelk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u189	The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine will support this necessary bill and we are guided not to spend money on drugs, we really need to develop sport. I want to remind everyone that we have repeatedly discussed in various forums the need to adopt a new law. To that end, the All - Ukrainian Sports Congress was held, where physical culture and sports had even been considered, but political events postponed the adoption of the bill for several years. So I would like to say that the new law is really necessary. We need to point out what state support will be, first of all, first of all. We need to look at and record the ban on changing the profile of sports buildings, because we know that today many stadiums that have been built among other things, the method of national construction, are not working for a purpose, they are wholesale markets and so forth. Even those sports buildings that belonged to our federations, to our sports clubs, today have changed their profile and are not assigned, and many of them are practically privatized. It seems to me that we need to consider in particular the issue of strengthening the material base of sports and physical culture. We need to be able to predict in residential areas, where we live, the need to create sports courses for children of all kinds so that they don't sit around, not smoke, not alcohol, but health. And that's certainly a human question. We are today, I think the heads of the ministry know very well that today the personnel issue is especially in rural areas.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u190	John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u191	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! I think we should support this bill in the first reading and take it as a basis. We came out of the fact that Ukraine is who to be proud of in the sports sector, we have a large number of Olympic champions and not only ordinary Olympics, but also Paralympics. On the other hand, we are well aware that physical culture has not become a common phenomenon in our country today. And recently there have been very disturbing trends, particularly since the destruction of sports facilities in Ukraine, especially in large cities. So it seems to me that this second-reading bill needs to be more comprehensive, more explicit about citizens' rights to exercise, citizens' rights to use sports facilities, stadiums owned by public institutions, such as universities or, for example, other things. Because today we're seeing such a great fight for the preservation of the stadium on the street of Nemirovich Danchenka, 2 is the stadium of the Kyiv National University of Technology and Design. They just gave him up for, like, a place to stay, and the citizens have no place to play sports. And it is already a matter of fighting between citizens and those who want to commit this crime. I, the honourable national MPs, have drafted a bill that proposes that you impose a five-year moratorium on the change of destination for recreational lands. Now, I think if we adopt this bill, we won't be able to completely destroy those sports buildings, the sports infrastructure that we have left. So I would ask you to accept this bill in the first reading. And put my bill on the second day and look at it if we really want to develop sport if we really want to develop today.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u192	Colleagues, we have a Ministry of Finance that wants to say that there is no money. But there is an offer, let the Ministry of Finance make a statement. Vladimir Makarovich, please. One minute at a time.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u193	Dear Arsenia Petrovich, distinguished national deputies! Of course, you have a decision to make. My job is to prove only the risks put into this bill. First, according to valid legislative acts, any system bill, and a small one, should have extra cost calculations and determine the sources of their funding. Unfortunately, no such calculations have been submitted to this system’s bill. The bill has been set up, and the ratios between the various budget sectors are subject to additional social guarantees for workers in the field of physical culture and sports. It's retirement for years for trainers, retirement benefits, rural work, annual rewards, etc. Under the pay - for - work law, all of these issues refer to the competence of the Cabinet of Ministers. There is further provision for tax and utility benefits. I am told that more than once in this room, decisions have been made that different laws cannot change tax laws. Regrettably, this law again provides for such a tax exemption. This is a fee for land or a tax system. Taking into account the noted, distinguished national MPs, I ask that I postpone the consideration of this bill to determine the amount of expenditure and sources of funding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u194	Yuri Pavlovenko. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u195	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! I would like to point out that it is the Ukrainian Ministry of Family, Youth and Sports that has the authority to present the bill from the government, not the Ministry of Finance. The Ministry of Sport therefore supports the bill and considers its adoption necessary. Moreover, I would like to point out that there were three branches of the Ministry of Sport working on this bill. The Ministry of Sport, headed by Mikola Kostenko, Victor Corge, and my leadership. The bill is supported by the National Council for Physical and Sports under the chairmanship of President Viktor Yushchenk of Ukraine. And this bill was introduced by the Ukrainian People's Deputies, members of a committee that represents all the factions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. That is why, given that the country has needed a new edition of the Physical Culture and Sports Act since 1993, which has changed a lot in 17 years in this area. I think this will be the best gift for our Olympic congregation, which brought Ukraine together. And I am convinced that the Law on Physical Culture and Sport should unite the Hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. That's why we support the adoption committee's proposal on the basis of the bill, and we believe that the positions that the Ministry of Finance is talking about in the deputy minister's person can be fully regulated to the second reading. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u196	Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u197	Dear colleagues, as co-author of this bill, we respect the Ministry, of course, and this bill is represented by MPs who signed it, not a government bill, not a ministerial bill, but a group of national MPs. I'm a proponent of you doing systemic work, not giving gifts to each other. I want all of us, including the Ministry of Finance, to implement this bill after we have adopted it. I don't want us to say right now that we all love each other very much, and then we'll make it clear that this bill is going to be, first of all, promised, second of all, we're going back to the next round and we're going to be walking around here for seven years. So that's why my position as a person who knows that this is a bill that worked is a whole series of problems here about which, in fact, the Ministry of Finance speaks correctly. We need to agree and think clearly about how we are those benefits, the serious benefits that we're putting in the bill, how we're going to fund training, how we're going to support retired trainers, and how we're going to solve the question of stimulating financing sport. So my proposal is this. We are voting in the first reading, commissioning the committee and the Cabinet of Ministers, especially the Ministry of Finance, because the question is already how to fund, in the shortest time, to work out those discussion articles or not to discuss, just so you can understand what the previous estimate is, the price of the law is 1.5 billion dollars, the previous estimate. Therefore, we are serious people, and we must take this matter seriously. Maximumly, what I think we can go to is to shorten the consideration of the issue between the first and second readings and the joint position of the government and the committee in this session room to put a bill on second reading. Therefore, the first reading must be supported and maximized in time for consideration of the second reading, but without the government and the ministry of finance, it will be a veto declaration. That's why I want us not to declare, but to adopt laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u198	Dear friends, as is always the case. Minfin vs., Min young, sports and family for, and we don't know what he's doing. But that's not true. We know what he's doing, dear friends. Therefore, the first reading of the bill is proposed. I vote for the first reading, and then I'll shorten the terms, and then I'll look at it in the second reading. Please vote 2562 in first reading. [[14:07:32]] For 395 I support you, comrades. If we shorten the terms, then we won't know what to take. We need to allow the Ministry of Finance and the committee of profile to work properly. Only the committee will be ready, along with Minfin and with the budget, toss, and we will try to consider. Co-workers of the ratification issue. A short ratification procedure is proposed. How do you feel about that? Thank you, thank you. 0059, 0055, 0067, 0094. Please vote in favour of the summary procedure. [[14:08:17]] For 340. Dear friends, an epoch bill is being announced, I emphasize once again, an epoch. This is a draft law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation on readmission. Well, let's give Vasil Eugenovich one minute. Vasil Evgenovich, tell us.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u199	Thank you. Dear Arsenia Petrovich, distinguished national deputies! Your opinion is proposed by the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation on readmission. This agreement was signed in December 2006 in Kiev. This agreement is aimed at creating the legal conditions necessary to coordinate our State's cooperation with the Russian Federation in the areas of warning and countering illegal migration, achieving the practical objective of combating illegal migration and creating a single readmission space, especially after the entry into force of the Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union on readmission. And what's important is saving the budget that's being allocated for measures aimed at forcing foreigners out of Ukraine. The draft law is accepted without notice with all the relevant authorities. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u200	Thank you. Please, Taras Vjacheslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u201	Dear Arsenia Petrovich, fellows of honor! The Committee on Foreign Affairs viewed it as the main committee of the draft ratification law and supported it unanimously. Similarly, there is the conclusion of all relevant other committees on this issue for support. And so I just want to add: after ratifying the relevant readmission agreements with the European Union, we had to close the east. So far, the only point at which the decision was made and the ratification took place is Vietnam. Now the most important point for us is the ratification agreement with Russia. It is written in general international law, there are no serious warnings. Of course, we would like to be able to put a little bit more of an appeal in this agreement, but this is, unfortunately, the art of possible. In this case, it seems to me that I should give due respect to the government that was preparing it in 2006, at the end. This is the maximum that could be laid on a contractual basis. Unfortunately, this treaty is not yet ratified by the Russian side, but, judging from the processes that it is, there is hope that ratification will take place there, but if we ratify ourselves, there will be no further steps accordingly. Of course, this treaty probably does not contain, this treaty does not contain the points that the European Union has achieved from us, but on the other hand, we have warned. And let's say Russia didn't set out the requirements that they set out in their readmission agreement with the European Union. Where there was a very strict requirement, that only then would they accept from the European Union on the readmission of people when they were absolutely straightforward, 100 percent evidence. It's a registration, that's all. We've managed to avoid these moments. So the agreement, in principle, meets normal relationships and can be worked on. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-23-m0.u202	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to proceed to the voting procedure. I'm in front of the voting process, absolutely no kidding, and I'm telling you it's an epoch document. I wanted this document to be ratified during my negotiations with Lavrov, but if we ratify it, it's a clear signal to the State of Russia that they will also go along the ratification route. We have the main left-hand section of illegal migration from the territory of the Russian Federation. Therefore, it is critical for us to ratify this act and thus get the proper acceptance from our Russian partners. Comrades, we vote on the basis and in general: to grant consent to be bound by an international agreement through the adoption of a draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation on readmission. Vote. [[14:12:52]] For 396 Thank you, colleagues. I am writing to ask that we prepare an appropriate mandate for the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to immediately notify the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Russian Federation through a note to speed up the ratification process with our Russian partners. 0055. Colleagues, there is. 1413, there are two options for events. First option: we can vote on the completion of the three issues, this ad-hos rule provides. Option two: we can move, we can move to tomorrow. What do you suggest? Are we moving for tomorrow? Come on. [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay, then we'll be the first ones tomorrow, colleagues. Roger that. The plenary session is closed.
