ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-28-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please register. [[16:07:34]] I declare the evening session open. High activity. 423 deputies registered. I declare the evening session open. Dear colleagues, I am informing you that our meeting is under way. The composition, the format of the meeting is well known to you: with the participation of the Prime Minister, the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine, the faction leaders and experts working on the bill. The President's bill on first-hand measures to prevent the negative effects of the financial crisis is being discussed. The discussion is sharp, but constructive. My conclusion is that in Ukraine, not everything is as sad as the pessimists think, but not everything is as happy as the optimists think. That's why I'm calling it an hour.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-28-m1.u2	At the age of 70, let us welcome him to the Jubilee. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, once again, I would like to point out that this is not a problem of one political force or another, and this is a problem of the country as a whole. And the financial crisis has no geographical boundaries. And what is happening today in Ukrainian territory is a clear result of global processes. The main task is to preserve the banking system and maintain the exchange rate, which is what the bills are now aimed at. Next. To enable the economy to live, to pay people and to support the employment of the population. Elections are a very important issue, but that doesn't mean we don't have to solve the economic issue. So they're interconnected. As far as the agenda is concerned. I have just proposed to the Conciliation Council to vote on all the bills that have been tabled, namely: bills on overcoming the financial crisis, amending the budget, amending the Ukrainian Law on Elections of Ukrainian People's Deputies, to vote in the first reading today. Tomorrow we will begin our consideration of questions, preparation, and second reading. Sadly, the offer was not supported. It was all caught up in which bill to consider first: whether the first bill, including by the President of Ukraine, on overcoming the financial crisis, was being examined first, or whether the draft law on the holding of early elections was being considered first. That's the end of the story. I would like to point out that we have little time to adopt anti-crisis law. The Board of Directors of the International Monetary Fund will meet tomorrow. [[It's Kiev by noon.]] If it's 10:00 in the morning after D.C., it's about 4:00 in Kiev. I mean, I clearly understand that adopting a package of legislation will not save Ukraine from everything and everything, but this is the first step that has been taken, by the way, by all governments and before that. I propose to reopen tomorrow's session by voting all the bills in the first reading, and then immediately prepare those proposals that will be submitted by the factions and vote in the second reading. We will not, of course, break the economic and political crisis, but let's put economics first and also solve the political crisis by voting on the other three bills that are included in the agenda. There's no agreement on that right now. Tomorrow morning at nine in the morning, we will take steps — the water is more solid. Tomorrow morning at nine in the morning, I look forward to the faction leaders, again the Prime Minister, the minister of finance, seeking a way out. We have another plenary meeting tomorrow. Another suggestion, unfortunately, I can't make to you: either we make a joint decision, or it goes to tram-ta-ra-ram. Dear colleagues, I declare a closed meeting. By nine tomorrow morning, I was in my office. We'll open at 10:00.
