ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u1	Good morning, everyone! Ladies and gentlemen, please register with the "Council" system, which has begun to work. [[10:03:13]] There are 448 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the Hall, and the morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine declares it open. Dear colleagues, we're starting our plenary work. Article 25 of the Rules provides 30 minutes for the national deputies of Ukraine. Please announce statements, messages and suggestions from the people's deputies to register in the "Council" system. I'm gonna have to write this down. Vladimir Bondarenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Showcases from the rostrum, colleagues, or places? Vladimir Bondarenko. None. Is it? Out of the way. Raise your hand, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u2	There was no microphone on. I'm asking you to pass on the word to Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u3	Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw our faction's attention to the need for an undeniable clear implementation of President Viktor Yushchenk's main principle of action: “the law is one for all”. Our faction fully supports the President, who began an active job today to ensure that all citizens comply with the "one law for all" principle. The only thing we're worried about is that some law enforcement agencies and local officials aren't helping the President implement this slogan. If today the Security Service has decided to settle with those officials who have illegally become involved in hostilities. Because you know, a few years ago there was this fashion, the police were sending a plane to one of the republics of the former Yugoslavia, and the people were having dinner there, and they got a certificate from a fighter. So if the Security Service wants to take away from all of these people the identity of the participant in the hostilities, I want to tell you that there is not one such national MP in this session room. Let's do it, and our faction will support it. If the Attorney General's Office wants to deal with the issue of citizenship, our faction will support and prepare to help with material on those people who have dual citizenship for more than a year, but this should be done not only with one member of the same political force, but with all the officials and deputies present. If we have a desire, friends, to order the theft and corruption of officials, so is our faction ready to help and I think it's wrong when, for example, we investigate one minister and the other minister apologizes and forgets that the criminal case is open. Obviously, all ministers, officials, should be equal before the law, and we should clearly and unequivocally say that the budget is to be broken up. We are concerned that the media and MPs have somehow responded calmly to the Constitutional Court's decision, where the Supreme Court ruled that our judicial system is not corrupt, poor and starved. If the benefits of the judges that the Constitutional Court has stopped for the whole system. the judiciary, it's a normal situation, so let's stop talking about that there's something wrong with the Supreme Council here, in the district administrations, because it turns out that judges without an office apartment and without a pension in thirty thousand dollars can't live, that's the decision of the Constitutional Court. So let's make the law one for all a single rule. And finally, dear friends, we would like our budget committee to finally listen to one unique structure called the DUSS, which deals with vodka, smoke and the President, and figure out where the money is going. So, I think, after we're alone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u5	Yuri Gnatkevich. Passes the word to Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u6	Dear colleagues! Dear voters, citizens of Ukraine! I'm speaking as a cyanide, as a person who today sees what's happening in Kiev, and I would like to warn the Kiev voters, all the Ukrainian citizens that the elections that took place in Kiev were built, not on the use of people's beliefs, not on the political views of people, but on a massive bribe. There was a session of the Kiev City Council yesterday. The newly elected old head once again spoke to the Chinese and assured them that he would pursue such a policy as he had conducted. And he was running a policy of handing over the Kyiv lands, including representatives and leaders of the various political forces who are today defending him in parliament. Today, an extraordinary interest in the Kiev elections was shown by the President’s secretariat and, personally, Viktor Andrivovich did not ignore the Kiev elections, insisting that they should be held only on one tour, knowing clearly that in a one-way version, using the entire administration system in Kiev, only Chernevski would win. It's strange why he forgot that he chose three tours and that the world's vast majority of election systems were built on a two-track election. What I'd like to say today is that I would like to ask the Parliament and the Commission of Inquiry, which started their work before the Kiev elections to continue it, to go out to which of the 2,000 hectares of Kiev land were distributed on October 1st, where the $10 million money was distributed, which I have been unsuccessfully writing to the Public Prosecutor's Office several times, were used not for the purpose of establishing counters, to see why last year 20 million was not taken by the Kyiv City Authority to establish counters in the housing and utility system. This has led to extraordinary overcrowding by citizens. On the average, one apartment in Kiev was overpaid after the reforms in the housing and utility system of 340 gravel. Then he gives up some of that money. This year, 1 billion 800 million dollars are available for such distributions. KRU Minfin, other authorities of the city’s probes and controls are not allowed, and they are forbidden to control their activities. At the same time, the city’s public prosecutor’s office, together with the Attorney General’s Office, is doing everything to ensure that these crimes are unknown to the Chinese, not responding to violations of legislation, but simply responding to our requests. I think it's frisking, otherwise it's not called what's in Kiev, it's a disgraceful fact of total corruption that starts with the highest officials of the state. And today, Kyiv shows no example of law enforcement, no fight against corruption, no compliance with Ukraine’s legislation at all. Therefore, the continuation of this phenomenon will continue to lead to the absolute loss of Ukraine’s authority in the world’s fellow worker. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u7	Peter Simonenko gives the word to Leonid Grac.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u8	First of all, I appeal to the people of Ukraine and to the healthy part of the Ukrainian Parliament. You know that today the right part that is currently shouting has unleashed the pronatov shabbash in spite of the sentiments of society, despite all the sociological studies that Ukraine does not accept in NATO, and is carrying out a violent ideological action on the part of these citizens called “NATO”! This has happened not once before to the southern, at least, regions of our Ukraine, where people also do not understand. These are overpaid actions, let's say, employed and unwitting people, especially young people, organized students, and actions show that the lack of perception by the people, in particular in the Crimea, last week shows the opposition of people to such a violent course, including, let's just say, the pronatovo, the Russianophobic position that President Yushchenko professes. At these hours, starting at nine o'clock in the morning, officers at the Simferopol Centre in the House of Officers are scheduled to take the pronatov campaign of pronatov propagandists, some of the youth and nationalist forces. But the whole question is that, starting at 8 a.m., the Berkut special unit, more than a hundred people, surrounded the main passerby, not the passerby, but the passing part of the city of Simferopol, the street of Pushkin, and it did not miss any of the citizens, blocking this part of the entrance to the building itself. Moreover, the Crimean Republican Organization of the Republic of Ukraine's Party Committee building is practically under control and stands a special post. [[B in m in s a l in]] You scream, you scream! There's a special post. What is more, the police are violently acting by stopping citizens, asking questions: Who are you? And it refers to the Police Act that we have the right not to let you through the city at all. I therefore express my extreme indignation, protest and demand that my statement be read out as a parliamentary request to the Minister of the Interior of Lucenko, who is immediately obliged to cease acts, illegal acts of the police, to take control and to answer who has given such instructions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u9	My colleague Landik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u10	Dear People's Deputies, respected Yulia Vladimirovna! I'm speaking with the last scream of the soul. Why? The «Contrabande – Stop!» programme is not working. People's goods are imported at underpriced prices twice or lower, high-ranking generals are covered, and many millions of dollars are under the budget. You need a serious team on top, otherwise it'll all be empty. Joining the World Trade Organization is nothing. Let me read out my statement: "Dear Yulia Vladimirovna! I am addressing you not only as the president of the Nord holding group, but as the Ukrainian national deputy, because my request concerns not only the interests of the domestic producer, but also the interests of the state. This is about the adoption by the Inter-ministerial Commission of an international trade decision No. AD 14346 of 04.02.2008 on the application of the final anti-dumping measures on imports into Ukraine of household refrigeration and ice-cream equipment originating in China and Turkey, which took effect on 9 March of this year.” [[I'm canceling out.]] By the way, Your Honor, you gave me this assignment. We were concerned that the above-mentioned decision had unjustifiably applied the zero final anti-dumping duty rate for the foreign companies Samsung and LG, which were registered far away in the United Arab Emirates, and which were interested in the Kingdom of the Netherlands. In the course of the anti-dumping investigation, there are no interested parties, nor are the exporters of refrigeration and ice cream technology originating in China, Turkey, nor are the complainant’s unbiased and irresponsible information, excluding the Ministry of Economics from the text of the decision of five of the nine codes of goods mentioned in the complaint. A systematic analysis of the situation in Ukraine's market from 9 March to 30 April 2008 by the Holding Group-Nord showed that Chinese manufacturers Samsung and LG electronics started using zero anti-dumping duty rates for import into the customs territory of Ukraine of refrigeration technology under exclusive codes. Amazingly, despite the assurances of Mineconomy, they import this technology at dumped prices. This led to an increase of 37.5 percent in imports into Ukraine from China and virtually neutralized the definitive anti-dumping duty imposed on such imports. In view of the above, and I hope that you will understand and support the 17th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th. I mean, respectable colleagues, I'm not just saying, I'm saying how it is, without change, without everything. If we are, now we've cut the issue by 30 percent, it's 17,000, 30 percent not. Two months from now, 17,000, they'll all be working, that's a budget failure, that's a drop in production. And if we don't, just tell them we're going to have a disaster. I just want to say, stop talking.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u11	Thank you. Basil Hara.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u12	Dear colleagues, I would like to express my indignation at the faction of the Party of the Regions over the neglect of the Supreme Council, the Cabinet of the Ministers of Social Affairs. For three consecutive months, there have been the same issues on the agenda that are not yet on the agenda. Yesterday there were still eight drafts for today's social media, and today there is no one. They have simply been thrown out and it is the guilt of the coalition, which for its own discretion forms the agenda and of the Chairman of the Supreme Council, who makes her look bad. For five months now, we have been waiting for Timoshenko's promised Ukrainian breakthrough, and we see only convulsions of officials. People's lives are getting worse. I would like to recall the orange coalition, the Cabinet of Ministers' shameful statistics from the lives of our people. The poverty rate in Ukraine is 28 per cent. There are only 13 million nationals in the poor category. Even among workers, the poverty rate is 27.5 per cent. In small towns, this level is 32 and in rural areas it is 40 per cent. How does the Government of Timoshenko deal with this shameful phenomenon? The Government of Timoshenko violated the 2008 General Agreement, which recorded the Cabinet of Ministers'commitments to raise the average wage by at least 25 per cent. During April, it grew by as much as 1.9 per cent, but inflation exceeded 15 per cent and annual inflation exceeded 30 per cent. Salary debt is rising. During the first quarter, it increased by 24 million, amounting to 623 million bracelets. In four months, the price index was 115 per cent for bread and bread, 127 for meat and meat, 127 for vegetables, including potatoes, 158 for sugar, 113. Drug prices have risen by 30 to 35 per cent, and this list can be continued indefinitely. The Government of Timoshenko is hampering the raising of the standard of living of citizens and the fight against poverty, ignoring the Housing Minimum Act and does not approve a new list of products, goods and services. That is why today's subsistence minimum is artificially understated by 150-200 grevens, which means that the power is engulfed monthly by 100-150 grevens, each budgeted by 250-300 grevens. The Government of Timoshenko has ignored the Supreme Council with impunity and has not changed the 2008 budget for three months. The Constitutional Court's decision to restore the benefits of the population was not implemented, the measures to determine inflation were not presented, and the country's social and economic development programme was not presented. That is why chaos prevails in the country. It is not only the Government that is responsible, but also the coalition responsible for its activities. We demand immediate action from the Cabinet of Ministers and the National Order Coalition, to stop politics and save the country until the people have thrown this political force to the brink of history.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u13	Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u14	Respectable compatriots, respectable fellow MPs, respected journalists! I dedicate my address to Journalist Day, which Ukraine celebrates on 6 June, and on behalf of the Party of the Regions, I wish to congratulate the multi-million-dollar army of professional journalists. Health, creative inspiration, and excellent news. Any traditional date shall not be without an analysis of the problems that hinder the dynamic development of a certain area of human activity. So on the eve of holidays, I want to draw society's attention to what a country, journalist, media branch needs. An information security doctrine is needed. This security can only be achieved by creating and promoting its own information product, quality and competitiveness. 2008 has become a year of disgrace and complete surrender to the ruling coalition of national information policy interests. This is the year of the abolition of tax benefits for a Ukrainian cinematographer, a small-scale violent Ukrainianization, a distortion of freedom of speech, falsification of history and falsification. The Council of Europe, which, in its report on Ukraine, identifies new challenges and threats to young Ukrainian democracy, namely, language discrimination, racism and intolerance, is at stake. It's funny, but as a major threat to the information space of the state, it's not corruption, it's not lack of information, it's not bureaucracy and racism, it's Russian. The state of the media market is terrible. The financial attractiveness and profitability of the radio business have fallen sharply. Telechannels are intimidated by constant sanctions and unmotivated accusations. Their development is hampered by the bureaucratic fibers and corruption of the National Council for Television and Radio. The cable television market has been monopolized by an American investor, which poses tremendous threats to Ukraine, thanks to the acquiescence of Nacsovette. Cables are now in pre-supply condition. The press simply prohibits being present at official events in Nacsov and quickly conceals documents that regulate the entire industry. Moreover, Nacsovet works on a legal basis that is not legal. Nacsovet lost hundreds of lawsuits that had to be filed in court, tortured by blackmail, corruption and the bureaucratic hammock of teleradizations. The cinemas in the south-east of the country were deserted. And our cinematographer in Kanah was not mentioned by a party organized by the President's wife. Here are the results of your work, gentlemen of the coalition. And here are the results of your ministers. The Party of Regions calls on the coalition to stop destroying Ukraine's information shield, the country's media branch. Immediately return the benefits to Ukrainian cinema, form a responsible, new Network for Television and Radio, remove language restrictions from cinema and cable. I also call on all professional and public organizations to unite in the struggle for their rights and for the rights of our citizens. The fight for the country's information security is, above all, the fight for a quality, own information product, this own information expansion, and above all respect for the rights and freedoms of our citizens. Thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u15	Thank you. Lilia Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u16	Lila Grigorovich, "Our Ukraine People's Self-Defense." Dear Arsenija Petrovich, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs, distinguished voters, regarding the Ukrainian-Criminal blocs, I would like to state the following. There are no such posts when the past can stop the future. There will be none, there will be no empires, there will be no nations. And now for our more specific work. Dear friends, yesterday's day of work in Parliament has clearly testified – the democratic coalition is, it can work, it's effective. After all, today’s speeches by opposition colleagues testify to the fact that the coalition can and will work. Dear friends, recent events have shown that the ancient Latin “bread and spectacles ” have been performed in part of the spectacles. We're starting to work on the bread. I understand that the political component is easier, the socio-economically difficult. But this work must be started. Could we have worked that way for five months? Yes, of course. For example, June 1 was Children’s Day. It would not be logical to welcome journalists with Journalist Day, and I am sure that the greatest gift is that the MP of Kalashnikov is not in this room, not to mention what we have done in Parliament, in all our parliamentary peace, to implement the Convention, the legislation for the protection of children. Unfortunately, blocking the rostrum for various reasons and convulsive political work resulted in only 12 percent in the first budget quarter, instead of 25 percent of the payments paid to orphans, families who raise children. In view of that, I hope we can fix this. I want to mention, my fellow officials, that video we saw when young people using Tramadol came under the walls of the ministries and under the walls of the Cabinet of Ministers. Dear colleagues, the legislative body has done everything we can to amend 321 articles of the Criminal Code by establishing a brutal responsibility for the spread of the Tramadolu. The Ministry of Health’s orders are appropriate. A matter for the little ones — let us follow our legislation. Let's start with ourselves and our children! How is this done by legislation? But it's very simple, in Italy, when a smoking ban was imposed, the first smoker was fined by a cop in an underground shift of zero hours for seventeen minutes and so on for a year. There were 11 percent decreases in cardiovascular disease. So I ask that our Ministry of Internal Affairs fine a few provisions in Kiev, Lviv, Odessa, Kharkiv, Donetsk and the question will be settled. Now, let's talk about our legislative task this week. Medical Day – I ask you very much, Arsenij Petrovich, to vote in the first reading on the two laws "On health insurance" and "On the Protection of Medical Social Workers" which are submitted and will be considered today by our committee. We owe our medics, and it'll be worth the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u17	Thank you. Vasil Kiselov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u18	Respectable compatriots! Instead of fulfilling the will of the people of Ukraine, which he expressed in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine, when he collected more than four million signatures on the requirements of the referendum prior to the application of Ukraine's accession to NATO, the President of Ukraine, the guarantor of constitutional compliance, together with Prime Minister Timoshenko, organized for the people's money, as they say, an explanatory and, in fact, advocacy work on the alleged advantages of the North Atlantic bloc. The region of Ukraine is visited by paid agitators, and the following week by Mr. Scheffer, Secretary-General of NATO, comes to the country. Everyone in the world has made it clear that NATO is the chain dog of the United States of America that wiped off the map of the world of Yugoslavia after the so-called peacekeeping operation, this ongoing war in Afghanistan, is a war for oil in Iraq in the form of a fight against terrorism. And when it turned out that there were no weapons of mass destruction in Iraq, why no one had been brought to justice by the International Tribunal, including the initiators of that aggression. I want Ukrainian citizens to know that protests against the war in Iraq and Afghanistan are on the rise in the United States. You all have to understand that by involving Ukraine in NATO, the United States is trying to replace its soldiers in Iraq, Afghanistan with our boys. And I ask Mr. Scheffer to come to Ukraine to answer a few questions. Question one. To what extent will Ukraine be re-arming the army in accordance with NATO standards? According to our data, our Ministry of Defense, this is the sum of 42-44 billion bracelets. Besides, how much will this cost Ukraine annually? Second question. How many graves have the warring countries received since the beginning of the aggression against Afghanistan and Iraq? I continue to request daily information on the losses of this war. And question three. No one is threatening us now, but who will protect Ukraine when Ukraine joins NATO, Ukraine will become a target, especially for international terrorism, and not only a target against terrorism. Especially since Ukraine has an obligation under the London Agreement to provide its territory under NATO. And in prison. Respected colleagues, both NATO and the Warsaw Pact, were established during the cold war. After the collapse of the Soviet Union and the end of the Warsaw Treaty, any attempt to expand NATO will contribute to increasing international tensions, as the world knows what NATO is carrying. And if there is a need for collective security, work must be done to create European collective security, which is now supported by most European countries, including the Russian Federation. And Mr. President Yushchenko, you have launched a very dangerous game involving Ukraine in NATO against the will of your own people. Implement the Constitution, appoint a referendum on NATO at the request of Ukrainian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u19	Mikhailo Kosov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u20	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! I work with voters in 114th and 117th constituencies. Last week we all worked with our constituents, and I had to visit the Premyslian region, particularly in the famous town of Bibrka, which in 2011 will be 800 years old from the day of the first literary reference. I'm going to ask you, Your Honor, to take a separate decision on this date, because this is a glorious city that has been known in history since the time of King Danil Romanovich of Galicko-Volinsky. But this time I want to come forward with something else. In the city of Bibrka, without agreement with the city council, a chemical enterprise released by a pinopoliurite opened up in 2002 without agreement with the relevant services. Pinopoliuritan uses a TDI chemical that has the highest level of toxicity for its production. However, none of the requirements of the environmental service were taken into account, which during the period from which the work was carried out, concluded that this technology used in the plant was totally unacceptable, both for the health of the factory’s workers and for the environment. And on April 19 of this year, there was a fire. This fire produced toxic substances in the air. Many people, including children, have become ill. On May 21, the City Council decided to close the business. The decision was supported by a session of the Lviv District Council. Since May 13, there has been a day - to - day public control of these decisions, but they are certainly not enough. I wrote a written address to the Cabinet of Ministers, and now I just want to say one thing, Your Honor Julia Volodymyryn, we must immediately send a competent officer there.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u21	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u22	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, before we go to the agenda, I would like to give you a brief update on the work of the "Council" system, as yesterday's unprecedented situation has arisen, which has already occurred a second time. Last day, we conducted a proper service investigation. This morning, I had a meeting with all the staff of the Council system and I would like to announce the following. The main reason is the human factor. So there's no technical problems, and the reason was that because of the technological instructions, the system wasn't overloaded, so it was not possible to activate the new eleven National Deputies cards and write them down to the respective factions and output the results of the vote. So the system works. As for a human factor that could have had unprecedented consequences yesterday. If it wasn't for a fixed and passed law yesterday amending some of Ukraine's legislation, it's just minus 140 billion because someone didn't reboot the system. I'm not talking about the political consequences and the political statements that would be heard from different sides on the basis of electoral counterfeiting, more specifically, on the basis of the falsifications of the results of the vote. We have drawn the right conclusions. I am now being prepared for the final act of official investigation and, according to the requirements of labour law, I am to be decided on the matter. But once again, I want to point out that this is not a technological problem, but exclusively the human and the "Council" system works. Colleagues, let's move on to the agenda. 0048 is a bill by Korniychuk Evgen Volodymyrovich, the first deputy minister. Before we go over these bills. Attention, colleagues! I propose ratification to consider a simplified procedure as always adopted. Is there any objection? Colleagues, attention is paid to the vote on the amendment of the bill procedure, i.e. the reduced procedure for Bills Nos. 0048, 0036, 0037, 0039, 0045 and 0051. These are all the bills that are included in the ratification agenda today. Dear colleagues, I ask you to vote in favour of the summary procedure. Please, let's vote. [[10:38:20]] For 349 Thank you. For 349 Ukrainian national deputies. Please, Eugene Volodymyrovich, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, on September 14, 2007, the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine and the Czech Republic signed a protocol between Ukraine and the Czech Republic amending the Treaty between Ukraine and the Czech Republic on Legal Assistance and Civil Relations. The specified protocol is designed to improve the resolution of issues relating to the interests of Ukrainian citizens who are permanently resident in the Czech Republic, primarily minors. These changes are relevant to both countries. Today, the number of Ukrainian citizens living in the Czech Republic is on the rise. The need for amendments to the treaty is due to changes in Ukrainian legislation. Since the ratification of the treaty, new civil and family codes have been adopted, Ukraine's Law on International, Private Law, etc. Acquiring the validity of the protocol will create more effective mechanisms for interaction between the competent authorities of the Czech Republic and Ukraine. Honourable National Deputies, taking into account the above, are invited to decide on the ratification of the protocol between Ukraine and the Czech Republic to amend the Treaty between Ukraine and the Czech Republic on Rights, legal assistance in civil matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u24	Thank you. Please, have a seat. I invite my colleague, Vladimir Mikolaiovich, to the rostrum, the first deputy chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u25	Chevnogo, Honourable People's Deputies, Committee on European Integration discussed at its meeting on 20 May this year the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Protocol between Ukraine and the Czech Republic amending the Treaty between Ukraine and the Czech Republic on Legal Assistance in Civil Matters and approved the decision to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a whole. The need for the adoption of this bill is that the implementation of the agreement between Ukraine and the Czech Republic on legal aid and civil relations by the parties has revealed the need to address a number of issues of concern regarding the interests of Ukrainian citizens who are constantly living in the Czech Republic. With the entry into force of the Protocol between Ukraine and the Czech Republic on the amendment of the agreement between Ukraine and the Czech Republic on legal assistance in civil matters, which is designed to take account of the current state of legislation of Ukraine, the resolution of issues relating to the provision of Ukrainian citizens' interests will be facilitated, first and foremost, by minors who live permanently in the Czech Republic. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u26	Thank you, Vladimir Mikolaiovich. Colleagues, we're in. Two in, two in, two in. Peter Haszuk, “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko”. From where? Out of the way, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u27	Out of the way. I, Peter Hassuk, “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko”. I want to say that in many areas of our country's borders with other nations, there are many problems that have accumulated over the past few months. One of these problems is the free cross between the citizens of our state, for example, Romania, the border by agreement. And so I think what we vote for today in favour of this project will benefit our nation. Please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u28	Oleg Zarubinski, out of the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u29	Thank you. Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues! Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. You know, you could vote for this protocol, I mean ratification of the Protocol, if there was nothing there, and there were only changes to article 21 -- what's going on is the right of the organs of the justice of both States to take immediate measures to protect the rights of a minor child or its property. We have enough families in the Czech Republic, and we understand that they have children. And the Protocol establishes that by the age of 18, such assistance should be of a governmental nature, an official nature. I think it's very important, I think there's no objection to ratifying this Protocol, the Lithuanian Block supports it unanimously. The only one, Arseny Petrovich, I'd like to notice. We have eight deputy ministers. Perhaps when there is no minister, they will make up a schedule of eight substitutes. I'm kidding, I'm ironic, but I'd still like ministers to come to the Supreme Council. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u30	I'm reporting, Oleg Aleksandrovitch, they have a government meeting right now, so that's why the letters came in for a replacement. If there wasn't a government meeting, we would certainly have demanded the heads of the central executive bodies, especially the government meeting on the budget that we require. Colleagues, is there a desire to express themselves to other factions who have not made decisions? There's no wish. I would like to highlight the issue of consent to the vote of Ukraine's honourable people's deputies, not on the adoption of the law, but on the ratification of the obligation of the International Treaty on the Ratification of the Protocol between Ukraine and the Czech Republic to amend the Treaty between Ukraine and the Czech Republic on Legal Assistance in Civil Matters – Bill 0048, and to vote on the bill as a whole. Attention: Proclamation procedure for bill 0048. Please vote. [[10:45:12]] For 392 Decision taken. 0036 is a draft law on the ratification of the Treaty between the Government of Ukraine and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development on cooperation and the activities of the Permanent Representation of the EBRD in Ukraine. I invite Irina Volodymyrov to the rostrum. Irina Volodymyr, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u31	Dear Arsenia Petrovich, distinguished national deputies! Draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development on Co-operation and Sustainable Activities.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u32	At a meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u33	Irina Volodymyrna, please report. You don't have an answer, you have a report. Please report the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u34	and the activities of the Permanent Representation of the EBRD in Ukraine developed by the Ministry of Economics with a view to completing the internal procedures necessary for the entry into force of the treaty, which was signed on 12 June last year. Ratification of the treaty will contribute to enhanced effective cooperation with the EBRD through regulation at the legislative level of the opening of the EBRD offices in the regions in Ukraine, enhanced access of municipalities to EBRD credit resources, increased funding of priority socio-economic development projects in Ukraine in the regions, removal of restrictions on the purchase of goods and services through the implementation of joint projects through the application of the EBRD rules, the creation of a level playing field with other donors to provide technical assistance on a free and non-reversible basis. In addition, the issue of the granting of the necessary benefits and privileges to staff members of permanent EBRD representations in Ukraine, as well as exemption from taxation of EBRD activities in Ukraine, will be brought into line with international practice. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine supported the adoption of a bill on the ratification of the treaty. In addition, the bill was discussed and supported by the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on foreign matters, on European integration, on finance and banking, and on the Committee on Budget Affairs. And it is recommended for adoption by the Supreme Council of Ukraine with further implementation of the relevant provisions of the treaty. Recently held in Kiev in May, the annual meetings of the Boards of Directors of the EBRD revealed the international business community's great interest in Ukraine and the ratification of the treaty would be a positive signal to the international community.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u35	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u36	So we propose to approve the draft law as a whole as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u37	Thank you. The chairman of the Committee is invited to the rostrum in the foreign affairs of Belarus, Oleg Grigorovich. Please, Oleg Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u38	Dear Head, honourable national deputies, the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has reviewed the draft law of Ukraine on the ratification of the agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development on cooperation and the activities of the Permanent Representation of the EBRD in Ukraine. Registration number 0036 of February 14, 2008. The committee recommended that he be accepted by the Supreme Council without any comments or warnings. The majority of the members of the committee voted in favour of this decision on 14 May of this year. Ratification of the treaty will contribute to the expansion of effective cooperation with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development through a legislative solution to the opening of new EBRD offices in Ukraine, the conditions for granting benefits and privileges to representatives of the permanent representation of this international organization. According to an explanatory note by the Ministry of Economics, the adoption of the law will have no impact on the income part of the State budget of Ukraine, since the treaty provides for the permanent representation of the EBRD in Ukraine only with benefits and privileges, as well as exemption from taxation of activities in accordance with the provisions of the Agreement establishing the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which was later granted to Ukraine by way of joining the agreement in 1992. The main scientific and expert office supports the ratification of the treaty. Please support the Committee's recommendation on foreign matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u39	Thank you, Oleg Grigorovich. Please sit down. Two "for", two "against". Mikola Tomenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, from the site.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u40	Dear colleagues, I think this is a valid treaty that we should support and ratify. Because it's not the first year that we've had the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and in particular, we've signed a whole series of agreements on loans to local governments in the area of security and finance and advisory assistance in the area of energy conservation, new technologies and approaches to housing and utility. And to this day, until we have ratified such a treaty, there is a question that we are either in the logic of national legislation or in the logic of international treaty legislation. So the legalization of this bank as actually an institution of Ukrainian law is extremely important. Then, if we have questions, such as conflict or incompetence, do not let God, the local self - government that took such a loan, be able here in Kiev to find out and solve the problems that exist. So the presence here of the bank's institute, the presence of its experts and experts working on a permanent basis, monitoring the situation, working with the local self-government system, is useful and very important. Moreover, I think that maybe our respective High Council committee has analysed the effectiveness of such loans and loans that the bank makes in the local self-government system, because it's very obvious that if the cost-sharing to create a system of less energy-intensive housing systems is confirmed, perhaps this experience should be extended not only to those cities that have signed the EBRD agreement, but also to other cities. So our faction will support ratification.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u41	Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u42	Please pass the word to Simonek.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u43	Peter Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u44	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished Ukrainian bankers, I'd like to address you. Do you have the kind of benefits that are given to a foreign bank that, let's just say, only gives us promises here? I would like to refer to you in connection with the fact that the decision on Ukraine’s entry into WTO is still given to branches of foreign banks. What are the preferences of the State not to Ukrainian bankers for the development of the domestic industry but to a foreign bank? The bank and its assets, property, income are exempt from direct taxation. Next. Tax on added value. The bank is exempt from this value added tax. The goods imported by the bank into the country required to carry out its official activities will be exempt from any customs and import taxes and from any prohibitions and restrictions on imports. Goods imported by the bank into the country for the use of permanent representation are to be imported into the bank’s name. Similarly, goods exported by the bank and required for official activities will be exempt from any customs and export taxes and from all export bans and restrictions. The services provided by the bank in the country are exempt from the value added tax. All imported and manufactured equipment, materials, and services, including advisory services, are also exempt from taxes. I would like to ask you, your honorary bankers and national deputies, who is lobbying for the interests of the banking system in Ukraine? Do you have any preferences that are granted to a foreign bank? This is the way to destroy the Ukrainian industry. This will certainly be our Ukrainian industry, an act of national betrayal. And the Communist faction won't vote for it. And I call on you, distinguished representatives of the Ukrainian people, as if you can't vote in any way.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u45	Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u46	Thank you. Oleg Zarubinsky, Block of Lithuania. You know, I'd like to have a little discussion with the previous speaker about the fact that if Ukraine agrees to exist and even to open branches of a foreign bank in Ukraine, obviously it's interested in this bank working in Ukraine. Clearly, then, certain tax advantages, such as benefits, may exist. I'm interested in something else, here's the government of Ukraine or the appropriate authority that will give the head of representation and the deputy head of representation and their husbands, the wives of diplomatic cards and so on. You know, dear colleagues, we need to regulate the practice of granting these diplomatic benefits, diplomatic status. This should be set up separately, not separately. And it's a very important moment. It seems to me that the branches that will open up in the areas will give our municipalities access.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u47	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u48	Thank you. This is a very important point that these branches that will be in the regions of Ukraine, in the areas, will be closer to the municipalities, as it says here, and actually to the local self-government authorities, so that not only central authorities, not only central stakeholders, but in places have access to the credit resources of such a powerful bank. And the question of giving, Arsenija Petrovich, you know that, diplomatic status of various bankers, the representatives of Ukraine need to be normalized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u49	Thank you, fellows of honor! It is quite right that the European Development and Reconstruction Bank is one of the key counterparties of Ukraine in financing investment projects. The most cheap and long-term investment resource involved by Ukraine is the EBRD. And this is a key partner, by the way, and for the EBRD. Therefore, access to utilities and remote areas is the right solution. Honourable National Deputies, I put to the vote the issue of consent to the obligation of the International Treaty between the Government of Ukraine and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development on 12 June 2007 and the adoption of the relevant law. Registration No. 0036 on the basis and in general. Dear colleagues, pay attention, we vote. [[10:57:50]] For 229 Decision taken. Please show by factions. Let's move on to the next bill. Region Party – 1, "Timoshenko Yulia Block" – 137, "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" – 71, communists – 0, "Litvina Block" – 20, non-fractional – 0. Dear Communist colleagues, I'd like to speak more calmly, I'll read everything, I'll hear it all very well, I'll read it all, we'll give it to you all, calmly. Thank you. Colleagues, next bill 0037. Mr. Fudashkin Denis Aleksandrovich, Deputy Minister of Finance, please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u50	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs, Mr. Chairman, the Cabinet of Ministers is proposing the adoption of a law on the denunciation of the Agreement between the Government of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on the avoidance of double taxation of income and property. The reason for such a proposal is the loss of the relevance of this agreement in connection with the fundamental change in the tax system of Ukraine from the tax system of the Soviet Union. In fact, for Ukraine’s modern tax system, this treaty is not about avoiding double taxation but about a tax exemption agreement. Thus, there is no tax on dividends, interest, royalty, income from the alienation of property. In spite of the significant changes in the tax legislation of Cyprus in 2003, these incomes are not taxed in Cyprus. Thus, this agreement establishes an unprecedented release of income, which is normally taxed at a rate of 15-25 percent. The existence of such a regulation creates conditions for many different schemes, whereby residents of Ukraine avoid direct taxation. In fact, most large Ukrainian companies have their own Cypriot companies, which are used to optimize income tax. Some of these profits are reinvested in Ukraine. Thus, as of January 1, 2008, investments from Cyprus amounted to $5.9 billion, 20 percent of all investments in Ukraine and 5.8 billion from Ukraine to Cyprus, 94 percent of all investments in Ukraine abroad. At the same time, a significant amount of this was invested in 2007. Regarding the incomes of those who have been paid. Ukrainian companies paid Cyprus companies nearly $1 billion in 2007.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u51	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u52	paid 47 million. In this regard, we propose that this agreement be denounced, and I ask you to support this bill on the denunciation of the agreement with Cyprus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u53	Thank you, please sit down. Oleg Grigorovich Belarus, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u54	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! In accordance with article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts, the Supreme Council is considering the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers. I'm sorry. Draft Act on Denunciation of the Agreement between the Government of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on the avoidance of double taxation of income and property. The draft law provides for the denunciation of the agreement between the USSR Government and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on the avoidance of double taxation of income and property, signed in Moscow on October 29, 82, which, pursuant to article 7 of the Ukrainian Law on the Succession of Ukraine of September 12, 1991, No. 1543 was valid in relations between Ukraine and the Republic of Cyprus. By the way, Russia denounced such a treaty. The termination of the agreement will be an additional incentive for the Cypriot side to accelerate the process of establishing a new Ukrainian-Cyprus Convention on the Prevention of Double Taxation and Prevention of Tax evasion and will enable our State to enter into a new agreement.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u55	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u56	In these circumstances. It will also make Cyprus economically unfavourable for tax evasion. In its conclusion, the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council supports the adoption of the Ukrainian law on the denunciation of the agreement. The Supreme Council Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Supreme Council Committee on European Integration support the adoption of this law as a whole. Please support the recommendation of two committees.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u57	Thank you, Oleg Grigorovitch, please sit down. Two in, two in. Pavlov Zebrovsky, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" from the place.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u58	The faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" will support this bill, because the black holes that Cyprus is looking at, I'm sure it's just the first such deal. We have the Virgin Islands, Oregon, Arizona, some part of London. So that's all that doesn't reduce the tax pressure on actually all the business that's going on in Ukraine. In large numbers, we have to make it clear that most middle, small, small businesses don't have offshore companies and actually they pay taxes at full rates. If you count only the investments that took place in Ukraine last year -- $5.9 billion and the average rate of 20 percent that we should have paid -- i.e. that is, 6 billion dollars not received by Ukraine's budget last year -- that could be set aside, including to reinvest Ukraine's economy, in the social protection of Ukraine's population. I am convinced that laws can be adopted to avoid double taxation with those countries where the tax rate is roughly the same as the Ukrainians, then the actual flow of capital secured tax evasion will not take place in Ukraine. I think it's the closing of this black hole that will lead to the adoption of the Tax Code in Ukraine that we will be able to reduce the tax pressure on the average business in Ukraine. I invite everyone to vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u59	Oleg Lazko, BUT, out of the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u60	Oleg Lazko. The Timoshenko Block will likewise vote in favour of the denunciation of the Agreement between the Government of the former USSR and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus. Because, in fact, the deal that is now between Ukraine and Cyprus is not about the elimination of double taxation, as was rightly noted by previous speakers, and the agreement on tax removal, because, most Ukrainian companies, and rightly stressed Paul Zebrovsky, the big Ukrainian companies, not the small ones, have their own Cypriot companies, which are used to make profits out of Ukraine without taxes, then this money goes back to Ukraine as an investment. As has already been said, last year six billion dollars from Cyprus came to Ukraine as an investment, although it is quite clear that when the same 6 billion came out of Ukraine, Cyprus was actually driven away, washed away, returned, and still earning money. It is noteworthy that such a unique agreement between Ukraine and Cyprus is no longer between Ukraine and another country. And that's why we insist and expect members of the minority parliament to support this bill in the same way, because we need to remind ourselves that the government of Timoshenko began this process of denunciation in 2005, the government of Yehanurov continued, and the government of Yanuković also took an active part in this process. So here we have common interests in most of the deputies who are in the hall, of course, except for those who belong to those large Ukrainian companies that are laundering money through Cyprus. But there is confidence that there is a minority in our parliament. So the majority will vote for the denunciation of this agreement, so that this money will work for millions of Ukrainian citizens, not for the units of those who use such agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u61	Peter Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u62	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to. This project does not solve the main issue, because with the current orange authorities, both thieves and thieves in the country, it is a fact. That is why we have to look at the matter in a different plane. Ratify a new treaty and then cancel the previous one. It is not necessary for Cyprus to submit, but for itself to initiate, protecting national interests. Secondly, I believe that the principle should apply to all treaties that define the protection of national interests, particularly those of rogues and thieves who avoid double taxation. And so we have to cancel the Cabinet of Ministers and all the zones, so let's say, where we're hiding the stolen money, so let's say we have a deal to denounce -- those are the islands of the British, so to speak, territories, the Middle East, Central America, the Caribbean region, and so on. Next. The consideration of this issue, in my view, requires yet another very serious approach today, namely the provision of information on Cyprus, whose specific accounts are there, who is exempting from taxation, who has given, when the National Bank of Ukraine has given appropriate permission, and how the economy of these specific structures is controlled. Next. I think we should have a very serious conversation with you today about how we set things up in the country, that is, in our own home. That is why the true intentions of fighting between the clans and the Mafia are hidden today, including when a legal vacuum is created in a particular region. And the last. It seems strange that this issue has just begun with the Communist President who is leading Cyprus. And in this case, once again, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, in principle, the question does not begin to be resolved as it is required to do so, but that it begins precisely by following the orders of the Americans to resolve the matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u63	Voropayev, please, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u64	I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, as usual, dark things are hidden in beautiful words. What is it? In the past, the Cabinet of Ministers has submitted a bill for ratification under 0027. That is, in 2005, the Government of Ukraine agreed on a new text of the agreement with Cyprus and introduced it to the Supreme Council. However, during these negotiations, there were some differences between Kabmin and Kabmin Cyprus, and they decided, by violating all international treaties, denunciation of this agreement unilaterally, to force Cyprus to accept the signing of the treaty under the conditions that our Government of Ukraine wants. That's the first one. Second, second. According to the Law on International Treaties of Ukraine, article 24, paragraph 4, requires a certain conclusion, the legal expertise of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, once, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, two. No such conclusions were submitted and no one had received them. And lastly, I'd like to draw your attention. Where, after all, is the conclusion and calculation? This is a lot of talk about what will bring income to Ukraine. What's the income, what's the amount? Will they affect tax revenues alone or not? Or it would lead to all of these 5 billion. It's 800 million. dollars will be withdrawn from Ukraine, like investments? There's no calculation, no one's done it, no Minfin, no one's ever done it, no one's ever done it again, no one's ever done it again. I would also like to draw your attention to the following. It's time to stop breaking our own laws, which we are here to enact. If we have adopted a procedure for the approval of international treaties and their dissolution in the form of law, we must comply with it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u65	Dear colleagues, the time for discussion is over. For help: Cyprus is not an offshore zone, as Cyprus is a member of the European Union – this time. Secondly, the denunciation agreement is the right step because there is a negotiation process for signing a new agreement. Third: in terms of investments, Cyprus was the number one investor in Ukraine two years ago, only now did Germany increase this place because all Ukrainian money was being exported to Cyprus and then returned through foreign investors, in paws. And the last one that applied to conclusions. In view of the bill submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine concluded and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, and the Ministry of Economics, and the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine. In view of this, I am putting to the vote the issue of support, and more specifically the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the denunciation of the International Agreement between the Government of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on the avoidance of double taxation of income and property and the adoption of the relevant law, registration number 0037, on the basis of and in general. Dear colleagues, pay attention! Vote. [[11:14:10]] For 223 Who didn't make it? Two hands. On the return to the vote on the issue of the denunciation of an international treaty. Attention: I declare return to vote. I see you haven't worked. Olya, I can see everything, calm down. You didn't make it. About getting back to the vote. You don't want to pay taxes from Cyprus, you have to. Returning to the vote on the issue of the denunciation of an international treaty. Vote. [[11:15:02]] For 223 So you don't want to. For 22,3 the decision is not taken. I'd like to show you by factions who didn't want to vote. The Party of Regions did not want to vote - 0, "Club of Yulia Timoshenko" voted -156, "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" did not vote in full – 67, Communists – 0, "Club of Lithuania" – 0, non-fractional – 0. Announcing the following bill 0039. [[B in m in s a l in]] Three minutes from the vote, okay. Yuri Voropeiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u66	I am pleased to vote in favour of the denunciation of the bill, the agreement with Cyprus, provided that at the same time our Government submits to the vote and a new agreement with Cyprus so that we do not succeed in creating a legal vacuum. One goes away, and the new one doesn't show up, it's wrong, it's breaking international agreements. If our Government submits a draft regulation that will denunciation and approval of new agreements is the right step, the right thing to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u67	Roman Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u68	My fellow Members, this is what Parliament has demonstrated today is the height of hypocrisy. Otherwise, I can't call it. It turns out that one faction does not vote because a communist is the president of the largest offshore zone in the state. Others are talking about midgets, and in fact, they're just cockroaches who hide their bills in offshore areas. We are also very sorry to say that the members of our faction voted in favour, except for the deputies who are members of the “One Centre”. This also, of course, raises some doubts about the commercial activities of such national deputies. Shame on our parliament for not making such a decision!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u69	Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, our constituents! I'll remind you, the population of Cyprus is 750 thousand, that's our Trinity, or maybe Obolon. Cyprus’s budget today is $7 billion. The Cypriots themselves say that this, as a percentage of 60, is Ukrainian money in this budget. Because of those who have not voted today to abolish the old Soviet rule and to make a new treaty that will allow money not to be buried there, you see, I call a party of regions -- unanimously did not vote for it. What, your money's itching out there? And the communists, it turns out, the great truth-makers didn't vote for it either. Because, Mr. Head, I propose, in a week, let's still put this question to the vote. We have to do this. The bloody money of the Ukrainians flees there and develops Cyprus and returns. This is a disgrace to Parliament today, a great shame that you will not wash away.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u71	Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u72	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, the leader of the faction clearly and unequivocally explained why we cannot vote. And the main thing is, let's make a new agreement. Then we're ready to vote. That's the first one. Secondly, I am addressing Roman Mikhailovich: Roman Mikhailovich, do not criticize, because this is not from your parish, either offshore or offshore, because you were the minister of justice, but you were your colleague, the foreign minister, today's head of the Supreme Council of Yatzenuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u73	It's me.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u74	officially and authoritatively declares that Cyprus is not an offshore zone. So, I'm sorry, we'll have more faith in the former Foreign Minister. And the third is the most important. Please look for the one who is looking for the truth, especially I am looking for BUIT, find out which one of your leaders has had quite a substantial amount of money on this Cyprus recently.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u75	Dear colleagues, here's the next offer. What I've just heard in this room is basically an agreement to vote on this bill if there's a set. If the government gives us a ratification and agreement on a new agreement between Ukraine and the Republic of Cyprus on the elimination of double taxation. This is already a sight when we use the treaty of a nonexistent state. I wish I had some national dignity. But don't you mind if we give the Parliament's protocol decision to the Cabinet of Ministers -- "now" -- we will not write -- but in the shortest possible time, we will bring to the consideration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft agreement between Ukraine and the Republic of Cyprus on the elimination of double taxation. And right then at the Conciliation Council, we'll decide to look at the set -- both denunciation and ratification. Is that all right? Give the word to Fudashkin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u76	Arsenija Petrovich, I would like to point out that the agreement between Ukraine and Cyprus was initialled in 2006. But Cyprus is constantly delaying the signing of this agreement. Meetings held in May with the Minister of Finance of Cyprus indicated that Cyprus does not want to sign this agreement and insists on setting zero taxes on dividends and on income derived from the alienation of property. There is no signed agreement today. It's only initialed, but Cyprus refuses to sign it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u77	Thank you. I'll confirm again. The Minister's office will look into it. Then two weeks later, for the next plenary week, let us be informed. If there is no agreement, and the Cabinet of Ministers takes guarantees that if there is a denunciation, there will be a new agreement -- that's one situation. If there is no agreement at all in the event of denunciation, this is a very different situation, then we will have a separate discussion on this subject. Therefore, under the transcript, the decision of the Supreme Council is a protocol, and I ask you to prepare it, to send it to the government of Ukraine. Announcing 0039. Draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden on the General Conditions of Technical and Financial Cooperation.” Natalie Eugene Boycun. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u78	Honourable National Deputies, draft legislation designed to ratify the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden on the general conditions of technical and financial cooperation signed in August 2007 in Kiev. Within the European Union, Sweden is today the most powerful donor of international technical assistance and is working with Ukraine through more than 40 technical assistance projects. At the same time, there is no basic framework agreement to determine the basic principles and conditions of technical cooperation, similar to those of cooperation with other donors. The objective of the agreement is to create a single legal field and conducive conditions for developing a forward-looking approach to technical and financial cooperation with Sweden, to ensure that additional resources are made available for socio-economic development in accordance with Ukraine's priorities. The agreement provides a mechanism for the harmonization of projects and cooperation programmes, for the provision of aid in the procurement of goods and services at the expense of the Government of Sweden. Also envisaged is the protection and medical care of Ukrainian representatives participating in training trips, courses, and similar professional activities outside Ukraine organized by the Swedish side in such cooperation. It should be noted that the Swedish government has already allocated about $76 million since 92 for such technical projects. Given that the Swedish government has been planning to provide up to $20 million a year starting in 2008, and that there is already the beginning of the development of a medium-term strategy for cooperation with Ukraine. The absence of an appropriate legal basis for such cooperation with Sweden today reduces the possibility of involving resources in the priority area for Ukraine, such as energy, social protection, environmental protection. Ukraine already has a number of similar financial and technical cooperation agreements with the United States of America, Switzerland.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u79	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u80	Please support the deal.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u81	Thank you, please sit down. Oleg Grigorovich Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u82	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! In accordance with article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts, a draft Act on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden on the General Conditions of Technical and Financial Cooperation is being submitted to the Supreme Council. [[Registration No. 0039 of March 13, 08]] The agreement provides for tax and customs arrangements, technical assistance, rules and procedures for the procurement of services, goods and work in the context of technical and financial cooperation projects in two countries. Ratification of the agreement will contribute to the development of a forward-looking course of international, technical and scientific cooperation and will enable a legal settlement of issues related to technical cooperation and the provision of financial assistance by the Government of Sweden to Ukraine. The Ministry of Economics states that this law does not entail spending from the state budget. The main scientific and expert office supports the adoption of the law. The project was discussed at a meeting of the Supreme Council Committee on Finance and Banking, which recommends acceptance. The Committee on Budget Issues raises the issue of the introduction of this law from January 1st 2009, if it is published by August 15th. The draft law was considered at the Committee’s meeting in foreign affairs on April 16, and is recommended for adoption by the Supreme Council. Please support the committee's recommendation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u83	Please sit down, Oleg Grigorovich. Two — “for”, two — “against”. Who's against it? Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u84	Vladimir Yavorowski, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear colleagues, first of all, I would ask those who didn't vote in favour of the previous ruling to take the money out of Cyprus real quick, because we're going to take it anyway. The document that we're about to accept, I don't think there's a person in this room who doesn't vote for it, it's very good for Ukraine. I'm going to remind you that Sweden is one of the most socially prosperous countries on the planet and has the highest standards of living in the world, even higher than the American ones. And the fact that the Swedes with whom we have a very long history relationship, I am convinced that they need to be reinstated at a new turn when there is an independent Ukrainian state, needs to be supported. In particular, I would like to stress that the ratification of this agreement will give some real impetus to the fight against corruption. Because if we're incompetent here, neither our prosecutor's office, nor our law enforcement agencies, nor our courts, to fight this, and actually to support the rise of corruption even more, maybe at least the Swedes will teach us something. I am convinced that it is necessary to vote in favour of this and that the Yulia Tymoshenko Block will give all its votes for the ratification of this document.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u85	Ivan Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u86	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear colleagues, the faction of the Party of Regions is in favour of ratifying this agreement. First, as a result of this ratification, we're going to get additional help, secondly, we're going to be able to bring our relationship back to normal. The fact is that in May, for unclear reasons, the official visit of the Prime Minister of Ukraine to Sweden was cancelled, resulting in a representative of the Swedish Inter-Parliamentary Friendship Group not attending the conference that we organized here with the leaders of the Ukrainian Inter-Parliamentary Friendship Groups with the EU countries. In addition, very big problems have arisen in Sweden of our embassies when they discuss participating in an energy forum. This ratification will make our Swedish colleagues realize again that we are reliable partners. So the faction of the Regions is asking for ratification and support of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u87	Thank you, colleagues. I have one question for Oleg Grigorovich Belarus. Oleg Grigorovich, you pointed out from the rostrum that there is a proposal for a committee to postpone the validity of the bill. But I didn't see it in the committee's decision, nor in the proposals of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, nor in the Cabinet of Ministers. You're out of place, maybe you are. Please take your seats. That's the first one. The other one. For such a proposal to be made, then, first, second reading, or this warning, is a completely different procedure. Turn on the Belarus microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u88	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! I was obliged to report on one of the motives set out in the budget committee. In the recommendation of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, this was accepted and not included in the recommendation. That's why we recommended voting in general and without any warnings.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u89	Once again, I'm informing you that I've studied all the materials that there is. Taras Cranville, please give him the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u90	Dear Arsenia Petrovich, fellows of honor! For this reason, we analyzed at our committee meeting in foreign affairs a warning that was from the budgeters. So they said that because it changes budgetary relationships a little bit, it affects the additional costs that will be added to the state budget of Ukraine, they said from September 1st. But there is a constitutional norm according to which, if the rules of an international treaty of Ukraine conflict with certain rules of law, the rules of an international treaty are in force. And in this context, and we have practiced this not once, but the most basic, most illustrative example is the ratification of the WTO, in the case of international agreements, on this very constitutional standard, based on, we do not apply this point of the Budget Code. So it's perfectly legal for us to vote in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u91	I see. The only thing I'm going to say is that we have a very difficult discussion on the basis of the primacy of international law over national legislation. The Constitution does not provide for a clear norm to determine the primacy of the international treaty on domestic law. It defines only one act – this is article 19 of the Ukrainian Taxation System Act, which refers to the application of international law to national law in the determination of taxation rates. This is the only act. But in principle, as it relates to the mechanism of taxation, there is such a proposal, colleagues, as the book and the law put it, to vote on the issue of whether to give consent to the obligations of the International Treaty concluded between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden on the general conditions of technical and financial cooperation and the adoption of the relevant bill under number 0039 as a basis and as a whole. Dear colleagues, pay attention, we vote. [[11:32:48]] For 398 Decision taken. 0045, ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers and the Government of the Republic of Latvia on cooperation in the prevention of emergencies and the elimination of consequences. Trelyakov Valeriy Mihajlovich, please, Deputy Minister for Emergency Situations.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u92	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national deputies, one of the priorities in the international activity of the Ministry of Emergency Situations is to work bilaterally in the field of disaster prevention and the elimination of their consequences. International experience has shown that the elimination of consequences in both natural and technological emergencies often requires the mobilization of not only one country but also the involvement of other nations. Preparations for the signing of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Latvia on cooperation in the field of prevention of emergency situations have been included in the plan for the implementation of the agreements reached during the visit of the Minister of Foreign Affairs to the Republic of Latvia. Over the course of two years, the Ministry held two rounds of negotiations on the negotiation and harmonization of the draft agreement, and conducted an internal national procedure to prepare for its signature. The agreement was signed on April 27, 2006, during the official visit of President Viktor Andrievich Yushchenka to the Republic of Latvia. The proposed agreement aims to implement the following tasks: to provide mutual assistance in addressing the consequences of emergency situations that have arisen; to ensure communication between the competent authorities of the parties; to organize conferences and teaching visits to experts, research programmes and training programmes, to train experts, including exchange of teaching staff and specialists; and to jointly plan, develop and implement scientific research programmes. The legal regulation of the agreement is the relationship between Ukraine and the Republic of Latvia in the field of cooperation in order to prevent extraordinary situations of eliminating their consequences. The basic legal act in the field of regulation is the Agreement on Friendship and Cooperation between Ukraine and the Republic of Latvia of 23 May 1995. The agreement does not conflict with the current legislation of Ukraine and does not need to be amended.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u93	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u94	additional funding. The conclusion of the Agreement with Latvia, which was granted the status of a member of the European Union in May, will allow for the rapid and timely provision of mutual assistance to do what I have called above. In accordance with article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts and according to the conclusions of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, the agreement is subject to ratification by the Supreme Council. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u95	Thank you. Please sit down. Vladimir Mikhailovich Evening.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u96	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! The Committee on European Integration discussed at its meeting on 20 May of this year the draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Latvia on cooperation in the field of emergency prevention and the elimination of their consequences and approved the decision to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a whole. In deciding on the draft law under consideration by the national deputies, the committee members came out first of all from the fact that the ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Latvia on cooperation in the field of emergency prevention and the elimination of their consequences would allow, at an international level, an effective solution to the issue of mutual assistance in the event of an emergency that could pose a threat to human life and health, property or environment. International experience has shown that the elimination of the consequences of emergencies, both natural and technological, often requires the mobilization of not only one country but also the involvement of other nations. Ratification of the agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Latvia on cooperation in the field of emergency prevention and elimination will enable the communication between the competent authorities of the parties, the organization of a conference and training visits of experts, joint planning, development and implementation of scientific research programmes. The Committee's decision is in line with the conclusions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, as well as the Committee on Environmental Policy and the Elimination of Consequences.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u97	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u98	budget issues. Please support the committee's recommendations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u99	Thank you. Two — “for”, two — “against”. Dear colleagues, I am putting to the vote the issue of granting consent to be bound by an international treaty. [[B in m in s a l in]] Whoever's writing up, raise your hand. Guys, let's be honest. You didn't press the button, you said you were writing it down. People's deputies are asked, repeat the entry in two – “for”, two – “against”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u100	The system works. The main thing is that people are still working on systems. Kulczynski Mikola Georgievicz, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u101	I am convinced that the bill must be supported because the Republic of Lithuania and the Lithuanians themselves are former friends of Ukraine. Back in the days of the Lithuanian Principality, we were in one state. The Lithuanians have taken it. This is for Latvia, I'm sorry, I thought. The same is true of Latvia. A European country that has demonstrated its overwhelming desire to be independent, which has a high level of economic and technological development. I think this bill needs to be supported, it's going to be useful to both states. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u102	Hanna Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u103	Please give the floor to National Deputy Michael Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u104	Mikhail Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u105	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind the factions of "Our Ukraine – the People's Self-Defense" that the Republic of Latvia and the Republic of Lithuania are two separate countries, members of the European Union. The faction of the Party of the Regions, it supports the ratification of this Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers and the Government of the Republic of Latvia. The only comment I'd like to make. For some reason in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, I wanted an explanation, and this was the situation: The President of Ukraine signed the Treaty on April 27, 2006, takes two years, and we are only more than two years away from ratifying the Treaty. The same is true of the next issue of the day’s order, when on December 9, 2005, the Treaty of Lithuania is signed with the Republic of Lithuania, and only now are we trying to bring this issue to ratification. I ask you to support and vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u106	Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u107	Vladimir Yavorowski. Respectable Society! In little Latvia, Ukraine has something to learn. First, the Latvians had recently been a national minority on their land, and, by the way, they had solved all their problems: both language and democracy had long been under the umbrella of NATO -- and nothing threatened them at all. I'll give you a little episode. It happened. The minister of the interior gave one of the children’s playgrounds, donated an old fire engine so that the children would pray to climb these stairs and jump from there with a parachute. And there was a tragedy: this ladder was broken, and one child died. On the second day, the minister of the interior resigned. What did he seem to have to do with it? We're shooting airplanes with passengers -- and on the second day, the minister's saying that "some people want me to resign, but I won't do it, because the Ukrainian army is going to lose much and much." Because of my conviction that we should have the most intimate relationship with them, they are well equipped. And that will only help Ukraine. The “Julia Tymoshenko Block” will unanimously vote in favour of ratifying this very important agreement for us.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u108	Vladimir Yavorowski was given the right to vote on the basis of article 31, paragraph 5, of the Provisional Rules, which provides for the need to speak to a faction representative if the faction did not take part in the discussion. Colleagues, we vote. A vote is taken on the issue of consent to the obligation of the International Treaty between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Latvia, on cooperation in the field of emergency prevention and the elimination of their consequences and the adoption of the bill as a basis and as a whole of 0045. Let's vote, colleagues. [[11:43:52]] For 402 Decision taken. 0051 Bill: Agreement between the Republic of Lithuania and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on economic, industrial and technical cooperation. Natalia Eugene Boycun, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u109	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, honourable national deputies, draft law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Lithuania on economic, industrial and technical cooperation is being developed with a view to carrying out the internal procedures necessary for the entry into force of the said Agreement. It was signed in December 2005 in Vilnius by the prime ministers of Ukraine and the Republic of Lithuania. The agreement is aimed at further development of bilateral trade and economic, industrial and technical cooperation on an equitable, mutually beneficial basis. Under the terms of the agreement, contracting parties will create favourable opportunities for cooperation in such areas as light industry, transportation, communications, energy, health, chemical industry, and woodworking. The conclusion of the agreement is due to the need to implement Ukraine’s international treaties in accordance with European Union legislation in connection with the accession of the Republic of Lithuania to the EU on May 1, 2004. The adoption of the law will provide a basis for a treaty to take effect, allowing it to be directly implemented in bilateral relations, implementing it into the national legislation of Ukraine, fostering bilateral economic relations and providing opportunities for long-term cooperation. Today, Ukraine already has firm contractual and legal relations in terms of trade and economic co-operation with most countries of the world, including updated agreements on trade and economic cooperation with Poland, Slovakia, Hungary. Please support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u110	Thank you, please sit down. Vladimir Mikolaiovich Evening. Please, Vladimir Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u111	Dear Head, honourable national deputies, the Committee on European Integration discussed at its meeting on 20 May this year the draft Ukrainian law on ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Lithuania on economic, industrial and technical cooperation and approved the decision to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a whole. This agreement aims to create favourable opportunities for bilateral cooperation between the two countries on a long-term basis, mainly in the following areas: light industry, transport and communications, energy, health and pharmaceutical industry, chemical industry, woodworking industry, including cellulose paper, electrical equipment, and equipment. Ratification of this agreement will contribute to the development of economic, industrial and technical cooperation on a mutually beneficial basis and will create favourable opportunities for long-term cooperation in all areas of mutual interest. Please support, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u112	Thank you, Vladimir Mikolaiovich. Is there no wish to speak? None. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I am putting to the vote the issue of ratifying the international agreement, namely the consent of the Supreme Council to ratify the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Lithuania on economic, industrial and technical cooperation, the adoption of Bill 0051 as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[11:48:16]] For 363 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, we have 12 minutes to work, but I can continue for 15 minutes. Attention, colleagues! We have the following in the agenda, except for the oath of members of the High Council of Justice, a bill that actually has four reporters. It's a complicated bill on privatization of the state housing fund. And then there's the bills that didn't come to hand, but they finally came to -- this is Bill 1172 of Catherine Timothy Vaszuk and Bill 1156 of Zarubinski Oleg. This applies to setting a minimum wage in the cost structure and the hourly wage. Would it be possible for me to turn to the rapporteurs on the subject? I'm afraid I just see Oleg Zarubinsky, Katerina Timofievna I don't see. To my colleague Zarubinski: Would you mind if we considered this bill in a simplified manner? Can we go this way? Thank you. Colleagues, then let's go to Bill 1156 with a reduced procedure. First. Please vote in favour of Bill 1156. [[11:49:39]] For 307 Thank you, colleagues. Oleg Aleksandrovitch, I'm asking you to come to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u113	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear Arsenia Petrovich, fellows of honor! It's a good thing we're back on this bill. Moreover, to my conviction as one of the authors of the legislative initiative, it is absolutely not controversial. More than that.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u114	Thank you. I'll look at the clock. Moreover, everyone knows well that the hourly payment of work has long been implemented in everything, as we call the civilized world. I would like to point out right away that there are no possible charges for that, and as far as an hour is concerned, the bill does not have them, so they have no grounds. So I'm going to talk briefly about the essence of this bill and I'm just going to ask everyone, really all, to support it, because it can be the first step towards shaping and formulating a fair wage in Ukraine, first of all for hired workers. The purpose of this bill is to establish the employer’s obligation to pay for the employment no less than a minimum of every working hour. But what I want to stress is that it's not getting eliminated, and I'm not suggesting that I cancel exactly what is a monthly salary, a monthly salary. And on the Social Policy Committee, my colleague Hara can confirm that, we agreed that on the first reading, this bill could be adopted at the same time as the minimum wage for work, and the monthly wage for work. So we're in this bill, I want to draw your attention, not cancel the existing norm, but we're giving a new norm that exists in civilized democratic countries. In further work, including preparing for second reading, we will have the opportunity to correct some legal aspects. Please be supportive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u115	Thank you. Vladimir Stanislavovich Maruschenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u116	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! On March 5, 2008, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy and Work at its meeting considered a draft of the Ukrainian Law amending some of Ukraine’s legislation on hourly pay. The bill provides for amendments to the Ukrainian Labour Pay Act, the Ukrainian Labour Code and the Ukrainian Budget Code for the establishment of a minimum hourly wage. The drafter proposes to determine the specific size of the hourly rate, taking into account the income index for each of the following years, in the State Budget Act of Ukraine. According to the author, the legislative establishment of a guaranteed minimum hourly wage for employed workers will allow better enforcement of their constitutional rights while at the same time bringing Ukrainian legislation closer to international standards. The bill has some flaws. In particular, the proposed amendments to part three of article three of the Ukrainian Act on Pay for Work and part three of article 95 of the Ukrainian Labour Code have already been excluded by the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine Number 2190 of the Fourth Appeal of 18.11.2004. The bill also lacks rules on the introduction of minimum hourly wages, the mechanism of such State guarantee and the social protection of workers in its implementation. That is to say, it is necessary to make appropriate changes to the Ukrainian Labour Pay Act and the Labour Code. The main scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine supports the legislative proposal of the drafters, but believes that it needs to be further developed. The same was said by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and Justice of Ukraine, the Federation of Professional Associations and the Confederation of Employers of Ukraine, and they believe that the draft law needs further work. The Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, the Federation of Ukrainian Employers and the Council of Railway and Transport Workers of Ukraine do not support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u117	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u118	However, considering that the legislative proposal is aimed at creating legislative conditions for the introduction of the minimum wage, the committee decided to support the bill and asked to be accepted on the first reading as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u119	Colleagues! Two — “for”, two — “against”. Valerius Baranov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u120	I give the word of Lithuania to Volodymyr Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u121	Give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u122	Dear colleagues! We ask you to support the adoption of this bill in the first reading, because there's a strange situation, those who have to protect the people, I mean, first of all, the unions, they're obviously thinking about their comfortable lives and how to find a common language with private entrepreneurs. The point is that today, if you take the official salary and you take into account the situation that 50 percent of the economy, and the corresponding wage, is in the shadows, that's exactly what we're proposing to implement in the legislative plan. This will allow, among other things, to raise wages. Second, let's get the economy out of the shadows. Stop, in part, paying wages in envelopes, as it should be today. And it will also encourage business owners, structures, organizations to organize work more effectively. I understand that there may be a problem here that will reduce the number of hours of work, but when the draft law is finalized for second reading, it is possible to predict appropriate safeguards. So we asked that we support this decision in the first reading so that we could have no reason to be critical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u123	Jaroslav Suhi, from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u124	Dear colleagues, we have two bills today, and there's Valery Illrich Konovaluk, and they're not alternatives at all, but your point of view is to introduce a new state of guaranteed social standards, social standards, hourly wages. I want to tell you that in the transition period it's a very relevant thing because we see the efforts of entrepreneurs, the efforts of employers to avoid paying the minimum wage on a part-time basis. So it's very important what Zarubinsky's colleague said, we have a forty-hour working week to keep it short, and now we see a way out of another problem. Look, the normative document, the pay-for-work law contradicts the Labour Code, and the Labour Code 71-72 has long been in conflict with today's realities. So I'm taking this opportunity, because I'm on the rostrum, and I'm inviting the Ukrainian people's deputies who took part in the discussion of the Labour Code, please, we've continued the protocol twice the period of submission of comments, so please make these remarks so that we don't have precedents here. Because such standards as the hourly wage of work must certainly be guaranteed by the State. We cannot allow this bill to worsen the social status of hired workers, so the committee is proposing, and the drafter of the bill is one and the other, who will report, to adopt this bill in the first reading. Actually, I thought it would be nice if we heard two bills and then discussed them. Because once again, these bills are not alternative. The system for the implementation of the hourly payment of work certainly needs to be supported, at least in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u125	Thank you. Peter Simonenko from the place.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u126	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, the Communist faction will vote in favour of this bill in the first reading, but we are convinced that this bill, like many others, including those that are also proposed here, does not essentially solve the problem that has put life before us with you. What it takes for a person to have a job and to receive an honest salary for putting up his work. First of all, the state must guarantee this job. Not as the Constitution today, which, by the way, the oligarchs of Ukraine, states: “Man has the right to work”. Well, you're not going to be taken, but you're going to be forced to work fifteen hours using child labor and a lot of other things and not paying a fair wage by bullying people. It is therefore necessary to start with the main law of the State, which states: “The State guarantees human security at work”. The second. The language goes into these draft laws, so the workers need to know that it's just, let's say, beautiful words like the level of pay. This is about, in these laws, not about the level of wages, but about the fact that the same representatives of the powerful capital might not be doing the Ukrainian Law, which is a forty-hour week. They can pay you in five minutes and then, let’s say, do not answer to the state for providing and guaranteeing our work in Ukraine. So this is about just adding a word. Not only is it a full day’s work, but it can also be an hour’s pay. So the main issues are the fight against the shadow economy. We also today, the communists, we're proposing to change the approach to this bill, we have to write that the wage level is shaped by the cost of the product, which is between 30 percent and 60 percent and has to be paid. This is going to be a real step towards improving conditions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u127	Vladimir Viezowski. I will continue the meeting until the issue is closed.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u128	“Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”, Vladimir Vizevski. About the bill. Unfortunately, when we adopt this bill, we don't solve the issue of hourly pay, so we have given our position with restraint on the adoption of this bill by the trade union. Because the truth is, by adopting this standard, by legislating this rule, we are opening a “hole” so that in many cases unconscionable entrepreneurs, employers, can use this norm. But we don't ask the question, and how the person of work is going to be protected, because the truth is, when an entrepreneur makes a deal with a hired person and predicts seven hours, twelve hours a week working with that person, how much will be paid to the pension fund and what pension this person will receive, and how much will be paid to other social funds, and whether they will be able to cover the cost of protecting a person's work at critical times. That's why I wouldn't rush into simply adopting this law, but considering what we've adopted in the first reading is a very important document -- the Labour Code, which is to focus on the Labour Code, where it's possible to address issues in the complex, in terms of hourly pay, and thus in the complex to protect a person's work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u129	Thank you, Your Honor. Oleg Zarubinski, give me a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u130	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear colleagues, first of all, I want to thank you for this tolerant discussion. Indeed, the question is not political. The question of common people is that of tens of millions of ordinary people. The only thing I would like to say is that the law does not provide for the elimination of monthly wages, understand correctly. And this bill will not allow the ungrateful, let's say, not the honest employer to give seven hours, ten hours and so on, all that remains. We're just taking a step in the way of shaping the formula of a really fair wage. I am very much asking to vote in the first really reading for this bill. Arsenija Petrovich, I ask that the results of the vote be printed in the newspaper Vosnos Ukrainiana, not to blackmail someone, but simply to make people understand that there are things that do not need scandals that do not need trading in a session hall that simply need common sense and respect for the electorate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u131	Dear colleagues, attention, distinguished national MPs, I ask you to be included in the bill proposed by my colleague Zarubinski. First of all, there's no exclusion of monthly salary, and there's either, or. So there's already a mechanism and it's lunar, and it's weather, it's paragraph one. The second paragraph, a large part of the civilized world, uses what is called an hourly wage. So taking the first step and adopting the bill as a basis is logical. Paragraph three. In any case, before this bill, we're going to have to take a whole series of additional acts. And the fourth. If we vote for it, we have the first edition of the Labour Code in the first reading, sorry, the Labour Code Code is in place of the Labour Code. So even in the process of redrafting your bill for second reading or your second reading, we can combine norms, logically? So this is going to be a good first step in signaling that we're going to a meeting on an hourly pay. Colleagues, I am voting for adoption on the basis of Bill 1156 on amending some Ukrainian legislation on hourly pay. Please vote. [[12:05:12]] For 196 Well, colleagues, aren't you there? Come on, I'm asking about the return to voting, colleagues, silence, about the return to the vote on the adoption of the bill in the first reading. [[12:05:41]] For 225 Colleagues, this is the first reading. Well, I can't bet again. What happened? Comrade Sulkovsky, turn on the microphone. Show by factions. Have you seen Peter Mikolaiovich? Turn on the Sulkov microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u132	Well, first of all, I want to say, Arsenija Petrovich, that I respect my colleague very much, and you can't say, cynically push, push that through the press to print the vote and so on. I know very well that this political power in the electoral campaign was nothing to promise the people, so whatever populist noises wanted to do. And to be honest with you, this law is virtually undecided and does not make life easier for the Ukrainian people. And you don't have to hang your paws here on your ears, and you have to end this political force right here simply, cynically, so boldly deceive the people of Ukraine. And that's why I think it's just a shame to lie and lie. And the law must be considered by Mr. Konovaluk, under that law, I am convinced that they are voting for the national MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u133	Dear colleagues, with the aim of standardizing work on the hourly pay of work, there will be no objection if we give a protocol commission to the committee, to colleague Hari, to take into account the proposals made by the colleague of Zarubinsky on the second reading of the Labour Code bill and thus to regulate the relevant issues. I'm calling it a break.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u134	We continue the morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Let us turn to the question of making an oath to the members of the High Council of Justice. Sergei Vasilovich Kiwalov. The next one will be the law. Nestor Ivanovich, please sit down! Sit down, fellows! Sit tight. Alexander Sergiyovich, don't make Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u135	Dear Arsenia Petrovich, distinguished national deputies, present! Today, at a meeting of the Committee on Justice, materials were discussed regarding the taking of an oath by Boyk Andriy Mihajlovich, appointed by the All-Ukrainian Assembly of Representatives of Higher Education Institutions and Scientific Institutions on December 21, 2005; Volków Alexander Fedorovich, appointed by the Eighth Assembly of Ukraine on December 7, 2007; and Samsin Igor Leonovich, appointed by Presidential Decree No. 506 of June 2008. At the same time, the committee decided on the property unanimously, I would like to stress that it is impossible without violating the requirements of part two of article 6 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 17 of the Ukrainian Law “For the Higher Council of Justice”, part five of article 212 of the Provisional Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to initiate questions about the date, time, procedure for making an oath to members of the High Council of Justice. The basis for a committee to make such a decision was the requirements of the law, which once again highlights: exclusively the requirements of the law, no political or any other motive mentioned yesterday in this room, does exist. About Boyk, Volkova. In this case, the term laid down in article 17 of the Ukrainian Act on the Higher Council of Justice was violated, article 212 of the Provisional Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and during which the candidates were to take an oath. In addition, a committee meeting found that there were pending trials in relation to all three candidates. The oath of the newly appointed members of the High Council of Justice is possible only if the powers of the previous members and the legitimate grounds are terminated. I ask you, my fellow nationals, to support the committee's decision and to listen to our decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u136	Decision: To prevent all three members of the High Council from taking an oath.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u137	Dear colleagues, who would like to? Vasil Vasilovich Onopenko. I'm asking you to turn on the microphone. Vasil Vasilovich, perhaps on the rostrum? It'd be worth it. I'll give you my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u138	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, distinguished national MPs, including those standing in front of the rostrum here, I want to stop on the legitimate grounds of this issue, absolutely not politicizing what you decide today, that will be the case. But here it has just been said that the National Deputies, that candidates for the High Council of Justice have not taken an oath, let us read carefully article 17 of the Law on the Higher Council of Justice. A member of the High Council of Justice before taking office, but no later than two months from the date of his appointment, is, indeed, sworn in by such a text. Further, refusing to take an oath results in a loss of membership in the High Council of Justice. What are we talking about? That two months is given to a candidate for the High Council of Justice to consider whether he is willing to make an oath or not. All candidates for the High Council of Justice have not refused to take an oath within two months. What questions? Next, even if it is totally illegal and unfounded, where is the guilt of future members of the High Council of Justice that they have not sworn? On December 7, 2007, a meeting of judges took place in the field of judges. On December 12, we addressed the Supreme Council with a statement from the minutes of the convention’s decision to elect a member of the High Council of Justice there by Volkova and so forth. In December! So whose fault is that, please tell me, the materials that have not yet been discussed on the Supreme Council? I want to read article 212 in context so you can understand how I understand it. This is the Rules of Procedure. Please. The committee of Sergey Vasilovich Kiwalov, the justice he leads. The Supreme Council, yes. to whom such a question belongs, the Supreme Council proposes a date, time, and procedure for making an oath to the individual concerned. Thus, this decision, which the committee chairman has just read out on behalf of the committee, does not meet the requirements of article 212. Time, date and procedure. Next, it is done within a week of the date of coming to this committee of materials regarding the appointed person. During the week! On December 12, last year, the Supreme Court directed the materials, and the December 19 committee had to take a decision. What questions are raised before the courts and the courts and the Supreme Court? Next, in the event that the committee does not accept the relevant decision or the non-examination made to the committee of the relevant materials, the issue of the taking of an oath by persons listed in part one is included in the agenda of the Supreme Council’s day session no later than two weeks after their arrival at the Supreme Council. Well, what kind of claims are people good? Weeks and two weeks. Well, that's where wise people sit! If we do not politicize matters, what problems do the judges face? So I, you know, make any decision. I've been sitting here for more than a day, not a year. I'm just sorry we're politicizing everything. And if you are claiming judicial authority, please start on your own. Sorry about that. Of itself. Allow order in the judicial system through the Higher Council of Justice. There should not be any law, because of the Higher Council of Justice. If we're just guided by emotions, pressures, influences, order will never happen. Not in this room, not outside the hall, not in the judicial system. I'm sorry about the harsh word.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u139	Thank you, Vasil Vasilovich. Colleagues, head of the High Council of Justice, Izboit's position as High Council on this matter, please. Lydia Pavlovna, please. You look like the entire Party of Regions is standing there, see?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u140	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! Good afternoon, Arsenia Petrovich! I want to express the position of the High Council of Justice. Members of the High Council of Justice are appointed in accordance with the article of the Second Law “On the Superior Council of Justice ” and are sworn before taking office. Their term of office is six years. For the time being, they may be suspended in cases defined in article 18. And it ceases to be authorized by the Supreme Council itself for the sake of justice by its decision or by the body appointed to office for the breach of an oath. But you all understand, breaking an oath should be proved, checked, and said it was a violation of an oath. Two members of the High Council of Justice were suspended in the short term. For infringing an oath by the assembly of judges regarding Paley and the decree of the President of Ukraine concerning the Road. They accused both the President’s decree and the decision to go to court. The trial is ongoing. Legal perspective, the court's perspective will not be lost. Therefore, it is only when legal disputes are resolved that will lead to the oath of the newly elected members of the High Council of Justice. Today, article 17 of the Law on the Higher Council of Justice states that before taking office, an oath is made, but not later, not later, not later than two months after the date of appointment. Andrew Mikhailovich Boyko was appointed by a congress of scientists. By the way, the grounds for calling this assembly were declared illegal by the court, and it was appointed in 2005. Today, 2008, that was three years ago, not two months ago, but three years ago. And today it's about making him swear. Moreover, he accuses in court, and there are three court cases based on his actions that are not concluded by his application. I want to say that in the Supreme Administrative Court there is a cassational complaint by the High Council of Justice and the Palius Valentina Mikhailni regarding the closure of the application for the election of Volková Alexander Fedorovich because an appeal has been made on grounds that are not at all in the appeal. And you realize that consideration has not yet been scheduled and that the matter has not yet been considered. And that's why. In addition, Alexander the Road, who accused the President's decree a year ago, almost July 11. Since July 11, there has been no court hearing in fact. These are human rights that are protected, these are the rights of a member of the High Council of Justice that we will talk about ordinary, average citizens. The year is not the case and no court hearing is essentially held. Therefore, today I ask that these issues be resolved in the judicial order not to address the issue of swearing to the members of the High Council of Justice, because if the former members of the High Council of Justice have a positive decision, then article 18 of the Law does not provide for any way of depriving those members of the High Council of Justice who can swear today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u141	Thank you, Lydia Pavlovna. Thank you. Sulkowski and Karmazin. Sulkowski and Karmazin, Bondik and we finish, and Laško in one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u142	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished national MPs, it is a pleasure that today Mrs. Izovitova, Head of the High Council of Justice, has arrived and thus convinces us that we are thus a judicial branch of power and the High Council of Justice, to some extent, are ashamed and so on, the complaints of individual candidates for the judges of the High Council of Justice and so on. On occasion, I would like to ask a question that we rarely see in the Parliament, Mrs. Izovetov. Please tell me, on the occasion of your arrival in Parliament today, why was the national judge of the Raven City Court, Timoschuk, not voted a judge in Parliament, once a year or so, not a second one? You haven't been released until today. Mr. Onopenko has filed for your release, but to this day you are a disgrace.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u143	All of which became the hallmarks of the Rules. Please put your hands up again, colleague. Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin My colleagues, it's too much. I'm going to write everybody down. I'm going to give you five minutes, and I'm going to end up with this. So that's it, then we do the law, we write it down for five minutes. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u144	Ladies and gentlemen, I had a special opinion at the Justice Committee meeting, and I'd like to prove it to you. You've all become witnesses now that the judicial system controls itself, makes mistakes, then signs itself. So you can get out of this closed circle, just by changing legislation, it's up to you. As for a particular situation, do you see whose fault is not allowed and is allowed within a two-month period of oath? Obviously, it is not the fault of those who were to swear. The second question. Some chairs are considered to be privatized forever. Yesterday, the President issued a decree on it. Considering that no oath has been made by Samsin in the two - month period since the date of his appointment, he decides to accept the decree of February 4 as invalid. And immediately, the President issued a new decree to which Samsina Igor Leonidovich, judge of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, was appointed as a member of the Supreme Council of Justice. There is no reason why Samson should not be allowed to do so today. So to my special mind, I expressed my position that he was to be allowed to take an oath today, and at the same time those.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u145	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u146	I'm asking you to let me finish. Dear National Deputies! In particular, I would like to draw your attention to that.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u147	Ten seconds and I'm shutting down the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u148	I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the committee has been appealed to by the judge of the High Court of Paley on the illegality of the election by the Assembly of Judges of one of the members of the High Council of Justice. So we'd like you to show us the protocol. A loved one may request a protocol. And you can't look at the protocol. So the question is whether we have “gods ” on earth today. Apparently they are, and they're sitting there.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u149	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Mikhailo Kosov. Turn on the microphone for Valeria's urinal.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u150	Arsenius Petrovich, first of all, once again, I would like to say that the committee almost unanimously adopted such a decision so that today we do not convert the Higher Council of Justice into a political body, we have already done so with the Constitutional Court, and we cannot lose the whole body that we have defined as actually a control body, including in the justice system. And I would also like to inform you that, unfortunately, today, it has been very surprising on the committee that every single one of those who are now nominated for this position is still making a dozen court decisions throughout the country, which, in fact, I don't know what to call here not to make politics out of this issue. You know, if we're fighting for these positions, not nominees, then let's define the goals, and when the highest management of the entire judicial system comes out here, let them speak in open language, why do they have to go to these positions through the same court forged documents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u151	Yuri Miroshnichenko from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u152	Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear colleagues, I would like to address you as national deputies, not as representatives of individual political forces, because the situation is very and very serious and it certainly has two elements. One element is the legal one, and now we've heard arguments that analyze the legal situation. On the one hand, the norm that provides for the appointment of representatives or members of the High Council of Justice provides for a certain procedure, and this procedure clearly states that no later than two months from now, such an appointment is to take place. I don't analyze the moral side of this question, I usually pay tribute to those people who are supposed to take this oath today, but at the same time, all lawyers know that the basis for cancelling any decision can be either a material norm, that is essentially something that is not properly adopted, or a procedural norm. And in this case, the process is broken.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u153	Give me ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u154	I'm done.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u155	Come on, come on, Yuri Romanovich, tell me, I'm done.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u156	And we can't just do it from the point of view of the law, because it's going to be the questionable legitimacy of these members of the High Council of Justice. And from a political point of view, respected colleagues. If we now take an oath from the members of the High Council of Justice, and those members who prove in the courts that they are illegally deprived of their office, we will face political responsibility for exceeding the number of members of the High Council of Justice. And this will be a disgrace to the entire Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u157	Thank you. Colleagues, time for discussion is over. So let me comment. The first is the legal side of the decision. According to article 212 of the Ukrainian Supreme Council’s Provisional Rules, the Committee of the Supreme Council is not divided into legal ratings for the rightfulness or wrongness of the election or appointment of a person who swears to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. If there were no rulings by the Supreme Court of Ukraine and the adoption of a ruling on the appropriate application in the cassation order, there would be no legal basis. So, first of all, I would like to point out that these judges are not going to be sworn in right now, not because of the members of the High Council of Justice, not because of the inaugural Party of Regions, not because of that, it was possible to invite him here or upstairs, and it would have already been sworn in. And only from one motivation, legal motivation, the availability of court decisions. That's the first point. The second point is political. Clearly, there is a struggle for the distribution of political influence in the High Council of Justice. Well, let's call things our names, shall we? Not like that! Of course. This is not the way to tell someone else. There's actually the politicization of any body and they're trying to involve, including the Higher Council of Justice, one side of their people to solve their own issues. But we're only going to the legal plane. I am requesting the Ukrainian National Deputies to collect 50 signatures and address the Constitutional Court of Ukraine with a formal request for interpretation of article 17 of the Law on the Supreme Council of Justice. [[on the hospitality of a two-month term of oath]] It's the only legal and proper way to answer any questions. Silence, colleagues, decisions of the courts have no right to interpret article 17 of the Ukrainian Law on the Higher Council of Justice, if it were written in a decision of the courts to oblige the Supreme Council to take an oath of such judges, there are no questions. No need, no need, no need for arbitrary interpretation. And the last. I'm addressing the committee and the Supreme Court, Vasil Vasilovich. They showed the Supreme Court’s approval of accepting a cassation complaint against individual courts. Now it's entirely within your purview. The sooner you look at these issues, according to the Rules, if the committee doesn't file me for a week, in two weeks I have the right to ask the question of swearing judges at any time. So after the court's rulings, I ask that the relevant decisions be made public, and the judges, I'm sorry, the members of the High Council of Justice will be sworn in. I then ask the Constitutional Court to formally interpret the provisions of article 17 of the Ukrainian Law on the Supreme Council of Justice. Sit down, dear friends, sit down, it's all right. Let's move on, dear fellows. Honorable National MPs. Catherine Timothy, are you there yet? You won't mind if we consider your bill in a simplified manner? You won't. Ladies and gentlemen, 1172 is the bill for setting a minimum wage in the cost structure of production introduced by Catherine Timofievna. I would like to put to the vote the issue of a reduced procedure for consideration of the bill. Colleagues, we vote. [[12:58:57]] For 212 Decision taken, 212. Please, Catherine Timothy.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u158	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, honourable national deputies, the bill proposes that the minimum wage in the cost structure be determined by law at a level not lower than 30 percent. Today, you all know that the share of wages in our Ukrainian industry does not exceed 12 percent, while in developed economic cranes, European countries the share of wages is 35 to 40 percent. Hence all the labor problems in Ukraine. Hence the great outflow of labor abroad. Young people — active, good specialists — go to work abroad, leaving their families here. Families often break up, leave their children unattended, and so forth. And worse. So the big difference in wages is that we have a lot of people living on a level, on a poverty line, or off a poverty line. The potential of the internal market, the purchasing power of citizens, is not increasing, and this is not an incentive for production and saturation, a wider saturation of the domestic market with domestic goods. So you might say that these are not market mechanisms, but we all remember recent times when in the structure of self-sustainment, the wages were not less than 30 percent, or above. I worked in production, in the agricultural sector. In a normal economy, wages have always been paid.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u159	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u160	The adoption of the bill will not result in an increase in budget spending, because it is not budget money, and the money of those who own the enterprise gets profits, and people have small, poor wages. And the result of the law will be to raise the standard of living of our Ukrainian citizens. I ask you very much to support this bill in the first reading. The second reading will take into account all your suggestions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u161	Thank you. Vladimir Stanislavovich, please. The head of the Committee on Social Policy is Maruschenko Volodymyr Stanislavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u162	Dear Head, dear colleagues! On March 5, 2008, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy and Work at its meeting considered the bill submitted by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Vaschuk, and the draft Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian laws on the establishment of a minimum wage in the structure of the cost of production. The bill envisages setting a minimum wage in the cost structure at a level not lower than 30 percent. The main scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine proposes that the prescribed draft law be rejected. The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, the Federation of Employers and the Confederation of Employers of Ukraine do not support the bill. The Ministry of Justice of Ukraine and the Federation of Trade Unions of Ukraine make a number of comments. The committee believes that the bill has no economic justification. Pursuant to article 15 of the Act on Paying for Work, the organization of pay is carried out on the basis of legislative and other normative acts, general, sectoral, regional agreements, collective agreements, labour agreements. The cost indicator for the cost of work in the cost of production is structured objectively, in the production process, and attempts to increase it by using subjective, more administrative, scales are ineffective and can lead to unpredictable consequences. Taking into account what has been said, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy and Work proposes to reject the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u163	Thank you. Desire is to speak, colleagues? Please sign up. Two in, two in. Valerius Bondik, Party of Regions. Out of the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u164	Dear colleagues, I think what Mrs. Vaschuk said is a very good offer. And this bill -- personally, I wasn't voting on his reduced procedure -- but I think we can support it, because it decides on a very important socio-economic relationship. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u165	Mikhailo Kosov, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Out of the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u166	Mikhailo Kosov, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, “Reforms and Orders”. I speak for myself, not for the faction. And I want to say that the very idea of this law is absolutely progressive. I have no doubt that one day we will accept it, because the thing is, in the value of the produce produced, the percentage of wages must be, because it's also the most expensive kind of product. And the fact that, well, the Employers’ Association denies this law is quite obvious, since it is, in effect, against their own interests. I also don't think, Catherine Timofievna, that said, non-market law, it's absolutely market law and nothing, as it were, is there any sloth in your proposal. I really can't remember, because I'm also a man who lived an active working life in that previous system. When was it to get 30 percent of workers in the agricultural system? I don't remember that, I don't remember that. Just as I do not remember in the industrial production of such an approach. It was 8 percent, so I know 12 is, I know, but 30 is not. And yet I would like this law of yours, personally, in spite of the faction's decision, to support it. But I wish he had a very clear financial basis. Because, you know, it gets involved in a lot of other aspects, it interferes with, you know, and right, in the rule of law of the Pension Fund.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u167	Paul Zebravsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u168	The idea of increasing the population's income cannot be ignored. And, of course, people have to get a higher salary, higher pensions. And, of course, I don't think there's anyone in this room who would vote against it. However, I don't think it's just a non-market law, and that's actually some kind of misunderstanding law, because today we're offered to measure the average room temperature. There are high-intellectual productions where, of course, up to 90 percent can be self-sustaining wages, but there are such productions where raw materials, energy supplies take up, I'm sorry, quite a lot in the structure of self-sustainment. If we raise another 30 percent to make it pay, nobody's going to need it. You can't measure the average room temperature. And in general, it's not a market mechanism, it's a path to bankruptcy. Catherine. Mrs. Catherine, I'd like to say that if we go back to the village and take 30 percent of the value of the product for the wages, and everyone dies of agriculture for today. As a result, the only mechanism that the State has to regulate, the issue of wage increases, is the raising of the minimum wage, the introduction of a single tariff grid in full volume. And this is the real market regulator that allows the state and the Supreme Council to intervene in raising the welfare and income of the working people. So you don't have to change the concept of what we want to increase in the cost structure, but you have to say that this salary can actually be increased and increased. This is why our faction cannot vote in favour of this bill, although we will do everything we can to ensure that the minimum wage is raised and that this year the only tariff grid is introduced.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u169	Peter Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u170	Dear voters! What is it? Yes, in its time, in Soviet times, the wages were up to 30 percent, and prices were controlled, regulated, and paid free. In addition, 70 percent of the government budget -- they were general consumption funds. It is I who remind those who have forgotten what happened. And second of all, what is it today? The Company faction supports this bill. We're getting out of what? What is the state’s situation: Some today produce products, bend their backs from morning to evening, freeze, stand under the rain, drive across the country, and make a living. Others redistribute what they did not earn. So some people are beggars, and others get profits. Here's the situation. So we, the Communist faction, find that this law should really redistribute the results for those who produce the whole product. And reduce the profits and profits of the oligarchs who eat from these profits. That's a second. Third. I think you and I should understand that only then will there be a rich worker living when there are two related things in the country -- control, that is, increasing the income of the manufacturer, and controlling prices. If that is not the case, the oligarchs will tomorrow take up an increase in the price of bread, milk, meat, as is the case today. So the main problem in the state today is to regenerate the labor force. A working man who goes into a mine today, into a metal factory, today he doesn't get enough wages to deal with, regenerate his labor. It's not enough for education, it's enough for food. That's what this is about. And ladies like these today claim that there will be something there and how, they are also serving those who want to make profits go one way, and people, workers, as beggars, so that they will beg. The Communist faction will definitely vote in favour of such initiatives, redistribution.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u171	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. Dear Catherine Timothy, you know with what respect we treat you. I'm sorry, we have to move on to the voting procedure. The thing is, it would be a very good law if we went back to the classic state economy, the Kanes, exclusively the system of government, the formation of self-worth, that's understandable. That's the first one. The other one. We are in a situation where, without voting, unfortunately, for the first bill that Zarubinski introduced on changing approaches to hourly pay, we are now going to adopt a bill that will bring very serious difficulties, which has nothing in common, unfortunately, with market conditions. I'm the one who's giving you my position. So I think your idea is clear. But the means and methods of implementing this idea may be somewhat different. Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote Bill 1172 on amending some of the laws of Ukraine on the basis of adoption as a basis. [[establishing the minimum wage part in the cost structure]] [[13:12:33]] For 49. At the request of Peter Mikolaiovich Simonnka, please turn on the factions. And I'm announcing that the Party of Regions is 0, Timoshenko's Yulia Block 2, Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense, 0, Communists are 27, Lithuanian Block is 20, non-factional is 0. The bill is considered to be rejected. Give the word to Catherine Timothy. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u172	Katerina Vaschuk, Block of Lithuania. Honorable citizens of Ukraine, honourable voters, today you can clearly see how the composition of the Supreme Council is allocated by property status. People who think about people and want to redistribute the profits of private businesses to people who create them so that they don't increase the profits of individual owners of large factories, banks, steamboats and so on, and still share with the common people. This law could have been worked out, you could have thought of a percentage, you could have made different economic calculations, but the fact that it was positive and it would have increased both the Pension Fund and the budget is true. And it's too bad he's not supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u173	Thank you. Colleagues, I'm referring to Valery Illich Konovaluk. Weller Illich, you will now report on the bill also on the introduction of the minimum wage. He was not registered as an alternative to Oleg Zarubinsky. I'm going to ask you to put it on a shorter procedure. 1156-1. Anatoly Sergiyovich, what you're not satisfied with, please tell me. So if we're going to do a simplified procedure right now, we're going to look at 1156-1 and then we're going to go right over. You're prepared for 1148 for your bill under reduced procedure, by 1199, not ready. So let me tell you, Your Honor Anatoly Sergiyovich, the consideration of Bill 1199 and other bills will take exactly two plenary hours. Two. Isn't that right? So I'm going to make a decision not to start a review of the law and not end it with just a break, and I'm going to have to consider a bill that we're going to be able to listen to. Your bill is two hours. If the rapporteurs on Bills 1199, 1240, 1385 and 2009 agree to a shorter procedure, then I will put this bill in place. The question is, do you agree to a shorter procedure? None. Then I'm putting Bill 1156-1 under a reduced procedure, and we're taking a decision on a reduced procedure. [[13:15:47]] For 325 Decision taken. Please, Valery Illich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u174	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! As early as 2006, Ukraine ratified the European Social Charter, which clearly states that all workers have a fair reward that will ensure a sufficient standard of living. Ukraine's high level of poverty remains a major obstacle to the success of market reforms in our country. The inadequate level of pay is a key point in the system of socio-economic relations and this is related to the fact that it affects all market parameters, through demand and supply mechanisms for the production structure and its dynamics, through competition between work and capital on the technological level of production, its effectiveness, on the quality of the labour force, on the employment of the population, on price dynamics and on inflation. Dear colleagues! I want to go to you and say it's not an alternative bill, it's a bill that gives Ukraine a new social standard -- it's a minimum hourly wage. Today’s stage of reforming pay provides for the world’s social standards to be brought closer. For the past six months, our country has been in economic instability. And the fiscal policy of today is a game of inflation that devalues the wages and labour savings of citizens. International Labour Organization Convention No. 131, ratified by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, proposes to set and regulate minimum wage rates. In the practice of foreign countries, I want to draw your attention, the same standards are regulated by setting minimum hourly wages: the United States - $5.5, Canada - $6, the United Kingdom -4 pounds sterling, France - almost 6.5 euros, etc. Thus, there is an urgent need to organize this process, including the introduction into the legislative field of the concept of the hourly minimum wage and the provision of certain guarantees for workers working under the hourly pay system. Increasing the level of social security remains an important condition for improving people’s standard of living.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u175	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u176	The orientation of Ukraine, as a European integration, needs to be achieved at the European level of social standards. And in conclusion, honourable colleagues, on Friday the Supreme Council will hold parliamentary hearings on the move towards the implementation of the European and Social Charter. If we approve this law, we're going to make a decision, it's going to be a major step by the Supreme Council in terms of ensuring these conditions, which, in fact, Ukraine has ratified as a state. Once again, it's a new minimum social standard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u177	Thank you. Please, head of the Committee on Social Policy Committee Maruschenko Volodymyr Stanislavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u178	Dear Head, honourable colleagues, on February 20, 2008, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Social Policy and Work considered at its meeting the one represented by the People’s Deputy. Konnovluk draft law amending and supplementing certain laws of Ukraine. [[concerning the introduction of a minimum hourly wage]] The bill provides for amendments to the Ukrainian Labour Pay Act and the Ukrainian Labour Code and create legal preconditions for the implementation of the hourly minimum wage. According to the author, the adoption of the bill would provide an opportunity to remove a legal gap that would prevent payment of the minimum wage by introducing part-time work. The committee supports the idea of introducing a minimum wage on an hourly basis, which indicates that the bill has significant shortcomings. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council believes that the bill can be based on the comments and suggestions made. The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and the Federation of Employers of Ukraine believe that the bill requires further work, the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine supports the legislative initiative, the Ministry of Finance and Economics of Ukraine, the Federation of Trade Unions of Ukraine does not support the bill. The Confederation of Ukrainian Employers supports the legislative initiative, but proposes to develop and approve a method of determining the minimum hourly wage. In view of the need to settle the issue of setting a minimum hourly wage for work, the committee requests that the prescribed bill be supported and adopted on the first reading as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u179	Let's write it down: two in a row, two in a row. Basil Hara.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u180	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues! Today's second bill, which we are considering, is hourly, and I am very sorry that we were not the first to support it. However, we are building a market economy, whether we want it or not, the law must determine the hourly payment measure. Although there is such a warning that if we miscomplete the normal drafts, in principle an hour's pay is possible. For those who work under the contract for a full eight-hour working day. But we also need to think about those who work today in the medium and small businesses and are not actually protected from the employer who hires for an hour, for two, for three, every day there or every week. We must give the minimum hourly rate so that the minimum wage is guaranteed. With regard to the bill, our committee considered it and recommended it on first reading. For the second reading, it can be refined and will work properly. And I want to say that this is the first piece of building up as such and the hourly payment mechanism in our country. And I propose to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u181	Xenia Leapina from the scene.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u182	Xenia Lapina, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense." I want to stress that we absolutely support the general idea of introducing an hourly minimum wage as a modern tool that works in developed countries. However, I want to pay attention, which is why we now find it inappropriate to uphold this law, that we believe it should be taken into account in the complex in the Ukrainian Labour Code. What can happen if we're a little ahead of our father in hell? Or there may be a fine way of manipulating this very employee. Hiding a salary by hiding the amount of time employed. It'll be a perfectly legal way to get out of taxes and so on. So we're actually going to be threatened by the same employee we want to protect if we don't regulate the complex. By the way, I want to point out that the position of trade unions is also very mixed on this issue. They do not support the adoption of a minimum hourly wage law so far, for these are the threats. So I'm sure we're definitely going to get to the hourly minimum wage, but we're going to get to it in a balanced way and it's going to be equal to the current minimum wage level, and it's not going to be funny, it's not going to be half an hour as it might be now. We will look before the world community softly, not seriously, if we set up a similar minimum hourly wage. Therefore, the request to the authors is not to be hasty, but to be taken into account in the complex of the Ukrainian Labour Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u183	Thank you. Are there factions who wish to participate in discussions that were not recorded for discussion of the bill? None. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, we will try to vote in favour of a minimum hourly wage. This bill is more solid, and it actually writes a whole set of rules that already define the mechanism for determining this minimum wage and the basic approach to calculating it. I can't help but agree that it's logical, under any circumstances, to predict this in the Labour Code, absolutely correct, because then we're creating a whole series of legal norms that aren't incorporated into one law, and thus the absence of a whole legal system in part of the pay of the job leads to only one absence at all as such a normal system of pay. But if we don't start the process of changing the way we pay jobs right now, we can't solve the main problem that exists in Ukraine today is labour and professional migration. Nothing but a ruble will leave the Ukrainians behind or drag them back into today’s Ukrainian economy. This is not Ukraine, which was 10 years ago, when wages were 50 dollars, today other incomes and there should be other approaches to key, it's a labour and mental potential that should be properly paid. I'm only saying this for one reason, so that maybe you can convince the factions that don't want to vote for this bill and vote for it on the basis of it, and you'll already be in the process of working on the committee to figure out whether you're going to make it on the second reading or not, what mechanisms you're going to offer. Therefore, it would be logical to support it as a foundation. I am voting on the adoption of Bill 1156 on amendments and additions to some Ukrainian laws. Please vote. [[13:26:58]] For a hundred and It's 194, and I'm sorry. Please show by factions. The bill is considered rejected and withdrawn from the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I propose to do the same as we did with Oleg Zarubinsky's bill, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Vasil Hari, to take into account the proposals when preparing the bill for second reading under the Labour Code. Colleagues, we are now in line with the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which was adopted last plenary week, the conclusion of the debate on monetary and exchange rate policy and the state of macroeconomic discipline. I would like to emphasize that this was about two blocks of questions. The first cluster of issues is monetary and exchange rate policy according to the Constitution, for which the National Bank of Ukraine is solely responsible as an independent body. A broader definition is the macroeconomic situation and macroeconomic discipline, including budgetary discipline. This is a question of the government of Ukraine, namely, the Minister of Finance of Pinzenic Viktor Mikhailovich and Minister of Economy of Ukraine Bogdan Danilishin. The following format is proposed: 5 minutes -- information, 10 minutes -- questions to one minister and to another, and we're done. Victor Mikhailovich, do you request 10 minutes? Anything for you. Please, Victor Mikhailovich. The Minister of Finance of Ukraine Victor Pinzenik has the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u184	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, distinguished national deputies, the exchange rate issue of the national currency is not a matter of government competence, but of the competence of the National Bank of Ukraine. Governments and National Banks are separated from each other worldwide because the less interference with this institution, the greater the capacity of the National Bank to maintain the stability of the national currency. So around the world, they respect the independence of central banks, and they protect them. We have to honor them. I want to express the economist's position on the processes that are taking place with the exchange rate and show you some materials. It's a shame we just noticed that the dollar in Ukraine is dwindling. In fact, it has been devalued for many years in a row. In the last eight years, the dollar in Ukraine has been undervalued 2.5 times, please take a look at the picture. And it happened every year. Of every $100 that was once on January 1, 2000, only 43 remained. Only last year did the dollar go down 14 percent. The mechanism for this disdain is the following. How is it that the nominal dollar rate last year remained virtually unchanged at the level of about five bracelets? After selling a hundred dollars a year for the same 500 dollars, you can buy as much for them as you did for 86 dollars a year ago. $14 has really disappeared. The reason for this disappearance is inflation. The question may arise: What is the relationship between exchange rates and inflation? Let me remind everyone that the level of inflation is determined by the ratio of demand and supply, the amount of money and the mass of goods. In recent years there has been a steady surplus of demand for dollars in the Ukraine market. In order to keep the price of a dollar, an excess of dollars has to be bought by someone. This was done by the National Bank of Ukraine. But it should always be remembered that the National Bank can buy dollars in one way: by issue, printing new money. Last year alone, the National Bank purchased an surplus of nearly $7.6 billion. That's what I'm talking about. In exchange, nearly 40 billion were released. The money, i.e. increased demand for this amount in the economy. As you've seen in this picture, it didn't save a dollar from real understatement. At the same time, inflation also causes national currency to subside. It is often heard that the Central Bank must maintain both the exchange rate and the inflation rate. As an economist, it's impossible to do both at the same time, because they're incompatible and contradictory. To ensure inflation rates, for example, the National Bank can make a limited amount of emissions by 10 percent a year. And in order to keep the rate, the bank has to make an unlimited emission, under the entire surplus of dollars. But then it's impossible to keep inflation, because it's not the National Bank of Ukraine, it's the invasion of the dollar, it's the monetary policy in Ukraine and inflation. This course of politics encourages the flow of speculative capital from the West. High inflation results in high credit rates. On average, they accounted for 17 percent of the last month. At an unchangeable rate, there's dollars going from abroad that give the owners an income of 17 percent. 100 million dollars have turned into 500 million dollars, 500 million dollars have been issued as a loan, 17 percent have been earned, and 17 percent have been converted into a currency. That's three times that in the West. This provokes the flow of speculative capital, but speculative capital has one thing, because it's not a direct productive investment. Speculative capital is easy to enter and easy to get out of the country. This poses tremendous problems for the country. This often ends with the collapse of the national currency. So the independent monetary policy of the central bank needs a flexible exchange rate that varies both to the one side and to the other, and reflects the real situation in the market. Note the behavior of two key currencies in the world: they change daily, the dollar, and the euro in international financial markets. There was a situation where a dollar was worth more than 1 euro. At the beginning of 2007, the dollar was 75 euro cents and now it costs 64 euro cents. And this situation is constantly changing, every day. This does not generate political debate in Europe, but this allows the Central Bank of Europe to pursue an independent monetary policy. It's about impacting the course on the economy. The economy is affected, not by the nominal exchange rate, but by the real exchange rate, that is, the ratio of the exchange rate and inflation. I want us to look at the situation last year. Last year’s exchange rate was virtually unchanged. He held on to a ransom by a central bank, one of the causes of inflation of 17 percent. How did this affect Ukrainian exports? The profits of exporters haven't changed as much as they've sold for $100 or sold, but for export costs, now, I think they're going to show you the picture, the export costs have risen by 17 percent. So the export efficiency dropped, although the rate remained constant. On the other hand, imports were cheaper with respect to Ukrainian goods. Because import costs do not increase at a stable rate, and prices for Ukrainian goods grow by an appropriate amount. A dollar is the same as milk or meat, its price is determined by demand, between demand and supply in the interbank market. In the Ukraine market, three months ago, from early March, a dollar fell. What did an official or paper course mean in this situation? There was nothing to change, nothing to change. But exporters sold $4.80, but at the same time they paid the exchange rate. Because according to Ukrainian legislation, the proceeds of Ukrainian exporters are valued at 5.5, which was no longer available in the market. And the last two remarks, first of all, no foreign currency in Ukraine is able to save the purchasing power of money and this year alone. The only currency in which you can do that is the national currency is the bracelet. The other one. Ukraine may be the only country in the world that has no national currency at all. At the exchange points, you'll see a dollar, a euro, a ruble, another foreign currency, but not a national currency -- a bracelet. Maybe it's time for Ukraine, too, to put a national currency rate around the world, so that we can finally see at the points of exchange not what the dollar costs, but what the bracelet costs, which is 20.8 cents, but is sold by 21.2, as this is happening around the world. And that's the last of it. Once again, the National Bank of Ukraine is an independent authority that is independent of government and must be independent of politicians. There's a big request for everyone -- to be very careful about this independence and less involved in its policies as a bank responsible for the stability of the national currency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u185	Thank you, Victor Mikhailovich. Questions-answers. Let's log in, 10 minutes. We sign up, colleagues, questions-answers. Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u186	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense. Dear Victor Mikhailovich, as Minister of Finance, you can't help but notice that the National Bank is actually destroying a national producer by such a policy. You can't help but notice. What it takes then is for someone to make money so that they come from somewhere. If we kill the economy, just kill it, it's obviously also a big pay for the independence that you just declared. Obviously, the bank needs to work, the government needs to work, the Supreme Council needs to work. And you know the position of the National Bank Board, it's diametrically different from the position of head of the National Bank's government. Let us bear in mind that this is the National Bank of Ukraine, not someone's private bank, and that is why it needs to pursue politics in the interests of Ukrainian citizens, Ukrainian enterprises. And to destroy entirely Ukrainian production, we also cannot allow and observe this under the pretext of independence. I call you to such a policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u187	I would ask all of us again: no one has the right to impose, neither the Supreme Council nor the government, the National Bank of Politics, because that is why a special institution around the world is created and called “central banks”. We call it the National Bank of Ukraine, which, frankly, is not a bank at all. Money is only real in commercial banks. This center is responsible for the stability of the national currency. I'd like to show you some of the processes that happened last year, and unfortunately, they're happening in our situation this year. I ask you to show me the ninth picture. Last year we witnessed an extremely rapid increase in demand, sorry, in the supply of money. Well, look, the top line is 46 percent. Last year, the amount of money grew by 46 percent. You can see below the behavior of inflation. The price response to these things was obvious. Last year, there was a flow of currency from abroad. They were taken by the commercial sector and taken by the government. That's why at the time.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u188	Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u189	Dear Viktor Mihajlovich, I respect you as a professional economist, and I want to ask you a question, not as a politician, but as a professional economist. Why does the Government hold pointless competitions between rising social payments and rising prices? You are well aware that in this situation the people will lose, as prices will still overshadow the rise in social payments and the rise in social payments, they will simply be infused. Why not set up another competition, a reasonable competition? Between the increase in production and the increase in social payments, pre-programmed that the increase in production would be ahead of the increase in social payments. In this situation, people will not be harmed because prices will be stable. I don't know, you're kind of a literate economist, and for some reason you're playing a completely different political game than economics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u190	Dear Mikhail Vasilovich, I've always been a long way from politics, because I have a professional interest in the economy. And after I started living in the Ministry of Finance, I hate politics, I hate Ukrainian politics. So I would like to say the things that concern your question. In fact, inflation is influenced by the overall ratio of money to commodities. What you have raised may create a problem in individual commodity markets, including external markets. But that doesn't answer the question of why the total inflation is increasing. And if we want to keep the general level of inflation, then, on top of that, the National Bank, and accordingly the government's policy instruments, we have to carry out monetary policy on no one. So we're defining with you the political decision that we're allowing this level of inflation. Under this level of inflation, the central bank is pursuing appropriate policies. How, though, will such a government support such policies? With appropriate fiscal policies, so that the budget deficit does not go beyond the limits that lead to the risk of price increases.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u191	Anatoly Matvienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u192	The Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, the "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" Block. Victor Mikhailovich, I understand the correctness of what you're saying. But we have to be responsible. And aging today for the independence of a government institution does not mean that they will not have a relationship and interaction, for power is the only one. We robbed people today as a result of perhaps the right actions. No one answers in their responsibility to humans. So I want to ask you, do we have any lessons from this? When are we going to teach our citizens to really stick to the national currency? Why didn't we do it knowing we were going to do it? And finally the second question that I would like to hear from you. The government was moving away from the National Bank. Moreover, he even condemned his actions because it is not popular. Today you're telling us from the rostrum that it's the right thing to do. So what's the government's position anyway? Is that right, or is that wrong? Why is there no mechanism with the independence of the bank for the proper interaction of all institutions of power, including the Supreme Council? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u193	I'm going to confirm once again that in my course policy actions, the National Bank is governed by its own rule of course. It's his right. But I would like to do that, and I said in my comments to the economist about the processes that were taking place in the country. I'll say dangerous processes. Such trials sometimes lead to trials. Moreover, I can tell you about another dangerous risk that you will understand very clearly. We actually have a dollar out of business in the Ukrainian economy. Look at the currency loans. 115 billion of the population has received, the population alone, loans in foreign currency. What does that mean? Where is the risk to the banking sector? I'll knock before I say what I want to say. Don't give me a dollar in Ukraine, it's 5 or 10 bucks a dollar, no loaner will repay the loan. Because they took a loan on course five, and they had to pay back ten. The question is, what will happen to Ukraine's banking system in the event of such risks?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u194	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u195	The national currency doesn't give you that kind of risk and that's what's about to begin to fluctuate. When it comes to the fact that the National Bank was in charge of the course and he didn't let go, he started swinging it one way or the other. And by doing that, it takes away the risks, and by doing that, it gives the economics a signal to get away from addiction, I'd say drug dependence on foreign currency.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u196	One comment, if you don't mind, I'll comment later. But, Victor Mikhailovich, it's all like this, but I'll remind you of a Czech example, four years ago when the national currency was revalued by 30 percent in the Czech Republic. After that, they dropped their real estate prices, and then they had problems in the consumer credit market. So both devaluation and revaluation have exactly the same negative effects. That's why. Instantly, Ivan Sidelnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u197	Ivan Sidelnik, “Lock of Julia Timoshenko”. Please give the floor to Serbia, Yuri Sergeevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u198	Yuri Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u199	Dear Victor Mikhailovich! I asked this question to the head of the National Bank, and I want to ask you. What you do need to do from your point of view, as a finance minister, is to lend to a national producer. So let me give you an example, because the National Bank started the fight against inflation, that's the right question, we have everything, and limited the resources of banks, we have one going to lend our people under consumer goods. The cars, the vacuum cleaners, the TVs that we have coming from abroad. In general, the credit of the national producer and of the people ceased. What I mean is, let me just give you one example. In general, the lending of natural persons to the same home ceased. So that's what's done.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u200	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u201	So what we're doing, as a national producer, is no longer being credited. And although Mr. Stelma promised that it could be done through Savings Bank, Eximbank, they also refused to lend to individuals, such as housing. So what you need to do from your point of view is to fight inflation and not lend an importer, but lend it to your own manufacturer. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u202	I understand the logic of your question, and you and I had a discussion in the Cabinet yesterday. Again, I want to make a point, this is a question of the competence of the National Bank of Ukraine, and I think it will react with its tools, because in my opinion, what you're talking about is consumer credit booms, which are not relatively cheap goods, it has a few consequences. One of the consequences you called was the export imbalance, the import and it stimulates the influx of imported goods. As far as mortgage lending is concerned, as an economist, I don't see a lot of inflation risks here, because there's an extra supply of money and an extra demand that's heating up the economy. And, Arsenius Petrovich, I fully agree with your conclusion that the best thing to do is to have no devaluation or re-evaluation, the meter should be stable, the same as the length. I don't want to get into an economic discussion here, that kind of policy is possible, but one of the elements of this policy, you have to have a pro-profit budget, a budget where there's a huge surplus of revenue over expenditure, because then the National Bank, by keeping the course, the government has the ability to sterilize the excess of the bracelets that will appear and keep the course going. Please tell me, is there a country in this room that is ready to forget the word “budget deficit”?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u203	Comrade Akimov, last question.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u204	Dear Victor Mikhailovich! You said that the National Bank of Ukraine should be completely independent, I fully agree with you, while you comment on the following fact. On 20 May, a bill by your colleague Sivolski was registered that the official exchange rate should be established by the NBA only upon agreement with the Ministry of Finance. From my point of view, this means that the Government wants to submit to monetary policy. And the second question. Now you're talking about monetary policy, but your area of activity is fiscal policy. Paragraph 1 of the Government's anti-inflation programme indicated that all unplanned income from the budget would be allocated to finance the budget deficit. Ms. Timoshenko had repeatedly argued that all unplanned income would increase social programmes. We all know that these measures are inflationary, as you see them, and are consistent with your intentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u205	Before I ask the first question, I would like to draw the tenth picture. Well, as far as the bill is concerned, I think it was a joke, because there's no such bill anymore. Such a bill has been revoked by MPs. The other one. I want to say that one of the elements of the fight against inflation, which lies within the authority of the Minfin, is the maintenance of a deficit-free budget. In five months of this year, we do not have a budget deficit, that is to say, although there was to be a deficit. In addition, we finance spending at 99.8 percent of the billing, more than one and a half billion of it, at the end of the year, at the suggestion of the principals. Please get acquainted with the figures for four months, we have an increasing sum total of one, and the sum total of five months is also a surplus, but unfortunately, I don't have any more information, because the information will be accurate on the 25th. I can tell you from the general fund that we have a surplus, and one of the elements in the formation of this surplus is over-planned revenue to the budget. This year's loan wasn't made by the government, except in the internal market we borrowed about 300 million dollars, we got a loan that was made by previous governments and the World Bank for $300 million -- that's one and a half billion dollars. That's the whole amount of government loans that we've made, and we've already paid off debts on an amount that I think is more than the amount of money we've borrowed. We haven't increased our debt, but we have a deficit problem. I heard a debate yesterday in Parliament about privatization, dear friends, you all know very well that the income from privatization is because there is a deficit in the law on Ukraine's state budget to a penny. Because, figuratively speaking, the income of a hundred billion, and the expenses of 120, the sources of funding for other expenses are privatization and plus borrowing. But for every penny, they're going to write this down. Unfortunately, we have a problem with privatization today. Because the State Property Fund of Ukraine has implemented a 4 percent plan. At a five - month target of 7.2 billion, the budget was 282 million. Every penny of this money is prescribed by the State Budget Act, which was approved here in the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u206	You have overcoming some two billion in another article if I do not have a memory. Victor Mikhailovich, 6.5 recaps now. I looked at it in a separate article. Victor Mikhailovich, if you'll excuse me, I am absolutely grateful for the very thorough report, but there are a few points that need to be addressed. I remind you of 2002. In 2002, there was deflation in Ukraine, remember, prices fell by 1.2 percent. Do you remember how monetary aggregates grew? That is, the National Bank’s release of more than fifty percent. So there's virtually no correlation between monetary aggregates and inflation in the transition economy. The second is about inflation itself. Because the key element of curbing inflation in any state is, first of all, budget policy, logically? So the reduction of the government budget deficit is the first instrument to influence inflation, and then the introduction of the so-called inflation target plan. It's not just the government's authority or just the National Bank's competence, it's a joint plan of action for targeted inflation and because we come to this indicator together: Parliament, government and the National Bank. This is by no means a criticism, Victor Mikhailovich, on the contrary, inflation is not just Kabmin's problem. Inflation is not just a problem for the National Bank today. The left-hand side of the inflation process was concentrated in the outside sector of the food energy crisis that lay on us, the excessive volatility of the euro to the dollar -- these are also the things that came to us. But there's the inside part: the lack of commodity supply, the balance of financial and budgetary policies, the social costs, those are the things that we should be honest about.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u207	Do you mind, Arseny Petrovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u208	So the discussion can't be uniform, colleagues, the exchange rate change is one small element that brings more negatives than positives when it's used thoughtlessly. If it's a system line, then it works, if it's derived from a general macroeconomic policy, well, sorry, it's a grave. Victor Mikhailovich, your position. I mean, it's like a discussion, because there's got to be a professional discussion in Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u209	Arsenius Petrovich, I am pleased to hear these questions because I understand them well. I've never said or said that there's only one tool and that there's only one thing to do. We've taken those steps since day one, the first day of government work, you haven't seen any day of budget deficit. Why I want to stress this, because the government's so-called treasury account has the same behavior as the National Bank, because our government account, and because, for example, when the government's account goes down, that means we're making an issue of money into the economy. By the way, this happened last December, the treasury account dropped by 10 billion dollars. That meant emissions to the economy. That's why I've been showing you revenue and expenditure, and we haven't made a penny of emissions because of the treasury bill, which is why we've been holding a deficit-free budget for five months. That other elements of politics, I don't deny, including what's going on in manufacturing. But, Arsenija Petrovich, as an economist, you understand the situation, you feel the situation, the country has been living for a long time in a period of great inflation, 2.2 percent since June last year, it started last summer, inflation expectations formed, and in this situation some measures should be more stringent.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u210	That's right, absolutely.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u211	Like those measures that can be taken in a stable situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u212	That's absolutely right.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u213	And I think that these measures are now in place and I'm asking you to show 16 pictures, because we already have pretty good signals about the inflation situation. I'm the only one who wants an apology. It's not a State-of-the-art data, it's a survey conducted by the Committee at prices per decade, and it's not a complete price index, it's 30 percent of the consumer basket. You see the behavior of decadent inflation. We had a peak in March. Now there's a lot of slowing down. And according to the third quarter, the third decade, we had deflation in this group of goods. It is important for us to maintain this situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u214	Victor Mikhailovich, thank you very much. Allow me, I think I will express the position of the entire Parliament. Viktor Mikhailovich, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, is ready to take over the Ukrainian government because it is not a problem of politicians, not of personalities, it is a national problem. Please take out the Ukrainian State Budget Act, bring out a package, a real package of anti-inflation measures, and I think all well-thinking people are ready to make radical decisions solely to stabilize the state's macroeconomic system. The only thing I'd like to ask. Victor Mikhailovich, who today made a decision on the budget. Please turn on Victor Mikhailovich's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u215	The Ministry of Finance has been transferred to combat mode of day and night, i.e. today I have reported key income positions and expenditure to which to respond, commission has given all ministries the task of processing proposals in order to submit a well-balanced draft of documents.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u216	That is, the Cabinet of Ministers with the participation, first and foremost, of all the political forces, the relevant factions, the Committee on Budget Affairs, ready to complete the process of submitting the draft State Budget Act. [[What I said to the Prime Minister]] Did I get it right, Victor Mikhailovich? Thank God. Colleagues, now the report by Bogdan Mikhailovich Danilishin. Bogdan Mikhailovich, please, five minutes. I'd like to ask you to focus on predictive things. I've got 15 minutes to go. I think our fellow national MPs will be concerned? Your forecast for inflation at the end of this year, your forecast for gross domestic product, the volume of export-import transactions, the negative balance of the current balance of payments. These are basic indicators that would be interesting to the national MPs. Please, Bogdan Mikhailovich. Silence, colleagues, silence.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u217	I would like to point out, Mr. President of the Supreme Council, that by assessing today's major macroeconomic trends that are taking place in Ukraine. It can be noted that Ukraine's economy has been able to withstand another price hike for gas, oil, other raw materials and has now demonstrated a significant supply of strength. The real increase in gross domestic product from January to April this year -- we have 6.2 percent, the increase in industrial output is almost 8 percent. I also want to point out that there are particularly good trends in the development of machine-building, especially in the areas that produce final products rather than intermediate products. The positive trend in the economy has led to an increase in productivity. In January-February, businesses earned 1.3 times more profits than in the corresponding period of 2007. I would also like to emphasize that this year the economy of Ukraine remained attractive to foreign investors. The increase in the total volume of foreign capital over the corresponding period of this first quarter is almost four times the increase over the corresponding period of last year. At the same time, I would also like to point out that, given the still high level of export ingredient in gross domestic product, this year’s economic growth is also taking place in the background of a favourable external environment. As a result, in the first quarter, exports increased at more than 30 percent of imports. So the external trade balance is still in this state right now. It also took place last year with similar trends. Export growth was primarily ensured by an increase of 44 percent in the value of agricultural production, machinery, chemical industry, and metallurgy. I would also like to point out that imports of goods have increased due primarily to the production of machine-building, mineral products, agro-industrial complex, metallurgical products, and chemical products. The bottom line is that overall, the current economic development and the ongoing trends in raw material growth can be seen as positive. These trends, by the way, have been established in previous years. And what I'd also like to say is that it remains an ingredient and it's quite complex, and it's also causing anxiety, creating the right kind of threats, it's maintaining a stable level of economic growth and an appropriate level of price situation. Overall, as the previous reporter has already said, we expect the effects of May's significant decline in price dynamics and a significant slowdown in price increases. As has already been reported, the government of Ukraine, along with the National Bank, has adopted a package of anti-inflation measures, which is now producing results. Of course, there are certain features that need to be resolved in conjunction with the MP’s corps, including by adopting appropriate legislation. I would also like to point out that the National Bank of Ukraine has made a number of decisions aimed at reducing monetary inflation, eliminating the imbalance in monetary policy and preventing it from growing further. I would like to express my position on the impact of the review on the economic development of our country. Of course, as in every policy, there can be both positive sides and something that can be more alert. First of all, to positive points, I think we need to take the next one, which is the cost of intermediate consumption. I'd like to say that given the high energy dependency and the need to technologically upgrade the national economy, the cost of critical energy imports and investment imports will have a positive impact on the production situation. The second, and most important, positive result is the de-inflational impact on Ukraine's economy as a whole. [[That's what I was talking about.]] The third positive result is the economy in the payment and servicing of external debts, including the cost of servicing and the payment of external debt alone, which we estimate will amount to some 190 million dollars. And the fourth consequence of the importance is the effect of stimulating investment. According to the Ministry of Economics, in 2008, national producers of investment oriented products, primarily machinery, will be able to save about two billion dollars for the purchase of the product. We also need to consider possible negative trends that we feel can be overcome. First of all, it's a decrease, a possible decrease in export earnings and a corresponding gross profit, first of all in. Exporters. The second result may be a decrease compared to what we could get at a higher budget rate, but when the question is right, it's also a point that will depend on the government's literacy policy and joint activities and the National Bank of Ukraine. With regard to the impact on overall growth and savings, there are significant positive effects and those that will be relevant to development in general. I want to say again that all the impacts on Ukraine's economy should be considered in complex with other processes that are taking place in the development of our economy. I would like to point out that, in our view, in terms of savings, the population is saving its share of income, both in foreign currency and in national currency. The level of savings will increase, in our view, and the dollar may fall considerably. But in the medium term, the strengthening of the bracelet will reduce the cash flow of foreign currency and the level of foreign currency deposits in the Ukrainian banking system. So there's going to be some dedolorization of the economy that we're seeing at the moment. As for the 2009 forecast, 2008, 2009, I would like to point out that the Government of Ukraine has developed 2009 economic and social development forecasts for Ukraine and the main macro indicators for the years to come, during which macro indicators will also be clarified in 2008. The National Bank also worked on the project and provided an expert opinion on the forecast. We are studying the whole situation in this direction and, of course, the Ministry of Economics of Ukraine responds to all the manifestations that take place in the national economy and give its own conclusions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u218	Thank you, Bogdan Mikhailovich. Colleagues, please sign in, five minutes: questions, answers. Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u219	Dear Bogdan Mihajlovich, I have already told Viktor Mikhajlovich Pinzenik that, in my view, this is an unsuspecting competition involving the Government between rising prices and rising social payments, because it is clear to everyone that the people here will lose, first of all, because the social index and price increases will be ahead of social payments and social payments will be eaten by inflation. But it is surprising that the Government is trying to combat inflationary disease by reviving the bracelet. As a result, we are cutting off exports, cutting off export prospects, is 25 to 50 per cent of GDP. You're not afraid of a trade deficit. export-import operations can achieve such an objective that a wake-up call will take place, and then instead of re-evaluation, we will receive a devaluation of the bracelet when the dollar is 7-8 bracelets? That's when it's gonna be a disaster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u220	Dear Mikhailo Vasilovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! I would like to say that the government attaches great importance to the production of anti-inflationary issues to the government’s interaction with the National Bank of Ukraine. And as we can see, by now and by May, we're going to have a significant decrease in consumer prices. I'd like to say that the question you're raising is really relevant. I think it's relevant not only to our government, but to all previous governments, because around the world it's known that, first of all, in normal calculations, we need to use indicators that are related to the growth and growth of gross domestic product, the increase in productivity. On this basis, it is appropriate to develop social standards that balance the growth of gross domestic product, the level of productivity of work and all other social benefits. I would also like to point out that these anti-inflationary measures prepared by the Government of Ukraine have been tested in world and international financial institutions, we.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u221	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u222	It's the right result. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u223	Paul Zebravsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u224	Minister, have you approved the macro indicators, or have you calculated the budget for amending the Budget Act? That's the first question. The second question is, did you calculate the foreign trade balance? And the third question, please tell me, is that today only monetarys are active. So what are we talking about? Revaluation of the bracelet, sterilization of money in a single treasury account, and so on. In fact, these are monetary instruments. In fact, we have a few crises today. The first crisis is food. And what did you do with that as a minister of the economy, as a person responsible for this direction of activity, what anti-inflation measures to actually increase production? Not that the weather is conducive to us today, but what effective tools will economic factors influence the supply of food? Instead of importing 250,000 tons of duty - free meat and sugar. And then there's another way.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u225	Let me finish. Come on, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u226	And by industrial production, which today is experiencing a market deficit. What do you predict? What steps? What kind of export support are you going to give to make our external trade balance not so negative? And where are the anti-inflation laws you're talking about? In fact, parliament does not see them today and does not understand what anti-inflationary measures are other than monetary measures.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u227	I want to point out that, in fact, an anti-inflation package that is approved by the government of Ukraine, which, by the way, is located on a web site of the government of Ukraine, includes a whole set of measures other than monetary character and other orientations. I'd also like to say on the second question that we don't have a food crisis. There are issues that relate to the rise in consumer price levels that we have managed to overcome through the appropriate policies of the Ukrainian government. I also want to say that the government of Ukraine is taking a rather comprehensive set of measures to stimulate investment activity. We see, already in the first quarter, a substantial increase in investments in the economy of Ukraine. We understand, of course, the risks our farm may have when entering the World Trade Organization. And those active incentives, and those that already have a place in our agriculture, I think by the end of the year and in the first half of the year they'll have the right results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u228	Alla Alexandrovska.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u229	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. In general, it's understandable that you're trying to calm both the Supreme Council and society, saying that we don't have a food crisis, that we have a stable course in finance and monetary matters and so on. But there's something we need to explain. In your past Government, Timoshenko was in power and the dollar fell back then. Today, Timoshenko is Prime Minister and the dollar is falling again. It's a strange order. And yet you don't answer the specific question that has been answered on several occasions in this room. Still, what are you going to put in the GDP budget now, in terms of inflation, in the wage fund, because it's precisely those indicators that will give us the sense that you're really working and trying to overcome inflation. That's the first one. Then you say there's no food crisis. Today, Timoshenko has repeatedly stated that there is a food crisis on an international scale, an increase in prices that affects rising food prices in Ukraine. What the Government is doing to overcome these negative trends. Because we know that Ukraine does.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u230	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u231	Ukraine is known to be one of five States that can feed food throughout the world. That is, today's world trends in rising food prices can be beneficial for Ukraine, which can supply food to world markets. At the same time, however, the Government is doing nothing in this direction. Say it specifically. These are the indicators that you put in the budget and what specific measures are being taken by the Government today to increase food production, thus lower prices and, including, export food to world markets where prices are rising?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u232	I agree with you in that, in fact, Ukraine, which has an extremely large and important agricultural potential, today can be a country that has all the conditions and the ability to put food on the world market. I want to say, along with the fact that there's now a situation in particular that has evolved, it's not one year or two, due to reckless and reckless policies to stimulate agricultural development, that we're creating internal imbalances even in individual food markets. I want to point out that the government has now set up a special programme to stimulate the development of agricultural production, which will come out of the possibility that agriculture already exists in conditions and principles that are determined by the World Trade Organization and which we believe will also produce the right results in the near future.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u233	Thank you. Two questions, if you can. Gregory Skudar, I think this will be correct. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u234	Dear Bogdan Mikhailovich. You know, Victor Mikhailovich sent us all to the National Bank, and he didn't explain what we were going to do with the currency, and he doesn't think Minfin had anything to do with the currency in the country. You haven't explained anything to us, but there are real questions. First. You see, you're talking about machinery. Engineers have now lost 4 per cent in the course and 6 per cent in the currency conversion to the bracelet. So 10 percent of the price of our product has all fallen. No one raises the price of machine-building in the export market, prices are dictated by the market, not by the machinations that the current authorities are doing here. Please tell me, are you talking about industrial output growth, that's the 4 percent drop you've planned for all exporters or not? You didn't say a single digit, not a single indicator. Second question. The issue concerns a negative trade balance. Last year we did.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u235	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u236	Last year we had a negative balance of $11.5 billion, this year economists, read the press, write that the negative balance would be $20 billion. What does that mean? How can we cover this negative balance? We can cover the loans, we can cover the real estate sale, and we can cover the money that is set up in the National Bank. There are no other sources, all together without Nutzbank, it's only possible to cover 13 billion, so you're going to cover seven billion. And so on. Victor Mikhailovich said he was filling the budget for what? Most of the time, thanks to VAT, all of Europe today applauds this policy, which is being pursued by the current Government and Nitzbank and the President. What's going on today? The goods rushed here because they thought they would return from here by selling products, allowing for eight bracelets for each euro, and for eight bracelets they would buy euros today, and they would sell at the same prices, and nothing in shops or in the market was reduced at prices. Everything's left at the level, now only.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u237	Give me 10 more seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u238	Last and last. And lastly, will you see what exporters are doing today? They stop buying kits, electrical products, cable products, handrails in Ukraine, they all buy currency because it's 10 percent cheaper to buy money than to buy one's own. Tomorrow, there will be a hundred of those businessmen from BUT, and our Ukraine, that they cannot sell their products in their own country. That's what policy you're taking to Ukraine in a few months.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u239	Bogdan Mikhailovich, another replica of colleague Pecklesenko, and you will answer two questions right away and we will close. Please, Hellcat.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u240	Dear Bogdan Mihajlovich, you've had a wonderful performance, I even consider the art reading master class. The trouble is, there was hardly any economy in your statement. You can only think of one question, the Minister of the Economy is speaking in the toughest moments of the country's life, the word “GDP” has not even spoken to you as a term. What are we talking about? You did not say by one indicator in natural calculations such industries as metallurgy, construction, food, agriculture. You're reporting the situation! You don't have any risks, you don't understand that we're on the verge of an economic collapse. Are you reporting everything that's going on in the country's economy?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u241	I am aware of what is happening, what is going on in Ukraine's economy. And by reporting today, I've been talking about both GDP and the GDP growth that we had during this period, that's 6.2 percent and the growth rate that we had in other industries. And in general, I don't think that what you're talking about is going through and going through in the economy. In terms of the second question, I would like to say that the government of Ukraine has now approved a package of measures to reduce the negative balance in external trade. The measures apply, first and foremost, to the development and implementation of import control programmes, to the introduction of more stringent export control procedures, to the distinction between the right to apply the long-term form of tax on imports of goods, and other measures that, in our view, are able to significantly reduce the balance that has been created in recent years. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u242	Thank you. Bogdan Mikhailovich, first question. Has the Ministry of Economics developed a national socio-economic development programme as required by the State Budget Act and has it brought it before the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u243	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, Ministry of Economics, developed a project for the 2008 economic and social development programme and introduced it to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u244	The other one. Is it possible to ask you to write this 2008-2009 program immediately, because it will most likely come to us in September, and there will be nothing left to do? So it would be logical for us to write it down for two years.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u245	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, I would like to say that the Ministry of Economics of Ukraine has now developed a 2009 forecast, so there is a way to unify these two positions and send them to the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u246	Fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the protocol decision does not preclude sending the government together with the wish of 2008-2008 to unite in one document. Okay? Supported. Bogdan Mikhailovich, two questions. Your GDP forecast at the end of the year and your inflation forecast at the end of the year, what's going to be at the macroeconomic rate?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u247	Victor Mikhailovich, reverend Arsenius Petrovich! I wouldn't want to predict inflation now by the end of the year, and I was making my prediction, if anyone didn't know, by the beginning of 2008. We're expecting, and the Ukrainian Ministry of Economics thinks we can have one year. I wouldn't want to publish this too now by the Supreme Council, but an indicator that's going to be smaller than last year.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u248	I see.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u249	Inflation.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u250	By GDP, what's the position? Let's go. One point, one last question on inflation, and we're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u251	The nominal gross domestic product is estimated at about 956.8 billion dollars.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u252	How much is real?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u253	We think it's going to have about 6.8 percent growth rate.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u254	Right. I see. Last question on inflation, if you please. I've seen inflationary dynamics in the last eight years, usually June, July, August, either deflationary months, or months, when inflationary dynamics are slowing down very significantly. How do you expect inflationary dynamics in these months? That's three months. So it's been eight years.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u255	We're expecting a substantial slowdown in inflation in May, which is going to be a much smaller indicator than the ones that even had last year and June, July and August, I think there will be indicators that will stimulate and develop production and characterize economic situations.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-04-m0.u256	Thank Bogdan Mikhailovich. Welcome to combat baptism on the rostrum. Thank you. We're looking forward to the State Economic and Social Development Programme. I declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council closed.
