ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u1	To all of you, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine, I ask to register with the "Council" system. [[10:01:46]] The number of deputies registered in the session hall is 415 national deputies in Ukraine. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, I would like to welcome, on your behalf, Lukyanchuk Ruslan Valeriyovich, with his birthday and Artem Viktorovich. I'd like to say hello. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, today is Wednesday. I ask you to sign up the Ukrainian national deputies for announcements, messages, proposals from the Ukrainian national deputies. Please record a statement from the rostrum. Gretzak Vasil Mikolaiovich, Party of Regions. Colleagues, Gretzak Vasil Mikolaiovich, Party of Regions Who will perform? Another one of the Gods, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, dear Ukraine, an event occurred yesterday for the first time in 16 years of Ukrainian independence, beyond which no human and no Ukrainian citizen can be noticed. Yesterday, with the help of the Ukrainian Security Service, there was an attempt to seize the Harkown City Department. And yesterday a car under the direction of a Ukrainian security officer deliberately attacked the mayor of the city of Harkov and the national deputy of Ukraine, Svetash. This is fixed by a large number of cameras. It can be noted that the attack on local self-government and efforts to establish authoritarian dictatorship in Ukraine has already expanded, including the use of the Ukrainian Security Service as a tool to advance democracy in Ukraine. Yesterday these events indicate that the Security Service becomes the NCCD, that the Security Service, unfortunately, degrades those worthy officers who know what the honor of an officer is, what law and order is. That's why the Party of Regions is urgently demanding. I'm asking you not to distract the speaker! The Honorable Speaker! The requirement of the Regional Party is that tomorrow morning the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine and the SBA Service be called before the Supreme Council by 10 a.m. to answer the questions raised today in a parliamentary request that is currently being registered. The decree will now go through the registration of the Supreme Council. We must demand that, first, the immediate release from office of the head of the U.S.S.A. in the Kharkiv region of Muhatayeva, be immediately required by the Attorney General's Office for all criminal matters. Investigating on this issue in Kharkiv, the immediate violation of a criminal case against S.B.I. workers who yesterday prevented the National Deputies from performing their duties -- once again, the second -- by violating the rules of the road movement on the National MP and the senior official -- the mayor; and the third, we demand that the post be dismissed immediately, once again, I say, Muhatayeva is the head of the Kharkiv S.B.U. If tomorrow we do not meet the requirements of the report of the Attorney General's Office and the Ukrainian Security Service, we leave the right to move on to radical remedies. Tomorrow we'll see who are really supporters of democracy, who really says that the law is one for all. And I want to warn all the deputies: if you don't respond now to the fact that the B.S.U.V. is driving on to the National MP and the mayor, this will be done tomorrow with each of you. We have to stop the attack on democracy, we.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u3	Thank you. Tarasjuk Boris Ivanovich. Tarasjuk Boris Ivanovich, colleagues! Right. Colleagues, I'm asking for order in writing and in writing. Upper Sergey Petrovich, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Upper Sergey Petrovich, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Tomenko Mikola Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that yesterday the Supreme Council of Ukraine acted in accordance with the current legislation and the Rules, because today I hear some complaints about the legal purity of yesterday's decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which was voted for by BUT, “Our Ukraine”, the Communist Party of Ukraine and the deputies headed by Volodymyr Litvin of the “Block of Lithuania” regarding the timely election of the Kiev City Head and the Kiev Council. I want to inform you as the head of the commission of inquiry that, according to the materials that came to the commission, I passed these materials on to the Head of the Supreme Council, and before it was decided on the matter of the information of the commission of inquiry, the Supreme Council and the Chief of Staff had the materials of the Cabinet of Ministers, the State Commission, and other institutions, where there was serious information regarding the violation of current legislation in this area. I also handed over copies of court decisions involving violations of the activities of the Kyiv city’s head and the Kiev system of authority. Thus, the availability of these documents, as well as the decisions of the committee, gave good reason to consider the matter yesterday. What I'm trying to say is that our faction demanded the leadership of the Supreme Council to address this issue, and we convinced and did everything we could to make sure that the issue was addressed. So any attempt to convince us that this spontaneous decision, unprepared in my opinion, does not withstand any criticism. I want to say that the commission of inquiry continues to work. I want to calm everyone down, and the Kiev authorities that we just started working. I think we're going to be listening to the DA's office in the session room in the near future, because for two years, no criminal case has been opened up, based on the findings of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and other institutions. I think we've matured up to listen to the head of the Central Electoral Commission, who just, well, counternaturally for a few months or made the C.V.C.C. sick in a straight and portable sense of words, and executes the decision of the false judges of the Plain District and yesterday's session of that confirmation. So I'm absolutely convinced that in the Kiev case, we were doing the right thing. And from my point of view, yesterday's story in Kharkiv, I'm going to say as a citizen and a national MP, worried me, too. I think this is provocation, and this provocation does not honor the Ukrainian Security Service. I believe that such provocations destabilize the situation in Ukraine and such provocations at the hands of those who are not interested in stability in Ukraine and order in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u5	Tarasjuk Boris Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u6	Boris Tarasyuk, National Movement of Ukraine, faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear colleagues, Ukraine has not yet been able to comment on the separatist statements and calls that were made in Siverodonecka in 2004 by anti-government officials, as the entire Ukrainian public is now observing the emergence of new separatists in the Zakartat region. The official start of the escalation of this dangerous phenomenon was made on March 7, last year, when the Zacarpathian District Council adopted a decision to recognize Russian nationality in the territory of the country. I would like to remind you that at the end of the year 93 in the Zakartat region, 55 people claimed to be Russians, 96 at the end of 94, and 10 thousand 183 inhabitants of the Zakartat region declared their belongings to the Russians in 2001. The artificial and purely political nature of the Russians at Zakarpatta is evident. The recognition in Zacarpathian territory of a particular Russian nationality is absurd from a scientific point of view, wrong in its essence and provocative from a political point of view. Because in this way it is artificially dismembered by the same ethnicity, which in different periods of history, as in other Ukrainian lands, had different names: the ancient “Russia” and the present “Ukraine”. In the same spirit, the Zacarpathian District Council addressed the issue of acceptance of the flag of the area. It's a strange thing to want a separate section of the MP's hull to be approved as a flag in the area of blue and white and red tricolor. Political initiators of the decision to approve the flag of the Zacarpathian region of the blue and white-red tricolour made statements to the Zacarpathian District Council, which are supported and subordinated to the head of the President's Secretariat. A number of information and propaganda measures have been carried out in the area to support the approval of the tricolour. The National Movement of Ukraine is convinced that such processes can lead to the creation of a precondition for internal confrontation, both within one of the areas of Ukraine, where a historical community of people of different nationalities, who have lived in peace and harmony for centuries, and in other areas of Ukraine. In this movement, the problem of East-West Ukraine is artificially exacerbated and the scenario of decentralization of power is programmed, the possibility of confrontation within the country. I believe that similar political games can lead to separatist movements in Ukraine. The National Movement of Ukraine requires the leadership of the Zakartat region.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u7	Tedev Elbrus Soslanovic. Party of regions, Deputy Tedeev. From the rostrum, colleagues, please. None. Alexeyev, Simonenko. Anna Mikolayevna, are you? I can't see. Please, Anna Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u8	Dear colleagues are national deputies, distinguished fellow journalists, distinguished viewers and listeners who are now listening and seeing us, as we have just heard of the separatist movements in Zakarpat. The collapse of democracy is also evidenced by the statement made yesterday by members of the Lviv District Council, who requested the President to ban the Party of the Regions, the Communist Party and a number of public organizations. The appeal of Lviv district council deputies to the President for banning the activities of the Party of the Regions shows that all calls for the unification of Ukraine, which has been heard from this region, is a complete fiction. What's more, it shows that there are serious forces ready to dismantle democracy, and unfortunately, these forces, as we can see, are in Galicina. How else can we explain the fact that the President was approached, not by a bunch of ignorant people blinded by hatred, but by a member of the district council of the region who called himself the Ukrainian Pied Piper? It's more than an alarming signal, and he has to find an adequate answer in the walls of Parliament. If we fail to respond properly to it, tomorrow, in a similar statement, we will be required to arrest all politicians who think differently from the Lviv District Council. The National Patriots of Lviv have demonstrated how deeply they do not take 35 percent of the voters in Ukraine who voted in favour of the Party of Regions. And this statement by the Lviv district council deputies is a provocation. This is a political provocation aimed at inciting our power plant in the southeast to an adequate response. But I want to assure you, my fellow countrymen, and all of Ukraine's citizens, our electorate to the Eastern and Southern District Councils will not give in to this provocation because our deputies have something to do. They need to think about what to feed the country, how to stop galloping inflation, and how to reduce gas prices. They should think about what the ruling coalition cannot take care of today. However, we must today give an adequate assessment of such a kind of statement, such a kind of patriot. In this regard, I propose that we gather signatures in Parliament to appeal to the President, as well as to international organizations, in which we should not only condemn the provocative appeals of Lviv authorities but also qualify them as such.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u9	Let me finish one minute, please. Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u10	actions leading to destabilisation and further division of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u11	Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u12	Dear colleagues! Dear voters! The Ukrainian Company's faction points out that in addition to clan bickering, there has already been a start in the field in Ukraine. And it's going to be able to plant about 16 million hectares, feed about 9 million hectares, farm the soil at three million hectares, all of which is about 28 million hectares. To carry out this complex, the fuel requirement is two million, 346,000 tons, including a million, 743,000 tons of diesel fuel. Today, the amount of mineral fertilizer that the village can use allows on average only 27 kilograms [27 kg] of nutrients per hectare, which is not enough. As a result of the fluctuations in world oil prices and the temporary halting of domestic oil companies, average fuel prices are steadily rising. In the current year alone, the average fuel prices were 5 000,600 dollars per tonne in January, February 5. 900, in March 6,270 dollars per tonne, an average of 60 percent more than last year. It is estimated that some 14 billion dollars are needed to buy fuel at the prices that have been collected. Such costs will result in an increase in the cost of crops by one and a half times. The introduction to WTO can create a dangerous situation with food security in general. The Communists insist that the Supreme Council urgently consider the issue and assign the Cabinet of Ministers to develop and approve a package of measures to ensure that spring-field work is carried out this year. And to that end, we think the government needs to take urgent action: to provide full funding for the plant and animal programs envisaged in the state budget for this year, in the changes to the budget, and to allocate additional funds to partially offset the cost of complex agricultural products, to allocate the required amount of fuel-oil materials, mineral fertilizers, plant protection products, techniques, spare parts, machinery and equipment. Take measures to reduce the cost of fuel oil and mineral fertilizers for agricultural producers to prevent a significant increase in the cost of production. Thus, the Communist faction repeatedly points out that today the problem of food security is very acute in the state, and all the actions that unfortunately today accompany life and organization of work in the Supreme Council do not allow us to be sure that we will help our rural workers. And to the end. Dear colleagues, I propose to honor the memory of the deputy deputy deputy deputy commander of the Kosovo commanding officer, Senior Lieutenant Igor Kennel, who died, and is the next victim of the “orange” regime in Ukraine. I ask you to honor the memory of Igor Kennel, who died as a result of this policy of the underprivileged.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u13	Sit down, comrades. Lavrinovich Alexander Volodymyrovich. Lavrinovich was. Landik? Please, colleague Landik.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u14	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Strangely enough, despite the particular severity of the problems that have arisen in Parliament, we continue to have the practice of creating or transferring Maidan here to the highest legislative body. We have somehow forgotten about economic issues, and they have somehow left us out of interest, and even a speaker who is an economist. To date, Ukraine's long-term development strategy has not been developed. What are we going to do in 2009, 2015, 2020? But let me say, let's go down to the wrong land, and let's look at the issues that small business, medium business and big business are asking today. That's the scream of the soul. In practice, all Ukrainian enterprises exporting their products are requesting the secretariat of the Party of the Regions not to refund the value added tax. I recall that the minimum return period was 4 months, that three months had been prepared and the month had been reviewed by the tax declaration. And this is, like snow on the head, Presidential Decree No. 155 of 25 February of this year on the decision of the NSA on national security. Where it is directed to the Cabinet of Ministers to amend VAT by 15 March and extend the deadline for consideration of the tax declaration to 60 days. That is, the State will use our money for five months. How can you do that? Business leaders keep talking about it, we really do have what people say and talk about it, we go out to the Cabinet of Ministers and we start yelling, "Give us our money!" But we don't say that; we stop when we stop, but we have to deal with these issues. We always have the answer: we have abuse. Let's get whoever's making VAT, put them in jail with everyone, and finish this. But the VAT should be paid. Why Europe? Why is it that when you leave Europe, VAT is given to you right away, no matter what you buy. We've got five months and they won't give it away. Very bad. The second question I was going to say is once again the return of ours. on the work of our declarations, i.e. documents that relate specifically to customs materials. We clearly understand that the long-term treatment scheme has been abolished. Nope. I mean, they don't give in there, they don't give in here, they don't give in here on export, they want money. And so we all go to credit, we all stop businesses. That's not a good question! That's not how it works! Therefore, it is proposed that all the money in Minfin be accumulated and that we speak both to the customs office and to the budget service, and so that the work can be seen, and there can be no other. And once again, a little second. Let's take a look at the Chamber of Tenders today, get out.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u15	Deputy Popov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u16	Dear National Deputies! On March 16 there was a day in Ukraine for residential and utility workers. The faction of the Party of the Regions thanks the workers of this important sector for their professionalism and their dedication, working under difficult conditions. But despite the holiday mood, it has to be noted that the situation in the field is, unfortunately, extremely complex and can lead to the loss of the population’s ability to obtain hot water, heat, and a stable supply of drinking water. All of this is due to thoughtless steps taken by the government in recent months. First of all, I would like to point out that the Ukraine Budget Act 2008 is not being implemented today. It is known that this law has adopted a decision on the possibility of paying for residential and utility services consumed by the population of Ukraine through the debt-recovery mechanism of the People's Reserve. But the mechanism is still not working. The primal hope that was given to people quickly led to a sharp decline in the wages of the population for residential services consumed. If last year averaged 94 percent, it fell by 77 in January. As a result, household debt increased by more than 40 percent from 16 million to 23 million dollars. Such a trend can lead to devastating socio-political negative processes in the field. The next negative is the absence of gas contracts to date. This does not allow the compensation mechanism to be implemented for utilities and subsidies and dramatically increases their debt for energy consumption. Similarly, delaying the government’s implementation of Ukraine’s budget in the allocation of 2 billion dollars to compensate for the difference in tariffs has resulted in a similar effect. The threat of destruction of the entire sector is rising due to the prospect of an irreversible increase in gas prices for utility companies from July 1st and its possible double increase in the following year. Having 25 percent of the old feral equipment and worn-out networks, which make up an average of 35 percent, the field of termless technical equipment is not ready to accept such a price policy. The cost of housing services can increase by 70 percent. The vast majority of the population will not be able to account for such prices. The situation can be disastrous. Reduced spending on housing and utilities by 1 billion 300 million dollars, technical equipment at risk. The question is, Why is the situation so negative today? There might be two choices here. First. The government does not understand the problem of the field and acts unprofessionally in the face of common sense. The other one. It's a targeted policy that.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u17	Lavrinovich Alexander Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u18	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! I want to go back today to the question that's been going on in this room during every plenary meeting that's stuck in the agenda of its resolution. This is about the law, about the purchase of goods, jobs, and services at the expense of the budget. Yesterday in this room, representatives of various factions and coalitions and opposition spoke of what we finally have to do with the existence of a legal corrupt instrument in the form of a Chamber of Tenders in Ukraine. There is no way to talk, in principle, theoretically, even about any fight against corruption if we have a legally constituted body specifically for this. And how many times do we insist on adopting in the first reading of the draft law is only about improving these corrupt schemes and functioning of this Chamber, which was no alternative to this -- a draft law that envisions a return to the norms of 2004 and repealing completely all the norms that were adopted here in 2005. Risks persist and are said to be an alternative, and we will consider in our second reading the improvement of those schemes that are, which touch on several articles of this law, not the law as a whole. We insist today that the first issue in the agenda be the draft law that was in place yesterday in the order of today's day -- the adoption of a law that was passed by the Ukrainian National Deputies of the Party of the Regions to repeal those laws that created this corrupt scheme and the liquidation of the Tender Chamber as a phenomenon in Ukraine. We hope that this room will be dominated by a public political position, not by the factional union of those who can count and create money from the air.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u19	Grenevetsky Sergey Rafijilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u20	Mr. Arsenija Petrovich, honourable colleagues, announced my parliamentary request to the Cabinet of Ministers last week for the payment of air navigation services by the United States of America for the service of NATO aircraft in carrying out tasks by the international security forces in Afghanistan. At my parliamentary address, the Ministry of Defence and Ukraine reported that between November 1st and November 30th 2007, the Ukrainian space was crossed by 18 NATO member countries from a total of 26. They made 11,000. 456 flights, which were paid a million and a half dollars. All except the United States were paid for, and during that time, 7 thousand,656 flights were carried out in our country. Last August, the United States’ total debt for air navigation services amounted to $9 million,110,000. This sum stands for the one that, according to the 2008 National Budget of Ukraine, should be earmarked, say, for the development of the library. It is much larger than budgeted for the development and functioning of Ukrainian language or for concert and art, cultural public action and State support for regional cultural initiatives and amateur art. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs sent a note of inquiry to the Embassy of the United States. On December 27, 2007, a note was received stating the position of the American side. It is that the United States government does not recognize the congregations as air navigation service for warplanes in such a way that they are legally imposed, and therefore they are not a legitimate debt and cannot be paid. I have received a response from the Ministry of Transport, which states that the Ministry of Transport and Communications is currently working with the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine and the State Tax Administration on the loan of Ukraine's debt to the gross cost of Ukraine and the recognition of United States debt as hopeless. Moreover, U.S.S.A. informed the U.S. Embassy of a change in the order of air navigation services for U.S. aircraft and that these services still do not require payment. This cannot help but be surprised by questions and questions: What are the reasons for accepting a hopeless debt? Why should Ukraine show generosity to a state whose military budget was 528 billion last year? How do the United States feel about Ukraine, which they call their strategic partner? And why did neither the governments nor the President settle this issue, deal with such an apparently abnormal and discriminatory situation for Ukraine? What steps are being taken to protect our national interests? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u21	Thank you, Sergey Raphaelovich. Dear colleagues, the time for the speech is over. We had two statements from the national deputies, which oblige me to put these questions to the vote as the head of Parliament. There was a statement by the faction of the Party of the Regions about hearing tomorrow information from the Attorney General and the head of the Ukrainian Security Service. Colleagues, I ask you to put this in order of the day and consider the questions tomorrow. I ask the faction of the Party of the Regions to form a request accordingly, in order to inform both the Attorney General and the Head of the Security Service in writing, under the conditions of effective voting. So that we can start a work day on these issues if a decision is made now. That's why I'm putting the question to the vote. Alexander Mikolaiovich, do you want a word? Well, this is about tomorrow's question that we're currently discussing: the D.A. and the Attorney General's Office? Is it relevant? Not applicable. Let's vote first. So, I'm putting to the vote a question about the invitation tomorrow by the Attorney General of Ukraine and the head of the Ukrainian Security Service to the faction of the Party of the Regions to provide relevant information about the city of Kharkiv. Please vote. [[10:35:02]] For 224 The decision is not taken. I'm asking you to show me the factions. Region Party – 174, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko” – 1, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” – 2, Communists – 27, “Clock of Lithuania” – 20. My colleagues, why don't we go back to the polls? We'll spend an hour at all, 30 minutes with the Attorney General and the head of the Security Service. This will be right and democratic. A resonant question in society. Resonant. Come on, I'm asking you to go back to voting on this question. I would like to consider returning to the vote for the invitation of the Attorney General and the head of the Security Service. [[10:35:53]] For 222 Unfortunately, no decision is made. Please show by factions. Thus, neither the Attorney General nor the head of the Security Service is invited to Parliament. Now, with regard to these also factions of the Party of Regions under the State Procurement Bill. I wanted to remind you once again that yesterday, when we voted on the schedule of meetings, it was clearly stated that the bill on public procurement is being considered or today -- today it is not being considered because it is not included in the agenda -- or tomorrow. Pick up the stenogram, it's all clearly written. Alexander Mikolaiovich Tkachenko, please turn on the microphone. From the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u22	Dear colleagues, I think there's a lot of talk going on around this bill and we're seeing from the faction of the “Regions”. I think about the law that is in force in Parliament today, it was passed on March 12th and entered into force in 2007. What are the claims to the Tender Chamber, which claims to be to an interdisciplinary commission? [[B in m in s a l in]] For breaking the law? And give me one article. Don't make any noise. Name at least one article that is being violated by a solicitor or by an interdisciplinary commission. The second, the Tender Chamber until August 2007, was headed by the Party of the Regions for three years. After December 27, 2007, the Interministerial Commission led the Party of the Regions. I was elected from the faction two months ago.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u23	Alexander Mikolaiovich, thank you. Let me finish, say the last sentence you mean, as head of the Committee on Economic Policy on the passing of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, you and I, together in this room literally a month ago, reviewed the bill and adopted 282 votes in the first reading. This bill is being finalized today, it's in its final stages. We took into account the proposal of the President's bill, which we considered, but the President called it off. We are now asking this bill to return it to its workings and to bring this question to this room on April 3. What decision will the Hall make is the matter of the Supreme Council. But I would not want us to go into a relationship with those who today want to undermine both the law and the Tender Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u25	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you once again that a decision was made yesterday. In order not to consider the Law on State Procurement, therefore, this issue will have to be put to the vote tomorrow. It's included in the agenda of tomorrow's session, tomorrow's plenary meeting. Colleagues, I'd like to move on to the day-to-day issues. Bill 1374 and 1374-1, this is a draft of the Ukrainian Law on the All-Ukrainian Referendum. Do you want to proceed with the procedure? Okay. Five minutes, please. Litwin Yuri Alexiyovich, “Block of Lithuania”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u26	Please pass the word to Vaszczuk Katherina Timothy.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u27	Vaszczuk Katerina Timofievna
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u28	The Lithuanian Bloc raised this question. It concerns us as well as our constituents. And we insist that this issue be addressed as soon as possible. You can not break the law, but the rules are written so that they impose additional budget costs on a budget that is so scarce for hospitals, for schools, for social infrastructure and do not allow them to provide all the necessary functions in a timely manner. Unless deaf and blind can hear the whole of Ukraine screaming about it. So we insist that this issue be considered tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u29	Blue Artem Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u30	I'd like to take the floor for you, Anne Nikolayevne.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u31	Anna Mikolayevna Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u32	The faction of the Party of the Regions repeats its position that we are behind the liquidation of the Tender Chamber and we will vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u33	Thank you. Naydenov, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u34	Please give the floor to Petra Nikolaevich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u35	Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u36	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that you were all deaf and blind when this law was voted in 2000 and the Company warned you that it was a thief's law. That's a first. For seven years, you've been bending all over Ukraine and putting up with everything you're talking about right now. The Communist faction has offered to radically change the situation, particularly through public procurement policies and proposals for both schools and education and all others who wish to enjoy it today. But I want to warn you. What they want to do now, especially to the electorate. Those who are now without improvement, radical change, propose to resolve, in fact, to ensure and give the heads of administration areas and areas the right today to 75 billion grivens, in fact, to deploy and thereby ensure the future elections of the President of Ukraine. That's why a faction of communists insists on radically changing approaches.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u37	Andrew Schlell.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u38	Thank you. Well, I like the usual position of the Party of Regions, which has been leading the Tender Chamber for three years, has prepared a bill that the Tender Chamber is operating on today and is flooding everyone's hall behind the skin, and now it turns out that they want to eliminate it. I think we could suggest that we head up again, maybe the Tender House Regional Party, because they'd lead it well. They would, of course, have put these funds in place to make money in the Chamber of Tenders, in opposition activities, in order to consolidate democracy in Ukraine. Hence, it may be with such suggestions to leave, not to tell, that it should be eliminated now. We should have eliminated it three years ago, and now we don't have to say we're sorry for ousting the Chamber of Tenders, but we did a bill and unanimously vote, and at least to say we're sorry that we headed it for three years. I'm sorry, we've managed to form a system that's now embarrassing. And then it would be fair and fair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u39	Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u40	Viacheslav Kirilenko, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense". First of all, I want to report the faction position after tomorrow. In the morning, we are ready to consider only two issues of the agenda: the lifting of the MP's immunity and the lifting of the Tender Chamber. As long as we don't consider these other issues of order tomorrow, I'm sorry, they're not interested. Because people are focused on these issues, and until we reach a positive decision on these two, our faction will not consider other issues. First. Secondly, today is the day of opposition. But it's a good will on the part of the coalition, but for the good will to be mutual, I suggest that the apparatus now join the agenda on every issue of alternative bills that deal with today's issues of order. Including those introduced by the President of Ukraine. None of the issues put forward by the President here are now on issues that will be considered today. I think these posters have to be recorded on the stand, they're closing State Hymn, Herb, Arseny Petrovich, give the command to do this.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u41	Spok Vasil Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u42	I ask you to pass it on to Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u43	Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u44	Thank you. Dear Arseny Petrovich! Dear colleagues! You know, from time to time, every day more precisely in the session room than the same people do, something like Carthage is going to be destroyed, it's going to be a previous performance. You know, Carthage needs to be destroyed by his hands, not by strangers, take it and destroy it, and don't engage in agitation and propaganda. Take and destroy once, or you fail, and the propaganda continues. But I'm on the other side. You know, the Committee on Education recently reviewed my bill on the substantial increase in student scholarships. The idea was that there was not enough money. So I want to answer those seven billion dollars in government purchases that were put in my pocket in 2007, we have to transfer them to a student scholarship, and we're going to have a great generation to come. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u45	Thank you, Your Honor. The time for the performance is over. I'd like us to move on to the agenda. The replicas were, Alexander Sergiyovich had a replica of Ephraim, and Viácheslav Kirilenko had a replica, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u46	Thank you, Arseny Petrovich. Dear colleagues, I would like to see justice in this room. And if we are talking about the solicitation chamber and we are trying to blame the Party of the Regions on something, then we must remember all the processes that have taken place. At a time when individual groups of comrades were trying to sanctify their actions by corrupting the solicitation chamber, they invited Richter to become an honorary member. She was three months old enough to understand what was going on last year. And the Party of the Regions last year came out with a draft law, abolishing the solicitation chamber. If you remember, the same vote took place for the first time in the Hall and our coalition colleagues did not support us in that vote. For the second time, we put the matter in the room and voted in favour of the repeal, unfortunately, that law was then written by the President of our State and we did not receive the document that we were to receive for another year.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u47	Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u48	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. Dear colleagues, I can confirm, indeed, that Carthage must be destroyed and the MP's integrity and the Chamber of Tenders must be abolished. And I call on you not to iron out some of this, but to vote tomorrow for cancelling the MP's immunity. And one more thing, our faction speaks to the Head of the Supreme Council officially. Dear Arsenia Petrovich! Please give the command to the Supreme Council, Arsenija Petrovich, you are being hindered. Arsenija Petrovich, please give an order to the Supreme Council apparatus so that the poster that closes the national coat of arms in Ukraine on the parliamentary stand is withdrawn. Because it's a violation of both regulations and political ethics. That's our requirement.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u49	Thank you, colleagues. Time for the speech is over, let's get to work. As for today. I would like to remind everyone that today is the first time in the history of the Ukrainian Parliament that a classic day of opposition has been formed. So there's no bill that's being tabled by the coalition, just bills and issues that are of interest to the opposition today. I think it's a very good practice that we should set out in the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, so that we don't have to question when this day and how the agenda is shaped. The other one. As for my request at the rostrum. If I could ask you to take this poster off -- because I would have taken it off myself, but I'm uncomfortable going down because I need a meeting to be held -- and put it on the next stand -- it's going to be correct, well, on another platform. There's a government herb of Ukraine that doesn't belong to the government coat of arms, I ask a colleague to take off, please put a poster there, fellow silence, hang a poster, give the poster it's not yours. We can't figure out the poster. Now for the third question. Is there no herb on the rostrum? There is no Herb – hang at the place of the poster. There's no Herb. Let's plug Herb in, then they won't hang out crying. All honorable, comrades, there is no Herba--there is a poster. Next up, colleagues, on issues of the order of the day. Comrades, calmly, have passed the poster stage, allow me to continue to hold meetings, because we have extremely important drafts on the agenda. The Supreme Council's apparatus, I request that the order of business be given in the manner prescribed by the Rules. If there is a basic bill, there will be a registered alternative bill of 1374. What's missing is now being worked out and we're voting accordingly, and more specifically, we don't need a vote, I'm going to make changes to the relevant meeting, to the schedule of meetings. I ask that you begin the procedure for the consideration of Bill 1374. Draft Law on the All-Ukrainian Referendum. Reporting by Ukrainian national deputy Lavrinovich Alexander Volodymyrovich. Please, Alexander Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u50	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues! The draft Law on the All-Ukrainian Referendum is not the first time in this room; it has a heavy fate. And we know that after the adoption of the Ukrainian Constitution, we all rejoiced that we have, at the highest legislative level, the right of Ukrainian citizens to participate directly in the leadership of state affairs. And to implement the fact that the Ukrainian people are the only source of power, we have 69 articles of the Constitution that provided for the possibility of the citizens of Ukraine to adopt decisions, directly by voting in all-U.S. referendums. Why have we gone so long to this day, which I understand will be just as unhappy as the last days for this law. Since there has always been a question where the rhag was: How will the existence of this law contribute to or limit the ability of a head of state who can add something to his authority? This was a question that was twice the cause of the veto at the approval in this Hall of the Law on the All-U.S. referendum, and this was the reason why it was not adopted several times in this sessionary room. This law, which you are now proposing, provides for the organization and order of the conduct of all-U.S. referendums; it defines the concept of an all-U.S. referendum, the basic principles of its implementation, in particular the referendum on the National Initiative, and the referendum on amendments to the Constitution; and if such changes are so extensive that a new revision of this Basic Law will be made, as well as the holding of a nationwide referendum on the change in the territory of Ukraine; it sets out the principles of the participation of Ukrainian citizens in the referendum, changes in the rights of citizens to participate in this exercise are revealed; it lays down the principles of financial security, preparation and conduct of the entire Ukrainian referendum. A separate chapter sets out the specific features of the appointment of the All-U.S. National Initiative referendum; the All-U.K. referendum on changes to the Constitution of Ukraine and the approval of its new edition; the All-U.S. referendum on change in Ukraine; and the establishment of an order for the launch of a campaign to be launched in the U.S. referendum; regulates the right of citizens to demand an all-U. referendum; the holding, formation and registration of initiative groups and all the technological procedure required to ensure that we are able to ensure the right of citizens to their will. Similarly, a separate chapter provides for the organization and determines the system of the commission to ensure that the referendum is held. The law in force today, which was adopted in the Ukrainian Soviet Republic in 1991, provides for a completely different system of electoral commissions than the one that is actually operating in Ukraine today, so this chapter also needs to be brought into line with the realities of today and in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine, and with those institutional instruments that should ensure the holding of an all-U.S. referendum. The voting order, the establishment of the results of the U.S. referendum, the content, the order of production and the transfer of ballot papers in the U.S. referendum, the manner in which they are delivered to the commissions, the organization and order of voting, the order in which the voting will be calculated in the section of the U.S. referendum, the order in which the results of the U.S. Central Electoral Commission will be established. What is very important is how the outcome of the referendum is determined and what the results are. To this end, special articles have been provided to determine which of the voting of all countries has been effective since the announcement of the results by the Central Electoral Commission and which are required for consideration by the authorities of the State to which these questions are addressed by the Constitution of Ukraine. I have to say that, in addition to the fact that this draft law fulfils the function of implementing constitutional provisions, it is one of the organic laws for the implementation of the Ukrainian Constitution, it also, of course, and it places, in accordance with article 19 of the Constitution, within a certain framework all authorities of the State and all officials who should act solely on the basis and in a manner defined by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. Today we have an alternative draft law that will also be considered after this project is presented. I would probably like to say a few words about what they are and why they are different. If the draft law that I report to you today provides for the possibility of implementing the rights of citizens and regulating the activities of the public authorities, then the bill, which will be submitted later, provides for a substantial extension of the powers of the Head of State, in spite of the Constitution of Ukraine and the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, which has decided that the list of its powers is exhaustive and is not subject to enlargement. And what, let's say, article 30 of this law provides for the possibility of the President of Ukraine appointing a legislative referendum, if the Supreme Council does not approve the law that it wants, it can pass it on to a referendum, and thus, to the Parliament to ensure parallel legislative activity. But most of all, it's not that. Above all, the alternative draft law has one strategic objective: to ensure that this year, in Ukraine, an all-U.S. referendum on the adoption of the new Constitution, which will be prepared for the President, will be submitted personally to an all-U.S. referendum in order to change the constitutional order of the state. I think we have the ability to determine whether we need a project to ensure the implementation of constitutional provisions, whether we need a project that will promote and ensure parallel legislative action without parliament, and which will work to change the constitutional order in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u51	Please sign up for a question-answer. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u52	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense”. Ladies and gentlemen, please tell us from a legal point of view whether a bill can be put to the table -- any, a genius bill -- if it has been drawn by four committees, including legal policy, the State budget, Euro-integration -- and no conclusions have been drawn to the deputies, no conclusions have been drawn from the Scientific and Expert Office. [[That's what I'm talking about, because you were the minister of justice.]] And you're asking that question today! And I asked, and so I turned, saying, "Dear Mr. Minister of Justice! Dear Head of the Supreme Council, I address you. Let us put an end to the practice that now prevails in the Supreme Council. I've asked you two questions, two of the laws that are laid down in violation of the Rules. And you're doing the same thing again. That's why. And now I haven't been told about it in the morning. Maybe they took off the question and wouldn't be like that. I wish I could.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u53	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u54	I think it is, of course, more than a matter for the Head of the Supreme Council, but I can say that the Supreme Council's Rules provide for the obligation to deal with the previous issue on the committees and take 30 days to do so. That bill I'm going to report has already been registered in the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament for over two months, and as far as I know, there are two committees' decisions. The Committee on Legal Policy has supported the project that I'm about to report to you. This meeting took place yesterday, and yesterday I know that this bill was being considered on the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government. There was another decision made, which is likely to be reported. Why aren't they given? It's a question, as you can understand, not to me, I don't ensure the distribution of documents and the distribution of documents. And as for other institutions of the Supreme Council, I think their functions should be provided by the Chief of the Supreme Council and the Chief of Staff. And you have to ask them these questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u55	Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u56	Dear Alexander Vladimirovic, we know of the tragedy in Kosovo, where more than 10 people have been injured and one of them has died while protecting the interests of the Ukrainian people. We know that our rulers, contrary to the will of the people, are seeking to force the country into NATO by breaking the will of the people through their knees. In doing so, the gateways will be opened for our children to shed blood and store their heads again, again, in the interests of whose interests, the interests of America, the North Atlantic bloc, but not the interests of Ukraine. I have a question, respectable Alexander Vladimirović, does today's law establish a legislative algorithm that allows the leadership of the country to ignore the will of the people without shame, but rather the people in the referendum to determine their own destiny and the rulers to do the will of the people in the referendum? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u57	Of course, this bill deals with the question of holding a referendum on the people's initiative, which is how I understand the essence of your question. And the will to be expressed in such a referendum, following the conclusion of the Central Election Commission, must be a mandatory subject of consideration by those public authorities that, in accordance with the Constitution, approve decisions. I think that those authorities that ignore the will of their citizens have no right to work on behalf of them and to make decisions on behalf of the Ukrainian people.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u58	Svetoslav Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u59	I'd like to give the floor to Deputy Bondik, who.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u60	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, would you please tell me whether this law will really be the impetus that will allow the President to make any decisions as a guarantor of the Constitution regarding the opening of the referendum? As we know, this is his responsibility. Sadly, however, the Law on Referendum of the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic has been in force to this day. So, I think that your bill is very right, and its urgent need to accept it in this room, it will solve many contradictions -- both with NATO and with other issues that are accepted by the people, with the will of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u61	As you can understand, we have a constitutional rule that the head of state declares a referendum at the national initiative. And you realize that there is no law in place to implement this standard. Because the Law on the All - Ukrainian and Local Referendums in force today could not be foreseen in principle today, for at that time there was no President of Ukraine in Ukraine. And there's an institution like the Presidium of the Supreme Council of the U.S.R.R. It is understandable that the adoption of this law will bring this party into line, and it is foretold that the proclamation of referendums at the national initiative is an absolute duty of the head of state. And there's a procedure that has been set out, in order to comply with all the necessary legal requirements, that the President of Ukraine, in accordance with the law, should declare such a referendum, it should be held, and its results should be taken into account by all without exception by the authorities of the State.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u62	Thank you. Alexander Volodymyrovich, could I ask you a question?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u63	This is an honor, Arsenija Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u64	It's an honor to give it to you. Alexandre Volodymyrovich, the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, introduced a content that indicates that we are now under-appreciating no 1374 or 1374-1 at all, because we have concluded that these two bills should be unified and in some way submitted to the Ukrainian Parliament, namely, it does not fully meet the rules and, more precisely, does not meet the rules, because each subject of the legislative initiative is determined for himself what to do. What's your offer? Your proposal is to continue to consider the bill? Because, according to the timetable that we've approved, they're included in the agenda, and the discussion that we're not going to look at them, there can't be until Parliament makes another decision. I mean, your offer -- are we still looking? And what decision do you propose to make as the subject of the legislative initiative? The basis, the re-reading, the removal from consideration at all? What's your vision?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u65	I deliberately said the main points that distinguish these two bills. Of course, there's a lot in common in these projects, because the object is ultimately one, and it's clear enough from the constitutional point of view, and it's also clear that the technology of the universal vote involves certain technological steps. In this regard, it is certainly possible to work together two drafts in part of the technology. But they cannot be united in part — part of whether the norms will be contained in a unified law that conflicts with the Constitution and ignores the decisions of the Constitutional Court, and foresee the possibility of approving the Basic Law of the State and the adoption of laws of Ukraine outside of Parliament in an all-Ukrainian referendum appointed by the President of Ukraine. Here is something that cannot be united. I have always paid very close attention to suggestions on how to come to the understanding and constructive cooperation of all the Ukrainian national deputies and all the political forces. And if there's such a good will that we technologically develop these two draft laws, provided that there are clear limits to constitutionality, I'm willing to support that proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u66	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Thank you. I invite you to the rostrum of Yuri Bogdanovich Klukkowski. 1374-1.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u67	Thank you. Dear colleagues! The institution of the referendum is complex enough to regulate Ukrainian legislation. First of all, this is caused by the fact that the Constitution of Ukraine, and in particular 73 articles, is fundamentally unregulated at the constitutional level. Undoubtedly, the old 91st law, which was applied in practice. However, the practice of applying, unlike electoral legislation, is very expensive. And that's why there's a lot of problems in regulating this law, this institution. I would like to point out that it contains two large parts, slightly different according to the subject matter of regulation. On the one hand, this is a procedural part of the process: collecting signatures, electoral lists, voting procedures, forming committees, districts, and so on. This part is desirable to be as close as possible to the one applied today in electoral legislation, for these are things that are close, even though they have significant differences. However, the most difficult is the institutional part of the law that concerns the question of the appointment of a referendum, the subject of a referendum, the question of a referendum, the legal consequences of a referendum. Regrettably, the bill that colleague Lavrinović reported in this regard remains at the level of the 91st Act, leaving all these issues unresolved despite two decisions of the Constitutional Court. I was under the impression that I had not taken into account the decision of the Constitutional Court, so I say that neither the decision of the Constitutional Court in 2000 in the case of the All-Ukrainian referendum, nor in 2005 in the case of the exercise of power by the people, was the bill of colleague Lavrinovich included. So what are the proposals for a bill that I have the honour to report to you? First of all, the status of the referendum. The Constitution provides for mandatory referendums with their own sphere of competence. This is a referendum on the implementation of the changes in the first, third, 13th chapters of the Constitution and on the change in the territory of Ukraine. Other referendums are optional, and therefore, despite their will, the subject will interfere with the competence of the public authorities. Because they may not be assigned, but these questions will be resolved. And so the question arises, and in whose sphere of authority might a referendum interfere? Can the referendum accept acts of the President, acts of the Cabinet of Ministers, or even acts of individual ministries, orders or orders? The law doesn't say anything about it. Unfortunately, my colleague's bill doesn't say anything. It is therefore envisaged to establish such types of referendums according to their subject matter, constitutional changes to the Constitution, ratification, for example, a change in the territory of Ukraine, which must be implemented by an international treaty, legislative, the Constitution speaks of the inability to consider amnesty bills, budget and taxes, and other bills as nothing can be said. And finally, the general kind of thing that happened in 2000, when it was not specific rules for voting, it was a question in another formulation. Does any question have the right to be referred to a referendum? For example, could a referendum be held on the introduction in Ukraine, such a beloved Communist, of the death penalty? The relevant bill today will be considered by the Supreme Council. In fact, if we yell at what we can, then I say, it's a way of transforming Ukraine into a so-called plebiscite dictatorship, where in all the power and the Supreme Council, too, what some are so afraid of, will be realized all that the left heel of one person is not to be allowed to do. So I propose that we have appropriate requirements for the question of the referendum, not the assumption of emerging questions that provide for the answer in the formulation itself, the inadmissibility of combining specific and non-specific questions, and a number of other limitations. It seems to me that the experience of 2000 when the Constitutional Court removed two issues of the Constitution by classifying them as non-constitutional should finally be a lesson for the Ukrainian legislator. Of course, I admit, once again, I recognize a certain violation of the Ukrainian Constitution with regard to the appointment of a referendum by the President. Indeed, the Constitution does not provide for this, and I admit it. However, in protecting those positions that I proposed in the bill, I would like to make two arguments. First. Tell me, please, what's better: that the President directs a referendum, or that he organizes a life-or-death group or a Berditch initiative group that will propose the drafting of the Constitution of Ukraine or the law of Ukraine for a referendum. We have had the experience of a referendum in 2000 with such initiatives, inspired by the then President, but formally, on a national initiative. And secondly, I would ask them to read carefully whether such a referendum is actually going on, according to my bill, around the Supreme Council. Have you noticed, Mr. President, that there are respected criticisms that the Supreme Council's envisaged right to make an alternative question in the same referendum. And thus to realize the will of the Supreme Council, and the position of the Supreme Council. I would ask you very much not to apply the famous principle: “I have not read, but I do not agree.” As far as the procedure is concerned. I've already mentioned that they should be close to the electorate, but they have a significant difference. If there are specific candidates in the election, there are no such subjects in the referendum. And then there's the question that we've been through with you before about the objectivity of the election boards, and about the principle of equality in agitation. It's a question of the honesty of the referendum, not the falsification of its results. In this regard, allowing what is now proposed in the Legislature of Collegiate Lavrinovich, when the electoral commission is central, or is circumscribed to its discretion, as it wishes, from whom it forms these committees, means allowing the results of the referendum to be manipulated. In order to avoid this, I propose to take advantage of the experience that has been applied in the last consecutive parliamentary elections when the committees formed in parity. And so it is envisaged that anyone who wants to participate in a referendum process or a party, or an all-U.S. public organization, should register with the Central Electoral Commission as supporters or opponents of a referendum. And then the committees have to form in comparison with the proponents and opponents of the referendum issue. This will ensure the objective activity of the committee, its impartiality, and its integrity. And finally, the legal consequences of the referendum. You know, it was a little strange for me to read that there was a referendum on the change in the territory of Ukraine, as proposed in my colleague's bill, and then the adoption by the Supreme Council of Ratification by two thirds of the votes. Please tell me, do we want the results of the referendum to be implemented or not implemented? What will happen if two thirds fail? What about the 2005 decision of the Constitutional Court, by which the referendum decision is final and does not require confirmation by any body. This is also unconstitutional. That's why I want to say it. The bill, which I propose to your mind, regulates the referendum fairly carefully. Those positions there are. That's the first question. Those positions that are controversial, I'm willing to discuss and, with mutual agreement, take them off. At the same time, I would feel that it is necessary not to blame the soul and read the whole bill, but to see only one article in it, for that means unfair discussion. Thanks for the weight.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u68	Please sign up for questions, answers. Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u69	Dear Yuri Bogdanovich! I'm obviously going to have an opportunity to speak today and give my vision and vision of the Lithuanian Block on your bill. But since I didn't have time to say it, about ten minutes ago, I'd like to combine it with a question to you. Please tell me, if you think your bill becomes valid, it is accepted by the Supreme Council. Will it then be possible to organize a referendum so that people can express themselves on this issue, whether the integrity of all who have it in Ukraine must be lifted. Which was voted for by the Block of Lithuania a hundred percent not long ago. Or should there be some manipulation to ensure that some officials, judges, high - ranking workers remain with a sufficiently serious set of, say, immunodeficiency formats. And I'd like you to make a statement on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u70	I thank you so much for asking that question. If you have looked closely at the text of the bill, you may have noticed that there is a difference between a question with a specific proposal when the text of the rule is put to the vote and a question in general formulation, when it is only an idea or a description of the norm in its own words. In the second case, unfortunately, this can't be final, because free text is not a norm and can't have direct action. So if the changes to the Constitution were made and voted in a referendum, it would work. But if people ask, like in 2000, do you want to reduce the number of deputies to make a better life for the people, the result will be the result of the 2000 referendum. I think it's better just here in the hall to vote off the inviolability.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u71	Shevchuk Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u72	Please give the floor to the national deputy Vassil Kravchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u73	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u74	Vasil Kravchuk, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko”. Honorary Yuri Bogdanovich, the bill states that the conduct of the All-U.S. referendum takes place not later than five days after the Supreme Council of Ukraine passed the decree or signature by the President of Ukraine, i.e. the Supreme Council, or the signing of the decree by the President of Ukraine. It's either a presidential decree or a presidential decree or something, and it could be legitimate. And you didn't say that when there's a referendum, when there's 50 percent of the voter turnout or more than 50 percent of the voter turnout. Because if you make changes to the Constitution, it's pretty important. And in general, by listening to both bills, it would probably be right to unite them into one.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u75	Thank you for the offer to unite. I agree with that, and I said that on the committee yesterday. As for your second question, I want to point out that there are two criteria. First, the referendum is to take place. And in order for it to take place, more than 50 percent of the voters on the voter list need to participate. The other one. The decision is made when more than 50 percent of voters voted in favour. So both of these rules have a place. For the first time, I just didn't understand your question, if you were to clarify what the bill was about, I would answer it, because, frankly, I didn't understand what the question was.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u76	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u77	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense”. Dear Yuri Bogdanovich, surely your bill cannot be compared to the previous one, because you have 132 articles for those who have not read this project at all, but in the opponent of 42 articles; a completely different detail, three times more and so on; the depth is theoretical and so on. I mean, I prefer your bill, but it's also raw. And I'd like to ask you. Please tell me, how do you feel about the referendum on change in the territory of Ukraine and change, and acceptance, approval of the new Constitution, which is slightly in conflict with chapter XIII of the current Constitution of Ukraine? [[This is Legislature Lavrinovich, article 5]] So I'm sure something goes beyond the Constitution. Why I need conclusions and legal committees.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, my deep conviction is that a valid Constitution cannot regulate the process of adopting a new Constitution. It can only regulate changes to a valid Constitution. And this is demonstrated by both bills. I'll draw your attention if I'm under the impression that the President may appoint such a referendum on constitutional changes. of the new Constitution, that's what the Supreme Council does in the Lavrinovich project. And it is not clear why this is contrary to the fact that the changes to the Constitution are the subject of such a referendum by the President. I think it's just not settled, and here we have to find the optimal option. It's a subject of expertise, not political debate, and I'm talking about it. To be honest, I did not expect these bills to be passed so quickly. Our Rules somewhat place the authors of alternative bills in unequal conditions. They only have 10 days to pass an alternative bill. It makes me work fast, and that's why I don't take responsibility for the sins that are in the project.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u79	Please finish the dates.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u80	Thank you. But I just wanted to say that I'm willing to work on it further on the basis of professional discussion, not political speculation.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u81	Thank you. I invite you to the podium Vladislav Volodymyrovich Kaskov, head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u82	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, honourable colleagues, first of all, I would like to emphasize that I do not understand the confrontational nature of this discussion. Of course, the law on the All-U.S. referendum is an uninterrupted law, and it allows for the realization of a key fundamental right to government, to democracy. And if you'll excuse me, I'll continue. [[B in m in s a l in]] And that's why I didn't understand the point of this discussion, because each interested party should be interested, first of all, in realizing the very idea of the peoples' ability to do so. With regard to the content of these bills and the committee’s decision. On behalf of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, I have the responsibility to express the position of the Committee on the draft laws on the All-Ukrainian referendum tabled by Deputys Lavrinović Alexander Volodymyrovich and Oliynik Svetoslav Vasilovich and Klukkowski Jurij Bogdanović is an alternative. [[No. 1374]] [[1374-1]] These bills were last March 18th, or yesterday, discussed at a meeting of the Committee of the Supreme Council on State Building and Local Self-Government, and a number of comments were made during this discussion, which in general merit the recognition of co-authors for attention and consideration. Some members of the committee observed that Project 1374-1 Yuri Bogdanovich Klukkowski was more closely regulating electoral procedures. Nevertheless, a constructive discussion took place. And I would like to point out that the committee unanimously decided that, in view of the need for further work, the committee unanimously concluded that the Supreme Council of Ukraine should re-examine in the first reading a draft of the draft legislation, which could be submitted by the authors in exchange for the draft legislation previously submitted. So there's a perfectly normal situation where these bills can be worked out. They are essentially not alternative and can be harmoniously integrated. What is more, if the authors of the bill and the political powers they represent are in favour of finally adopting the draft Law on the All-Ukrainian Referendum, which will allow people to take part in the administration of the state, I think this is the most constructive and correct approach. And believe me, I didn't want to add, in any way, to contribute to this confrontational debate. I, honourable colleagues, ask you to support the committee's decision, and very quickly, within the next month, to adopt this bill in a working way by consensus of all those present in this room. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u83	Five minutes: questions-answers. Pisarenko, please, colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u84	Thank you. I wanted to ask a representative of the committee. Please tell me, was there a question on the committee, the very principle of whether the Supreme Council should be involved in the constitutional process? One of the bills almost completely excludes the Supreme Council’s participation in the adoption of the Constitution. And this problem, I think, is fundamental to supporting or not supporting one of the bills. Please tell me, did you discuss exactly what, in principle, cannot be excluded from the adoption of the Constitution today? It is not possible to adopt the Constitution today only in a referendum and this is the principle of position and of the Council of Europe, and this is the principle of position and of the Venice Commission. For that reason, I think the committee should also make a statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u85	Thank you, Valery. This question has been discussed and I don't think it's very clear, let's say, the idea itself. Because this bill, you're obviously referring to Yuri Bogdanovich's bill. Right? He was just speaking out of this rostrum, he very clearly explained which questions, at what angle, and in what legal aspect, procedural aspect, could be adopted by an all-Ukrainian referendum, including with regard to changes to the Constitution. I'm going to say my personal opinion here that I think these issues should be the subject of a professional discussion, not a political discussion between the authors of both bills, and, as has already been said here in this rostrum, they think that a balanced decision can be reached in this context. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u86	Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u87	Thank you. Oleg Zarubinski. ‘Block of Lithuania’. Dear reporter, please tell me, I am addressing you as a person of democratic views, whether it is democratic to trim, disregard, ignore, I don't know what verbs to pick up, one of the two key missions of Parliament is legislative. It is known that it is representative and legislative. Is it worth doing any kind of bill, even obviously, that they have better thinking, wish and so on? Because in the case of the adoption of one of the aforementioned bills, Parliament actually ceases to be a legislative body, you understand that very well. Because anything that Parliament disagreed with, any bill could be passed without Parliament. Should not the Constitution then make changes that it is not, the Ukrainian Parliament, the only legislative body? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u88	Thank you, Mr. Oleg. I'll tell you right now, it's not. But I also don't think that each of these two bills is in a way that violates Parliament's rights. But in the end, I also know you as a person of very democratic views, and I don't think that you and I are interested in setting up a political debate around these bills, which will no longer have meaning, but will only have form. I would like to stress once again that I believe there are reasons, including political ones, for the co-authors of the bill, on the one hand, and the author of the bill, on the other hand, to sit at one table, perhaps to involve you, including because you are the person involved. He works with similar bills, and other interested people, and he discussed all those issues, and he came up with a balanced version and, finally, what's most important, he was accepted in this Parliament. Because this bill is one of the most important, most high-priority bills in Parliament today. I think we just need to change our stylism.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u89	Vladimir Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u90	Vladimir Karpuk, “Our Ukraine”. Please give the word to Ruslan Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u91	Ruslan Knazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u92	Vladislav Volodymyrovich, I have a question of such a plan. As I understand from your statement, in principle yesterday, at a committee meeting, virtually none of the bills were considered and decisions were made specifically on them. Instead, the committee has taken such a general decision, which, for me, is that it is advisable to return to the first reading, with the possible creation of a working group, which should work on a harmonized bill to bring it into the session room. Did I get you right? First. And in the course of the committee's consideration of this issue, there were deputies on the committee's bill, and their desks also gave out the findings of the Scientific and Expert Office on this issue. Do they even exist at this time? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u93	Thank you. Well, first of all, these bills were essentially discussed. And it was because they were essentially discussed that all members of the committee unanimously concluded that these bills could be unified and that a consensus decision could be taken around them. That's why this decision was made, just to re-examine the bill in the first reading, by creating such a mechanism of the authors' work. At the committee meeting there was a co-author from one side, namely Oliynik, and the author of another Klukkowski bill, and so they agreed with that formula. I don't want to speak, of course, on behalf of these high-ranking colleagues, but if the point is, it is. Everyone agreed that this could be worked out, but there is already such a limit when it goes into the stage of such political speculation. There are conclusions from the Scientific and Experimental Authority on both bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u94	Thank you. Vladislav Volodymyrovich, I'd like to speak to the committee's position, the legal position of the committee once again. What does the committee say about the bill?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u95	Thank you. Thus, I read literally, the honourable Arsenija Petrovich: “Considering that the bills mentioned need to be drafted, the committee unanimously concluded that the Supreme Council of Ukraine should re-examine in the first reading a joint subject of the law of the legislative initiative Klutkowski, Lavrinović, Olijnik and the Bill on the All-Ukrainian Referendum, which may be submitted by the authors in exchange for the bills previously submitted.” This is the official formulation of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u96	Thus, speech is spoken because the other part does not conform to the Rules. There's only the first part that fits the Rules. This is 109th, paragraph 3th is re-reading. Right?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u97	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u98	Thank you. Colleagues, I ask, if there's a wish, a statement from the factions and a statement from the national MPs. Please have a seat. Thank you. Faction representatives, please. Taras Steckov, from the rostrum. Do you want to get out of here? Out of place, please. And make a record of the deputies now, please. Set up a record of deputies while our colleague Stacks is speaking. The record of the deputies is three minutes. Turn on Taras Stepanovich Steckowa, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u99	Dear National Deputies! The attention that is attached to the session room and beyond to the issue of the U.S. referendum is quite clear, because the main and decisive part of this issue is the political component. One part, including here in the sessional room, believes that a referendum is being held for the President to introduce a draft of the new Constitution to a referendum by passing the Supreme Council. The second part, to which, frankly, I refer, is that the Referendum Act is being adopted in order to force this year to implement the initiative on voting for NATO. And it's probably there and it's there. On the other hand, it's totally insane when, since the 1990s, there's a law that can't be applied. Yeah? And the reports we've heard here show that in some part of the technological, procedural laws, these two bills that we've agreed to agree on, let's say, this is not going to be difficult. On the other side, they require some work and discussion. So it seems to me that the best way out of this situation would be by first voting to send both bills for re-reading. And try it there in a month and a half, maybe we'll have to do more hearings, try to paste one bill out of it, and it won't be a big deal if this bill is adopted, let's say, not in this session, but in the next. It is important for us to have a good bill that will implement the people's direct right to hold an all-U.S. referendum or some other way of doing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u100	Thank you. Mikhail Papiev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u101	Thank you. Please give the floor to national deputy Lukash Oleni Leonidni.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u102	Olena Lukas, out of the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u103	Dear colleagues, the honourable present, our faction will propose to support Mr. Lavrinovich's bill. I now hold in my hands the conclusions of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, the Institute of State and the right of the name of Koraksky, which is hardly suspected of being unengaged or abused. It's about the "orange" bill on the U.K. referendum, and I'll remind you what it says. The position of part two of article 14 of the bill is such that it restricts the sovereignty of the people, namely the impossibility of reopening during the year of the referendum and the order of initiation. The Constitution of Ukraine does not contain restrictions on the subject of an all-U.S. referendum, and our opponents, for example, fear that the people will say their right to trust the President, particularly in the referendum. Scientists also point out that it is unlikely that the removal from the circle of subjects of the referendum process, the subjects of the proclamation and the appointment of the all - Ukrainian referendum, particularly the removal from this process of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Scientists also point out that the requirements of article 31, part two, of the draft law of our opponents, for the proclamation of the All-U.S. referendum “For the National Initiative!” are such that they complicate the procedure and the appropriate conditions for such initiation in comparison with the current Constitution of Ukraine. In the same vein, the rights of the Ukrainian people are narrowed down. This is the conclusion of experts in particular. As for our position, it is next. Professional discussions should take place, but the truth must be told once, as these two bills differ. Mr. Lavrinović tried to regulate the right of the people, the right of Ukrainian citizens to the All-Ukrainian referendum and the duty of the state to implement it. And his opponent wants to go around the Supreme Council of Ukraine, give the right to legislative activity, including the adoption of changes to the Constitution, directly, to the people. I mean, exclude the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Council from the constitutional process. The Committee on Legal Policy has supported Mr. Lavrinovich's bill and we urge the House to support this bill today. And we also want to point out that, to date, the state and the new coalition are not paying attention to one problem, which is the voter register, which is a consciously significant failure and a barrier to the implementation of the Law on the State Register of Voters. For more than a six - year period in the country under an orange government, the authorities do not issue such a register. We demand the authorities to ensure the constitutional rights of citizens and to address this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u104	Peter Cibenko, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u105	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! The problem of the legislative harmonization of the holding of an all-U.S. referendum is, indeed, there is and must be resolved – it is true. Finally, this became evident when the previous President of Ukraine tried to hold an all-U.S. referendum, which we all know from this. Therefore, the law must be adopted. We consider it to be a more perfect draft law, the author of which is Mr. Lavrinovich, but we still have a number of warnings and observations about this document. And if it is accepted as a basis, we will submit our proposals to the second reading. But with the opportunity, I'd like to put the problem in a different plane. The Supreme Council of Ukraine is the principal legislative body, and it is designed for the adoption of laws. But the legislative function only makes sense when laws in the state are being enforced. What do we see now? The President of Ukraine not only replaces the Supreme Council of Ukraine with his active directive, but is a classic pattern of violations not only of current legislation but also of the Constitution. It's so obvious that it doesn't even need any additional arguments to point out this position. Or another example, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, by adopting the Ukrainian Act on Ukraine's 2008 State Budget, from the submission of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and the entire orange team has re-established the entire legislative field of Ukraine. Then, indeed, you can leave only the Budget and Work Act, regulate everything and everything. So I repeat, the position of the faction of the Company of Ukraine, which is that the law must be passed if even today there are some observations and warnings. But all state institutions, all the MPs, have to be involved in this work, so that we can get a real law that can regulate the problem that's been put into the title of this project. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u106	Oleg Zarubinski, from the rostrum, please turn on.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u107	Dear Arsenia Petrovich, fellows of honor! I understood from the discussion, from the presentations that obviously will be implemented the wish or recommendation of the committee and will be rereading the first reading. But I went out to make it clear that when our colleagues and we were all working together on re-reading, we were again preparing a suitable bill for the hall, so that some things, from the very beginning, would be understood for all of us, such as those that can't even be discussed. Although everything can be discussed, it is not something that destroys parliamentaryism. I think that if some of the positions of the bills, the names don't say, were not in the names at all, the 1374-1 position of the bill would be implemented, then John Locke and Charles Montesquie, who were in principle developing the theory of the distribution of power between the various branches of power, could be reversed where they are today. Because, in principle, the implementation of some of the provisions that I'm talking about right now is really destroying the modern democratic environment, where there are different branches of power and when there is a struggle and there is, we know, a unity and a struggle between different branches of power. Well, for example. I just want to give you some arguments. If the relevant provisions of Bill 1374-1 were adopted, laws could be adopted in Ukraine at all without the participation of parliamentarians, and that is true. The drafter even introduces a special concept, I stress, a special concept of “legislative referendum”. In general, this is what the diagram looks like. If the president wants to achieve the adoption of the law he needs, which is normal, the president is one of three, today, from the subject matter of the legislative initiative. But another subject of the legislative initiative is the Ukrainian National MP and another branch of the legislative branch rejects the bill. And that's normal, Your Honor, we're giving up our colleagues' bills, we're giving up some of the Kabmin bills, and that's normal democratic practice. If implemented, if we refuse to do so, what does the President do in accordance with this bill? Very simply, he can put the draft law to a general vote. If more than half of the voters vote, the President just signs the law himself and puts it into effect. In that case, respectable colleagues, parliament and the judicial branch of power cannot actually intervene in the process. The only thing left for the deputies is to make a statement after that. Unfortunately, there is very little time, but there are very many claims, especially that the Constitutional Court can only be addressed in one case, says position 19, and it says, if that is so. When the referendum is held on Sunday. So you and I are going to express a general outrage if it's Sunday and Saturday, for example. And the judges are supposed to put it together on the calendar. It's not serious. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u108	Yuri Gnatkevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u109	Please pass the word to the Saints of Olives.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u110	Give me your word. Please. Celebrities of the Olinick.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u111	Dear colleagues, both the bills proposed today for consideration by the Supreme Council are called upon to establish a clear procedure for the implementation of the popular will through a referendum. And this very idea, of course, is that it doesn't make any sense in the MPs' corps, in the MPs' factions. In fact, the bills that are proposed have two different options: this is a procedural part that, in the opinion of all drafters, can be combined into a common part and the best proposals can be taken from two options. At the same time, there is a part of the bill that provokes discussion. And here I agree with my colleague Lavrinović and my colleague Zarubinski, who expressed their position on this very subject. I am convinced and aware of the sentiments of the "Julia Timoshenko Block" that the Supreme Council will not be able to pass through a bill in which the Supreme Council will in any way be removed from the legislative procedure. That's why it might be supported by the MPs to decide what the committee is proposing, that is to say, about the joint drafting of these bills. Although I personally believe that the law of Lavrinovich could be adopted and worked out. But that bill, which will eventually have a final edition, has a chance not only to get 226 votes, but also much more in the Supreme Council, where the Supreme Council will be the key place in the legislative process. To this day, the law of Lavrinović is closer. But, as I understand from the position of colleague of Klukkowski on the committee yesterday and today during the presentation from the rostrum, he does not insist that the powers he proposes to give to the President regarding the appointment of a constitutional referendum without the participation of the Supreme Council are principled. Yesterday, he agreed that a joint bill that would be common might no longer contain this position. In this part, I am convinced, then there is the possibility of compromise, and everyone interested in a bill such as the referendum bill being passed by representatives of different political forces and finally adopted by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u112	Olena Lukash.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u113	Papiev Mikhail Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u114	Mikhail Papiev. Turn on Papiev's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u115	The honourable Ukrainian national deputies, the bill that we are considering today on the U.S. referendum, must be adopted today. [[two bills]] And I would like to draw your attention to some aspects that need to be addressed by these laws. First, let's go back to the Constitution of Ukraine and read very carefully. For example, a referendum at the People's Initiative is announced when at least 3/3 of Ukraine's districts have at least 3 million signatures, and at least 100,000 signatures are collected in each area. Consider this small nuance. This is how the “area ” is written. So we have, if we're formally approaching this standard of the Constitution of Ukraine, 24 areas and 27 regions, because it's already the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the city of Kiev, and the city of Sevastopol. In fact, today this law does not allow citizens of Ukraine who live in these territorial units in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, in Sevastopol, and in Kiev to participate in the congregation of signatures and formations. The next question is from experience. Experience shows that the rule that the initiative group is meeting and should be at least 500 citizens of Ukraine violates the Constitution of Ukraine's right to take part in the initiative. Imagine: In what area of Ukraine will we today be able to provide a room for 500 Ukrainian citizens? If we look at the standard of the past Ukrainian Law on the Local and All-Ukrainian Referendum, there was the norm of the initiative group and the meeting of 200 Ukrainian citizens. And I'd like us to take a very important look at this moment. Another question. A signed letter, which gathers an initiative group, states that a Ukrainian citizen records a place of residence. Dear colleagues, let's go back to the norm – the place of registration, because the passport of a citizen of Ukraine contains “the place of registration”, which may already be the reason why local authorities, local self-government authorities and the Central Election Commission may not accept this signed letter. Next question. Now there is, if you look at the place of registration in passports, there's a city written down, a Russian-language population post, a Ukrainian-language street, and it needs a law code to clearly record that the letter in the signed letter is recorded all the data about a Ukrainian citizen's name, his name, his father's place of registration, as stated in the passport. Dear colleagues, I would ask all of us, regardless of political preferences, to approach these bills consciously and to support the draft law proposed by the People's MP Lavrinovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u116	Sergei Shevchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u117	Please give us the word Yuri Gnatkevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u118	The word Gnatkewicz, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u119	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to one flaw that characterizes both bills. But in order to understand the essence of my observations, I want to tell you a funny episode that happened in 2000 during the referendum on constitutional changes. I really doubted how many chambers there must be in the Supreme Council. And he asked his aunt Ghana, who lives in the Radivil district, who now became famous in Rivenščina, we know why: “Do you think, aunt, how many rooms should there be in the Supreme Council?” “I don’t know how many rooms there should be in the Supreme Council, but there must be enough in our district hospital for people in the corridors not to lie.” What is it? Dear colleagues, democracy is not the case when people vote freely, but when people vote freely, having absolutely enough information to make an adequate decision. And I therefore believe that both bills do not have sufficiently worked out and proposed mechanisms to give us insight into the possibilities for advocacy, explanatory work, long-term debates in society, so that society can understand its citizens, what they vote for and how they should vote for. And I would also like to draw your attention to the proposals of many of our colleagues, including the factions of Communists, the factions of the Party of Regions, who are proposing a referendum on the language issue, particularly the state of Russian language in Ukraine. Dear colleagues, let's imagine for one minute that we're going to hold such a referendum today, and what do we get? Of course, we're going to get a number of formalized versions of how many people are behind the statehood of Russian and how many are not. But will such an approach be resolved today? It's not going to solve it, it's going to sharpen it, because national issues are usually not resolved by voting, they're decided here in the Supreme Council on the basis of voting and consensus. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u120	Sergei Greenewecki, last performance. Sergei Rafailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u121	Please pass the word to Zarubin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u122	Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u123	Thank you very much. Obviously, I'm going to use this time that's left to characterize some of the other things that obviously shouldn't be discussed in this bill. As a result, once again they are destroying parliamentaryism. Now, we had a little discussion with the drafter, and I want to confirm the correctness of what I said. Once again, I would like to say that if Parliament does not implement the legislative initiative in accordance with this bill by the President-elect of the legislature, Parliament is simply not needed in the legislative process at that time, because it is being implemented through a national referendum through a popular vote. But what the current Constitution defines as the only legislative body in Ukraine, the Supreme Council alone, determines that laws are adopted only by a majority of Parliament's constitutional composition, not by a number of voters. And it seems to me that the author of the legislative initiative understands this very well, and that is why in the same bill, in the second article, he already states that, I quote: “in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine, a universal referendum is required for the adoption of the Constitution of Ukraine or its new wording.” Do you understand what's going on? That is, legislative proposals are made in the Constitution at a time when there is no such thing in the present Constitution. Thus, it is obvious that this bill should be considered together with the desire to change the Constitution just in the part that the whole country referendum can adopt, including a new version of the Constitution, and a new Constitution. So I'm looking at this proposal, and I'm frankly saying this, not just as a legislative proposal, but obviously more like a political proposal that comes out of the political relevance of today's conjuncture, of today's current state of power, and of the relationship between power. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u124	There's still time for the show, Mikola Kravchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u125	Cowchenko, the Communist faction. I would like to refer to our constituents and to the people's deputies, to calm them down a little. I would like us to recall that the Supreme Council has adopted a decree setting out how Ukraine will enter NATO. And if you remember, there is a phrase that says: “To hold a referendum on joining NATO on the basis of the Law on the All-Ukrainian Referendum”. We then talked about the absence of such a law. And now we're trying to get it. I must reassure everyone that the President will not sign any options today, even if he is “gold” and satisfied for one reason. The 4th summit in Bucharest, and if the 4th issue of Ukraine's accession to the PDP is resolved, the President will block the passage of any law and thus will not be able to hold a referendum for one reason because we were unable to pass this law. That is, it is not politically beneficial for the President to sign this law today. And so, if we get out of the ruling that we have, if the 4th number of us, Ukraine, join, I repeat, join the DHR, we automatically join NATO without the law. That is why our tactics should be that of parliamentarians. If we want to counter this in any way, then we have to raise 300 votes, otherwise the President will never sign this law. I tend to believe that the best bill today is written by Lavrinović and ready to vote for him. But the only thing I'd like to take into account is that the President won't sign it. The scheme will be as follows: the opposition will introduce a golden bill, a very bad bill will be passed into the hall, but which meets the President's requirements, only if it can be signed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u126	Thank you. My colleagues, using the Rules, continue my meetings for up to 15 minutes. We're about to conduct a voting procedure and we're going to take a short break. So we have a few suggestions. First. We need to conclude with the final word of the reporter and the co-rapporteur. But no one is denying your right, Yuri Bogdanovich, now you say, let me make a deal. So, Alexander Volodymyrovich Lavrinovich, do you insist on a word? Please, Alexander Volodymyrovich, then Klukkowski, colleague of Kaskov, if we insist and proceed to the voting procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u127	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! After listening to the discussion, I think everyone now knows what this is about. We can talk for a very long time about professional things, how best to ensure the process of the will of Ukrainian citizens. I am willing to take a sincere part in this. The question today is only one. It may be said that someone has not read some law that has not read every article, but the difference between the two projects that are presented today is at least. They are clearly understood in the three articles. One draft law foresees the possibility of realizing the right of citizens to participate in public life. The second foresees the establishment of a regime in Ukraine when one person, called the President of Ukraine, by his will to appoint a referendum under the Constitution, receives the Constitution he needs. Then, without the Supreme Council, legislative work is done and you can still read anything in that law. Of course, I understand the situation: there is a coalition and there are opposition factions. And I realize that today, perhaps not everyone is free to do their will in the session room. And I'm ready to make a decision on re-reading Law 1374 and redrafting it, along with the author of an alternative bill to process the technology of conducting an all-U.S. referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u128	Thank you, Alexander Anatolyovich. Please, Yuri Bogdanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u129	Thank you very much. You know, I also wanted to thank everyone who participated in the discussion. I leave it on the conscience of those who did this -- the demonization of Klukkowski in terms of authoritarian methods of government management, let it remain on the conscience of those who have a troubled conscience. I am really grateful for the discussion because, despite all the political conjunctural things, a serious discussion finally began on a number of subjects that, unfortunately, have not yet been seriously discussed at the level of legislators. The first is the one raised by Zarubinsky’s colleague. I'm willing to support the position that laws can't be passed by referendum at all. Please don't say that this is just my bill, because I am quoting the bill of colleague Lavrinovich, article three: “The All-Ukrainian referendum is a way of making any decision, except for those provided for in the 74th article of the Bills on Budget and Amnesty Taxes.” This means that other bills can be submitted to a referendum. And whoever disagrees with me has to look into the bill of legislation that even provides for the higher legal force of laws adopted in the referendum. Therefore, the charges are not against Klukkowski. Let's think about how to get out of this dilemma. I say again, I don't like the adoption of laws in a referendum, but today the Constitution of Ukraine foresees it. With regard to some other allegations, particularly authors or those who quoted an evaluation from the Institute of State and the right to trust in the President. I advise you: look at the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine in 2000, and I don't run the Constitutional Court, you'll see, the issue of trust in the Supreme Council and the President has been removed as unconstitutional. So to say that I'm breaking the Constitution here is to put a tail on my head. Well, finally, the charges against the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Kiev and Sevastopol. My colleague Papiev, but you have criticized the law of Lavrinovich, not mine, because I have all those regions that are provided for in article 133 of the Constitution. I really broke the Constitution here, but I corrected the rights of those citizens who live there. So be consistent in your criticism. Thanks again for the discussion. I hope that we can remove the political nagging and demonization of the problem and really prepare for the next first reading a good bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u130	Comrade Kaskiv, don't you insist? My colleague Karmazin insists on motive. Please. Are you insisting? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u131	I just wanted to clarify the issue of Ruslan Knazevitch. There is no conclusion of the Scientific and Experimental Authority, and this is another reason to support the proposal of a completely compromise committee -- to review the bill in the first reading. And what I'm saying is that those in this room on the day that opposition bills are proposed respect the opposition because they sit here and discuss these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u132	Yuri Carmazin. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u133	Yuri Carmazin wants to make a statement. Dear Arsenija Petrovich, distinguished national deputies, is certainly being considered with great importance today. But it's not the way to look at it. We were never given a conclusion by the Main Committee, we were given only a letter from the Main Committee, not the conclusions, not the conclusions of other committees, not the Scientific and Scientific Administration. And we want to put something to the vote? Let's not do any propaganda. So let's just focus on that, let's listen to the committee's thoughts, and send these bills out for further work right now. Of course, understanding that Klukkowski's Bill, which has only one significant inadequacy, allows him to change the Constitution depending on the mood that one of the officials may have. This is article 28th he has. Excluding it or modifying it or bringing it into line with the Constitution would be a very good bill. I'd like to begin my respect for the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u134	Dear colleagues, the bill has been discussed. I'd like to start by saying that the bill is put on demand by the opposition, and this is a respect for the opposition and what we're looking at today. Paragraph two, as far as the committee's conclusion is concerned. There is no committee's conclusion, but we are using a regulatory rule that, if the committee has not considered a bill within 30 days, it will be submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. That's why it's imported. Paragraph 3 concerning the vote. I'm voting on a few proposals, depending on what happens. The first basic proposal is what the committee proposed. But could I improve it and offer you one thing? We have item 109th, which provides for publication, except that we are sending it to the committee for further work, for the publication of the bill in the Voice of Ukraine, which is the corresponding issue of the Supreme Council. After all, it is a bill that is directly and directly linked to the will of the people. So could I ask the parliamentarians to support the idea next. Send the bill for re-reading with its publication in the corresponding official issue of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for discussion. I mean 1374 and 1374-1. Please, comrades, calm down! It's okay! I'll give you my word. Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u135	Thank you, Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues! Let us not be disturbed in an equal place, everything will be in accordance with the Rules. Arseny Petrovich, you put the first bill to the vote first. I made a decision, there was no, there was a second bill. None of the decisions have been made, then you will put to the vote a proposal for a profile committee to re-read. And that's it. He'll make it all right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u136	I'd support you, Adam Ivanovich, but according to the Rules, I have a committee decision to make. But there's no formal legal decision of the committee, that's all. If the committee doesn't have a decision, then we'll leave the opposite. Then let me take this as a 1374 base. Please Be Determined [[12:10:37]] For 221 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on the vote on bill 1374-1 on its adoption as a basis. [[12:11:02]] For-38 The decision is not taken. Please show by factions. I'm betting on voting for a proposal, not a decision, a committee to re-read the bill. I want to talk again about his publication. Not everyone, not everyone has the Internet, but if the authorities are transparent and transportable, it would be desirable to publish these bills. So first, I put the vote back on the re-reading of the relevant bills. [[12:11:53]] For the 220. Then I put 109th, paragraph four: “Publication of the bill in the determined Supreme Council of Ukraine to a printed media medium for public discussion, redrafting it by the Main Committee, taking into account the results of today’s discussion”. Please vote. [[12:12:28]] For-29 We're here! The bill is considered to be rejected. Thank you, dear fellows, for meeting us in. Plus 12 minutes is 12.42.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u137	Dear colleagues, we continue our morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We completed our consideration of the draft Law on the All-U.S. referendum. We now have two bills in the agenda: 1108 and 1440. The first is the draft Labour Code. Hara Vasil Grigorovich, I ask your statement, we had a conversation before this about the fate of these bills, I ask you to make an offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u138	Dear Arsenius Petrovich! Dear colleagues! With regard to the situation in Parliament today and emerging with new circumstances under the bills, the Committee on Social Policy and Labour requests that Bills 1108 be transposed, the draft Labour Code, and 1440, the draft Social Dialogue Bill for the next sessional week. May I have your support, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u139	So you're suggesting we review this bill in a few days, postpone the bill?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u140	Another sessional week.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u141	Thank you. Colleagues, there's a committee proposal for this, let's vote in favour of passing on the bill. Legally speaking, colleagues, I can do it. There are two options for one vote, and the second one for the transcript that was approved, where the Supreme Council Head was given the right to accept you to carry the schedule of the matter forward. So if you don't mind, we won't vote. Is there no objection to that? Thank you. Let's go to the next bill. Wasn't this about both the first and the second? I'm asking you to come forward with the second bill. Do you have a similar offer? Thus, in view of the fact that there are no objections, 1108 and 1440 are passed on to the next plenary days. I'm going to postpone the 1107 bill's acknowledgment -- it's a reduced procedure, yes, please. For reasons of three minutes, please write them down. It's not the motive, it's the procedure. As a matter of fact, we have no right to deprive the National MP of his right to speak. Vladimir Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u142	Vladimir Karpuk, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense”. I would like to draw your attention to the Bills 1040, 1041 and 1042. These are extremely important bills relating to the introduction of compulsory state social insurance in the country. As far as I'm concerned, these bills are worth looking at in the complete package. And such important bills should not be considered by a reduced procedure. And the next. I'm going to ask such important bills not to be put in the end, because I understand that they will not be reviewed today and will be put away again for an indefinite period. So I'm asking you to consider them in full procedure and define them as primers.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u143	Mikhail Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u144	Thank you. Dear Arsenija Petrovich, your colleagues, you know that very important bills and the Social Dialogue Act and the draft Ukrainian Labour Code are bills that have been drafted by not one government and not one composition, not even by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And today was the right decision, because we are real people, we live in real time and we understand perfectly the processes that are taking place today in the coalition and the misunderstandings that have arisen after yesterday's vote. Therefore, in order not to lose the body of the laws at all and not to fall into the rule of the Rules, that we will no longer be able to introduce these bills again at this session, I would ask that the bills of compulsory national health insurance, the honourable Arsenija Petrovich, should you take advantage of your right and also bear the body of these important laws for the people of Ukraine. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u145	Thank you, Mikhailo Mikolaiovich. Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u146	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. I have a question, what is this opposition day that we have today? Where this day of opposition is, we are not in violation of the rules of the Rules, we are allowing the opposition to consider its laws, and the opposition is taking them and taking them down. What was that day of opposition then? So if you've already agreed that the day of opposition, take it, look, we're also interested in looking at these bills, listening to you. And you take it because you're not ready or for other reasons. So today has shown that the day of opposition is not really necessary, but it is necessary, in accordance with the rules of the Rules, to consider opposition, the coalition, all that is accepted by the Council and considered, or today, the day of opposition, to withdraw bills, tomorrow to block the work of the Council, to re-examine their work and come out in such a way that every day in the Supreme Council, the day of opposition. And then when will the coalition be? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u147	Vladimir Viezowski. None. Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u148	Dear colleagues, in order for the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to be productive and effective, it takes good will, not toothpicks, not spikes, not arrows, metaphors, but constructive, productive, and consolidated work. We prepared these bills on the committee and on the Labour Code and on the social dialogue. Let me remind you that the bill on social dialogue was adopted as Presidential and urgent, but during that period of sadness in 2007. So we are certainly ready to report all our social bills today. The problem is the lack of good will in most cases to support our bills. We will not take your votes, work with individual deputies, please let your factions that formed the coalition and the government be determined by the Labour Code, by social dialogue, we will make further changes and additions, and we will have to vote for them. And the bill on health insurance must be considered in full procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u149	Thank you. Colleagues, let's move on to 1107, Matthew Valentin Grigorovich, a review of the Draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts on the Activities of Political Parties. We voted in favour of the cut when the schedule was approved, and the schedule clearly provided for what procedure: the cut-off is not shortened. Well, I can vote again. But once again, when considering the issue of the approval of the schedule, a clear procedure was envisaged. This was not the case with the national deputies of Ukraine. In view of this, I do not see the need to vote again on the shortened procedure. Please, Valentin Grigorovich, please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u150	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the fact that the adoption of the aforementioned legal act is essential today is once again being persuaded by events that can be described as attempts to trigger a political reaction. What I mean. First of all, this provocative statement by the Lviv District Council, which was adopted. In introducing a bill for consideration by the Supreme Council, my colleague Miroshnichenko and I first came out of the fact that today the issue of banning activity, or cancelling the political party's registration certificate, in accordance with the law on political parties in Ukraine and the Code of Administrative Justice, is decided in various courts. That is, according to the law cited, the court of first instance on the matter is the Supreme Court. And according to the code, or KASU, the District Administrative Court, whose territorial jurisdiction extends to the city of Kiev. Therefore, the bill proposes to amend the above-mentioned legal acts and to refer the matter to the jurisdiction of the higher administrative court as a court of appeal. In a preliminary consideration of the bill at the meeting of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, observations were made regarding the initiation of a review of judicial decisions in this category by the Supreme Court of Ukraine, not in order to conduct it under exceptional circumstances, but in a cascasive manner. Where did we come from as drafters? from the position of part two of article 47 of the Law on the Court of Justice of Ukraine, which states, inter alia, that the Supreme Court of Ukraine is reviewing the case in relation to exceptional circumstances in the order established by the procedural law, in cases established by law. I'd like to add.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u151	By the end, let him finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u152	Thank you. But with the adoption of the bill on the basis or on the first reading, it would be possible to clarify, if necessary, the appropriate wording, which we agreed to at the State Building Committee. By the way, the final sentence of the second paragraph of the fourth part of article 20 is offered by Yuri Romanovich and me to remove at all. [[That's what I'm saying for the transcript.]] With regard to the proposal of the Scientific and Expert Office regarding the need for a clearer decision in the final positions of the draft of the relevant court cases, which may be before the courts at the time of the law being drafted, this law is meant to be valid, so I think it would be possible to agree with this proposal, but. But we have come to believe that there are no such cases in the Supreme Court today. Please, Your Honor, accept the proposed bill on the basis of your comments and suggestions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u153	Thank you. Yuri Bogdanovich Klukkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u154	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the bill that has just been presented is aimed at removing the conflict that exists today between the material law that is the Political Parties Act and the procedural law that the Code of Administrative Justice is here. This coalition can be removed in one of three ways: either to bring the Code into line with the Political Parties Act and to make a single institution – the Supreme Court of Ukraine, which, in principle, contradicts the current edition of the Law on the Court of Justice and the month of the Supreme Court of Ukraine in the system of administrative proceedings; the Law on Political Parties could be brought into line with the requirements of the Code and made the first instance of the Law on Political Parties, the District Kyiv Administrative Court. Yet, we agreed, the committee agreed with the idea of the drafters of the bill that banning political parties is too serious a matter for you to decide at the level of the District Administrative Court. So the committee supported the bill in the first reading. Yet with one principled warning. The bill foresees that the Supreme Court of Ukraine will act as a cassation agency. I've already said that this does not correspond to the current Supreme Court seat in the Ukrainian administration justice system. Thus, in preparing for the second reading, this matter will be corrected, and the Supreme Court of Ukraine is obliged by the committee to leave only what is provided today, or to deal with cases under exceptional and newly discovered circumstances. In view of this commitment to the committee, we ask that the bill be supported in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u155	Thank you. Two in, two in. Vladimir Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u156	Please pass the word to Moses.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u157	Moses, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u158	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, honourable colleagues of the national MPs, I would like to support the drafters of the bill in the idea they put forward. The Supreme Court of Ukraine should not be the court of first instance in any matter, whether civil or criminal, or administrative. But now we have a coalition on the operation of laws or legal acts in time. So, Yuri Bogdanovich, the Code of Administrative Judiciality is a more late law and is a higher legal force because it is codified. And so our faction proposes not to support the bill, but to follow the Code of Administrative Procedures. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u159	Miroshenko Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u160	Dear voters, dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. An extremely important bill, respected colleagues. It's not just about ordering and bringing into line two or even three laws that are now in force, it's about removing the colossal. This is about the development and protection of democracy in our country. Today, we can take any, sometimes even fictional, argument to reject any legislative initiative and say, "Do more work, and one day we will look at it and bring it into line." But I myself often passed bills that were not considered even in the first reading, although the idea was supported. Now, as authors, we take all the warnings, we ask you, especially the coalition that calls itself democratic, to protect the subjects of the political process today, namely the political parties, from possible political divisions. You know, if we go to KASU, then District Administrative Courts, which are sometimes the venues of political influences, will be the instrument for dealing with some opposition political parties. Why should we lose face? Why should we provoke criticism from international law institutions? We offer a very simple and understandable way. There's a political party that works. There are claims about her activity, there's someone who wants to cancel this party's registration. Who should consider this? The Court of First Instance, you know how many raids and not just political today are when there is no reformed judicial system, or a court where the judges represented are more qualified, namely the Supreme Administrative Court. We're not banning or canceling the cassation, we're saying that.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u161	Let me finish, please, 3 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u162	Yes, and we are ready to meet those critics who make comments today. Dear colleagues, we offer to support in the first reading, to take note, and to settle this issue. I point out that today is the first day when opposition formed the order of the day. Don't embarrass yourself, coalition members. If you fail all our initiatives, it will show that the coalition is undemocratic. And I think the first day we're looking at the issues raised by the opposition, we shouldn't start. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u163	Yuri Carmazin, please. BY AWAKE! WRITER IN CARMASIN
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u164	No, no, he signed up. He immediately announced that he did not have the “against” button.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u165	Yuri Karmazin, Ukrainian national deputy, opposes, registers. It was written “against. ” I'm explaining who George Carmazin is Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u166	Colleagues, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u167	So I signed up for Adam Martinyuk. I don't know why it's not on your board. Dear, distinguished national MPs! I'd like to answer the forerunner right now, so the coalition won't be disgraced. I absolutely agree with you that we need to reconcile and find consensus in the hall. If you show me that you've agreed with someone to include issues like we've spent two hours today without any, with the breaking of the Rules, and we'll put it in order, let's not do that. You've shown us how not to do it today, and you've shown everyone that you can't plan properly, so you do it with us, form with the coalition. But we listen to your point of view in other days, and you don't listen to us. You include yourself in the agenda, because you yourself, then vote. And you're calling us to vote. And I'm not voting for projects that aren't designed. And I'll tell you why I'm not going to vote in favour of this project, because in the actual wording of Article 5 of the Political Parties Act, it's written in Ukraine that the first institutions of the prohibition case.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u168	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Yuri Anatolyovich, thank you. Well, let me finish one sentence. For. You don't mind. Say "against" – and that's it. Well, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u169	Okay. I'm against it because I'm in the basic law, all the reasons are listed. That's the first one. And secondly, we break the principle if the Code of Administrative Justice records one exception to this party for party activity. You can't do that, reverend. I understand someone's worried about the lion's claim. Do not pay any attention to her, but a provocative statement was made by the lions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u170	Thank you. Honorary colleagues, the draft decree introduced by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is put to the vote by the proposal to adopt, on the basis of the draft Ukrainian Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[referring the issue of banning the activities of political parties to the substantive jurisdiction of the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine]] Colleagues, we vote. Please, let's be clear. Acceptance as a foundation. Please vote. [[13:06:30.]] For 222 The decision is not taken. I suggest. The factions, please. I propose, colleagues, to re-read the first reading to put my proposal to the vote: Bill 1107 for the re-reading of the first reading. Please vote. [[13:07:03]] For 225 I'm sorry. The decision is not taken. I'm so sorry. Please show by factions. [[B in m in s a l in]] Come on. They didn't make it. Return to voting for re-read. [[13:07:33]] For 225 Colleagues, 225. The decision is not taken. I did my best to pass the opposition bill. I didn't. Colleagues, let's move on to the next issue of the agenda. I invite you to Simonek Peter Mikolaiovich's rostrum. Bill 1048, a complex bill amending the Criminal and Procedural Codes of Ukraine on types of punishment. Please, Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u171	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! It's not complicated, it's understandable, Arsenija Petrovich, this bill. And I think that each of us has faced this issue in the election. Dear colleagues, the bill has been drafted on numerous demands of Ukrainian citizens to increase responsibility for particularly serious crimes, deliberate killings committed under burdensome circumstances. It is envisaged that capital punishment may be used as an exceptional measure for particularly serious crimes, deliberate killings under burdensome circumstances. The introduction of this proposal is a response to the urgent demands of many Ukrainian citizens who are concerned that a large number of these very serious crimes are being committed in the country, according to the Ministry of Internal Affairs, from three to five thousand per year. In contrast, they are often committed by criminal groups, accompanied by rapes, robberies, robberies, and other serious crimes. Between 1991 and 2006, more than 70,000 assassinations and assassinations were reported. The actions of maniacs, who have been terrorizing the population and killing dozens of people for a long time, are of particular concern. Saving the life of such bastards has nothing to do with the principle of humanity. It seems to me that all the cases we have encountered, Onoprian, Long and other Ukrainian "chickotillas", those who, such as the citizen Tkac for 10 years have raped and killed more than 50 children in the Dnipropetrovsk and Zaporin region, have been brought to trial. In view of the exceptional nature of the death penalty as a measure of punishment, I propose that cases of deliberate killings committed under clearly defined conditions in the Criminal Code of Ukraine that are burdensome and for which a measure of punishment may be imposed shall be tried by the court at the hands of the jury. With a view to avoiding judicial errors, a six - month sentence is proposed for failure to execute, thus allowing another test to be done to ensure that everything is lawful there. It is understandable that this measure of punishment may be reviewed in the event of a significant reduction in such crimes. We are also sure that.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u172	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u173	I am confident that the introduction into the criminal law of our country of exceptional punishment for deliberate killings under burdensome circumstances will be an effective means of resisting this. And the only correspondingly short is information about what's going on in the world. In 78 countries and territories, the death penalty is preserved and applied to the world, including the United States. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights does not prohibit the death penalty, and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights allows it to be applied for the most serious crimes. The application of the law in the event of its adoption will not require additional expenditure from the State Budget of Ukraine. I believe that the people's deputies, responding to the demands of today's society and many of our citizens, thinking first of all about life and future generations, support my proposal to impose the death penalty for deliberate killings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u174	Vladimir Moses, please. Thank you, Peter Mikolaiovich. And that's a shortcut. Moses Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u175	Honourable Arsenija Petrovich, honourable colleagues, the Committee on Law Enforcement, considered the bill submitted by Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko and Alexander Doub, and approved the decision to support the bill, i.e. supported the idea of returning to Ukraine with the death penalty. The vote was: the majority – and the minority – were against it. The representatives of our faction did not vote in favour of this decision, so I will take our position by speaking out of the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u176	Thank you. I'm asking you to sign up for two, two against. Tereshuk, Block of Lithuania. Catherine Timofievna Vashchuk Are you going to be Catherine Timofievna? Out of place, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u177	Dear National Deputies! Even though we're going to the civil society of a humane society, sometimes humanism is a good operation: we have to cut out a malignant tumor that sits in the body to heal the entire body. And it's not only the citizens of Ukraine that make such an impression, but also in many of us, the national MPs and politicians that we've rushed to solve this issue -- the abolition of the death penalty for malicious killings. They can be easily done now, then bought out of prison in a few years and so forth. So this idea has the right to life and we will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u178	Thank you. Yuri Klukkowski, please. Yuri Bogdanovich, from the place?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u179	Understanding the Company's love for the death penalty that they often used, I convey the word to Mr. Volodymyr Moysik.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u180	Moses, from the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u181	Dear colleagues! No, we're against, I've expressed my position, the faction “Our Ukraine” did not vote on the committee. Dear colleagues! I want to bring you back to the history of this question. The death penalty in Ukraine was applied until 2000. The abolition of the death penalty was preceded by a decision in December 1999 by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. And the reason for hearing this case in court was the submission of 52 national deputies to Ukraine on the third call. And the Constitutional Court of Ukraine acknowledged the position of the Ukrainian Criminal Code in 1961 on the death penalty of those who do not comply with the Constitution of Ukraine. And here are literally a few of the theses that the court referred to by adopting its decision. The first interpretation of the first and second parts of article 27 of the Constitution of Ukraine in the context of other human rights provisions gives reason to believe that they do not accept the death penalty as a form of punishment. The key to the recognition of the human right to life, according to the Constitution of Ukraine, is the position that this right is inherent, undeterred, and inviolable. The right to life belongs to a person from birth and must be protected by the State. The Constitution declares that constitutional rights cannot be narrowed or repealed without introducing, I stress, changes to the Constitution of Ukraine, not to specific laws. And a few more phrases, the constitutional guarantee of every person’s inalienable right to life, like all other rights and freedoms, is based on the principle.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u182	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u183	If you don't mind. Exceptions to human rights and freedoms and citizens are established exclusively by the Constitution and cannot be changed in any other way. And that's the last of it. World and country experiences show that the death penalty did not prevent killings. During the 40 years that resulted in the death penalty of April 1, 1961, the number of homicides increased. And the last. The abolition of the death penalty was our duty when we joined the Council of Europe, and we signed there that the death penalty in Ukraine would not apply. Thank you for your attention. This was the position of the faction “Our Ukraine – the People’s Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u184	Novik's Yuri, Party of Regions. Julia Novikova, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u185	Please pass the word to Mr. Lavrinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u186	Alexander Lavrinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u187	Dear colleagues! The question that is now under consideration can be considered in two areas. The first is the plane of law, and the second is purely moral. The Constitution of Ukraine envisions human life as the highest value. And we know, unfortunately, in Ukrainian practice, that mistakes are sometimes impossible to correct. Therefore, the Ukrainian Constitution provided for the inability to apply the death penalty, as confirmed by the interpretation of the Constitutional Court. And what's more, in 2000, we ratified Protocol 6 in this room, which does not provide for the possibility of the use of the death penalty at a time of peace. In this regard, it certainly does not seem possible to support the project from a legal point of view.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u188	Thank you. Sergey Shevchuk, Timoshenko Street.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u189	The authors of this legislative initiative recommend the application of an exceptional measure of punishment, capital punishment, deliberate killings committed with particular cruelty, emphasis, or in combination with rape or sexual abuse by unnatural means, and so forth. When you read this, indeed, many normal people want to strangle them with their own hands. However, there are some objections. The first relates to our practice, and I want to remind you that there are unique cases where innocent people are condemned. And think of the example of the killing of a journalist in the Donetsk district when the suspect of the crime was killed, and later it turned out that he had nothing to do with it. But the key is our commitment to international society, particularly the Council of Europe. Ukraine stated that, within one year of its accession to the Council of Europe, it had abolished the death penalty, and we had joined the two protocols of the European Convention on Human Rights. In addition, in July 2002, the Constitutional Court dealt with the matter with 56 national deputies and concluded that it was not an accusation. Thus, the authors of this initiative can be advised to follow a completely different course. First changes to the Constitution of Ukraine, then to the laws of Ukraine, to the legal acts and only then to the judgments of the courts concerning the death penalty. The BUT faction will not vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u190	Thank you. Is there a desire for a vote? For reasons of vote, please sign up for five minutes. Please sign up. Taras Cranville.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u191	Dear colleagues, in fact, sometimes morally impossible to imagine how to forgive, not even to forgive, but to leave behind people who have committed the most terrible crimes in life, we must count on one side religious moments, life has given to man, not the state, but life given by God, and therefore cannot be overstepped, any murder and sanctioning of murder, is a terrible sin. And the international legal aspect. I want to remind you that when serious sanctions threats began, about Ukraine, when we delayed the process a little bit, we were told that you made a commitment, and then you had to do it. We could discuss this nuance, which has also been a factor in our international commitments before making those commitments. After this last move there is no “one-sided” road. We are, in this case, actually becoming "snatches" in international law.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u192	Valentina Matthew’s word conveys Simonek to Peter Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u193	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear voters, we have a strange discussion. It's the Constitution that allows us to kill people -- that's the first. Secondly, in many PARE countries, Ukraine, those who had entered before, had been left with the death penalty and was not an argument. Thirdly, errors are committed by units and killings by order have been committed, in years of independence, more than 70,000. Thirdly, the price of a $500-700 hit today in Ukraine. Next. There were only 400,000 crimes committed last year, 17.5,000 against our veterans, and 1.5 thousand veterans were killed last year, with aggravating circumstances. The situation in the country today is clear, and only those who today will not vote on who is using these same systems in racketeering, basking, plastering and so on. Those who defend their electorate today must vote in favour of the imposition of the death penalty for deliberate murder. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u194	Mikhailo Kosov, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u195	Mikhailo Kosov, Yulia Timoshenko Block, Reform and Order Party. To the arguments that have been made here, I would like to call on the Communist Party faction to the situation that you have recently set up in this room in support of the Canonic Orthodox Christian Church. And the fifth commandment says so simply, clearly: Do not kill. So I understand your moods. Of course, there are some freaks that relate to these emotions that you're talking about. But still, I don't think we have the right to overstep because we are fundamental in the spiritual life of every civilized nation. So we also voted in this room.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u196	Katerina Vaschuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u197	Mikoli Rudchenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u198	Mikola Rudchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u199	I would like to bring you back to the history of the end of 95 at the beginning of 96, when I was walking around Ukraine called Chikotilo Onoprianko, where 57 people were killed, including 12 in my hometown of Malina in Žitomirščina. And in one of the murders, he killed a boy for three years, a little sister for five years, she protected him, and he cut off her hands. I go to the grave every year to see these children, and I feel ashamed of the state and of us for why such people walk the world. I ask you very much, fellows and friends, to vote and perhaps indeed to make changes so that, not a driver who has beaten a man on purpose, but a inhuman who has left a man's life, he must be punished as well. And I'm asking you to vote on this issue and in the means.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u200	Vladimir Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u201	Please pass the word to Boiler Roman.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u202	Roman Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u203	Dear colleagues, I understand that for some political forces that are hereditaryly responsible for the 10 million victims of the famine caused by the Stalin regime, the cost of human life is of no consequence. I want to make a clear statement to the faction “Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense”, we are guided by the Constitution, which states that the highest value in Ukraine is human life. And that's why we're this bill, this ridiculous bill, we're not going to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u204	Thank you, colleagues. The time for a talk with motives is over. I am voting on the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the adoption of the draft Ukrainian Law on the amendment of the Criminal and Procedural Codes of Ukraine on the types of penalties, registration number 1048, P. Please vote. [[13:26:51]] For-49 For –49, against – 27, held – 2, did not vote 369. Please show by factions: Region Party – 11, "Julia Block Timoshenko" – 0, "Our Ukraine-People's Self-Defense" – 0, Communists – 27, "Block of Lithuania" – 11. Thus, no decision is taken. Let's move on. Registration number 1021. All voting results are on the Internet. You can get those results right now. Put to the vote to publish the results of the vote? But let's vote to publish the results of the vote for this bill in the media. Please put to the vote. [[13:27:57]] For-45 Once again, I want to emphasize that all the results of the vote, and according to the Rules, we have names, can be obtained online. Here's the next bill, 1021. Cibenko Peter Stepanovich, draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the calculation of salary for the calculation of pension]]
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u205	The Communist faction, Zybenko. Dear colleagues, only recently did the presidential election to the Supreme Council of Ukraine come to an end. The most cynical and shameless of the election campaign was the social protection of the most disadvantaged. Here is a chance to see who really wanted to strengthen social protection and who cynically used the voices of pensioners, veterans, and disabled people. My bill offers to pay for the entire salary to the Ukrainian Pension Fund. Why was such a bill needed? Because the average citizen pays the pension fund’s budget from every penny of his hard - earned salary. And here's a high-ranking employee who gets high wages, the President, the Prime Minister, the ministers, the deputies, the judges, the prosecutors, the other high-payers pay only part of the salary. The project contains two components. Financially-economic, i.e. the filling of the pension fund's budget, without which any increase in pension is impossible. And it's very important to increase pensions, because even after all the calculations and increases, these pensions, first of all, have not become civilized, and second of all, are eaten by any increase in the frenzy of price increases. And moral-ethic. How to understand coalition justice: the average citizen pays contributions from every penny, and the highest seniors pay only part, i.e. they act on the principle of “person all and electorate the law”. Therefore, my dear colleagues, I ask you to confirm by your vote that you used the term “enhancing social protection in elections” by accident, which is your conscious and consistent position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u206	Please sit down. Kulczynski Mikola Grigorovich, co-report, committee subcommittee on pensioners, veterans and disabled persons.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u207	Dear Arseny Petrovich, distinguished national deputies! The Committee has carefully considered and discussed the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine, namely those relating to special pensions: The Law on Scientific and Scientific Engineering, on State Service and the Law on State Compulsory Social Insurance. The project proposes that the maximum wage limit for which insurance premiums are due be lifted. The adoption of this law will result in an increase in income from the Pension Fund. At present, the general principle of pension insurance is to take into account the salary to calculate the pension payments that are paid to the Pension Fund, because in addition to the payments paid, there are amounts that do not belong to the Labour Fund and for which no contributions are paid. This size is established by law at a standard of 15 sizes of living minimum laid down by the Act for Working Persons. At the same time, the Committee believes that the introduction of a single tax on the income of natural persons and, at the same time, the limitation of the maximum wage on which the compulsory state pension insurance premiums are due would result in a breach of the principle of solidarity in a compulsory state pension insurance. Because under such a restriction, the higher wages pay the lower percentage of the premiums. At the same time, the income limit from which social insurance premiums are paid is the world’s standard of establishing a liability limit and ensuring that the insurance is able to pay. And by the way, it corresponds to the Social Charter of Europe. At first glance, the law seems to shorten that huge difference in pension insurance for work pensions, for special pensions, but at the same time it poses another problem -- one that has huge salaries, which can be 20, and 30, and 50, and 100,000, money, so they'll have more pensions and more expenses for the Pension Fund. Just keeping the balance is important for this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u208	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u209	Because of this, the analysis requires financial accounting. And it's the results of the financial calculations that we're going to adopt or not to adopt this law. The committee believes that the law should be sent for further work. I'm reading officially. The committee decided: “The draft Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws, submitted by the National Deputy of Ukraine Cibenk, should be submitted to the Supreme Council for consideration and recommended that the first reading, taking into account the comments, should be submitted for further work”. [[on the taking into account salary for the calculation of pension]] This is the position of the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u210	Thank you. Please sign up. Two in, two in. Alexander Stoyan. Out of the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u211	Please pass the word to Jaroslav Sukh. Jaroslav, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u212	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi. Dear colleagues, I want everyone to understand, especially our constituents. The introduction of these and other bills, which have already been drafted by the opposition, was due to the fact that in 2005, the pension reform initiated by the government of Yanukovic in 2003 was halted and replaced by various forms of populist taxes. Thus, neither the factor of wages nor the length of employment plays a more stimulating role or the role of a just factor in determining the size of a pension. That's why we're going to have to keep going, but we're going to have to keep passing bills that are going to correct the situation, especially the following bills that are going to go, and they're going to be going to have to differentiate the amount of retirement payments depending on the length of the job, because the coefficient that is now being introduced is neither fair nor conscientious. [[And I want to thank my colleague Cybenko for introducing this bill.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u213	Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u214	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues! Of course, there are things in this bill that need to be fixed and there are downsides, and that's clearly what they've been talking about. But I'd like to draw attention to one thing that's very, very, very positive and just. In fact, if this bill is adopted, I hope that after the clarifications, amendments to the second reading, there will be the very progressive definition of the deductions to the Pension Fund. I think that's right and that's fair. It's about the bill. And there's more. I was thinking when the very name of the payroll bill came up that we'd have to raise the problem for those teachers who are retiring today. The State owed them, and it owed them much in accordance with article 57 of the Education Act, which deals with education. Pays to be on the average level of industry. This is not being done today, and everyone knows it. But when this person retires, he gets a pension, not from the amount that the state has to pay under the law, but from the fact that it's in the book de facto received, although de jure has to get a lot more in accordance with article 57. The bottom line is, I think we have a system of taking into account wages for calculating pensions is imperfect, it's incorrect for certain categories of population. It seems to me that this issue needs its legislative refinement, refinement. So this bill can become, once again, an improvement in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u215	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u216	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense”. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to bring you back to your systemic approach to pension reform. It's supposed to be pension reform and systemism. The removal and modification of a sentence, the first sentence, as it is written, part of the third article of article 24 of the Ukrainian Law on Scientific and Scientific and Technological Activities, the Law on State Service and the Law on National Compulsory State Pension Insurance is only an element of what cannot be done, cannot be done without system and contrary to the Rules. This once again shows that we don't have now, we don't have budget committee calculations, we just don't have them. And we are dealing with such a serious problem. So far it's a very raw document. And in order to avoid any destabilization in this matter, we need to have conclusions, we need to calculate everything and we need to make complex changes. I'm against the adoption of an incomplete bill. And I point out that in the preparation of all the draft laws today, when the opposition came forward, it allowed unprepared bills to form questions into the agenda. I would ask Arsenija Petrovich to give a team to the secretariat to explain, show and not put into order the daily bills that are not ready, I repeat, not ready in accordance with article 93 of the Rules that are not ready for consideration. And anything that affects the budget, the Pension Fund budget has to be clearly calculated so that we don't ruin the situation, make it worse, God forbid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u217	Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u218	I am authorized to present the opinion of the Committee on Budget Questions on this bill. And she is. The bill proposes to cancel the maximum wage limit on which insurance contributions are due, which provides for an increase in the income of the Pension Fund and a corresponding reduction in the budget expenditure to cover the deficit of the Pension Fund. During a meeting of the Budget Committee on March 4, this year. The committee concluded that the bill could be adopted on the basis of the following, subject to the official promulgation of the law by 15 August 2008, it takes effect not earlier than 1 January 2009, Moreover, the Ukrainian Ministry of Finance does not support the bill in its conclusion. The Ministry of Finance notes that the removal of the maximum wage limit for the payment of pensions will require additional costs, in that state budget, to pay them, which will lead to the tinnishing of wages with the aim of artificially reducing the costs of employers to pay the premiums. In addition, if the maximum amount for pension contributions is cancelled, pension payments must be made at this amount of salary, which in turn will lead to the need for review or cancellation of the maximum pension. Thus, the implementation of the proposed changes can have negative consequences for filling the income portion of the state budget and social funds, as well as for the additional cost of payment if the maximum pension limit is lifted. And more simply, about this law, it's my own idea as a national MP, this bill just aims to balance the country's pension system, to squander it, and then to hang it on the government that you see today, it doesn't work with pension payments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u219	Thank you, colleagues. For reasons other than factions, here Adam Ivanovich is right, it's actually factions that didn't take part in the discussion. That's why I would ask. We have all the factions involved in the discussion? All of them. For that reason, I can't. The Communists did not take part? They didn't. Please give me the word of Zybenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u220	Thank you, Arseny Petrovich. Dear colleagues, I have accidentally started a report on this bill from the fact that we have just left the election and that the topic of strengthening social protection has been extremely cynically exploited in these elections. The previous discussion, I hope that the results of the vote will correct what was said, but the previous discussion shows that the factions that formed the coalition today, unfortunately, have used the voter votes to get support in the elections. But on behalf of the Communist faction, I would like to say that we will find an opportunity to give the voters of Ukraine a real position on this issue, including in the presidential election of the Kiev City Head and Kyivrada. And yet, I'm asking my colleague to support the bill. There are elements to improving it, but you don't have to destroy the very idea of restoring justice in retirement. And this is the basis of the document.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u221	Colleagues, the national deputy of Yavorowski, insists on his right to vote. And we have a deputy minister of finance from Ukraine who would like to make a statement. Will there be no objection to hearing the government's position on this issue? Colleagues, if there's a motive. So, please, that's it. By procedure. That is, as soon as you begin to deviate from the Rules, you will immediately wander in three pines. Sign up for three minutes, then. Please use the electronic system. Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u222	Dear colleagues, I would like to emphasize and to remind the national MPs of Ukraine of the fourth call. You remember that we have tried to do so on many occasions. Then we were told that this could not be done, because it would somehow affect the Pension Fund's budget. On the contrary, the Pension Fund, which is currently experiencing difficult times, is receiving new additional income for pension payments. What's wrong, I can't understand? Of the 78 billion dollars operated by the Pension Fund, he's been trying for a long time, and we're trying to help him with payments from the State Budget, which is unacceptable, because there's a law on mandatory government pension insurance. That's why we're going to need more, whether we want it or not, this government, it's not long-standing, another government is coming, we're going to have to deal with the problems of reforming the pension system. From this point of view, I would like to go to the vote on this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u223	Vladimir Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u224	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Please give the word to a person who knows the pension system well, to Vladimir Yavorowski, and to the needs of the people.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u225	Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u226	Vladimir Yavorowski. Dear colleagues, of course I would have kept my mouth shut, but after hearing this accusation to our side, there are speculations. I've just arrived, Arsenija Petrovich, and the people who are listening to us have just come from the Cabinet of Ministers meeting, where 2.5 hours pedanically, literally by every number, were looking at reforming our pension legislation. The point is that we're going to move on to a mixed system. We're going to put in both today and today, and at the same time, we're going to increase the solidarity of the pension system. Because of this bill, which has been introduced, it gives absolutely nothing compared to the fact that the government is preparing a completely fundamental, profound bill. I want people to know about it. He will be put out for public discussion. And we're in this bill, once again, we're going to deal with the fundamentals.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u227	Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u228	I think it is wrong to say that a bill is bad, because another branch of authority, another subject of the legislative initiative, is preparing another bill at this time. It's not right for Parliament and for parliamentarians. But he is very much asking and simply requires the words of Deputy Sulkovsky. If you'll let him.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u229	Deputy Sulkovsky, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u230	Thank you, Oleg. Arsenija Petrovich, you have literally just listened and witnessed that from the coalition, from the “self-defence” so cynically, the so-called lawyer today has disgraced all the projects that have been submitted by the opposition. Clearly, there is a minority in opposition. And if there's no intelligent voice from the coalition, we'll never do our project. And that's why lying, lying all over Ukraine to the people of Ukraine, that such bad projects from the opposition, is just a disgrace. And that's not a good neighbor.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u231	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the time for the speech is over. Colleagues, there is no objection to brief the Deputy Minister of Finance about the government's position under the bill. You don't? Please, the word of Matthew Volodymyr Makarovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u232	Thank you, Arsenia Petrovich. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the People's Deputy Laszka, who, in fact, has proved the position of the Ministry of Finance on this matter. I just wanted to add that in addition to this problem, this bill has one more thing in it. Think about it, it's designed to increase the size of high-income pensions. If you take a high-ranking employer who today receives 20,000 dollars a month's salary, he pays the Pension Fund for the current order of 450 dollars. Under the terms of this law, he will pay a thousand dollars and receive a pension of 18,000 dollars, now receiving five and a half thousand dollars. It is not possible to pass such a law. We ask the respectable Peter Stepanovich to remove it from consideration and refine it in the complex. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u233	Thank you, colleagues. This discussion is concluded. I'm voting on Bill 1021. The committee proposes that the subject of the legislative initiative be returned to the draft law. Please vote. [[13:48:53]] Z-33. The decision is not taken. Please show by factions. The bill has been removed. Let's go to the next bill, 1033. [[B in m in s a l in]] Your last name wasn't on it. He said: “Petro Stepanovich”. According to the Rules, it's an exclusive last name. There are many Peter Stepanovichs here. Well, you want a line. Well, I don't understand, it's a violation of the Rules. All right, say it, please. Involve the national MP Zibank.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u234	Dear colleagues, you know, one more time I see an attempt on the part of Mr. Matwijczuk to get the country into prostitution so as not to be able to take extra money into the Pension Fund from the entire salary, I'm not even talking about income anymore, I'm just talking about all the wages, I'm willing to go to anything: lie, frankly, anything. Because in this bill, it's not about the size of the salary, it's about contributions to the Pension Fund. Any person who fully understands that no increase in pension is possible without an increase in the size of the Pension Fund budget. I'm surprised when, as a national deputy, I try to increase the budget of the Pension Fund, and the Ministry of Finance, which has to count the state budget there, strongly denies it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u235	Colleagues! Let's go to 1033. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Taxes on the Income of Persons. Hara Vasil Georgiyovich, report. Vassil Georgievicz, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u236	Dear colleagues! I cannot, as Chairman of the Committee on Social and Labour, be silent about the subtlety that some members of the coalition are doing in this sessional room. You'll see their vote. Zero, they agreed not to support any of the bills today. Of course, they would be very pleased to break the Labour Code, which had been under three compositions of the Supreme Council for eight years. The Social Dialogue Act, which is very much needed today by society and many social laws, is something I cannot say otherwise. And the second. As a matter of fact, let it be on your conscience, by the way, if it's in these people. And let our voters look at the votes that came out of today's vote. With regard to the bill that I am the author of, I would like to say the following, respected Arsenius Petrovich! Me and my colleague Turmanov Viktor Ivanovich, a member of our faction, have drafted almost identical drafts dealing with the protection of a whole layer of social workers, including miners' widows, disabled persons and others, veterans and others. But given that the Turmanov Bill has been more detailed, I am withdrawing my bill in favour of the Turmanov Bill and asking for the support of the bill. [[Number 1033-2]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u237	Thank you, Vasil Grigorovitch. Volinec Mikhailo Yakovic, reporting on the alternative bill 1033-1. Please, Mikhail Yakovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u238	Mikhailo Volinec, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. I'm making changes to the draft Income Tax Act, it's about taxation of monetary compensation. Dear colleagues, in modern times, when the working conditions of miners are extremely difficult, when the lack of motivation for the young generation to work in the coal sector, and the material security of miners leaves them wanting better, it is logical because of my legislative initiative to make the lives of ordinary workers a little easier. I was repeatedly approached and approached by miners with a request to help solve the problem. My bill proposes to exempt workers from taxing the value of coal, which is available free of charge to workers in the coal industry. According to the mining law of Ukraine, article 43, the rights and social guarantees of mining workers, coal - mining companies, and coal - mining enterprises provide coal free of charge for household needs, as defined by the collective agreement of coal and coal - mining workers. Under Ukraine’s Income Tax Act, the cost of coal and coal briquettes, free of charge to workers from coal and coal processing, is not included in the total monthly or annual tax income. However, monetary compensation for the cost of free coal is included in the total monthly or annual tax income of miners. Taking into account the many wishes of miners and speaking on their behalf, I ask all national MPs to support this bill, the main objective is to improve the social protection of miners. Thank you. Turmanov Victor Ivanovich reports on an alternative: 1033-2.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u239	Dear Arsenius Petrovich! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! You are invited to consider draft Ukrainian Law 1033-2 amending the Ukrainian Law on the Tax on the Income of Individuals. Or to clarify the categories of persons who are granted free of charge coal for domestic needs, as set out in the Mining Act, article 43, 48. The need to adopt this bill is due to the dissatisfaction, the high flow of complaints, the treatment of certain categories of our citizens, especially miners, who, as a result of the existing differences in Ukrainian laws, are forced to pay a tax on their free coal for their domestic needs. This applies in particular to the categories of persons such as coal mine workers, as well as members of their families, who have died in coal mining enterprises who receive a pension in connection with the loss of a breadwinner. For example, Ukraine's mining law has established that concessions for the free provision of coal for domestic needs are presented to certain categories of persons, including workers, pensioners of coal-mining, processing, coal-mining enterprises, as well as to families of workers who have died or died in coal industries. [[Article 43 and 48]] At the same time, article 4, paragraph 4.3.15 of the Law on the Income of Individuals, does not include all categories of persons included in the income list, which is not included in the general monthly or annual income tax, as provided for in article 43 and 48 of the Mining Act. It is therefore our task, therefore, today, to support this bill and restore justice. Because the mountain law was passed in 99 in this sessional room and the taxation law in 2003.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u240	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u241	A number of categories of miners and professions did not fall, especially widows of dead miners. Therefore, I very much ask my colleagues today to support this draft law that the miners are waiting for. 30,000 people who, due to the lack of contact with these laws today, are unable to benefit from the benefits laid down in mining law 43, 48th section of the mountain law. Our committee, TEKovsky, supported the draft law 100 per cent. I was on the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, Chairman of the Committee Terehin, and colleagues are present from a committee that has supported the draft law 100 per cent. That is why I want us not to speak, but to deal with today the problem of miners who have been waiting for a number of years for our legislative body to make a decision today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u242	Thank you. Colleague Bondarev, please, from the committee, from the place. Turn on the microphone from the seat of Constantine Anatoliyevich Bondarev, the faction of the “Julia Timoshenko Block”. It's up there, which is in the Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u243	Indeed, the committee considered the proposals contained in this bill. They are very important for society and the committee believes that the whole introduction of the bill will contribute to increasing the social protection of a large number of coal workers and their families. From these three bills, we propose these observations that were made on the committee in the future. Now to adopt Bill 1033-2 as a basis and to vote in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-19-m0.u244	Colleagues, there is a proposal to move on to the voting procedure. The committee proposes 1033, 1033-1 minus. 1033-2 is a base. I'm betting on a vote on acceptance, I'm sure I'll go through with it. Colleagues, let's put it this way, first. Quiet. First we're going to put acceptance as a base, and then we're going to see if we don't take 1033-2 as a base, we're going to put 33-1 or 33. I'm voting for adoption on the basis of Bill No. 1033-2. Vote please, colleagues. 1033-2, one bill, I say again. There's a vote coming. [[14:00:23]] For 227 Decision taken. My colleagues, thank you. Please show by factions. Region Party – 173, “Timoshenko Yulia Block” – 1, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” – 6, Communists – 27, Block Lithuania – 20. Dear colleagues, today is the end of the so-called opposition day, unfortunately not very effective, but it's good that at least one bill has been passed. I think that the next vote will be much more effective and will be settled. See you tomorrow. Thank you all. The plenary session is closed.
