ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u1	Good day again, people's deputies. I'm asking you to register. There were 339 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The evening plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is publicized. Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, we now have a day-to-day discussion of the next issue. I'd like to remind you that we have a few left. 1144 is a draft of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Prizes for the Establishment of a New Order. The reporter is Stavniychuk Marina Ivanovna, and Kaskov Vladislav Volodymyrovich will co-report. Next is a very important question regarding the draft Law on Amendments to Chapters 14 and 15, so - called transitional positions of the Codex earth. This issue was discussed at the time of the adoption of the National Budget Act of Ukraine, and the issue has already been partially regulated and settled. However, we have four bills on this subject. Tkachenko, and Vashtuk, and Takkak, and Bebelzenko will report the relevant bills, so the left-hand side of the time will go to resolve this important issue in society. The next question is that Klukkowski Yuri Bogdanovic should report on the amendment of the 99 and 101 articles of the Ukrainian Law on the Election of Ukrainian People's Deputies, in part of the harmonization of procedural terms for the consideration of the issue of the permanent termination of the powers of the national deputies. By the way, we agreed to consider on Friday of this week, and I am speaking about those Ukrainian national deputies who are now meeting both the mandate of the Ukrainian national deputy and the status of the relevant professional officer of the Ukrainian executive branch. And the last question that will be reported by Sergey Volodymyrovich Sas is about to introduce changes and additions to the Ukrainian Supreme Council Rules in part of the implementation of the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers Act, "The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine", namely, the so-called "hour of questions to the Ukrainian government". So this is the list of questions that we now have in the evening plenary session to consider with you. In view of this, he would suggest that registration No. 114 be considered, namely the draft of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Prizes for the Establishment of the Order of Freedom and the Medal of Life. We have a reporter, who is the deputy head of the Ukrainian Presidential Secretariat, Stavniyczuk Marina Ivanovna, co-reporter of the committee on State Building and Local Self-Government of Kaskov Vladislav Volodymyrovich. There are the relevant conclusions of the committee, and I therefore propose to begin the process of discussing the bill. I invite you to the rostrum of Vice-President Stavniychuk Marina Ivanovna. The discussion began. I think so. [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay. If there's a proposal for a procedure, I'll take it from you for three minutes. Please record from the procedure. Grenevetsky Sergey Rafailovich, “Block of Lithuania”. Please, Sergey Raphaelovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u2	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, we will consider a rather serious question. I would perhaps like to re-register the issue before I consider it, for something does not feel so confident about the votes that can approve such an important law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u3	All right, Sergey Raphaelovich. Martinuk Adam Ivanovich, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u4	Thank you. We will be listening for the first time in this call by the President's representative. I mean, for the first time, we're going to be looking at a bill that the head of state is drafting, and I'm wondering why this bill is reporting, and we're going to be happy to listen to our good and long-known Marina Ivanovna, who, on many occasions in the session room, have been very supportive of the interests of the bodies she represented. But it would probably be logical for the President's representative to present the bill, not in the Constitutional Court, but the President's representative in the Supreme Council. There is such a representative of the President, and we would be interested in listening, and looking at the person who represents the interests of the head of state in the Supreme Council. I ask once again, Marina Ivanovna, to understand me correctly, we will be pleased to listen to her too, but she is, on duty, a representative of the President of the Constitutional Court and the Central Electoral Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u5	Samuel Catherine Seminovna, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u6	Thank you. I'd like to say the following about that. First of all, we need to look at what we have from the state rewards. Arseny Petrovich! We have the prizes of the Supreme Council of Ukraine -- Gramota and Honorary Literacy. But to our great shame, it gives nothing to those who take as the highest reward of our nation's higher legislature, we would consider in terms of this letter, indeed, some material encouragement to these people. Because maybe they, in their political views in life, are worthy of the President of Ukraine's high prizes, and we are with you a democratic body, we can reward without considering the political preferences. And I also want to say that we have a lot of respect for Marina Ivanovna, but order is order, and of course the President's Secretariat needs to be very careful about those.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u7	Zibenko, Communist faction, Peter Stepanovich, please, Peter Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u8	In fact, what I wanted to say out of this question was what Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk and my colleague said, I think that the questions they asked are absolutely legitimate. What's more, when it comes to state awards, and they're different, I'd like to make a wish, let's say, for the future, to the President's Secretariat. I would like them to be presented separately with regard to the approval of a national award. Because I'm not ruling out a situation where a Ukrainian national MP can have a different attitude towards the two rewards that are being offered today and what he can do then, how to vote, if, say, he supports the implementation of one reward and does not support the introduction of another. So this is the wish of the President's Secretariat that, let's say, such important questions be asked separately so that they don't mix with each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u9	Thank you. Bilorus Oleg Grigorovich, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u10	Dear colleagues, what the law represents Marina Ivanovna Stavniychuk is the President's right and we should not discuss it here. Marina Ivanovna, Deputy Head of the President’s Secretariat Another thing is that you can't pass a series of orders in law for the approval of the Supreme Council. I understand the importance of the medal for a life saved, but with regard to the Order of Freedom, the freedom that is involved. It would have to be, after all, one reward at a time, we have too many rewards and they're too easy to give to people who don't deserve it. We need to keep order, not create new and new orders, and medals.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u11	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the time to discuss procedural matters is running out. Marina Ivanovna, I invite you to the rostrum. And in short, I'd like to comment on what I'm talking about, first of all, what I'm talking about is the reporter. The initiator, namely the subject of the legislative initiative, namely, the President of Ukraine, according to this book, which is called the “Regulation”, defines the rapporteur. In view of this, Marina Ivanovna Stavniychuk is a full representative, as the relevant documents have been drawn up for her. As for the representative of the Supreme Council, I think he will definitely appear and also present the relevant bills. Marina Ivanovna, please, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u12	Dear Arseny Petrovich! Dear National Deputies! On 7 December 2007, on the basis of article 93 of the Ukrainian Constitution, the President of Ukraine re-entered the Supreme Council as a matter of urgency and requested that the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on State Prizes for Ukraine be considered in turn, which envisions the establishment of a Freedom Order and a Life-Free Medal. It is well known that the Presidential Decree of 18 August 2005 on the improvement of the prize case supported the proposal of the Commission of State Awards and Heraldics at the presentation of Ukraine for the establishment of these awards. I will note that according to article 92, part 2, paragraph 5, of the Constitution, State rewards are determined solely by the laws of Ukraine. And in view of that, the President of Ukraine is initiating a review of this bill in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. As I have noted, this is about the establishment of two additional awards – the Order of Liberty and the Medal of Life. As far as the Order of Liberty is concerned. It is envisaged that the order will be assigned to citizens and citizens of Ukraine and to foreign citizens to recognize the special merit of citizens in affirming the sovereignty and independence of Ukraine, the consolidation of Ukrainian society, the development of democracy, socio-economic and political reforms in the country, the promotion of constitutional rights and freedoms of human beings and citizens in Ukraine. So this is about a sufficiently high national reward. Unlike other orders in the State of Liberty, there will be no corresponding degrees. As far as the Medal of Life is concerned. So far, there has been no State reward in Ukraine that could be attributed for acts related to saving lives, preventing accidents with people, and so forth, not only by military officials and law enforcement officials but also by other Ukrainian civilians. And in view of this, there is no doubt that there is a need for an appropriate state reward so that ordinary Ukrainian citizens for their heroic acts of saving a person could be marked by the Ukrainian State after saving a life. Let me see, honourable national deputies, that if the bill is adopted, it will not require additional expenses from the state budget of Ukraine. Funding for the production of the Freedom Order and the Lifesaver Medal will be carried out within the limits of the budget expenditure provided for annually in the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget of Ukraine for the production of the relevant State Prizes. I will also draw your attention to the fact that this bill has been supported by the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority. There is a positive conclusion about the bill. And there's a conclusion from the administration that it might be taken up by the Supreme Council. In addition, this bill and the Supreme Council Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, which also recommends to Parliament the adoption of the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Rewards, as a whole. And I would also like to ask you that the bill has been submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine by the President of Ukraine and that, given that it is supported by the relevant committee and the administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, it supports the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u13	Thank you, Marina Ivanovna. Dear National Deputies, according to the regulations, I ask you to sign up for questions and answers to Marina Ivanovna Stavniczuk. In ten minutes, please. Silent Pavlov Mikhajlovich, faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u14	Thank you. Dear Mrs. Marino, I'm asking a question that actually echoes Oleg Grigorovovich's opinion. Are we starting to review everything again when we introduce both new principles and new chronology? When we don't start from time on, from when Ukraine is dedependent, and someone wants to shorten it, this distance, to reduce it, and maybe these are the main motives for us to add new orders and new badges. For this to be marked as well as a bank currency, a new signature, a new head of the National Bank, another motivation. It seems to me that we have a well-developed Heraldic, developed all the reward complexes that we have approved of the Supreme Council. We're said to have been here for a long time, we've been testing and at last we're said to have the entire state-owned set that was needed, and the attribute was accepted.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u15	Marina Ivanovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u16	Can I answer that, please? Dear Paul Mikolaiovich, I don't think you should share your position, because the rest is about improving the proper reward in Ukraine. And what is being proposed today to introduce two new rewards in no way crosses the system of rewards that exists today in the Ukrainian State. Moreover, in explaining this bill, I have drawn attention to the specialty that relates, say, to the medal that is for “Saved Life”, and the point is that, today in Ukraine, there is a reward for the life saved, so it is in the reward system, that there is a situation that only a category of persons is provided for. This is about military and law enforcement officials. You and I often see in the media that heroic acts are done not only by adult citizens but even by children, helping in some or other difficult situations. The same is true of the situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u17	Next question, Rybuk Sergey Mikolaiovich, faction of the Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u18	Thank you. Rybuk faction of the Party of the Regions, Žitomirščina. Dear Marina Ivanovna, because we're working now and next week, and the issues are so vicious for the state, which is why the head of state called this bill urgent. What is his urgency? Explain, first. And second of all, in front of me. Two bills have been published. One bill – the President's veto of what the Supreme Council has proposed to introduce – means that “an honorable employee of local self-government”, “a pilot-tester”, we have only one remaining — are airplanes that can and can be tried by anyone. I mean, on the one hand, we promise what's so important to us, on the other hand, I can't understand the urgency of the Freedom Order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u19	I would like to say that this is the President's right given by the Constitution to determine his status as a bill submitted to the Supreme Council. I would also like to point out that this bill, which has been submitted to the Supreme Council along with a series of nearly one and a half dozen bills. And this is already the case of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, how it forms the agenda and which bills include on the first day of work, the second and third days of the sessional week. I hope there are other bills that will be introduced. The President of Ukraine, who has already been introduced, will be considered by the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u20	Thank you. Kamchatny Valeri Grigorovich, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u21	Thank you. Dear Marina Ivanovna, first of all, I personally support the establishment of these two awards. But at the same time, there is such a question. In your speech, you recalled the existence of the so - called Concept of Improving the Rewarding Case. I remember this document very well, and in my own time, I also implemented it as head of the Kharkiv government apparatus. And so the question is, what are the further ways to implement this document, particularly those negative phenomena that Mr. Belarus mentioned? And second of all, do you see the point in expanding the membership of the Commission on Prizes not only by the participation of an MP from "Our Ukraine" Kirilenko, but, say, from other factions? Our faction used to put me in charge of this commission. But not even what they didn't include, nor did they even give an answer from the President's Administration, a more loyal secretariat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u22	In answer to your question, he should note that the concept approved by the President’s decree sets out a number of principles on which a reward must be improved. It is both objectivity and justice, and it is a purely collective consideration of these offerings. The Secretariat of the President of Ukraine is currently reviewing the structure of the secretariat of the President of Ukraine, including the review and updating of the relevant bodies, commissions and advisory bodies, including those established with the President of Ukraine. I have no doubt that the composition of the relevant commission will also be updated with the reward and the commission that decides the matter, taking into account the need for the representative nature of this body to the President of Ukraine. This is an objective reality.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u23	Smoker Dmitry Volodymyrovich, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u24	Dear Chairman, dear Marina Ivanovna! The first clarification. You said it would be the only organ that wouldn't have degrees. It's a mistake, we have a Order of Danil Galicki, which has no degrees. But that's not the point. In my opinion, the bill that was introduced bears signs of the destruction of the reward system, because it doesn't even have a segment of the reward that doesn't double, and duplicating it first. Oh, that's different. Please tell me, if a former life saved by a fireman, a militiaman was awarded the "For Courage" order, why lower it to the status of a medal? Really, from your point of view, there is something more valuable than the life that is saved. Perhaps this is the position of the President? Then she did not understand me at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u25	Dmitri Volodymyrovich, you're completely wrong to comment on what I said. The point is that today there is such a situation that for the Order "For Courage", which you have just mentioned, a certain category of subject matter has been established for the axles that are rewarded by this Order. In view of this, it is suggested that the gap that exists today in legislation be removed, since not only law enforcement officials and military officials are fighting for the lives of a person in one situation or another, but also private citizens. Moreover, the Order of Freedom or the establishment of the Order of Liberty does not destroy but complements the system of rewards and complements those grounds, broadens the basis for the rewards not only for Ukrainian citizens but also for foreign citizens. And I'm going to point out that there is a similar order in many countries of the world, and you know that very well, because as a historian and an expert in these matters, you have dealt with this subject in a substantive way. And I think in Ukraine it would be good to have such a reward.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u26	Bondik Valeriy Anatoliyovich, Party of Regions
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u27	Dear Mary Ivanovna, thank you for your thorough explanation, but there are questions. Well, really, if the Order of Liberty is introduced and foreign citizens are celebrated, maybe the President is reluctant to hand over the Order of Liberty for the development of democracy to his best man there for such victory in Georgia, maybe not. As for the Life Save Medal, I think it's a very professional offer, but you need to develop a position on rewards, doesn't the President also tolerate the award of number one? So I'm offering to award a medal to Victor Andryovich Yushchenka, who pushed the fire engine until it hit the pine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u28	Valeriy Anatoliyovich, taking this opportunity, would like to ask you: when it comes to the President of Ukraine, whatever his name is, always treat this institution with respect in the state. This will not be unnecessary for every national MP. [[Applause]] As far as the awards of foreign citizens are concerned, I should point out that if the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopts appropriate amendments to the law and the corresponding awards are introduced, it is certain that, on the basis of the law, a statute on one and another will be approved by the President of Ukraine, where this will be clearly defined – the nature of the reward, the people to be awarded, and all the issues to be settled in the prize statutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u29	One last question. Shevchuk Sergey Volodymyrovich, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u30	Thank you. I have one question: please tell me, how many citizens of Ukraine, not Ukrainians, were given orders by the President of the Order and medals in 2006 and 2007? Is that a large number, or is that a small number? Or is there really a reason to increase the number of orders and thus increase the number of awards awarded by President Yushchenk? I will be grateful for the answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u31	It must be noted, the honourable national deputies of Ukraine, that the trend in the prize cause or in the awards of both citizens and foreign citizens is so that. To an increase, let's say, a reward. Well, I'll give you an example of the awards, the merit order. In 2007, 49 were awarded in the Order of the 1st degree, in the 2nd degree in the 133rd degree in the 776s. Similar statistics, of course, apply to the Order of Jaroslav the Wise. That's the average, and the trend is going to go up a little bit. But I think so. That a certain order, a certain national reward, has its own area of both the subjects of the prize and the sphere of public life, for the success of the achievement of which both the prizes are given.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u32	Thank you, Marina Ivanovna. Sergey Rafailovich will report to Kaskiv in no time. After Kaskov – again the question-answers. Then you will have the opportunity to express yourself. I can see everything. Dear Marina Ivanovna, thank you. Coroner Kaskiv. Please, I'll take you to the rostrum. Vladislav Volodymyrovich, please, on the rostrum. A report from the subcommittee.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u33	Dear Mr. Head, Marina Ivanovna, distinguished nationals! First of all, I'm standing on this platform for the first time, so I want to thank you for this honor and for the opportunity, for everyone, without exception. And to address you with a decision on the Pro-State Bill, a draft amendment to the Ukrainian Law on Ukrainian State Prizes. The Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government discussed at its meeting on 10 January this year the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Prizes, introduced by President Viktor Yushchenk of Ukraine, and defined it as urgent. Registration number 1144 from 07.12.2007 The purpose of the bill is to expand Ukraine's system of state awards by establishing new State awards, including the Freedom Order and the Lifesaver Medal. The scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine presented its conclusion. It has not been considered by the committee, but has made a number of comments to the bill since 14 January 2008 and believes that the first reading of the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Prizes can be based on it. During the discussion of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government by the Ukrainian National Deputies, it was decided that the Committee should recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine when considering the first reading to adopt the bill as a basis and as a whole. Please consider and be ready to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u34	Dear colleagues, questions, five minutes, please sign up. Zarubinski Oleg Alexandrovich, Block of Lithuania
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u35	Please pass the word to Sergey Raphaelovich Greeneweck.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u36	Turn on Greenewecki.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u37	Thank you. Dear colleague, please argue the urgency of this law, and what did the President argue that he should be considered today?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u38	Well, first of all, I can repeat Marina Stepanovna's thesis that the right to determine the urgency of the bill is the President's prerogative, provided for by appropriate legislation. As for the substance of this issue, of course it is not the competence of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government to determine why the President considers this law urgent. So I think the question is wrong.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u39	Dony Alexander Sergiyovich, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense."
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u40	Thank you. There are prize collectors in Ukraine. Well, especially Mr. Czervonenko seems to already own a collection of almost all the orders and medals of the Ukrainian State. And apparently there are exceptions, like the grandmother of Parasca, who is also the ordinary bearer. The question may be asked: What does the existing system fail to establish, which is essential for the establishment of another system? One national reward is to please someone simply by participating in ceremonial procedures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u41	You know, I'm just a member of this Parliament recently, but I have a great responsibility as a Ukrainian citizen and a great respect for any attribute of this state. The State of Ukraine. And it's primarily government awards. I, my esteemed colleagues, do not always share my personal attitude as a citizen with those who are rewarded with these rewards, but I believe that these are the rewards of the country. To whom and how and in what order to be awarded are determined by the relevant state institutions, particularly the President of Ukraine. So unfortunately, I'm not actually going to comment on a very inappropriate, in my opinion, issue that discredits the very idea of Ukrainian statehood and its attributes, but I think that the Order of Liberty and the Medal of "For a Saved Life" are absolutely adequate State rewards to make. And there are many deserving fellow Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u42	Reva Dmitry Alexiyovich, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u43	Please pass the word to Dmitry Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u44	Smoker Dmitry Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u45	Mr. Reporter, who is forced to return to the fact that the system of State rewards must be built, first and foremost, by experts. I believe that the proposal to create a “For Saved Life” medal is blasphemous because it reduces the weight of saved life from the order to the medal. For Mrs. Stavniczuk, I read from the Law on State Rewards: “For Courage Orders” I, II, III stage to mark military personnel, law enforcement officials and others for personal courage found in saving people.” [[heroism]] And the order was given even to children who rescued their colleagues, relatives in a fire, or from drowning. So this medal is absolutely unnecessary, and you should not pretend that you are improving the system of State rewards.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u46	Dmitri Vasilovich, if you do not even agree with the proposed reward, with the adoption of this law, this does not necessarily mean that the establishment of such a reward is blasphemy. I think your grade is inadequate. And I think it's for this Parliament to decide whether or not it needs a system of State rewards. And your grade is just inappropriate.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u47	Herman Hanna Mikolayevna, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u48	I don't know if you're dividing my score, but, I think our entire system of state is like a "Brezhengeva jacket" where a lot of hard-core rewards are being awarded to people on a case-by-case basis. When, in 2004-2005, you were running the "Paradise" that terrorized many of my political brothers, it was your freedom. You have privatized the word “freedom”. Are you now going to reward only those who understand your freedom? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u49	Dear Mrs. Anna, I say that freedom is not to be stopped for both of us and for you. And as for the prizes, I'll tell you that before I was honoured to be your colleague, the national deputy, I worked at the President's Secretariat. And I remember the initiative that was then immediately after the victory of democracy, which was called the Orange Revolution, to give many active participants of this process State rewards. And I remember the political position of both the President in particular and many leaders of this popular movement that they do not yet consider themselves worthy of these State rewards. So this is a direct answer, not by word, but by deed to your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u50	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to sign up for a faction discussion. Please record for discussion. Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, faction of the Party of the Regions. Mikhail Mikolaiovich, who? Dmitry Volodymyrovich's gonna be a smoker? From the rostrum, yes, Dmitri Volodymyrovich. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u51	The honourable presiding, respected colleagues, the system of state awards in Ukraine began to be built in 95 C.E., and 13 years later, the three chambers of the Supreme Council became sufficiently shaped, civilized, taking into account better examples of European reward systems. And that is why it was built on the basic symbols associated with the personal character of this prize, the many degrees and so forth that are available in most of the 193 rewarding systems of the world. Why today, for example, do I deny the setting up of these prizes and say that their establishment will be the destruction of the reward system. Aspect first. The Supreme Order of Ukraine was the Order of Jaroslav the Wise, and its value was that it served not only the inner reward aspect but also the outer one. More than 60 Heads of State, including President Yushchenko, were awarded the Order of Jaroslav the Wise, with the status of Ukraine’s highest national prize. Now that this amendment to the law is proposed, we need to explain to Václav Havel, Adamkus, President Chirac, and many others why their reward is no longer higher. It's different. There is no sphere of segment for this prize. That is why the award-winning definition consists of two parts: the first one written out of the Order “For Credits”, the second one written out of the Order of Bogdan Hmelnick. And that says there's no segment that describes and celebrates this order. I'm not talking about duplicating these reward definitions, which is the best argument for not needing this reward. Second of all, why did I allow myself a sharp evaluation? Think for yourselves, we have a clear law of the Order “For Courage” that rewards a man for his saved life. And I am absolutely convinced that there is no more value in any reward system than life saved. We are now invited to lower this to a special medal. What was the biggest flaw in the Soviet system of rewards? She was extremely bureaucratic and completely volunteer. The man could be rewarded for the same merit by the Order of the Work of the Red Flag, the Friends of the Nations, the “sign of honor”. And in France, neither Louis Pasteur nor Paul Belmondo can become the cavalry of the Legion of Honor unless he has a lower degree. That's how it was built. I think that this bill should be sent for further work and, if established, for the first time, the Supreme Council gets without description and without a picture of a reward. Remember the MPs as you approved the order of Danil Galicki. Described, size, tape size, color. This is simply disrespect for Parliament and the introduction of the unprepared.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u52	Archevite Stanislav Mikhailovich, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u53	Lilia Grigorovich, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense." Dear Arseny Petrovich! Dear colleagues! Respectable citizens of Ukraine. No doubt we have the opportunity to discuss today, but is there enough for a young Ukrainian nation that is only 16 years old and not enough? We've never discussed this in principle, but I want to remind you that everything we do is not for politicians, but for the Ukrainian people and for the status and image of Ukraine. In view of this, let us not measure all that is being done in this room exclusively for ourselves, but let us consider those people who, apparently, should be honored in the same way that the young Ukrainian State should be honored with the rewards. So, a little bit about the history of our rewards. In 16 years, I'd like to tell you that by 2004, a good 14-year-old cannae had apparently had two previous presidents, their services. And to some extent, we have different heroes, the hero of Ukraine, Lukyanko, and the hero of Ukraine, a grain trader, who has gone through factions somewhere, we don't have one today. That's why a man is rewarded, and that's how we reward him, that's a little bit different, that's the first question. Secondly, it seems to me that having the Order of the Honourable Legion of France as an international prize is usually a great honor and why the Order of Liberty cannot be in Ukraine for that purpose. Whether we have too many rewards or not has been counted. Today, during this discussion, I mentioned something about our earlier meeting. We also talked about the prize, the prize of the Supreme Council to the teachers. Because a big letter teacher is, I think, something else after my father. So, dear friends, what we talked about here this morning, we talked the least about the teacher, we talked about political repression, we put the interests of our parties here and so forth. My dears, let's honor the man who learned to respect freedom, we didn't know the concept of freedom until 2004. And let's realize what freedom is and give those people who work for it a chance to reward. If we haven't figured it out yet, it's our disadvantage, but let's not show it so publicly, the honourable Ukrainian Parliament. Now, with regard to life saved, courage saves more than life, courage saves a single farm, saves the country’s honour and dignity, many other things. But respectable friends, if, for example, one of the deputies from Lviv, who dramatically changed his political orientation, appear to be under pressure from the Levians in 2004. So if this MP doesn't act, we're going to give him a life-saving order, and I'm joking so much that you and I realize that orders aren't for politicians and not for politicians, but for people.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u54	Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich, “Block of Lithuania”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u55	Dear Arseny Petrovich! Dear colleagues! If you'll excuse me, it's literally 15 seconds on one observation. Today, when there were performances from factions, some faction feeders said that we were ready to work without interruption until the beginning of the next session, and now I'm their man 40-50. Clearly, in the context of this issue of freedom is freedom from fulfilling its functional obligations. I think we need to be careful about such claims, beating ourselves in the chest, and at the same time when 50 people are not working in the session room. As far as this bill is concerned. I want to join because I have not heard the answer to my colleague's question from the "Livine Block" by Sergey Greenewecko, there are different statuses of those or other bills, and we are offered the status of the bill "immediate". I didn't hear from anyone, I'd like to hear about the urgency of adopting the Supreme Council of the bill, obviously there's no such thing, so there's no answer. First question. The second question. And once again, I want to make this point again, this is the first time that you can check it out, Your Honor, you can check it out, this is the first time that there's a proposal for the Supreme Council for a state reward, where there's no description, no position, no size, it's just an elementaryly unprepared bill, so let's face it, there's never been one. I will no longer say what my colleague Tobacco said about heroic incompetence and obscenity, such as the bill, but even the very essence of it, I think, needs some analysis as well. You know, you can agree with the title "For Saved Life" medal, although definitely status falls in comparison to the Order of Courage, but here it is clear what man deserved, it saved life, it was always heroism, anyway in our people, it was always courage, it was always something that needed gratitude and gratitude. When it comes to freedom, you understand very well that it's a philosophical concept, which is extremely abstract, which can be freedom for something, it could be freedom from something, I've already cited an example. And so it seems to me that for such serious things as the higher awards of the state, you need to take them seriously, you need professionals, professionals, you can't talk about billing. And one more question. I was thinking what the motivation is to give this about the Order of Liberty, well, my colleague Kaskiv seems to have made it clear to me. It's all made it clear that it's an order that's directed at one of the parts of Ukrainian society. I don't think that's entirely correct. Take the transcript, read how you answered your questions. I think it's safe not to reject this bill, just to make it professional. It can be processed. As for the “For Saved Life” medal, perhaps a vote can be voted on.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u56	Yavorowski Vladimir Aleksandrovich, "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko". Vladimir Aleksandrovich, do you have a word with anyone? Tell who, I'll tell them.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u57	Bodnar.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u58	Bondar, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u59	Olga Bodnar, Yulia Timoshenko, member of the State Building Committee and local self-government. This question was discussed with us on the committee and with special objections, and there were no warnings. Let me explain why. First of all, why is it urgent? The right to determine the urgency of a particular bill belongs to the President of Ukraine. That's how he decided. Perhaps because the question, if you remember, has been raised in the past, and we have considered it too. Maybe that's why he added it up as a front. Because we're already aware of him. Now let's see if there's any objection to freedom. I don't think any of you would deny that the word freedom is a beautiful word that we're all trying to move towards. What Is the Order of Freedom? This is a national reward that is set out to recognize the merit of citizens in the development of the democratic principles of the Ukrainian state, the adoption of the ideals of freedom, human rights, sovereignty, honest, fruitful public, political activity aimed at the realization of democratic transformations, socio-economic, political reforms, the consolidation of Ukrainian society. Ladies and gentlemen, what don't you like about this place? I think it's a beautiful order that you can only imagine in this respect. Now let's look at the world experience. Is there such a thing in the world, yes? We are given such information from the history of freedom rewards. There is such a “The Cross of Liberty” in Finland, in Estonia, “The Cross of Liberty”, in Spain, in Poland, “The Victory of Freedom”, in the United States, “Freedom”. In the Russian Federation, it's also for Mrs. Catherine, she doesn't like "Freedom" in the United States. In the Russian Federation, the ‘Protector of Free Russia’. There are no warnings in any country that the “Freedom” Order should take its place. I think that if we don't think of any dispute under that name, we can just accept and agree with the President's proposal, which is actually his prerogative. Now, let's talk about the medal. First. This medal in no way cancels the order that Mr. Tobacco spoke of. It's like an extra ingredient. Maybe someone's doing something in no way, well, let's say, yes, they meet those requirements of the order. As a result, the prize is yet to come as a medal. Because they don't need any extra budget expenses and because they're not political issues, I would suggest you support the committee's proposal, consider it, and accept it on the first reading as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u60	Samylica Katerina Semenovna is passing on to Gordienka.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u61	I'm sorry, I didn't say my last name, I just said "ma'am."
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u62	They said they already said that.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u63	I didn't say, "Mrs. Catherine."
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u64	Oh, no, no, it's not about you, it's about Samuel. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u65	Sergei Gordijenko Communist Party of Ukraine, Secretary of the Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government. To know. Even members of the committee themselves have not seen any, they will now say, not the established order, nor the medal that it is. Dear colleagues and distinguished voters of Ukraine! Even the representatives of our coalition are surprised that today such urgent priorities for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine as our guarantor of the Constitution are not a question of the economic growth of our state, the eradication of corruption and other negatives, but of the improvement of the state rewards. Yes, this question is important, but not as much as the problems that exist in our great state. Among those rewarded today, we will rarely see a simple worker, a simple milkmaid, a miner, or others. Today, we see among those who have been rewarded who have been especially impressed by the period of acceptance, the plundering of our great country, or by the fact that they have become very concerned with lewdness. They're rewarded. The modern - day Ukraine knows many of those who have been rewarded with money. We are particularly concerned about the fact that this is widely used by all to obtain certain names in our country. I can call many and many names today, but I don't want to do that. There's even. It's a terrible thing to do. Dear comrades, distinguished fellow MPs! Today we are talking about the opacity of this same question, but today we are going to remember how the Order “For Courage” rewarded our nation with a great circle of respected people, but then forced them to buy these prizes themselves. The position of the Communist Party of Ukraine is clear: the bill should simply remove the award of the Order so that it does not have the title of the Order of Liberty and this description. We think it's just going to politicize society, it's the way to legalize the negative moments in history that are. Today we see in practice that the more ordinarily we have, the worse people live. As far as the Medal of Life is concerned. These are prototypes of Soviet medals. That's why the faction of the Company of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u66	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we're about to have the national MPs. I think we've already discussed this issue from factions. So if we start going around again, we're not going to look at the key issues that we actually have in addition on the ground and everything else. Colleagues, it means I'm proposing to your consideration. Dear friends, I think you will. We have a whole range of suggestions that are made. I wouldn't want us to go the way we do now, which is that there is no consensus and common decision now. It's not that it's a separate order. The point is that this is an order for the people of Ukraine. If anyone is interested in order to issue orders, this is a completely different question that does not apply to the matter under consideration. We have a decision of a committee that offers in the first reading and in general. But there's a lot of suggestions that came in, it's going to be correct, and I would ask our colleagues to take it as a basis for the dawn, in the first reading. There are some things that need to be worked out. Marina Ivanovno, as far as the description is concerned, of course. We'll do it, literally, in a week. And in the next plenary session, we will consider it in a second reading and accept it as a whole. So I ask you, let's just put the bill in the first reading, that is, on the basis of, after that, colleagues, you're all going to get together, you're going to make your proposals, and we're going to get out normally to the second reading. It's not about the order, it's about the orders to the Ukrainians. So I'm voting 1144 in the first reading, which is the basis. Please vote. For -237. All right, dear friends, in favour of 237, the decision is made. Honorable National MPs. Please show by factions. Thank you very much again. Colleagues, let's move on to the next question of order of the day. We just have an hour left, and we have three more questions to consider. This is about making changes to Ukraine’s Earth Code. Colleagues, we've registered several bills: 1025, 1051, 1272 and 1282. Four contributors have been appointed: Tkachenko Alexander Mikolaiovich, Vaszczuk Katerina Timofievna, Tkak Roman Volodymyrovich and Bebelzenko Valerij Fedorovich. But there are new circumstances. Roman Tuck has just filed a statement that according to 99 he's calling off 1,272. In view of the fact that this is a decision that does not require a vote right now and given the demand of the subject of the legislative initiative, I propose that we withdraw 1272, as it was called off. And the second proposal that came from Deputy Bevanko is 1282. Also, the head of the Agrarian Policy Committee and the first deputy, the Jury and Sigal, are proposed to be removed from consideration of 1282. In view of this, colleagues, we have two bills left: this is the presentation of Tkachenko Alexander Mikolaiovich and Vasuk Katerina Timofievna. So please, now we're going to go through not the four bills that have been registered, but the two bills that have been registered. I'd like to invite you to the Chamber of Tucks Alexander Mikolaiovich. Alexander Mikolaiovich, please. You represent 1025, if I'm not mistaken. Please, five minutes. Well, you have until 10:00. But five minutes, okay? Actually, there's not less than 10 under the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u67	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, citizens of Ukraine! I would like to remind you that adopted in 2001, in violation of the Law, the Code of Earth, is still in operation today. The Communist faction was speaking out today against trade in Ukrainian land. For land marketers, the benefits were and remain one today: to buy land at a low price, and then to resell it as expensive as possible, as with privatized industrial enterprises. The earth is God's gift, having all the riches. Our country is a living space of 46 million. Population. The land is the main means of agricultural production, the spatial industrial base, the source of raw materials and food security in Ukraine. All of this should work only for the economy of our state. Politically, the earth is the foundation of statehood, the necessary condition of its sovereignty and independence. Let us mention events around Tuzla or the island of the Serpent. Therefore, all aspects of land use should be determined only by law. Articles 13 and 14 of the Constitution establish that the earth is the property of the Ukrainian people. The National Deputies, members of the Company Simonenko, Tkachenk, Matviev, introduced a bill proposing to continue the ban on agricultural land before January 1, 2011, a registration number says 1025 from December 26, 2007. Today it is impossible to ask questions about land trade without solving the problem of cadastre, circulation, and the price mechanism of land. It takes at least five or six years to fully regulate these issues. Clearly, the quality and composition of the earth in various climate zones differ greatly from that of the steppes, the woodchoppers, the fields, the mountains, or the mountainous regions of the republic. The State Budget 2008 Act amends the Land Code, which provides for the sale of agricultural land subject to the adoption of land cadastre and land market laws. But, dear colleagues, these laws do not solve the problem of a civilized market. According to the Code of Earth, more than 20 laws are needed to protect our peasants from bankruptcy, abuse of trade. Today, please call one country of the world where there is a trade in living space. One factor in halting the preparation of normative acts was the liquidation of the State Commission by the previous government. It's a disgrace! A draft decision of the Supreme Council on the restoration of its work, as well as the expansion of its functions with a view to ensuring rational land use, protecting the land, improving soil fertility and protecting it, has been introduced by the Communist National Dept. The experience of reforming the agro-industry complex has shown that the efficiency of land management is not determined by private ownership and land sales, but depends on state support and scientific and human resources for the sector. Ukraine is known all over the world as a land of bread. And there is no doubt that the agro-industrial complex developed is the prospect of the power of our nation today and for the future. I have repeatedly said that Russia is growing in Siberia, Ukraine should grow up to be an agro-industrial complex. By the year 91, we had three, four times as much agricultural production as we did today. The population was provided with sufficient food and large quantities were exported. We produced products that provided almost 300 million people. The agro-industrial complex in the late 1980s was highly technical and cost-effective over 40 percent. All farms, without exception, were profitable. The villages developed in a social way. Only for the social development of the village in 89, 90-91, was allocated annually to the government budget of 5.6 billion people per year, which today is equivalent to 30 billion dollars, is half our budget. Sadly, foolish agrarian reforms have resulted in the destruction of a highly effective system of productive relations. As time has shown, the introduction of small-scale forms of agricultural production is not able to provide the whole population with the necessary food, but with raw materials. Therefore, the purchase and sale of agricultural land should not stand in the order of the day in our Parliament. Ukraine’s land fund is now 60.3 million hectares [60.3 million ha]. Its size is Ukraine’s largest country in Europe after Russia. With only 0.4 percent of the land and 0.7 percent of the population, our nation owns five percent of the world's fossil resources, estimated by our experts and Westerns at 11 to 13 trillion dollars. According to the quality and composition of Ukraine’s soils, the world’s richest, more than 27 percent of the earth’s earth’s earth’s area is concentrated. According to the United Nations, Ukrainian land can produce food in the next 10 to 15 years in quantities that one billion of the planet’s population can provide. The conclusion is clear: Ukraine’s economy can grow only on account of the agricultural sector and its large-scale agricultural production. The situation in the agricultural market and the entry into the WTO requires the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on agrarian policy and land relations, and the development of a state programme for the development of an agro-industry complex for a minimum of 5-15 years. To achieve the 91st year of production, we need 5 to 6 years of serious work, and it takes 10 to 15 years to get to the level that I said. Therefore, honourable colleagues, please support the proposed amendments to the Ukraine Code of Land and take into account that in the electoral programmes of the parties and the blocs that came to today's Parliament, the prohibition was clearly defined and no such concept or category as trade in land was defined at all. I thank you for your attention and ask for your support for our bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u68	Thank you, Alexander Mikolayovich. Vaszczuk Katerina Timofievna Alexander Mikolaiovich presented Bill 10. The Communists want questions. Okay. Katerina Timofievna, excuse me, please wait two minutes. Okay, Adam Ivanovich, whatever you say, we'll do it. Let the Communists ask the Communists. I'm asking you to sign up, I'm asking you to sign up for a question. Three minutes to ask. Mishchenko Sergey Grigorovich, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u69	Please pass the word to Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u70	Please, the word Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u71	I want to ask the bill's author. Here I am reading the conclusion of your bill, and it is clearly stated that the bill has become obsolete because the issue to which it is dedicated is already regulated by the law of Ukraine. This morning, I sent a letter to the Head of the Supreme Council to remove these laws from consideration at all, because they are already regulated by the coalition vote in favour of the State Budget Act and amending other laws. So what I'm going to ask you is, why should we now adopt this law in addition, what will that give us? Because it actually contains the same positions that are already regulated by legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u72	Thank you for asking. I'll give you a quick answer. The 2008 budget, which was approved by today's parliament, has a income-to-expenditure gap of about 17 to 18 billion. And you know that. I don't think our country is to close the budget by selling land that doesn't have a price mechanism. Dear colleagues, the president didn't just veto this Earth cadastre bill last year, he understood that the Earth cadastre, and he was advised by experts, it would take five or six years of enormous hard work. [[I'll answer the question, taking into account 2007]] But how can the earth be valued with its riches without the earth’s cadastre? How can a price mechanism be established, and in general, the Law on Earth’s Circumstances? Please tell me. We're all people with a high level of education here. As you may.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u73	Kostenko Pavel Ivanovich, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Last name? Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u74	Pisarenko, the faction “Bloka julia timoshenko”. One more question. Here you have said quite faithfully that the past government has done nothing to move anything over land issues at all. Tell me, please, in the Communist Party strategy, I've already realized that "we're not going to land an enemy," right? And here's what to do to those owners who do have land today, yes, and how to act to the state if most of the land is already spoiled. Do you see a way out of this situation? Should the Land Market Act, the State Land Cadastre be approved, and would the Communist Party of Ukraine take part? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u75	Thank you. Respectable colleagues are said to have no return. If the earth is already spoiled and precious to humans, it is a matter of state. You and I have passed laws or our predecessors. But we do not have the right to allow the nation, especially the peasants, to give these lands for nothing, to sell and to buy for someone. But look, please, we don't need to go as far as industry is concerned. Whose hands did industry come into play? Whose place? Do I need to make a comment? Absolutely. Let's say today in this room, I can give an example, two or three, five examples, where today people are single, some of them are small in the hall, where they have 100, 150,000 hectares of land in the lease. So, dear friends, we need to protect the people you told us about. That's our point. If we both accept and live to see the earth become a commodity, and we will trade in our homeland, let it be priced. Worthy price. I'm here for you today.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u76	Thank you. Well, let's finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u77	I'm sorry, today America has bought 40 percent of the land from the federal state fund. Today, Europe is buying, Finland has bought 82 percent. Why are we going the other way? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u78	Katerina Timofievna, I ask you to introduce yourself. Thank you, Alexander Mikolayovich. Katerina Timofievna, please present your bill. The word has been given to Ukraine’s national deputy, Vaszczuk Katerina Timofievna.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u79	Dear colleagues! My bill is actually different, and the moratorium on land sales continues until 2010. What are the visions here? I am particularly referring to the part of the hall that is today set aside from supporting the bill on the extension of the moratorium. Dear colleagues! When the earth was scattered, one thing was that the man who worked on the earth should become the owner of the primary means of production, that is, its host. And if we move on, as Alexander Mikolaiovich said, three things have to be done. In fact, the mother land has a price, and without the laws adopted on the Earth cadastre, on the market of the earth, an estimate of the land cannot be done. And the second. Who should be the main operator in the market? The one who works on the earth. Do people who own, have the right to grow their land, they have that opportunity today? Governments have changed, but apart from changing the form of ownership in the village, nothing has really been done for the village. A peasant, as the poorest part of the population, cannot participate in the earth’s market today. So for whom will we open up the opportunity to buy land in Ukraine? For those who do not work for it, for those who will use it for the purposes he chooses. Third moment. Today, 800,000 villagers have not been replaced, they have not yet received State acts on land, they do not have confirmed ownership of their land. And there's an argument that the land in Ukraine is still being sold, bought and sold. Tell me, what's the law that makes this happen? There is no such law. All of this is done in the wake of the law, and then the transfer of land from agricultural to non-agriculture takes place by decision of the courts, by decision of the administrations, or in the course of violations of the law. And instead of stopping it in the state, we're making an argument, we need to start the market right now. Another question, tell me, what is the largest area of land in Europe? Today, the richest agrarian state in Europe, France, in my view, has land restrictions in one hand and it's small enough, 100 hectares, in some parts of the 150th. That's the way it is in all the states of the world, we don't put it today. What guarantee, dear colleagues, that tomorrow a few tens of people will not own the entire earth, whose will then be the state of our independence, on which will we be independent? It is possible not to wage war, not to establish major factories, not factories, not to rebuild them, but especially those who own land, Ukrainian people, or foreign nations. And as we open up the market for the earth today, without properly writing out the protective moments in legislation, we can do that without war, without any particular cost, Ukraine will become dependent without any declaration of its loss of independence. And then there's this moment. Dear colleagues, Alexander Mikolaiovich gave an example of how governments of other nations are buying up the land. So, so that there's no abuse in Ukraine on the land market, there wasn't anything that, uncle, there's just cool guys coming, because there's land near the river, near the lake, near the forest, and it says, "Here's the money, so sign it, because I won't give it anymore or you won't live," so in all the countries of the world, there's a government agency, a government committee, or a government bank that buys land at the price that's been set up and implemented, considering whether this person owns it on earth, whether it can effectively run agriculture, it's food security, it's not a joke, it's people, or it's limited in one hand. And these are all the points that the state regulates. Today, we argue that in the state budget, we wrote down our "Block of Lithuania" faction of the land market before the laws were passed, and here in May, in April, you vote those laws at all costs and you include the land market. Tell me what crime will be committed in front of the great millions of people that we can leave unattended, the main means of production only with humpbacks, hand-worked, which we'll explain, these aren't the property certificates that we took, we don't know where they get, someone gets their profits, this is land, this is value that there's no definition. Therefore, this bill will allow: once, to do the same as legislation; to implement the Earth cadastre, because to make an assessment of the land, it is impossible to distinguish the ownership of private, state, municipal property in one month. To monitor the land, find out how far it is in Ukraine. It's only then to include other moments. And one more, and obviously the main point is to determine the role of the state in this process. For while competing with each other, the State Agency on the ground, which was specially designed to bring such a thing forth. the possibility of a dark and illegal sale of land. So, they're not even determined by each other today, and who's going to keep a register of sales of these lands? For some will keep a register of the land of those who are in the village, and others, of those who are in the city, third, of any other land. So, again, I address every national MP. It's not a secondary law. It's probably the most basic. It's more important than the government budget, because it's only for one year. This is a law that depends on future economic policies, the future welfare of the Ukrainian people, and how power will feel in Ukraine. Because with no taxes, a thousand or more, a return from savings does not compensate how millions of Ukrainian peasants can be poisoned. I ask you very much to vote on this law. Both laws will be voted in the first reading. We'll sit with Alexander Mikolaiovich, with the other authors, and we'll do the only one before the second reading. But leaving that question alone is a crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u80	Thank you, Catherine Timothy. Three minutes is a question-answer. Please sign up. Gordijenko Sergei Volodymyrovich, Communist Party
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u81	Dear Catherine Timofievna, the gateway to this matter has been opened with the soil itself. In your opinion, is it the main objective of finding an effective owner in the village that these reforms were aimed at? And who took political responsibility for the consequences of those reforms, and when will he report them?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u82	I understand your question. You know what the peasants gave the land, I count, and today I'm absolutely sure it's right. Because they didn't get anything in their whole life. But the fact that the reform ended only by changing the form of ownership to land, to property and absolutely without law, you know, according to the decrees, it's wrong. It was necessary to strengthen all the decisions that would fill the financial, economic and other potential of Ukraine's agricultural sector. And that's what was supposed to happen. But governments changed, and the village continued to be financed on the final basis of what was left. He feeds himself, feeds the pig, has a cow, somehow survives, he's not a miner with a fairy tale going to Kabmin. As a result, we received a poor peasant. A village that couldn't stand the competition, because nobody today is collective, no farming at such prices on.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u83	Pisarenko Valerij Volodymyrovich, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u84	Dear Catherine Timofievna, I am very pleased that the position of the “Litwin Block” today is exactly what you are sounding today. It is a pity that you simply did not vote in favour of the law that was initiated by the two political forces “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko” and “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” in which all of this is already foreseen. I just wanted to point out that unfortunately, this is already in the bill and the conclusion of the Chief Science and Export Authority is the same as the bill of Mr. Tuckenk, here. But I hope that you and I will continue to work with us to improve land legislation all of this problem that you've talked about, it really is. And we really need to accelerate all of this in order to allow people to be free to manage their property today. I will fully support your further work in the field of land reform. But this bill, unfortunately, will not be supported because it was approved at the end of the year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u85	Dear colleague, I respect all the national MPs, their thoughts and yours, too. But obviously we need to know a lot about the field in order to understand what the situation is today. And today you understand very well that we haven't settled this issue with the State Budget. We stopped until we passed two laws. We'll take them. And what do you think this system is working that allows you to run the land market in Ukraine? No, it's not. I think that those advisors who are next to the President and Viktor Andriyovich, who insists on the market for the land, are very wrong. It's going to be a huge rock, and it's going to be hit if it happens, and it's going to be the President, and it's going to be a new government. I don't want that. I sincerely wish the democratic coalition success and the President success. As a result of this, support this law, for the budget does not.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u86	Thank you, Catherine Timothy. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a brief report by Bebezenko Valerija Fedorovich. Thank you, Catherine Timothy. Valery Fedorovich, you're defined as a co-reporter. Bevenko Valerius Timothyovich is. I'm sorry. Please. Valery Fedorovich, please. Well, they're not defined. This is a form introduced by the Four Bills Committee. We're just in shape. Everything like the book says.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u87	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, honourable national deputies, we have heard these bills that you have heard now, we have discussed on our committee. After considering all the bills carefully, all four of them were not supported by the committee, which was submitted to 1025, Mr. Tkachenk, nor by the bill submitted by Vaszczuk. And the committee supported one bill: 1082, submitted by three factions. But today we're proposing this bill not to consider, to consider it another time, we're calling it off for further work, because we need to reconcile some issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u88	Thank you, Valery Fedorovich. Valery Fedorovich, could I be more specific? This is about revoking Bill 1282, introduced by Bebezenko, Sigal, Tkak, Lukyanchuk? Are there statements of these deputies who refuse to withdraw? What do you mean we're calling it off? All right, all right. So we don't. I'm asking three minutes -- questions and answers to a co-rapporteur. Vaszczuk Katerina Timofievna Please, Catherine Timothy.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u89	Dear colleague, I understand that there is the will, the political will of today's government to prevent the democratic coalition from supporting our bills today. But I refer to you as a professional. Let's adopt these laws in the first reading, in the first and work them out in a way that is consistent with the position of the President, with the position of the government, but at the same time protects the peasants. You are obliged by the agrarian committee to do so, otherwise it may not be possible to do anything else, and it will be too late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u90	Dear Mrs. Vastuk, our committee, having considered the bills, has decided that basic laws should be adopted as soon as possible, allowing the State to establish mechanisms and land buy-backs, and should also work on the land market after the adoption of the Land Market Act, as well as the Land Cadastre Act. Only after the adoption of these laws can the land market be fully accepted as it is. But in our view, it is impossible to simply enact legislation that limits the time of its adoption. So we want to initiate, first of all, these three laws in a way that the Supreme Council will work on them and adopt them as quickly as possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u91	Silent Pavel Mihajlovich, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u92	Thank you. Dear Valery Fedorovich, the issue of the land is the issue of the perspective of the Ukrainian nation. And here the emphasis that Catherine Timothy put on this is very appropriate. And if we're in a hurry to deal with this problem, obviously, we're going to finish the village, that's definitely because we're going through the latinization process. Similar processes have taken place in Latin America, and entire ethnic masses have been found outside the borders of land users. The Lattifunds have buried everything! I would like to hear from you the assurance that we should use the formula, and what is the way to solve this pressing problem? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u93	You know, we've created a working group to solve this problem today. This working group has not yet been filled, because today we have decided to create this working group with the harmonization of land legislation. We will send letters to all factions of our Supreme Council, as well as to the relevant Committees of Letters, proposing that the working group of national deputies work with us and find the best ways to solve these problems as soon as possible. We understand that, and with that in mind, we are immediately studying a survey of civilized countries, such as Germany, France, Canada, and America. We believe that we are able to introduce very serious bills into this room that will allow us to enter the land market as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u94	Thank you, Valery Fedorovich. The time for discussion is over. Colleagues, I'd like to listen to you very carefully. Well, it's time to talk. So we have 1051. Valery Fedorovich, thank you, please sit down. Colleagues, I would very carefully ask you to listen. The point is that two bills: both 1051, and 1025 are introduced: one has 28 numbers, and the other has 26 numbers. That is, until the adoption of the Ukrainian State Budget Act, these bills were extremely relevant. But we have a conclusion, both scientific and legal. And I remember, and I remind you, paragraph 13 of paragraph 2 of the second chapter of the Ukrainian State Budget Act was formulated in that edition, in which Catherine Timofievna Vashtuk spoke. And this, in fact, was then the proposal of the “Block of Lithuania”. Thus, after the adoption of the Law on the State Budget, we have, unfortunately, extended the moratorium on the sale of land. And there are two legal grounds that allow the land to be freely sold and bought -- this is the adoption of the Law -- first, the land market as a mandatory condition, and second, the Earth cadastre. Thus, the relevance of these laws -- I say this regardless of the outcome of the vote -- was at the time they were introduced. But in view of the adoption of the Ukrainian State Budget Act, which included the formulation of the Lithuanian Block, and the signing by the President of the moratoriums on land sales, there are two legal events that are necessary for its removal. Legally, we have two bills removed, two bills put to the vote. I am obliged to put to the vote two bills that have been reported. The first bill is 1025. [[B in m in s a l in]] Comrades, what discussion? We've already discussed it. Do you want to talk? Let's talk. Then we will not be able to consider two bills, colleagues! I'm asking you, national deputies, we have 30 minutes left. Please, we've talked a lot. As always, the Communists want to talk. So it will be up to you, please, to discuss how we proceed with the voting procedure. Sign up for the discussion. [[B in m in s a l in]] Sign up for the discussion. Adam Ivanovich, don't scream, please. There's no deaf people here, no screaming, please. Sign up for the discussion, as provided by the Rules. Rabbit Ivan Alexanderovich, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u95	Unfortunately, a very serious issue we want to discuss in haste, somehow we want to avoid serious conversation with the Ukrainian nation about the issue. The point is that every session attempts are made to buy and sell agricultural land. And it's done with the obsessiveness of the child. But we don't see any kind of gambling to put in place a system of laws that would introduce progressive ones, so let's say, in the interests of the Ukrainian nation, the mechanisms for the movement of agricultural land. It's like no one's talking about it. But I see that there is now another disturbing trend when we voted for the Code, the State Budget Amendment to the Code of Z. The Earth Code was voted and, in fact, very narrowly formalized the introduction of the land market, binding two laws on the land market law and the Earth cadastre law. So if we formally accept them, then there might be land purchases and sales. I see it in the same way, very much in danger, because the question is much deeper. We don't just have to formally adopt these laws. We have to write down the rules, the rules, the specifics of agricultural land movement. We need to talk about the load system, about other things. What we have today in the earthly code is the right to purchase agricultural land for legal persons. That means we don't have private property on the ground in that, well, political sense. The fact that we are launching aliens through the sale of legal persons is the same today. Therefore, we should consider that the earth should only be sold to individuals as natural persons, that the land could be rented. But doing some substrating of property on agricultural land through legal persons is absolutely not the way. So the first thing to do is to ban the sale of land for legal persons. Moreover, for foreigners, the more legal persons are not residents. So I want us to go a lot deeper than that. No decision will be made today, of course. We have a formal sign, I say, according to the State Budget, but let's discuss this very and very in detail, because this is a question of the perspective of the Ukrainian nation. Today, trillions of dollars are free in the world, and the price of our land is zero because they kept prices for the farmer and paid low rent. So let's be careful.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u96	Litwin Yuri Alexiyovich, “Block of Lithuania”. Out of place, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u97	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, respected colleagues, indeed, subjects of submission and Vasuk, and Tkachenko, have the right to enforce the bill and vote. I mean, he can be considered and voted in the session room. Since the fiscal law of 2008 has substantially adjusted and withdrawn, we will talk about the differences that existed in land sales, but this law works for one year, proposals. proposals from both Alexander Mikolaiovich and Catherine Timofievni are in the plane because we have to make changes to the Transitional Regulations of the Law on. Ukraine’s Land Codex Because it's working, it's not taken off. I'm on deadlines. It's clearly defined in terms. So I wanted the situation to be settled in the legislative field. in the legislative field, because the adoption of the Law on the Sale and Sale of Lands of Agricultural Assignment in the first reading by the Supreme Council of the Fifth Call has been read and adopted, and we will talk about the adoption of laws on Land cadastre and Sales, the sale and sale of agricultural land, it can occur in May and June months. So the vision of the Lithuanian "Block of Lithuania" faction that both drafts of the law and the Tachachchenka and Vashuk should have a place, and I call on everyone to support and accept as a basis in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u98	Thank you. Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u99	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! Here comes the time to choose the future fate of practically Ukrainians. Because depending on whose hands our mother-in-law falls into, whether Ukraine will be an independent state, whether Ukraine will be Ukraine for our children, our grandchildren, or whether we will lose our own territory for our own state. And there's a real threat to that. I'd like you and I to understand today, and many of the business and commercial representatives here know very well that long ago, through the well-established individuals, let's say, through certain structures, this land of our family is practically under the control of foreign structures, foreign capital. You and I need to understand today that this disregard for the future of our nation will lead to the loss of forests, watersheds, rivers, or the balance of future life, for which there is virtually today a fierce battle around the world. And we also need to understand today that the earth is also useful fossils. And depending on who owns this land, whether we lose the strategic direction of our future generations in Ukraine, or whether we lose our nation’s strategic direction in general. That is why we, the Communist faction, are proposing that we today make a moratorium on the sale of land and accept it at least in the first reading. In general, it would have to be taken seriously today before the adoption of the same earth cadastre law, and public interests would have to be determined on the basis of price policies on earth. All the forests will be filled with red pencils and say: No hectares of forest will be reached by those who are trying to receive today in order to be content with their own needs. Around all the rivers and ponds, you put a red pencil on it and you say it's a state acquisition, and it's our future with you. Where we have useful fossils, it's uranium, it's coal, it's iron ore and a lot of other natural resources, it's red pencil, and it's like, "No. We will not give up a single hectare of land. This is the future for our children and grandchildren.” This is the kind of policy that needs to be implemented in our country today. And today we are offered not to overcome or introduce a moratorium, and tomorrow we will be seeded with dreams, raps, and we will work with you again in Europe to grow biofuelly, and we will lose our own interests and what was typical of our village. So the faction of communists strongly insists that we treat with you the strategic issue of land, because privatization has shown that in 10-15 years, the economic potential of the state has been destroyed. If we continue to manage the land this way, we will lose the territory of the State. The Communist faction proposes to be accepted in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u100	Ribuk Sergey Mikolaiovich, Party of Regions
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u101	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, distinguished national deputies, if you will recall, the Supreme Council of several cadences at the end of the year or at the beginning of the year continues the moratorium on the sale of agricultural land. I'm worried, first of all, about this. Or will we be relaxed for another year and another time, the Supreme Council, so that we can adopt the Land Code Act, the Land Market Act, and almost 20 more bills, including monetary valuation of land, land inventory, land conservation, and so on. And we still have almost a million peasants who have failed to take state action on the right of the land. I mean, there would be something here without political passions and listening to everyone who spoke and saying that we need to continue the moratorium, we have no other way out. But before the laws are passed, or in the first reading, and then we sit together and work together. Since I am also concerned about the faction of the Party of Regions, while we are now talking about how much to continue, the government is increasing the cost of land by five times, the rent of land by at least three times, the land tax by 3.1 times. Then, as we discuss it, the villagers will flee from the earth because they will need to pay more for the land’s wages, which they can harvest. That's where the root of evil is, and that's the main problem, the faction of the Party of Regions sees it. I'm personal, and then we're going to let go of whose bill, how much will we take in the first reading, and then work together all the factions are opposing and pervasive.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u102	Zdnovsky Vitaly Olegovich, "Club of Yulia Timoshenko". Ivan Grigorovich, are you? Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u103	Dear colleagues! A few business propositions, because everything you could say has already been said. First. I'm in a hurry, I'm in a hurry to calm down both the hall, and society, the public, and the villagers, the moratorium is and it's working. The decision is made and quite speculative. That's the first one. The second question. There's a lot of trade going on. On the one hand, let us look at the earth’s market. Trade — Why Land Trade? One percent of the world’s population trades in land each year, and the torments of hell must be passed in order to buy that piece. Are we unable to write these rules? They're capable. But 70 percent of the land is under siege, 100 billion is needed in technology to update what was written down a long time ago. Banks are capable of 300 billion dollars, and there's no mortgage, there's a $3 billion mortgage, and in the spring we're going to go 20 billion circulation costs, and we're going to give three times the simplified technology. The mortgage, once again the mortgage, the mortgage on the land, as a better way today to capitalize, not trade. But as England, France, Germany, has written, “dragon” measures to change the target destination, it is not possible at all, the agricultural land for agricultural production. Are we able to do this? They're capable. The same thing with trade, let's write it down so that we don't have more than one percent per year. And so, two higher agrarians are said to have two higher agrarian educations, 20 years of experience, like Holland, and only then buy from your father. Are we not able to do this? They're capable. The sixth moratorium, we have challenges, and we're the moratorium, we're the challenges, and we're the moratorium. 60 percent since the 1990s, Alexander Mikolaiovich, all the branches have gone through the 1990s, we're still sitting at 60. On the chains we'll be harvesting again, on the fields, and in the end, let's stop talking about trade, mortgage, land stop, stagnation of a particular kind of real estate in order to give the village a momentum for development, they've been waiting for this for a long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u104	Thank you, Ivan Grigorovitch. Now, there was no last name, and under the Rules of Procedure, only in that case, if it was called the name of the national MP, not the name, in the father's name. Colleagues, now speaking for three minutes of the national deputies, we have already translated, in fact, I have deviated from the ninth form proposed by the committee. Well, we're looking at three more questions. Please sign up for three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u105	Crnowil Taras Viacheslavovich, Party of Regions
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u106	Dear Chairman! Dear fellow national MPs! The topic of the earth is a little bit, you know, and the speculation on it, around it they're beginning to take on the ostrich, let's meet up with what we have to guarantee is that the land of agricultural destination is actually going to be used for agricultural problems and needs, and only in extreme cases when there's a special state need, as we have not once done, taking it under the road, and that's why it's going to change the target use of this land. Let's make sure that the land that can go to a free sale or also a mortgage is very useful and important, but which one way or another will be a hidden sale of land, let's remember how this is happening today even when the sale of land is banned through judicial institutions. So that, I'm sorry, this can only be done in the same way if the peasant can get to the ground.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u107	Arzhevtin Stanislav Mikhailovich, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u108	I'm weaving, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u109	The word Tkachu. Wearing the word, colleagues. Roman Tchac. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u110	Roman Tkac, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". The official position of the faction is the following: we are taking a firm stand against these two bills that are being submitted today. I'm not going to go into the details right now. It's been said a lot. We suggest the following. As soon as possible, the faction will make a decision for the Supreme Council to create a special temporary commission where the representatives of the various factions will enter the various committees, because today we need to harmonize legislation and we need to stop these discussions about the fact that there is no market for land, it works and works underground. And our task today, immediately, is to adopt these laws temporarily in the first half of the year. They need more than those two who are offered. And so, literally next week, a draft Supreme Council regulation on the creation of a special interim commission on the harmonization of legislation will be introduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u111	Kirilczuk Eugene Ivanovich, Timoshenko Street.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u112	Thank you. I think everyone in the room today has realized that no decision can be made. First, those who have submitted the project and have no one to vote with. The second half agrees that it is clearly stated in our budget law that the moratorium continues until this commission, which will be created immediately, works and makes shelters primarily for land speculation in agricultural production. In that case, I think we should practically postpone any vote on this issue today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u113	Thank you, colleagues. The time for discussion is over. Once again, I'd like to summarize. We have two bills introduced by Catherine Timothy and introduced by Alexander Mikolayovich. This is what we're talking about. In those norms, part of the norms that have been discussed and referred to have been introduced by the Law on the State Budget. But here two very important questions were raised, which, by the way, were spoken by all the reporters both from our Ukraine, both from the Communist Party, and from the Party of the Regions. In fact, the point is that the constant extension of the moratorium forms a shadow market for the earth. And without solving the complex issue, we continue to make it possible, through judicial decisions, to continue to alienate Ukrainian land through a variety of notary actions. So it would be very logical for us to ask the Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations to make an appropriate one-to-one thematic day in part of working on global and complex approaches to land market formatting. The sacred right of the Ukrainian person to the Ukrainian land must be established. And at this stage, it's about ownership of Ukrainian land of any other person, whether it's non-residents, or it's not possible for people without citizenship to stand in the order of the day. Therefore, colleagues, I think it will be correct that I, as Head of the Supreme Council, will ask our colleague, our colleague Tkač, all members and Bebelzenka to bring to the attention of the Supreme Council as a thematic approach the whole set of legislation that regulates land relations, including the Land Market Act, the Land Cadastre Act and the Law that would not allow us to feel the land other than Ukrainian citizens to the appropriate citizens and subjects. I put two laws to the vote. First registration number 1025 on amendments to sections 10, paragraphs 14 and 15, of the Ukrainian Code of Land. Please vote. For - 177. The decision is not taken. I'm asking you to show by factions. I put to the vote Act No. 1051 amending the 10th Section of the Transitional Regulations of the Ukraine Code of Land introduced by Vaszczuk Catherine Timofievna. Please vote. For 187. The decision is not taken. Please show by factions. Thus, the two bills that were put to the vote were based on rejection. Dear people's deputies, I beg of you. There is a requirement to name the factions. Turn me on again to name the factions. Party of regions – for – 140, Communists – for – 27, “Block of Lithuania” for – 20. Everyone else did not take part in the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, we have two matters of order with you today. And there are five minutes of legal and 15 minutes of legitimate head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So, 20. And the questions we have are, we're not going to be able to see them physically. But if we don't consider the second question, we don't have a "hours of government" on Friday, honourable national MPs. So I suggest, first of all, that we vote now that we finish the work with all the issues of the agenda. And the second is to look at the question of the Klukkov People's Deputy, and more specifically the bill, by a reduced procedure. First. I would like to put to the vote the matter of the plenary session until two issues, the last two issues of the agenda, are considered. Please vote. For – 221 The decision is not made, dear friends. We don't want to work, unfortunately. So in 20 minutes. I'm asking the factions to show and now let's see who didn't vote, who doesn't want to work, and we've only had two working days in the plenary in fact and we don't want to work. Now the second is about the vote in a reduced procedure. I request a summary procedure for the law of the People's Deputy of Klukkowski. Please vote. I'll make an announcement. Colleagues, vote. Short-term procedure. Please vote. For – 237 Decision taken. Please show by factions. I'll tell you where 221 is. "Julia Timoshenko" – 133 people's deputies, did not vote – 4; "Our Ukraine" – 68, did not vote – 2. That is why we did not make the decision to continue our work. Dear colleagues, I invite the national deputy of Klukkowski Yuri Bogdanović to the rostrum. Please, Yuri Bogdanovich. We have 20 minutes, I'm asking for a reduced procedure, very briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u114	Yuri Klukkowski, faction “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense”, National Union of Our Self-Defense”. My dear colleagues, the question that I am proposing to you was the result of amendments to the electoral legislation on June 1, 2007. And you remember, unfortunately, that was not a compromise, harmonized bill, but a bill that the majority of the Supreme Council then imposed. As a result, in the 101st article, there was a rule that the Central Election Commission did not have the right to review documents on the replacement of an ex-deputy deputy for six days. Thus, the Supreme Council is held for six days, after completing its term of office by the Ukrainian national deputies, in a state of incomplete composition. Yet, it is really very difficult to justify such a position. And whoever knows, since 1998, when a proportional election system is in operation to the Supreme Council, there has never been such a problem, and the issue has been resolved in 1-2 days. In this connection, it is suggested that for situations where there is no dispute over the termination of the term of office of the Ukrainian national deputies, it is possible not to establish such an appointment within 6 days, but to allow the Central Electoral Commission to quickly resolve the issue of the replacement of the Ukrainian national deputy instead of the extermination. Therefore, such impeccable grounds are proposed to identify three — that is, to draw up a personal application of the candidate; that is, to terminate the authorization on the basis of a court decision that has gained legal power, and a third reason, unfortunately, and what happens, in the event of the death of a national deputy. For other reasons, leave six days in order for the dispute to arise, the dispute to be settled in a court of law. For a shorthand, I want to say that I agree with two comments from the science department, and so I'm asking you to consider that.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u115	I'm asking you to finish the date quickly.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u116	In the new 101 article, I ask you to replace the word “own statement” with “personal statement” and, of course, correct the unfortunate mistake when the word “candidate” happened instead of the “national MP”, this is indeed a mistake. Please consider these two adjustments. I'm asking you to support the bill and I want to say that the committee supported it as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u117	I'm asking for a statement from Upper Sergey Petrovich. Sergei Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u118	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! At its meeting on 10 January 2008, the Supreme Council Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government considered the bill and thought that it could be agreed with the amendments made by the national deputy Klukkowski. Taking into account the observations made in the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Directorate, we propose to support this bill, to vote on the basis and in general, taking into account only paragraph two of the amendment “own” to replace the words and amendment three, as said by Yuri Bogdanović, by replacing the word “candidature” with the word “national deputy of Ukraine”. In general, we believe that the adoption of this bill will deprive us of all the extra fibers when one MP writes a statement and imposes his authority, as well as when there is a verdict, and in the third case, when there is a fatal event. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u119	Thank you. Colleagues, we now have two representatives: those who support and those who do not support. I'm asking you to sign up. 31st Rules. Comrades, I remind you: the pros and cons buttons are recorded. There's something I can't see here. It's here. Yavrovsky Vladimir Alexandrovich, please. “Julia Tymoshenko’s Block”. Out of place, out of place, out of place. Get Yavorowski out of the place.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u120	Vladimir Yavorowski, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear colleagues, I think it's a very normal and intelligent decision. Today it's with us, let's say we have some kind of crisis, some kind of accident, tomorrow it might happen to someone else. We are convinced that one day it will be enough because it is not just people being picked up from the streets, but people on the list. The Central Electoral Commission has checked each of them to the depths. And these documents were accepted. I mean, there's already a delay in document processing and there's just no way to do that. So this is actually a pure formality: just take some people out and bring them to the Supreme Council of Other People, it's normal, it's smart. I'm confident that one day this will discipline, firstly, the Central Electoral Commission itself, and at the same time we won't have those perfectly artificial, certain successes that are in the work of the Supreme Council. I also call on the opposition today to cast their votes and vote in favour of this bill. He is good and I am convinced that he will benefit from Ukrainian parliamentaryism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u121	Thank you. Karpuk Vladimir Georgievich, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u122	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". The bill in question greatly optimizes the registration of national MPs, which will contribute to a more efficient use of our sessional time and, indeed, proposed by an expert who is known in electoral law. The coalition will support and encourage the opposition to support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u123	Crnowil Taras Viacheslavovich, Party of Regions
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u124	Our party is skeptical about this bill, and I want to give some arguments, particularly my own, and our own party. When we adopted changes to the law last time and predicted this six-day term, we were referring to a whole series of reasons, and we were referring to events that were more ancient. In particular, remember when the delegation of our country’s deputy, Peter Prashenko, ceased to be authorized when he claimed that something was too hasty, or that the committee was looking at his application incorrectly, and so forth. But the terms that were defined, according to the introduction and acceptance of the next candidature, were so short that man was not able to charge the actions of the Supreme Council or the actions of the CBC in court. We predicted it. Some false actions or legal strange actions were foreseen, such as not saying anything a little harsher. Recall how the powers of the people’s deputies of the two factions ceased when they were deprived of their party powers before a regulatory procedure had been carried out in the Supreme Council on the fact that they had confirmed their withdrawal from the factions on the basis of which it had been done. Other aspects of the law can also, although far less often, cause certain problems. Even a very sad factor, such as death, can be used in a speculative form when, in the absence of an MP who is somewhere outside of Ukraine in the area of a natural disaster, misreported information about his death will be provided on the basis of incorrect data. The decision is that. The next day, a new MP is elected to his place. The man returns from the ship, from the trip, his place is already occupied. Court precedents after taking an oath, a person’s return to work does not normally exist. So we don't think this law should be supported because it creates additional problems, can lead to additional speculation and legally, we think, is not balanced enough.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u125	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we're out of time. As Head of the Supreme Council, could I ask one, as far as I am concerned, an important question? We have “a decision by a court that has gained legal power” and would it not be appropriate to write “according to a decision by a higher court authority that has gained legal power”? Because we don't want to get confused in court jurisdiction. Yuri Bogdanovich, one comment and.. Please turn on the keynote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u126	Thank you. That's exactly what it means, according to a court decision that gained legal force. The decision of the court of first instance does not take effect as soon as the declaration is made, but the time is set for an appeal.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u127	It's all right. And if he goes to the top, the Supreme Court of Coronation?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u128	The case does not stop the execution of the court’s decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u129	I understand. All right. Colleagues, this is how we talk about the fact that there are only three reasons why CEVC considers decisions in one day. It's death. And in doing so, the CLTC should receive a duly certified copy of the death certificate. Second, it's a statement of its own. And that's when the Supreme Council actually stops, not the CBC, colleagues. There's an important element. That the C.V.C.C. doesn't stop the authorization. The Supreme Council, by its decree, ceases. And the third element is a judicial decision that has gained legal power. So we're giving time for an accusation in legal terms. And only what's already been done in the second instance can this be considered by the CBC. I see. Colleagues, vote 1278 on the committee's proposal in the first reading and in general. I'm asking you to be sure. Please vote. For – 225 The decision is not taken. Ladies and gentlemen, this is how I put to the vote the question of first reading of this law. We have to vote, colleagues. Vote. That's what we talked about. The work of the National MP is to sit and listen to the vote and vote. I'm asking you to show me the factions. Colleagues, then the next proposal to vote is to adopt the bill as a basis. Please vote. For – 224 And this decision is not made, dear friends. Then it is up to the vote to return to the Main Committee for further processing and a return to first reading. For – 221 And this decision is not made. Thus, the bill is regarded as being rejected. All of it. Done. Dear National Deputies! We have six minutes to review the issue of amendments to the Supreme Council Rules, an hour of questions to the government will be reported by Sas Sergey Volodymyrovich. Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich. Sergei Volodymyrovich, just for six minutes, that's all.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u130	Thank you. Dear Arseny Petrovich! Dear National Deputies! National Deputy Sas, Timoshenko Street. At the meeting of the Committee on 14 January this year, a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine amending the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the conduct of an hour of questions to the government was considered and prepared for second reading. Registration number 0921. Adopted by the Supreme Council on the basis of April 6, 2007 to meet the requirements of Article 38 of the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. A plenary meeting scheduled to be held every Friday from 10 to 11 a.m. in the Supreme Council of Ukraine to hold an hour of questions to the government. On December 27, 2007, the Committee addressed letters to all MPs, to consider a bill in factions, and to make proposals by January 8, 2008 on it by legal entities. On December 27, 2007, there was no response from the head of the Communist Party’s Communist Party, Simonek Petar Mikolaiovich, about not limiting an hour of questions to the government over a period of 60 minutes. The committee did not take into account this proposal by the head of the Communist Party’s deputy faction, since it is of a recommendation and is not specifically formulated as required by part six and seventh, article 84 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. The Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that it adopt a second reading and, as a whole, a draft decision by the Supreme Council to amend the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u131	Thank you, Sergey Volodymyrovich. Questions to Sergei Volodymyrovich, please. Sorry, this is the second reading, colleagues. Therefore, on the basis of both reading and reading, the questions are concluded. What, Ivan Grigorovich, is not, of course. I don't hear what you guys are saying? Do you want to make suggestions?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u132	You want to make suggestions. Well, then let's make suggestions. Thus, they had to be presented under the Rules before the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u133	Has he made any suggestions yet?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u134	Guys, I'm asking for order. So, yes, this second reading of the proposal all had to be submitted to the committee, the committee had already considered everything, the committee's decision was, all it had to do was do it earlier. In view of this, the question is about voting in the same format as the proposals made by the national MP, Sass. What's the matter? Guys, you need to do this earlier. It's Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m1.u135	Well? What didn't he bring in? What is your suggestion? About the subject? My colleagues, by the way, let's give it a half-second, we've been talking about this. Just a few seconds to make sure there's no contradiction. Is it appropriate that such questions be of a thematic nature to the government? I mean, let's just say that we're pre-prepared and that the government is invited on a proposal or another. If, let's say, we could write it down to be thematic. Well, if the regulatory committee denies it, let's do it. Then I suggest the subject, so that it goes in. The topic of the hour of questions to the government will be defined on each Conciliation Board when decisions are made on the format of the schedule per week. And then we vote what Sass said, but that's what we record. That's enough. We vote 0921 in that paper that was approved by the committee. Please put 0921 to the vote. For 175. The decision is not taken, distinguished national MPs. In view of this, there will be no questions for the government on Friday. Thank you all. Good-bye. The evening plenary session is closed.
