ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u1	Please invite the national deputies to the session room. I understand we're done, Tom. [[all-time breaks were 20 minutes]] Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:04:57]] Cards were registered in the 411 National Deputies Sessional Hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues, we have agreed with you that at 16 hours, and we have made such a decision if the committee, together with the government, is ready to make an appropriate report, we will return to the draft Law on the State Budget of Ukraine for 2009. Before that, dear colleagues, how to begin a discussion of the matter, may I have a few words? It's quite obvious that it's a very complicated document. It's quite obvious that this is the project and the proposal made by the government. It is quite clear that we must talk today about if the government assumes responsibility, then the Supreme Council must say, please do this document, and we will exercise the necessary control over the implementation of this document, making clear the decisions necessary to ensure that the economy and the country have the right development. Dear colleagues, it is obvious that no matter how much we work, the income will obviously not be increased. And they've already increased by 2 billion, says Alexander Sergiyovich. Well, it's obvious that there's nowhere else to go. You can make decisions by redistributing the possibilities you have. In this connection, we obviously needed to look at what are the priority areas that our colleagues were talking about. And I hope that the Cabinet of Ministers, along with the Committee of Budgets, took them into account. With this in mind, dear colleagues, I ask you to exchange your thoughts. Give me 10 minutes, please log in. Please state the name of the national MPs who are registered. Alexander Efraemov, faction of the Party of Regions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u2	Thank you. Vladimir Mikhailovich, you know, the longer we go, the more disgrace we probably get. We receive additional proposals to the State budget. Here the government has also told us that the Ministry of Finance has no money and will no longer be. However, there are 200 million dollars in expenditure per mystical arsenal. So here's the question for me: do I have a conscience for people who make these amounts during times of crisis? Or is it a bill for yesterday's Timoshenko flight from Yushchenko on a flight from Crimea? You know, you're just wondering when, on the one hand, people are being approached about what they care about the people, and on the other hand, this cynicism about spending money. It's not spending, it's spoiling. It's not a budget, it's a system of agreements on both sides. Let's probably call all our names right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u3	Thank you. National deputy Haydayav, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u4	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! I've just looked at the breakdown of the budget, the draft budget for medicine, and, you know, I'm a little bit surprised. For example. Centrally programmed procurement of X-ray equipment. Last year there were 270 million, this year there were zero. Let's move on. Children's oncology. Children's oncology, what less money has been given to buy equipment is zero. Let's move on. Adult oncology is the same thing. What, oncology's gotten less oncological? Reproductive health. In the country, the demographic crisis, the birth rate is three times lower than the death rate. This is what I'm talking about. Emergency medical care, think of the ambulance as 0 bracelets of 0 spears.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u5	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u6	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, dear colleagues, I think there will be no MP in this room who might mention that some past budget has been accepted in an hour. It wasn't like that, let's face it. There is always a need and an effort to make the cost much greater. On the other hand, there are always the costs that come together. And that's why it seems to me that I don't need a whiff of something to do today. Of course, the budget isn't perfect; it's a crisis. I've already told you, he's a crisis in both his content and his shape. But here I think we should just put on a scale that's more important -- stand up for our political position, ideological position, pick up points in front of voters in this populist propaganda plan, or give voters the opportunity to get salaries in January, and.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u7	Vladimir Bondarenko, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u8	I ask you to pass the word to Anatoly Yagoferov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u9	People's deputy Yagofers. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u10	Yagopher, I said.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u11	I told them to turn on Yagofer's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u12	Dear national MPs, I'm from Luhansk, and I'm hearing from Alexander Sergiyovich Ephraim all the time, what he says about conscience. Although I can assure you and swear to my health that I am telling the truth. This man never had a conscience, and he probably won’t again, because he is.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u13	I ask you to speak essentially, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u14	It's just not possible to buy it. Today, Alexander Sergiyovich is constantly accusing the government, accusing the government of accepting the budget, but he has a personal interest in this, I think. You probably know that the famous "Comunbank" has already received a refund, even unknown for what and under what jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u15	I ask you to speak on the substance of the question that we are discussing.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u16	That's why I, and now the voters have called, and they say you can't keep your mouth shut, but you have to take the budget now. So I would ask the deputies not to listen to those people who find it very personally uncomfortably. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u17	Dear colleagues, I ask once again to speak on the substance of the matter under discussion. I'll have to turn off the microphone. National Deputy Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u18	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Ladies and gentlemen, I'm surprised they're now saying that they didn't count whether they counted the budget committee. But he can't take it all into account right now. And those who are very much shouting that bad budget, I'm telling you that now painlessly for your business, you can get out of this budget one and a half billion too set up to support your business. We have to get him out of there! But this requires a thorough budget review. And then switching to education, to science, to libraries, of course, to avoid giving another person a movie. Of course, it's better to feed your army than someone else's. We have both the development and the space program in our team, and we have the core program in our team, and all the other programs! But this should be done when the first - reading project is adopted. So let's take it, and then let's distribute it clearly.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u19	Taras Blackwall, faction of the region.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u20	My fellow Members, I have no doubt that sooner or later this budget will be accepted and voted in the basic parameters of those who are now. Worse than we can see: from each delay it gets worse and worse, it doesn't become more realistic, it has things that we've already mentioned and the same "artificial arsenal" that we can do peacefully, not at the expense of the budget and because it would be better for me not to drag it away now, because we're going to get it even worse than we have now. With each subsequent delay, it gets worse. My motivation for voting is one thing, I'm looking at the arguments of the opponents of the adoption of the budget. It says it's absolutely fair that the capital of the income part, but it says it's completely underexpenditure. I'm sorry, when we bring this nonsense up, it's probably the most important argument that we have to vote for it. We're going to look at it anyway and, God forbid, not in the direction of the sequester.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u21	Oleg Laszko, faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u22	Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Thank you. Dear government officials! While we were working on the budget, I was approached by national deputy Karpuk Vladimir Georgievovich, who promised to give his vote for the budget if the government considered his proposals for the Ministry of Health. [[He didn't vote on it.]] So we talked to the government, and the government takes these proposals into account. I'd like to propose under the microphone. 10 million dollars -- at OHMATDIT for capital repairs, 10 million dollars -- for the reconstruction of the Scientific and Practical Medical Centre for Child Cardiology and Cardiosurgery, 100 million dollars -- for the implementation of the State Programme for the creation of a single emergency health care system for the period up to 2010, 50 million dollars for the production of national production films. This is what Viacheslav Kirilenko said.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u23	Let me finish, please. Interesting suggestions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u24	50 million dollars for national production films. In this connection, article 76, part 1, paragraph 8, of the bill changes the sum of 500 to 330. Thank you for your attention. And we hope that National Deputy Karpuk Vladimir Georgievovich and other national deputies from the faction "Our Ukraine" who care for the country and the people they sit for.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u25	Thank you. Microphone. Dear colleagues! Dear colleague Oleg Lazko! Please, my dear colleague, you've had a fine time except for the last 30 seconds. Please, let's not strain the passions, please! National Deputy Karpuk, faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u26	Vladimir Karpuk, “Our Ukraine”. I'll ask you one more minute at the end of the line. Now I have to say that this year’s health budget, I have not been able to recall it in recent years. The main fund has reduced funding by 700 million because bills and budgets for saving various sectors have already been adopted in this room. But health care that has long been in crisis has not been funded or funded by the government. And the suggestions that Mr. Oleg has made -- thank him for what I need less time -- are proposals from the Ministry of Health that are already urgent, offerings from all medicine, not on my behalf. And I have to say that funding won't provide the most painful. They've already talked about diabetes because 15 million people across Ukraine are going to be addressing a large number of people tomorrow. Therefore, health care funding needs to be reviewed.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u27	Please, just a minute. Please. Deputy Karpuk, microphone. Don't let him do it later.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u28	And I want to say that health care really needs to be thoroughly reviewed. There is no financing for rural medicine. How can we maintain people’s health there if there is no immediate help, no emergency care? If the previous years were to be funded by a special fund for sanitation, there is now no funding for a special fund. And I'd like to say no more from medicine to those people, the faction that has the gold stock. I would like to remind you of the 2008 vote when the budget was adopted, and when all the "hospitals" were said to have been satisfied, and in the end they did not vote because they insulted the leader of the faction, who was not given a word for one minute. Hence, such important things — especially those related to human health — should not be taken in haste.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u29	People's MP Pecklusenko, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u30	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters, we have been telling you for the last two months that power, Vladimir Mihajlovich, Ivan Grigoryevich, is not the position you occupy. Power is the responsibility, the responsibility of the majority. You always, Mr. Tomenko, say you have a majority. If there's a majority, why don't you have a budget? First. Second, the budget is an equation where two parts are equal. You can solve the equation with two, with three unknowns, but you have a budget that is an equation with ten unknowns. Therefore, the Party of the Regions says: "Thanks to the members of the Budget Committee who today supported the Zaporozhye Bridges and allocated 100 million, this is a drop in the sea, but it is better than the bucket of tears you wanted to give us." We added 1.5 billion in 26 hours today. I suggest we work.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u31	Allow me to complete Alexander Pecklusenko's opinion. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u32	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I propose to work four more times 26 hours, and we will come up with the proposals of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u33	Dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts. Let's do it now. Replica, Alexander Efraemov, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u34	You know, respectable colleagues, there's a proper and well-known truth to all of us, if people don't have arguments, they move on to insults. I'm actually surprised that our colleagues in the BUT faction have people who have no shame, no conscience, no basic culture. And I consider it beneath my dignity to argue with such a sick person. Thank you, all right.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u35	Ladies and gentlemen, it is suggested that we continue our consideration of the matter in this way: I will now ask the head if you do not object to the Committee on Budgets -- five minutes, five minutes -- to ask questions, after which the government will make its point of view, taking into account the proposals that have just been made. Five minutes and five minutes per question. If we need to, we can exchange our thoughts and then come up with a decision to make or not to make. I'd like to make a decision. The chairman of the Committee on Budgeting, Mr. Mikola Ivanovich, has the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u36	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, respected members of the government, are invited! The Committee on Budget Affairs proposes additional proposals to the Supreme Council for the draft State Budget Act 2009 for consideration. Additional proposals for the draft law are designed to take into account the discussion of the bill that took place at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council yesterday and the proposals of the National Deputies at the Committee on Budget Affairs meeting this morning. I won't count them all. They were bugged today at the morning meeting of the Supreme Council as deputy minister of finance, Merkovsky Anatoly Ivanovich. Let me just remind you of the basics. A corresponding subsidy to the city budget of Zaporozhye for the construction of a highway across the Dnipro River in Zaporozhye for 100 million dollars. Additional budget allocations are proposed to the Ministry of Internal Affairs for 500 million dollars, which are provided within, in fact, the amount of administrative fines in the area of road safety. In addition, the cost of the stabilization fund includes the disposal of ammunition and solid rocket fuel, the resettlement and installation of deported Crimean Tatars and persons of other nationalities deported from Ukraine. Nevertheless, it is worth noting that the real potential of the 2009 budget is quite limited, even under an optimistic scenario of economic development. So the best way to satisfy all interests is that this budget can't be. However, the adopted budget is a practical step towards overcoming the negative consequences of the crisis. The Committee on Budget Issues proposes the adoption of the draft State Budget Act 2009 at the number 3000 in the first reading and as a whole, taking into account the budget proposals made by the Committee on Budget Issues to the Supreme Council on December 25 and the additional proposals made by the Committee on Budget Issues to you today. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u37	Dear colleagues! Would you please sign up for five minutes, five or more? Ten, please, ten. National MP Kulczynski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u38	Dear reporter! And yet again you can't hear, not hear, not one of your lips has said what will happen to the Ukrainian army, not a penny has been added? [[Look here, please.]] At the same time, you're talking about utilization, added to the disposal of military weapons, but it's not financing an army that is. So what I want to ask you is, why is it that this stubbornness of those who work on the budget doesn't give funding to the Ukrainian army?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u39	Thank you for asking. There are three billion 900 in the stabilization fund, and at the morning meeting, Deputy Grizenko said that, together with the Government, they were discussing this amount for what articles. I reaffirm and will report to the Government's representative, Anatoly Ivanovic, that the situation as they agreed to. There is no possibility to increase the budget from the general budget. I would like to stress once again, please say, by making a proposal, that the committee concerned should clearly implement the Budget Code. Where it is clearly stated in article 40, when proposing an increase in the expenditure of the State budget, a proposal should be made for an increase in the income part of the budget. Because, frankly and frankly, only two deputies made a proposal, Zebravski and Polakov said, where they had proposed an increase and a natural cost. Therefore, as a matter of principle, the Committee on.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u40	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u41	I stress once again, consultations and discussions are under way to ensure that these 3 billion 900 are signed, but not only to the Ministry of Defence, it is my view, but also to other force departments, where there are problems and technical equipment and so on. We'll re-enact the budget, we have the opportunity to return at any time after the first quarter of the weather and so on. Today, our efforts must be focused on the implementation of the income part of the budget and the withdrawal of the economy from the crisis, including from the shadows. That's what we have to do today, the budget and so on is too optimistic, and moving from one article to another, you know, it's not the best thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u42	National Deputy Skutjak, faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u43	Zinovy Shkutjak, group “For Ukraine!”, faction “Our Ukraine”. Mikola Ivanovich, you are an extremely experienced person, and you understand very well that we have been fighting here for three days for an expensive part, not a part of the expense, a part of the income. And we understand very well that there are problems with the income part of our budget today. Please tell us why the budget committee, why the government didn't offer us such a simple reason that we still have a reserve today, is to detune our economy, please let us present to us a program of detining the economy itself, in the simplest, in the most modest of data, today 30-40 percent of our economy in the shadows. Shortening it by a few percent gives additional impulses to the budget, and raising taxes is a dead end, and in the end, it's going to fail. That's why I got you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u44	Let me finish the question, please. You've got it all. Please, Mikola Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u45	My dear colleague, thank you for such a question, I fully support parts of the billing that would bring the economy out of the shadows, and I also spoke about it yesterday at my meeting. But I think part of the bills that have already been passed or in the first reading, they're sort of getting separate, so to speak, business projects out of the shadows. As for the complex, I fully support and would like to request the government to submit legislation with you in the near future. And I reaffirm once again that you and the stats that at least 25 per cent are in the shadows, and that would make it possible for the profit share to be achieved. So let's talk about Ukraine, and the big business, and the small and medium business, if everyone is talking about the people of Ukraine, so let's do the same thing as that song: first think about the Family, then think about ourselves.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u46	National Deputy Carmazin faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u47	Yuri Carmazin. The Party of Motherland Defenders. "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense." Dear Mikolo Ivanovich! Of course, I'm very sorry to see how fast you're working, but I have this question. Do you anticipate more taking into account government funding? It's government programs that have already been approved and adopted, that is, the space sector by 10 percent we have so far. Even though we took a program with you -- a reference-base program -- 80 percent of the data points are out of date. All of it. The trumpet will be for the state. But still, 10 percent can be funded by 12 percent. The program, even the fight against AIDS, the fight against tuberculosis, all the trouble we're in first place. We also, we finance how much percent. Is it government programs or is there going to be an increase? Do you see such sources of replenishment if everything goes well? And, thank God, if the President listens, he will release Nazbank's head, and the bracelet will stabilize. Do you see here the correlation and dependence of these issues? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u48	Thank you for the very important question. I support all the programmes of the State, of course, and there is no doubt that priority needs to be established. The fact that it is not possible for the Government to formulate a draft budget for individual programmes to be proportionate and so on at different levels is the implementation of a programme. Of course, there's not enough money. But, your statement, your suggestion that you focus on State programmes that are important to the nation as a whole. Give God the budget. We will return to them and your proposals will be considered.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u49	The national MP Vernidubov is referring the right to speak to Paklusenk Alexander, a faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u50	Dear Nikolai Ivanovich! Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Today you will not accept the budget, I may be wrong, but I think on Monday, most of you will be gathered by the President, and you will actually hear what the Party of the Regions offers for 20 billion, you will think and agree. Why do you have to wait for Monday? Please accept the proposal of the Party of the Regions for 20 billion and we will vote. You will have to take into account the six billion that our colleague Tatyana Bahechev has provided for health care. When you think about the country, you have to think about health, the health of children and pensioners. Don't take time, take 20 billion, and we'll back you up.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u51	Alexander Nikolayevich! Thank you for the very important offer. But I think you and I have talked a lot, and we've debated that, and I've done it myself, you know, only income, distribution of the working group didn't even come in to influence the program, the program, the program, or any area. Besides, of course, the Zaporozhye Bridge, I've always been here with you. About 20 billion. Not real! I don't think anyone can make that offer, increase costs. If someone makes where they're going, we'll be happy to consider it. And then I was here to say this to the MPs, that an hour, two, three more would go by, and the cost would go up. If you take the decision of the committee yesterday, which I have reported, and I have only the right to report to the committee today, you have to look closely at what has changed. The 500 million that the Ministry of the Interior has proposed for the Ministry of the Interior to increase by 500, they guarantee access to administrative fines and.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u52	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u53	On the basis of the dynamics today, unfortunately, the offences are increasing, there will be, I think, not less than 2 billion of them: a billion -- there will be a local budget, a public budget. So if someone, well, just to say it in the hall, I'd like to read it all. Second. We once again asked the Government on the Committee that those loans that had been issued earlier by the Government to increase the spending of the budget should work to ensure that those loans were returned a little earlier, that is, to whom the deferrals were granted, to stop and so on. So there was no change in income except what I said. So please don't say anything unless you've studied the matter deeply. Thank you for asking, Alexander Nikolaevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u54	Anatoly Stepanovich Grizenko, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u55	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to confirm that I'm going to go back to detailing what you probably know and the work that was done today by the committee with the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance. According to the results of this work, we have been able to find an understanding and from the stabilisation fund to the general fund to transfer one billion and two million dollars to the Ministry of Defence for food and utilities; the Ministry of Defense for Intelligence for 105.7 million; the Ukrainian Security Service for 300 million; the External Intelligence Service for 64.3; the State Security Service for 40 million; the State Security Agency for 9.5 and 3.6 respectively; and the MNC for 14.8 million. So if you confirm that this is going to happen, then we can vote for this document.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u56	I would like to ask this question, since I do not have it and we were not on the committee at the morning meeting, I asked the Government to confirm this issue. I don't have it. I speak only for what has been considered in the committee, but I have no right. If the Government confirms it,
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u57	The Ministry of Finance has confirmed.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u58	I'm in charge of two hands. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u59	Yes, National Deputy Samoylenko is passing on his right to a question to a colleague of Popov, a faction of the Party of the Regions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u60	Thank you very much. Nikolai Ivanovich, you know very well, housing and utility tariffs are rising dramatically. Today, local budgets are no longer able to count for the utilities of schools, kindergartens and other budgetary institutions that have been consumed. Energy savings for the next year are a record low, almost zero. No State programme today, which has been approved both as laws and as the Cabinet of Ministers' decrees for the following year, is financed. I have a question for your committee. How many houses have to be exploded, freeze people in homes, how many accidents and other negative problems there must be in the housing and utilities sector, so that it can finally be understood that there is at least some funding to be allocated to this sector. My specific proposal, let's take the money from the 200 million Mystical arsenal and give it to one of the government programmes, for example, the Drinking Water of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u61	Thank you for asking. I know he's very painful. Let's not tie up an accident, let the commissions figure out what the reason is, but I fully support the need to save not 700,000 like there, millions of dollars, provided for and budgeted by our and the city's associations and so on, to find reserves. I am fully saying that we must finance this programme, implement the income part of the budget, and return to the programmes that my colleague Karmazin has said and so on. At this point, I don't see the possibility yet. With regard to the removal, put the motion in the room, vote in the Chamber, no questions, all in the hands of Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u62	Mikola Ivanovich, thank you. Time's up. Please sit down. Anatoly Ivanovich Merkovsky, please. Then we'll go to the rostrum. First Vice Prime Minister Alexander Valentinovich Turkinov, 5 minutes and 10 on the question, will that be enough? Please. Secretariat, I'm asking you to consider the closed options.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u63	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! First of all, I want to thank the members of the budget committee who work in difficult working conditions both day and night so that our country can still be budgeted. I want to say right now that you and I have to balance the budget, I talked about it at the morning session, and again, within the real income part. It's the first axiom and I'm glad most of the national MPs understand that. Secondly, I agree with the positions that the Head of the Budget Committee has spoken about, and I want to make some of the clarifications that we have discussed and supported, based on the initiatives of the People's Deputies. I'd like to reinterpret for the transcript the position that National Deputy Gritsenko spoke of, the head of the committee. Especially. Indeed, we agreed to transfer to the general fund 1 billion 32 million, which Anatoly Stepanovich had already reported to the Supreme Council. And the only thing I want to make clear is that there's not going to be a double calculation in the Department of Public Protection that we're then taking the number that Anatoly Stepanovich said instead of the number that the Ministry of Finance said before. Next question. In this same resource, a billion 173 million are clearly fixed on the defense order of the Ministry of Defense, the Directorate General of Intelligence, and so forth. 100 million -- for the Fire Department of Emergency Situations and here the MPs talked about it. 700 million -- the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the rest of the resources will be distributed to the Cabinet of Ministers, according to the profile committee. That's the position -- we're confirming it. In addition, I will agree to another position that we have supported initiated “Our Ukraine”. In addition to the stenogram rights the deputy Lazko has announced, and we confirm the agreement on these proposals, I'm still going to make an extra one. Paragraph 4 of Article 2 reads: “Collection for special use of forest resources of state value without indexation” and subsequent questions. The budget program for protecting 90 million plantations. [[code 1901070]] The budget program for forest and hunting is 22 million. And you know, we've been taking a very serious look at the situation with the local budgets. And proposals were made by both the majority of the national MPs and the opposition. And we've decided to redistribute within the stability fund in order to increase, I emphasize, transfers to local budgets by two billion. [[Applause]] This is a serious position. I think she should find support. For some reason, the representatives of the regions are not applauding, and I thank the Communists for their support. We really need to support the local budgets with you, even when it will be difficult for us to draw up some questions. So, dear colleagues, I ask you very much, given the situation, the difficult situation, the situation where Ukraine must accept the challenge and overcome the consequences of the global financial and economic crisis, we cannot enter the new year without a budget. So I ask you to reject all the political, any corporate interests and vote for the difficult, but real budget of the country. Thank you and I hope for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u64	Sign up for questions. If you would like to ask me, please sign up with your respectable colleagues. Dear colleagues, I beg you not to rule. We agreed there would be questions. There's a question, let's ask them. National MP Gordienko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u65	Please pass the word to Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u66	Adam Martinyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u67	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, Alexander Valentinovich, we really applauded the faction that you added at least two billion to local self-government. Although, sadly, that is not enough, for they need about seven. But that, and that's good, because you remember that when you started looking at budget issues, the faction of Communists, including the increase in allocations, insisted. I'll remind you again of the conversation I had with some city leaders. For example, the mayor of Signatories says that he needs to pay a salary in general and so forth, 44 million, and only 28. I mean, how's he doing? So it's a good thing that at least 2 billion, but if you were to charge 2 billion, it might be even better.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u68	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I think that when you and I implement the anti-crisis programme proposed by the government and supported by the Economic Committee, I hope that it will be supported by the Supreme Council, we hope with you that during the first and second quarter we will be making changes to the country's budget in order to actually further increase the social programs' resources and, of course, local self-government. Besides, I hope that your colleagues that you and I will accept, despite the fact that there has been no support from the Supreme Council for a project introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers on real estate taxes, it is solely about the category of wealthy citizens, I stress that it is the wealthy citizens that we will add more resources to the local budgets if we support this law. And I'm asking you to come back to this next sessional week.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u69	National Deputy Serbin, faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u70	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, yesterday we passed the Act on the Stability of the Situation in the Building Area. As early as June of this year, we had to start building housing for state support. What does that mean? That the State provides 30 percent for those who are entitled to additional housing. And it's not necessarily the first contribution, it could be the second, it could be the third. And this has the effect of a multiplicator, that is, giving, for example, a billion, we can get construction jobs for 3 billion and give housing to people who have the right. How do you feel about including at least 1 billion in the stability fund to start this program? [[We understand that the situation is very difficult.]] We haven't started this year why? In April, Minregiobud had distributed all these objects, but in June, you know, the budget went down, and so we didn't start building such a house. So it's possible to include it in the stability fund.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u71	Dear colleagues, really, one of the serious problems that needs to be solved within the anti-crisis program is the development of the construction sector itself, which is in a very complex situation right now, in a very complex situation. As far as mortgage lending schemes are concerned. You know, in the stability fund, and in the budget project that we're discussing right now, there's a resource that we're allocating to the state banks, including, I think this resource is going to go into a mortgage line within the limits that we're going to agree with the profile committee. So that's essentially the way this process is going to work. What's more, in order to activate the flow of investments, you know, we've written and agreed on a text article in the Budget Act regarding state guarantees for investments, where Ukrainian construction companies will be involved exclusively. And I think that's also going to seriously help improve the situation in the building complex. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u72	People's deputy Beales, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u73	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Alexander Valentinovich, such a question. The situation is extremely complex in the execution system. Almost 140,000. Restraints convicts, one in six is tuberculosis. There is a great need to find and provide help in the system because it is in an extremely difficult state. That's the first one. And the second. The resulting aid to the special warehouse is minus 50 million. And the last. The source of money is the University of Powlonsky, as far as we know. I think that in this case, the Flood culture could be held back, and the cost could be redistributed to the penalty system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u74	Dear colleagues, you have seen that there is no single line in the budget that used to be about the institution that you're talking about. The university you were talking about. As for the institutions of the Ministry of Culture, whose funding, let's say frankly, is not enough, it's limited enough, I think that the Ministry of Culture, within those mandates, can still provide objectively, let's say, and resource use, and give the results we predict with you. I wouldn't translate the plane of individual universities, individual politicians or other actors. Let's say, however, that students, wherever they go, have to get the resources according to the budget order. And that's why we have to look at the funding of universities. Believe that neither Mincult nor Minoswits will allow some universities to finance beyond the budget order. It's going to be limited enough in 2009. With regard to financing of the system of correctional facilities.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u75	Look, Katerina Vaschuk, the Lithuanian Block faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u76	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, I want to ask you why the government doesn't like the village so much. 20 billion credits, nothing to serve and nothing to pay back. 300 million you left behind. What do you want, for everything you need, but tell me, if there's no bread, if we don't drill and sow in the spring, what are we going to talk about in this room? What we're going to explain to people when they're taking away the technology they bought, they're not going to let banks work, because loans don't go out, there's not going to be anything to pay interest on, and there's not going to be anything to get credit for in the spring. Nothing will be sown! It's the biggest hole that can only be in the budget, and it's going to have the worst consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u77	Thank you, Mrs. Catherine. The government loves the village and the government loves you for your principled position on these matters. And I want to say, dear colleagues, you know, when we discussed the income part of the budget, despite all the difficulties that would be expected in the next year's budget, the government didn't go on any changes in the issue of village tax. There was a lot of change, no change, but there was no change. A fixed tax, in fact, no branch in the country today has as much tax as an agrarian complex. As for the more serious problem that you said about the return of credit resources. First of all, I hope that after the principle assessment of these issues that the Supreme Council has given us today: on the issues of the National Bank's monetary policy and so on, the situation here will improve. In addition, the government is bringing in, and I hope that the next sessional week will address this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u78	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u79	Thank you. A comprehensive law that deals with order in this direction, including problems, solving the problems of the default of the loan rate taken by the borrowers, and the situation that has arisen today. This will apply primarily to the agro-industrial complex. I very much hope that this law will be considered in such an extreme regime, very quickly, and a decision will be taken to resolve the issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u80	National Deputy Najdionov, Communist faction, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u81	Please pass the word to Hayday.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u82	National deputy Haydayav, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u83	Alexander Valentinovich, we're going back to medicine because I'm a medic. The cost of cardiovascular and vascular diseases has been drastically reduced, twice. This is because 70 per cent of deaths in Ukraine are caused by these diseases. I think it's just unacceptable. There is a need to increase the amount of money because the heart attack and stroke have not yet been lifted. Second, the purchase of insulins. I'm sure you know that as a result of the decentralization of insulin purchase in 2008, its price increased by 40 per cent when the dollar was $5. Once again, we are attacking the same rakes and this year, rather than centralizing the purchase of insulin, we have decentralized. I think it's completely wrong and I'm going to ask you to help with that. Even so, the Minister feels the same way. And, of course, for the ambulance program, I agree with Karpuk Vladimir Grigorievich, at least 100 million needs to be done because we all walk under God. Soon.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u84	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u85	I'm done. Thank you. And so much.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u86	Thank you for asking. You know, there's been a solicitation, we're actually increasing for medicine the small amount of real money that the national MP Lazko was talking about. At the same time, I want to turn to the Communist faction. You know, I think we could make a serious redistribution of the resource base on one condition: where are we shooting, and where are we adding? Here we have to take political responsibility, but, for the rest of the time, my honourable colleagues, I am addressing the Communist faction, we have not felt your willingness to vote for the state budget. And unfortunately, we're in a situation where there's a lot of good wishes, and we're in charge of voting for them -- there's not enough positions. So when we're ready to vote, I'm going to take five minutes off and talk about who to take off and where to add. We're going to add, but we have to take responsibility for who we're taking pictures of. If there is such a willingness, please, we are ready to go to a meeting.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u87	Thank you. Time's up.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u88	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u89	Please sit down. Dear colleagues, let's just say 15 minutes of discussion will be enough? [[B in m in s a l in]] Enough? Well, come on, 15 minutes, you'll insist, we'll keep going. Please sign up for the talks. And I'd like to ask the Cabinet of Ministers for proposals that will sound fixed, maybe there will be some clarifications that need implementation and proposals. Please, the names of the national MPs that are registered? Yes, National Deputy Gordienko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u90	Dear colleagues! Sergey Gordienko, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Right now we're even out of the final stage, and we're discussing the budget, and we're crying that there's no funds. Well, let's see, after many of the stages that we've had here, there's an extra article in this one that's been proposed by the budget committee, 500 million on the Art arsenal. And we're doing the President's challenges to others in this complex emergency situation. The people of Ukraine shout out: there is no insulin, there is no ambulance, there is no ambulance! But plus 89 million to keep the President, to the Art arsenals, and not all that it's actually painless for the budget today can be removed directly in the course of this session, redistributed the costs itself, and it will also bring together the session room. And the people of Ukraine will realize that they are the ones who create the budget, and they need Ukraine, not what the sick person is not understanding, who is inadequacy. No man comes to the head of all these offerings. We are on condition that there will remain the positions that today's well-being of the President of Ukraine and those entirely designed demands of him we will vote on no condition whatsoever.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u91	Tolub Sergey Borisovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u92	Dear colleagues! Part of the hall applauded the Government's decision to increase local budgets by 2 billion bracelets. But that's what only people who don't understand what's going on. At the end of this year, local budgets have a deficit of about 8 billion grevens, and next year, the draft budget proposes to increase it by an additional 6.7 billion grevens, at least. This is not the calculation of the opposition, this is the calculation of the Ukrainian City Association. First of all, these resources are not enough for drugs, food and, most importantly, housing and utilities, because you already see a situation in cities where NAC is forced to limit the supply of gas to utilities. Do we want to wait for hospitals and schools to actually run out of heat in January or February so that people in residential homes don't get these important services? But you're really provoking it today. Indeed! But if you don't believe the opposition, ask for the measure, ask the head of the utilities. There are some people among you who understand this very well, so why are you leading the situation to absurdity? Four State housing and utility programmes are all vital. None of them are funded by the draft budget. This is not the Drinking Water of Ukraine, this is not a 90 per cent renewal of the electric transport. And many others, but it is not clear that energy saving is needed in the context of rising energy prices. Money is offered in general as fairytale, virtual, because it is invested in a fund that may not yet be formed as in 2008. Why take such risks? Well, this is not fair to both the population and local self-government. You can't accept a budget like that! Take your time, take your time, consult, make changes! And I've already made a proposal, if you put 200 million bracelets on the Artillery Armour, let's redistribute them, at least a hundred million into Drinking Water, and at least a hundred million to renovate the city's electricity. If I'm saying something wrong, there's a minister sitting there, asking whether I'm speaking objectively. But if you accept such a budget, you will simply make the entire population of Ukraine hostage to a terrible forward situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u93	Belarus Oleg Grigorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u94	Dear Chief, distinguished fellow national MPs, today is a day of mourning, and we should think about the fate of the people, and do everything we can to ensure that such incidents do not recur. And if we do not take a responsible political civil decision today, such tragedies can be prolonged and the tragedy in Ukraine can become a system. I have the impression that after all the efforts of the government that seems to have made it impossible these days and nights, as Jesus Christ tried to feed the 50 million people with one loaf of bread with limited budgetary resources. We do not have enough responsibility to think about citizens, about families, about the people, to vote in favour of this minimum in order to give hope to remove the mourning and to make every citizen say the budget is small, the budget is poor, but it is and it will give the sea some wage and a piece of bread to everyone. I urge you to think again and again about those who are more than we are here waiting for this State Budget. There are other reserves in the budget, and there are also budgets in the budget. You know, when we listen to the budget reports every year, we see that, with all the difficulties and problems, the transitional balance of budget resources is billions, the government will use that resource. And we can ask about the quarterly budget adjustment, the adjustment of its income, the implementation of the government's action programme, the socio-economic development plan, and this will usually give some additional resources to the income part of the budget. We can't resist the horn and say, on the one hand, we'll put the budget into "new brooms" and on the other hand, we'll ask for all new and new billions, and we'll get their consent. If a faction has already received an additional few billion, as they say, it is necessary to have a conscience and think for others. I call upon all representatives, all national deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u95	Tereshuk Sergey Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u96	Dear colleagues! Dear Alexander Valentinovich! Deputies of the Lithuanian Block insisting on increasing the allocation of funds to agriculture are very well aware of the problems that today are with the filling of the budget. But at the same time, we are grateful that the government has supported the preservation of the tax legislation, which in some ways supports agriculture. But at the same time, we cannot ignore the problems that exist today. Believe me, Alexander Valentinovich, the situation in agriculture today is much worse than it was in 98 when the crisis occurred. It's worse because agriculture for loaned -- 50 billion in the APC -- of them 27 billion in agriculture. Imagine what could happen after the new year. So understanding all the problems that are today, we're still asking you to pay attention to this particular article. Next question. If 500 million to support plants and animals, which was 7 times less than the previous budget, plants can be repaired in two years. So, what's the situation today in animal farming? The head is short, and about half a million tons of meat have been brought to Ukraine if it is called meat. Today we have entered the WTO and according to the standards under which we have signed, today only 5 to 10 percent of dairy products meet world standards. You know, dear colleagues, in Russia there's a concept of "milk drinks," milk soon and we won't have it, we'll only use milk drinks. I'm not saying it's hundreds of thousands of people's jobs anymore. It is the health of the nation, the food today, the food that can be eaten. The foods you can eat, the foods you can give to your children. Therefore, we ask for two basic articles of support. First of all, these are loans, interest on loans, so that somehow you can give, extend life to agriculture, and support for animal farming. Although the village is not just a farm. These are hundreds of thousands of people with their problems and this area, which is owned by 20 hundred, 2 hectares, living in the countryside, and it's very important to them what the price is going to be. I'm not saying that the agrarian fund is practically going to be financed next year. The agrarian fund is, in fact, the only way to keep prices going today. So the faction of the Lithuanian Block, understanding the problem, asks you to consider our proposal and to add, as far as possible, the cost of credit, is the first to support animalry. At least these two articles will finance and support agriculture, and then we will look at how much it is possible to redistribute funds if they are in the budget. And they will be when industry works and when agriculture works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u97	Borisov Valery Dmitrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u98	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! We have already discussed a document as fruitful as the State Budget of Ukraine. Today, it is from a document that was anti - crisis, in fact, transformed into a document that meets the needs of both the agro-industrial complex and our military, and the power structures, and industry, and the construction of bridges, and some of the issues related to subsidies to local authorities. I think today is a document that, in our times of crisis, reflects those possibilities and those of the majority government that today supports this government so that this budget can be approved and allowed to enter the new year with a new financial document, allowing the government to work and make arrangements for the order of use of the stabilisation fund, to approve programs that provide for a very large number of our proposals that the government today needs to be able to implement through the adoption of an entire list of normative acts that require this adoption. Therefore, I would like to ask you, honourable colleagues, my distinguished colleagues from “Our Ukraine”, proposals that are to a maximum of almost a hundred million and film issues, and other issues that have been raised, however, to look into reality with the eyes, firstly, of Ukrainian citizens, and secondly, of those politicians who today represent certain political directions and currents that unfortunately exist in the “Our Ukraine” faction. To ask for more is the government, it was in the transcript, but something was not defined in the presentation of the First Vice-Prime Minister and representatives of the Ministry of Finance, it is the public union of Education – 800,000 bracelets and the Committee of the Ministry of Finance – 900,000 bracelets. I would like to say again that by confirming what was simply in the transcript and not in the speech, I still urge this budget to vote for today, to accept and to accept the present day with the fact that we have done our job of going on a vacation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u99	Dear colleagues, Anatoly Stepanovich Grizenko, please. And invite the deputies to the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u100	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I voted against this document, but at last the demands of our committee were heard, and there were two cycles of discussions at the hands of the Prime Minister and the acting Minister of Finance. I would like to inform my colleague that we have succeeded in reaching and thanking the government for the opportunity to meet. In addition to the General Fund for the Financing of Power Structures, 1 billion 32 million dollars will be transferred from the Stability Fund, including for the verbatim, the Ministry of Defence under program 2101020, to food and utilities of 495 million dollars. To the Department of Defense's General Intelligence Office under programme 5961010 for money, utilities and energy, military attachés, and special measures, totalling 105.7 million dollars. For the Defence Security Service, for the Ukrainian Security Service, the 1521010 is a $300 million cash fund. For the External Intelligence Service, the 6621010 program is the current intelligence expenditure, special assignments, utilities, and a total of 64.3 million dollars. State Security, program 6601020, also under the general fund -- 40 million bracelets. State-of-the-art, two 6641020 programs, to protect information resources - 3.6 million dollars, and the 6641040 program - the national privacy system - 9.5 million dollars. Last but not least, the Ministry of Emergency Situations, the 3203020 program, creating and storing an insurance fund, 14.8 million dollars. The second achievement is to place in the stability fund article 76 totalling 2 billion 778 million dollars, clear infrastructure projects. In particular, the Corvette is a multifunctional missile complex, digital connection, helicopter and aircraft upgrades, AN-70 and a fundamental increase in the cost of disposal measures, both conventional ammunition and solid rocket fuel. It is a pleasure that we recognize this as an important step in meeting, and the government has agreed to include in this article a position to foresee that the distribution and redistribution of the above-mentioned expenses are carried out by the Cabinet of Ministers, in line with the profile committee. It's an important thing for all of our power structures. I propose to support this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u101	Thank you. Viacheslav Kirilenko microphone, please. Invite the deputies to the session room. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u102	Viacheslav Kirilenko is the “For Ukraine” MP. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues and distinguished voters! We've been talking all day, but it turns out it's the same thing, but it's not moving. We are very pleased that the government and the Block of Timoshenko have mentioned that there is a Ukrainian culture and that 100 million have been given from the shoulders of the bar. So I want to tell you that as long as I'm sitting here today, the representatives of the B.U.T. have been handing out billions of virtuals just to vote. That's why I'm calling for responsible policy. And we're saying as Ukrainian power, please find an opportunity to finance the Mini-Defense at least this year's 2008 level. This requires not 495 million dollars from the stock fund in total, but 3 billion dollars from Ukraine in order to secure funding at the level of this year. The figures in the Ministry's budget say that next year's funding will be equal to 60 percent of that. And we can't make the country defenseless, and the government can't, and it's not interested. Let's solve this, and then we'll take the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u103	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've finished our performances. Please refer to the suggestions made by the national MPs. Government, please, your point of view, which positions are supported or not supported by this argument. And now we're going to make decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u104	Dear colleagues, I have already spoken about the agreed position with the committee head Anatoly Grizzenko. I also agree that when the transcript came out, I am confirming the positions that took place in the speech of the national deputy Borisov. And, dear fellows, once again, I would like to say that all that could be done is actually allocated the entire resource. And we can only take any suggestions as balanced. Because, unfortunately, there were a lot of suggestions here, but there were no suggestions for getting the amount out of it. And this is also a political decision, a political decision to be made and to be voted for, respected colleagues. So I thank all those who spoke, the national MPs. And I very much hope that today, not December 31st, we will, in the Supreme Council, approve the budget. Thank you. I hope you'll be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u105	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Please state your offer again. Invite MPs. I will now, with your permission, generalize the outcome of the discussion, and we will move on to making decisions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u106	Dear Alexandre Valentinovich, it was my offer of 89 million to support the Ukrainian Presidential Administration and 200 million to redistribute, if we can't, at least to provide quick help, insulin and so on, what gives life to a person. Take it off and redistribute it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u107	Thank you. Please, Alexander the Turkinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u108	I'm sorry. Colleagues, if a faction of Communists says they're going to vote for the budget, we're going to put it with your proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u109	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? May I have your attention, please? Dear colleagues, I ask all deputies to sit down, stop walking. We need to make a responsible decision. Whether we keep rolling tomorrow, Sunday, Monday and 31, because every next decision will be worse than the previous one, we've already talked about it. That's the first one. I'd like to take that into account, colleagues. The other one. We need to take away any basis for the political opposition that will grow in Ukraine, and we understand that, provided that there is no positive decision on the budget. This will be a mutual accusation, a war without winners. It is obvious that undirected chaos can be predicted in the country. And let's get this position fixed, and that we'll also be aware of that. The other one. Dear colleagues, the Cabinet of Ministers has submitted a draft budget. What the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers have accomplished is that the Cabinet of Ministers assumes sole responsibility for the adoption and implementation of this budget. Let's take this position and make the right decision. Another moment, dear colleagues, we seem to have stalled the process of increasing political opposition, as if we had stalled. The Supreme Council of Ukraine worked. We're about to break this situation. What will be the outcome? It's not an attempt to convince you. I'm just asking you, fellow colleagues, like everyone, obviously understands that we should obviously accept this budget, but if we can, in the final positions of the government, please pay attention, for example, to give attention to the results of the first quarter of the budget change and anticipate, first of all, but first of all to see, the finn dream of the expenses that Vijacheslav Kirilenko spoke of about the Ukrainian Armed Forces, that is, the Ministry of Defence. And we should make a decision and say here not only in the Supreme Council, but for all of us that this decision will not be implemented as it was in the past. We'll listen to the information, the government report, and we'll make the decision accordingly. This should be written in the final positions, taking into account how the laws that have been passed work, taking into account what decisions we will still make, what will be the outcome of the management. In view of this, we should probably move on to the consideration of the matter. Please, did you have something to say? First Deputy Prime Minister Alexander Turchinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u110	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'm the only one who forgives the changes to the budget. Let's really look at the situation. By all accounts, only at the end of the mid-century can we have the epicenter of the processes that are taking place today in the world economy. And that's why, I'd like to ask, we can do it in the first quarter -- we're going to make a change in the first quarter. But to write “in the first half of the year”, “before the end of the first half of the year”. The sooner we do this, the better. But still, don't put a government in place when we're unable to carry out your tasks. And we want to carry out all the orders of the Supreme Council. And once again, there were comments by Deputy Klukkowski, all the voiced positions by me and the Ministry of Finance, which were introduced by “Our Ukraine”, remain, no one is taking them down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-26-m1.u111	Dear colleagues, there were two suggestions. Let's go to the vote. Then let us make a decision as follows : “By May 1st, the Cabinet of Ministers will make an appropriate project.” It's going to be a compromise by focusing on the problems that we just talked about. With this in mind, honourable colleagues, and in accordance with Rule 28, I will read: “The right of the chairman of the plenary to conduct a rating signal vote to predict the results of the vote on the agenda of the day plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.” [[paragraph 11]] To see how ready I am, I'll put it to a vote. Oh, no? [[B in m in s a l in]] . Well, I'm betting a vote to see. Take down the vote. Okay. Dear colleagues, since you insist, I'm voting on the committee's proposal. Then I ask that we do not return 20 times, the proposal of the Committee on Budget Issues to adopt the draft Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2009 as presented by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, registration number 3000 as a basis and as a whole as a law, taking into account the proposals made by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on budget issues to the bill, which are set out in the Committee's letter, as well as proposals made by the government, which have been sound and accepted. Please vote. With the readjustment we said about making changes to the budget. [[17:23:57]] For 226 Calm down. Dear colleagues, I ask you to calm down. Now the second offer. Budget accepted. Calm down. In this regard, we should obviously put to the vote a difference between the decree we voted on. I am voting on a motion to repeal the Supreme Council of Ukraine decision to hold a plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 29, 30 and 31 December in. 29, this is the Conciliation Council, 30 and 31 plenary sessions, please vote. It doesn't make any sense, dear colleagues. Please vote [[17:24:57]] For 249 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, let me thank you for your work, welcome to the Christmas and New Year's celebrations, wish the Ukrainian people and all the happiness and endurance, and overcome the troubles we're going through. The Supreme Council will continue to work in plenary in accordance with the 2009 calendar plan of our work. Thank you, good-bye.
