ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, let's register. [[16:03:52]] There were 446 national deputies registered in the hall. I declare the evening plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. We are continuing our consideration of the matter. Sergey Andryovich, I'm asking you to come to the rostrum. Dear colleagues, please sign up for a question-answer to the First Deputy Minister of Economics. Tedeev, the faction of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u2	Dear Mr. First Deputy Minister! First of all, thank you for taking the lead.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u3	It's not Tedeev, it's Bondick.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u4	Arseny Petrovich, me.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u5	Who turned Bondik on? Next. Zarubinsky Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u6	Thank you. Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear Sergey Andryovich, I don't think there's any doubt that we need to improve the bankruptcy process. Unfortunately, it's only happening now, because we know very well how many state-owned enterprises have been hit by fraud -- special bankruptcy and bankruptcy. It's a good thing you're proposing such a bill. That's the only question I have. In fact, the licensing conditions proposed by the bill are being abolished, this is for your orientation of article 5.1 of the project. Explain, please. And second moment. There's such an interesting reason to stop the license of an arbitrator as a return by mail mail sent to him when he didn't get it. There may be other reasons, either consciously or technically. Please explain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u7	With regard to the first question on licensing terms. The fact is that there is the Law on the licensing of certain types of economic activity, there is no way to write out all the conditions that require the supervision and enforcement of the arbitrational regulators, so after long consultations a compromise was found to make these conditions a decision to write directly in the law, not to load the Law on License Conditions. [[It's the law. I just want to remind you that he's been in Parliament since 2006.]] [[First, obtaining a licence — once; secondly, fulfilling certain responsibilities of the arbitration officer]] So we're subtracting from the Law on Licensing of Certain Economic Activities. That's right, we write down all the requirements for getting a license in this bankruptcy law. All that's required. require general principles.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u8	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u9	With regard to the possibility of selecting or suspending a licence, it is a matter of the fact that the arbitrator avoids responsibility on several occasions, saying that “I did not appear” or did not meet the requirements simply because he was not left at home, that is, a defect that is repeated very frequently.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u10	Bondik, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u11	Dear Sergey Andriyovich, I will personally support this bill, because it improves the activities of the arbitrators, it makes it impossible for any manoeuvres of the arbitrators when the property management process takes over the "admission" of enterprises, where I am increasingly the assets that still require interest from creditors and so on. And once again, I wanted to point out that the committee that's being set up at the Ministry of Economics on bankruptcy issues is needed. More stringently, to apply for the licensing and certification of the arbitral tribunals, because there are cases -- I have been approached by the electorate -- and there is a certain case where a woman is personally the head of a district tax officer and the husband is the director of arbitration. [[It's in the Ternopil region, I'll hand you a letter.]] And in this family tandem, more liquid enterprises are being robbed. Thank you. I will personally support your bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u12	Thank you very much. I just want to say two words. First, this Bankruptcy Act should change or promote structural changes in Ukraine's economy. Sadly, he does not. And we want to make sure that the arbitrator is acting as such a crisis manager at the firm and that he's finalizing the sentence: either he's going to be put to the stand, and then he's going to take care of him and he's in charge of his business for the final result, or he's getting rid of him -- and that leads to a change in the direction of investments in a particular sector of the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u13	Mironenko, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u14	Please pass the word to Suhma Jaroslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u15	Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u16	Dear Sergey Andriyovich, I want to ask you a question, and I want my colleague Bondik to hear this question, and so that the Ukrainian national MPs will hear it -- the former Majorities, and those who have not broken up with their majority districts. We've been through all of this and we've tried it when the cost of one or the other, the property of an enterprise in a so-called tax bond. And instead of giving people their money back first, you're bringing us back to the old days. Look, an arbitrator -- he's got a salary, first of all, and then everything else goes back to tax. How did this bill come about? It's only about disciplining the arbitrators, or are you trying to get us back into that shameful past when people, hoping for the money they earned, the bankruptcy enterprise, in the hands of the court's decision, can't get their money back because you're returning them to the tax return?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u17	Thank you. Well, first of all, if you remember, in 2007, there were changes that were already made in 2007 that were just paying off wages in turn. If the property of the bankruptcy is realized, that's the first. And second of all, we don't put in a tax return, tax pay, that's not where the employee's salary goes. That's why we don't make it any worse for the wages of bankruptcy workers to be extinguished, but here, in this law, we put the requirements of the social law law in order to be able to make the Labour Code bankrupt.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u18	Thank you. Question-answer complete. Sergey Andriyovich, please sit down. Bondar Alexander Mikolaiovich, head of the Economic Policy Committee, is invited to attend. Please, Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u19	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, distinguished national deputies, the Committee on Economic Policy has considered a draft law submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers, number 2148, which foresees improvements in bankruptcy procedures, such as an increase in the role of the State in the bankruptcy of state-owned enterprises and enterprises with a statutory foundation of more than 25 percent. The main purpose of the draft law is to address issues relating to the more efficient functioning of state-owned enterprises and enterprises, with a solid fund of more than 25 per cent of which have been breached in the bankruptcy case, to prevent them from harming their business by applying any other debt collection mechanisms to them, other than those provided for in the procedures defined by law, to preserve their productive potential, to ensure that the debtor's assets are sold in accordance with the privatisation legislation. The draft law also provides for amendments to the Ukrainian Act on the licensing of certain types of economic activity, which proposes to apply this law only in part to the unregulated features of licensing the activities of arbitrators, which are determined by changes to the Ukrainian law on the restoration of the debtor's capacity to pay, or the recognition of his bankruptcy. These features are aimed at strengthening control on the part of the State Bankruptcy Authority and the execution of the arbitrational powers of asset managers, which govern the resolution of liquidators in the conduct of the bankruptcy of religious enterprises. The application of the draft law, according to the authors, will ensure the lives of timely and more effective measures to restore the capacity of state-owned enterprises and enterprises with a statutory fund of more than 25 per cent, contribute to improving the interaction of the authorities and the courts in choosing the best ways to meet creditors' demands, exempting enterprises from past debts, and, as a result, improve the overall socio-economic situation in Ukraine as a whole. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has made a number of important observations to the project, but it believes that the first reading of the draft Ukrainian Law on Restoration or Recognition of the Debtor's Bankruptcy may be based on the following observations and proposals. According to the Committee on Economic Policy, this bill can be recommended on the first reading as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u20	Thank you. Please sign up for a question-answer. Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u21	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Alexander Mikolaiovich, I'd like to hear your professional, because you're a professional, you're thinking about removing part of the first article that's being introduced right now is 5. 1, which is referred to as “control over the activities of the arbitrational governing licensing conditions for the implementation of the activities of the arbitrators”. It says that the licensing conditions for the implementation of the activities of the arbitral managing officers of property that are responsible for the resolution of liquidators are not established. Period. I would like to hear your opinion on the relevance of such a novel in this law is the first. And the second. I would also like to hear your opinion on whether or not to take into account the proposals of the Scientific and Scientific Administration. Thank you. Only private because the committee didn't say it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u22	The first question was already answered by the First Deputy Minister of Economy. I can repeat that the licence waiver is a general standard of requirements, including the World Trade Organization, a reduction in the number of licenses that are granted to entrepreneurial activities. Instead, strict control of the Bankruptcy Committee is introduced over the activities of the arbitrators. I think it's going to have more influence than it's going to produce once and for all a license that can't be taken away. That's the first question. The second is according to the Science and Experimental Authority. I said that all of the scientific expertise's observations are correct, the committee is supported and will be taken into account in the second reading. That's why we're suggesting that we take it as a basis, and in the second reading, we take into account the comments of the MPs and the Scientific and Experimental Authority.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u23	Thank you, Alexander Mikolayovich. Please, have a seat. Colleagues, we sign up for the factions and the national deputies of Ukraine. The first one is factions, the second one is national MPs. Please. Two performances. It's only one faction, the factions of the Party of the Regions. Jaroslav Suhi. Out of the way, please. Will you be from the rostrum, Mr. Jaroslav? From the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u24	Dear colleagues, I'd like to draw your attention to the question: what exactly is going on. The country lives by itself. The problems that people solve in their own lives, and we try to pretend that we're adopting some kind of legislation that someone needs or is interested in or something that affects them. I want you back before the 2211 bill. Why, unfortunately, we don't see in the room any of the government's bills and from the President, which are aimed at profoundly reforming socio-economic, socio-working, socio-political relations. Instead, we have some kind of disguise. I mean that bill on social housing and now the bill on bankruptcy. What is the problem with social housing? In the summer of 2007, I didn't understand my colleague's position, did you forget that you made summers in 2007? You let us work? You've done the circumcision of your members, your factions, in order to win the election of the Supreme Council. What work could have been done by the Supreme Council at that time to confirm the problem of social housing? All of you went to the slogan elections: “Social Housing”. In Zaporozhye, two buildings were relocated to the city of Zaporozhye because they were not in control. All of it. Your authority has returned, there's not a penny of money, 120 receipts in the first quarter instead of 230 that are needed. The budget is not being implemented. It's about the bill. I'm again addressing MPs, former majors. Well, remember, don't you have one when a man comes in complaining that he's in the hands of a court order. According to the court’s decision, he should be paid a certain amount of debt on his salary. Nobody pays him anything, because at first the property of the borrower company falls into what's called a tax mortgage, where it's the arbitral regulators that diverge, it's sold out. And then there's nothing to sell. But this money is very often the last, last hope and expectation for some of our families to heal or learn or to use it for themselves. We cannot allow this vicious, shameful past practice to come back here again. Remember on the fourth call, we made a decision with you in law - first the wages, then find out, deal with the tax liabilities that an industrial enterprise has. This bill cannot be adopted because today, out of 693 million dollars in debt from the wages of 343 million, companies are in bankruptcy. We need to save this money in order to make money, not the other way around. I propose that this bill be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u25	Thank you. Yuri Karmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense", a speech by the National MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u26	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I'm going to be speaking from a dimensionally opposite position. First of all, this Law, which we once adopted in 1999, "To restore the ability of the borrower or to recognise him as bankrupt", was to revive our economy, but it did not. Why? Because instead of rebuilding, they were bankrupt, and that's the main thing. Moreover, those who have been bankrupt today are now ten and a hundred times as many as ten million. That's what I'm talking about judges. That's where the economy went. And then no one had control over the controls, then no one had control of the courts. Now we're going to be looking at a terrible fact, tomorrow at the Justice Committee -- two months before the Supreme Council, there's no document on the dismissal of the judge of this court, Mr. Demchenk, who ends his term of office and ends his term as a judge. Therefore, respectable friends, this law, need to be changed, but some warnings need to be made. I don't think all the standards, even though they tried to write them, are well written here. So I agree that they should be accepted in the first reading. I do not think that the term “arbitrary steward ” in Article 3 prima. In addition to legal education, economic education, writing, or technical education, this person needs to be added. The practice shows that technical education to deal with these issues is clearly not enough. Therefore, what has been written — “economic, legal” — is quite enough. I cannot agree with the reasons for the suspension of the licence if there is a return to the mail operators of the correspondence sent at the place of residence of the arbitration officer. I can't agree that we simply have a failure to get a copy of the testimony in the constitutional term, which confirms that it is a qualification every year because it has to be written for no valid reason, then it will be understood that this is without valid reasons for not giving up. And if there's anything else that's wrong, then we stop and we don't give this person the opportunity to work. In general, this bill deserves support. And today I'd stop those "hot heads" that say you don't have to do that. And as for the WTO requirements, it's like we're counting them like that, first of all, there's no such requirement. Today in the West, it's very difficult to choose any license and everyone is going along the way to make professionalization better. That's why we have a lot of questions here. I'd like to take into account the warnings of science and science.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u27	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the reporter, the coconspirator, do they have a desire to make a statement? Sergei Andryovich, aren't you? Alexander Mikolaiovich, the co-reporter? He doesn't want to. Colleagues, the issue of amending some laws of Ukraine has been discussed. This is about Bill 2148. Colleagues, may I have your attention? 2148, the bill is aimed at just one thing: trying to put order in the question of what is called "bankruptcy". As the former Minister of Economics, I'll tell you that everything that wasn't officially privatized was robbed under the cover of bankruptcy legislation. One arbitrator usually deals with 30-40 objects, and no one has seen him there. And in addition to doing the will of individual customers, it is impossible even to disqualify the license. And that's why the State Department of Bankruptcy in Ukraine's Ministry of Economics was made in due course. If we support the bill in the first reading, we'll make a big deal of it. At least let us “cleanse ” those who are now polluted by total corruption and waste of state property. Colleagues, may I have your attention? Bill 2148 is about amending certain laws of Ukraine. It is suggested that you accept it in the first reading. I'm betting on a bill for adoption in the first reading. Please, colleagues, vote. [[16:25:46]] For 244 Individual thanks to the constructive “Livina Block”. Let's go to the next bill. Please show by factions. Region Party – 1, Yulia Timoshenko Block – 155, NU-NS – 68, Communists – 0, “Litvina Block” – 20. Colleagues, let's move on to the next bill, 2182. So I'm re-examining the procedure. First we vote for inclusion in the agenda, colleague, then we consider the bill. Sirbin's colleague is asking for his word again. Please give the floor to the national MP of Serbia.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u28	Mr. Head, when you gave me the word for vote, you allowed an offensive expression: “Someone of the deputies”. I want to remind you that you are exactly the same MP I am. And just because we voted for you, you became Head of the Supreme Council. That's going to decrease, from my point of view, it's going to decrease. This is not a valid term. So I ask you, I do not require you to remember my last name, and more, perhaps it is very difficult for you to remember my name and my father, but I still demand that you be correct. And I think we should apologize. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u29	Dear National Deputy Serbin, if you think you're someone, I apologize. I don't know what kind of question this is. I'm telling you again, you know how to use the word. The word is given exclusively according to the record. You weren't written down. If you find this sentence offensive, I apologize to you. Let's move on, comrades. 2182. So, colleagues, please, we're voting for the inclusion in the agenda of the bill. 2182, draft Law on the National Environmental Target Program for Radioactive Waste Management. Colleagues, I'm putting to the vote the question of inclusion in the agenda. Please vote. [[16:28:15.]] For 407 Thank you all for your free will. Deputy Minister for Emergency Situations Holos Volodymyr Ivanovich is invited to the rostrum of Parliament. Please, Vladimir Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u30	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! Ukraine's draft Act on the Universal Environmental Reactive Waste Management Program, designed to implement article 3 of the Ukrainian Act on the Treatment of Reactive Wastes and Valid Regulatory Acts. The purpose of this programme is to implement public policy on radioactive waste management aimed at protecting life and health of the population, business personnel and the environment from the effects of radioactive waste management in accordance with national radiation safety standards. The program aims to further improve the system of planning and organization of work in the field of radioactive waste management for 2008 - 2017. The current problems addressed by the state-wide programme are: - the creation of a single state system for dealing with radioactive wastes that will provide a complete completion of the waste treatment cycle from the moment they are formed to the disposal, including high-activity waste; - improving the financing mechanism for waste management; Further development of the legal and regulatory framework; - the handling of radioactive wastes that will be generated when removed from the operation of the Chernobyl AS and the conversion of shelter objects to an environmentally sound system and those that are localized in alienation zones; - the introduction at Ukrainian nuclear power plants of modern technologies for pretreatment of radioactive waste; - enhancing the efficiency of the management of reactive waste in Ukrainian state-owned enterprises by re-proposing its special combinations into processing sites and temporary storage of waste; - improvement of the automated system of accounting for radioactive waste; - science and technology in the field of radioactive waste management. The main economic results of this programme are: - optimizing the cost of maintaining existing repositories; - the return of land to use by decommissioning cities of storage or disposal of radioactive waste; - a substantial reduction in the cost of implementing measures to deal with radioactive wastes that will be generated in the future due to the presence of a centralized structure; - excluding the risk of significant economic losses to the elimination of the effects of radiation accidents that may potentially occur in the case of further storage of waste in the enterprises which are the result of their activities; - creating favourable conditions for the continuous functioning of nuclear energy. The main result is to increase the safety of existing and future generations from the harmful effects of ionizing radiation from radioactive wastes, to reduce socio-psychological tensions associated with the elimination of the effects of the accident on CHECS, to prevent acts of terrorism, and to ensure favourable conditions for the continued use of nuclear energy for the production of electricity in order to increase the standard of living of the population of Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! The bill as a whole received a positive conclusion from the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, which was considered by the Environmental Policy, Environmental Use and Elimination Committee of Chernobyl and recommended by the Supreme Council for Ukraine for adoption in the first reading. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u31	Thank you. Let's sign up for a question-answer. Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u32	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Ivanovich! I have one question, it might seem technical to you, it's fundamental to me. Because there was no understanding of the procedure for further implementation of this state-wide environmental agenda. Please tell me this question, how do you respond to the requirements of this state-wide environmental target program with the 2008 Ukrainian Budget Act? It's actually like it's gone and we should have seen it since March 1st. Because what we had, you're not there at all, in this 2008 budget. How will this state-wide environmental agenda be financed? As I see it, the government has recently passed bills to draft a bill to do something about it. Is it going to be done or not? On what basis? Or should we first adopt the changes to the 2008 Budget Act?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u33	Thank you for asking. This program takes into account the expenditure planned by the 2008 State Budget Act, which is at the moment. If you look, you'll see. They're small, but they're planned. Well, considering also that the program actually, if it's accepted, will function from the second half. This also counts. So this does not preclude the possibility of the State Budget Act, if reviewed, taking into account additional expenses. But once again, what is planned in the budget for the current time, for 2008, was reflected in this program for execution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u34	Vladimir Matthew. Valentina Matviev, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u35	Please pass the word to Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u36	Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u37	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. I'm absolutely in solidarity with the question of the previous colleague of the Dry One, which of course is not done. If national deputies were to do so as subjects of the legislative initiative, they would still be able to understand that they are violating normative acts as programs are formed and that they provide for expenses. But this program is presented at the suggestion and initiatives of the Cabinet of Ministers. Then, perhaps, in the Cabinet of Ministers, imperfect lawyers who, as it were, do not know. It's about a question. I'm just surprised, what's the difference between a government program and a state-wide program? We had a national program, and now you call it a state-wide program. Is this going to make a difference? This will strengthen the role of this program, or why such a name change?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u38	Thank you for asking. Once again, the valid State Budget Act has taken into account a number of expenses for the implementation of the national programme that is proposed for your consideration, and there are 38 million. The money that's in the State budget is in the 2008 program. That's the first one. That's what's in the budget, it's reflected here, and that's why there's no breach of standard design technology. As far as “State” is concerned, “State” is concerned. The government has adopted a “State” program to implement the law The State Program for the Treatment of RAV. She ran out of resources in 2005. This is why a draft national programme has been drafted as required by legislation, because the Act on the Treatment of Radioactive Waste requires that the programme be "national" and approved by Parliament rather than government. Thus, the draft bill takes into account the observations made by the deputies, including during parliamentary hearings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u39	Wolfman Eugene, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u40	Please pass the word to Cibenko Petra Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u41	Please, Peter Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u42	Thank you. The Communist faction, Zybenko. Dear colleague, I'd like to ask you this question. In recent times, the problem of building a shelter for radioactive materials has been heard. And really, people are really worried about this problem, and I want to know that by coming out of this program, it's going to be a repository for radioactive waste. Which are worked in Ukraine or we're going to re-export from all over the world, and then we don't know what to do with it. Obviously, this problem must be. Find your own reflection and this state-wide target program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u43	Thank you for the clarifying question. I want to say that this program does not in any way address the issue of dealing with decommissioned nuclear fuel. It's not radioactive waste, it's nuclear materials, and it's not within the scope of the program. What? And by the way, as far as radioactive waste is concerned -- the second part of the question -- we have three bills, as a minimum, which are now determined that only the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides on the location of places of storage or the storage of radioactive wastes of general government importance, and the same applies to facilities for dealing with decommissioned nuclear fuels. So if such materials are prepared, it will still be submitted for consideration by the Supreme Council in accordance with valid legislation. But this program is not distributed to the nuclear fuel that's working, it's outside of the program.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u44	Sergei Gordienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u45	Dear Vladimir Ivanovich, I think it is for the voters of Ukraine and all the audiences, for all the citizens of Ukraine to wonder, what are the total volumes of such radioactive wastes that will be disposed of during the year and during the implementation of this program?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u46	Unfortunately, this has happened, unfortunately, so that Ukraine now ranks fourth in Europe by the number of radioactive wastes. [[Thank you for asking.]] Well, fourth place, it's on top. So this is an extremely pressing problem for us, and it is primarily due to the fact that the main mass of waste was caused by an accident at the Chernobyl nuclear power plant in 1986. So the program and the proposed system of measures to bring about the proper state of radioactive wastes, which are both in industry, in nuclear energy, and in eliminating the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. And if it is implemented for the ten - year term it is scheduled for, it will result in their safe storage or burial. At this point we have about two and a half million tons of radioactive waste that are classified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u47	John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u48	John the Rabbit. Please tell me the answer to that question. And don't you think it's appropriate for this program to have a section that shows the state, the current state of handling radioactive waste in Ukraine? And the second. Describe the situation in which the State Fund for Radioactive Waste Management is being created today.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u49	Thank you, Ivan Alexanderovich, for asking. First question. The underlying materials included an analysis of the state of implementation of the government’s approved state of implementation, and this section was planned for a national programme. But according to the standards laid down in the Law on State Purpose Programmes, it is provided for by structure. So there are solid materials and the report on the implementation of the government program is, it's like additional materials. This is the answer to the first part of the question. As for the creation of a state-wide fund to deal with radioactive waste, if everything moves as it moves today, we can still consider a draft law to create this fund, it's a law to make changes to some legislators. It'll be a little bit later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u50	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u51	Yuri Carmazin. Please tell the Honourable Reporter, have you seen when this law takes effect? It's going to take effect on the project.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u52	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u53	After the Act on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on the Treatment of Radioactive Waste has become effective. And I'll remind you that this bill has not yet been considered. This is how we are now doing “Martishkin’s work”. The basic law, or the combination of it, was to be done together. So, never before in my life, the Supreme Council of 15 years, that I'm here, has passed the law to take effect by referring to a project that's not accepted. Who taught you to do that? Why is there no minister? Why does he not accompany the minister of justice of this bill with permission to say? I just, you know, I look at these novels and I think we need to put the Deputy Prime Minister here every day as a minimum to see what's going on, as the government reports the projects. Arsenius Petrovich, it is I who address you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u54	So if you don't mind, I'll answer. This novel, 5, 4 paragraphs, has already appeared in the consideration of the relevant bill, so to speak, before being submitted to the Supreme Council. And it is related to the fact that one source of fulfillment and function is predicted to be the law. Radioactive Waste Management Foundation. So two bills were linked, so to speak. This bill is scheduled to be considered today in the first reading too, there is an appropriate submission. There's a proposal for a science-expert management to combine them for the second reading. Maybe that's what we'll do. But now we have two bills that are being tabled today. That's the first one. Second, what concerns the minister at all. Regrettably, the annual meeting of the European Bank’s Annual Congregations was scheduled for the minister, who is now in Chernobyl. This is a planned arrangement that involves the meeting of annual congregations for bank managers. So there was an appropriate submission from the government, and I'm going to report this bill. Especially since I'm the head of her task force.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u55	Thank you, please sit down. I invite you to the rostrum of our colleague, Skoubenko Volodymyr Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u56	Dear National Deputies! For your consideration, there is a draft Law on the Public Target Environmental Program for the Management of Radioactive Wastes, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Ukraine has developed nuclear energy and is widely using radioactive substances and radioisotopics in various fields of production. The protection of the life and health of the population and of personnel serving nuclear facilities, radioactive wastes and ionizing radiation sources of the environment from the effects of radioactive wastes, have a significant role to play in shaping public policies. The production of nuclear power plants, the operation of research reactors, the use of radioactive materials for the production of medical and scientific facilities, the accident at the Chernobyl nuclear station, the military activity has resulted in the accumulation of large amounts of radioactive waste. There are about 30,000 cubic metres of low-active, 1,700 cubic metres of medium-active and 166 cubic metres of high-active solid radioactive waste on the site of nuclear stations other than Chernobyl. This is the answer to a question from a previous colleague. The repositories are over 55 percent. More than 19,000 cubic metres of liquid radioactive waste is stored in the harbor’s repositories. The waste dumps of rare radioactive waste are filled from 20 percent to 80 percent. The state of storage of radioactive waste at nuclear power plants corresponds to the established standards, regulations and standards of radiation safety, which means that the measured landfills are temporary and are not designed for long-term storage and increase in the amount of radioactive waste. Radioactive waste generated in industrial enterprises, in medical and scientific research and other institutions, is partially conditioned and stored in non-state interdistricts. Meanwhile, specialized companies are taking radioactive waste only for temporary container storage. Much of the radioactive waste generated by the Chernobyl disaster is stored under conditions that do not meet established radiation safety standards, regulations, and standards. For the deactivation, transportation, processing and disposal of short- and medium-acting radioactive wastes in the alienation zone and the area of unconditionally mandatory eviction according to the state-wide programme to deal with the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, a launch complex is being built, first of all, a compact vector. But that is not enough. In the research reactors of the Institute of Nuclear Research of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, the Institute of Nuclear Energy and Industry of Minpalevenergo, which will be removed from operation in the near future, there are relatively few but very dangerous radioactive wastes: approximately 12 tons of solid and 460 cubic metres of liquid, low and medium-active waste stored according to radiation safety requirements. [[The City of Kiev]] [[City of Sevastopol]] All of these wastes require air conditioning and subsequent exportation for permanent storage and subsequent burial. The amount of radioactive waste in Ukraine will increase as a result of the return to Ukraine of highly active radioactive wastes following the reprocessing of Ukrainian nuclear fuel plants in the Russian Federation, the exploitation of existing nuclear facilities, the continuation of their operation and the entry into force of new ones. Treatment of temporarily stored nuclear fuel from the operation of nuclear facilities and facilities designed to deal with radioactive waste. The practice of dealing with radioactive waste does not fully protect the population and the environment from the harmful effects of ionizing radiation. In Ukraine, the concept of final waste disposal has not yet been approved and a complete system of radioactive waste management is not in place to fully meet the need to store and dispose of all types and categories of existing and wastes that will form in the near future. The imperfection of the radioactive waste management system and the absence of an active financing mechanism prevents the creation of the necessary infrastructure and the safety of the listed system in accordance with established standards. Such a situation hinders the start-up of nuclear energy and increases the likelihood of radiation accidents or unauthorized access to waste. The committee reviewed the government’s programme at its meeting, and it believes that this program can improve the conditions for handling radioactive waste. The specific nature of the comments and proposals made during the consideration of the bill, as well as the analysis carried out by the committee with the MNS developer, shows the possibilities. when preparing the project for second reading. The committee supports the bill on change. on the treatment of radioactive wastes” and suggests that it be accepted as a basis. I'm very much addressing you, colleagues, if you and I don't accept this program today in the first reading, there's going to be a collapse in Ukraine with these wastes. And it's not just about the Chernobyl AES. In virtually every area, each one of you is dealing with this problem. So I invite all of you to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u57	Please sign up, question-answer. Sergei Shevchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u58	Dear Volodymyr Petrovich, of course, we all understand the importance of adopting a state-wide targeted programme of dealing with radioactive wastes, but I have a question. How many of the environmental programs that the ministry and government are offering? And are they similar, or are they planning to approve similar programs about, say, poison chemicals, pesticides, or toxic emissions? Do you not think that a more holistic, systematic approach is needed, not for each type of waste, and that there is later competition between programs in funding and execution? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u59	Thank you for asking. I will say that we are currently developing a number of programmes, but the problem of radioactive waste is very specific and requires a separate programme, because there is a certain system for dealing with these wastes, a certain security system, a certain system of admission. With regard to other programmes, “Hazardous waste management”, that is, the programme being implemented and considered by the Committee. I think she'll be in the hall soon. But it's as a component of that big programme and under this programme we're proposing the next bill, which I think we're going to consider today, is about creating a fund to work with the destruction of these radioactive wastes.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u60	John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u61	Clearly, the problem is very complex and very important because there has been a lot of radioactive waste piled up over the years. They were created through the operation of nuclear power plants, through the work of medical institutions, scientific research institutions. All these wastes were put together at the "Radon" state union and it is clear that funding was very, very inadequate in those days. And it's clear that the problem is knocking on our door. How do you think or enough political will is in order to allocate enough money in the budget today? Can we speed up the creation of a special fund that predicts that the companies that use these materials should pay the funds into this fund to neutralize their activities in the future?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u62	Thank you for asking. That's a very good point, that's a problem. This is a very large problem and, indeed, to date, the main pillar of this programme will be the establishment of the special fund provided for in Bill 1468, which I hope we will consider today. Because without all the governments, regardless of the political colors that are changing in a year or a year and a year and a half, they still have that kind of program. Because, to date, we MPs are coming into the hall, we are leaving the hall, governments are changing, presidents are changing, and these radioactive wastes that have accumulated in Ukraine today for all of its existence are not only ours, but also our children and our grandchildren, and are a problem for all mankind. So we need to give you an example of how these problems are going to be uniting for the right and for the left side of the room. And I was very pleased when more than 400 deputies voted in favour of the inclusion of this issue. I think that's exactly what will happen when this law is passed.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u63	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u64	Yuri Carmazin. I'd like to ask you this. This provides for a substantial amount of funding for the program of 5 billion. 247.5 million Money for the deadline from 2008 to 2017. Could you tell us, this year, how much is being funded, how much is being spent and how much is being funded right now from the beginning of the year to figure out what is going on. That's the first part of the question. And the second part of the question. Say, please, and all of a sudden, we're not going to adopt that law, and in this, we're going to write something that just takes effect after the law takes effect, about dealing with radioactive waste. What will happen then? Is it wise to do so? Or is it wise to write now, as we always write: “From the time of the publication of the law” – dot.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u65	Thank you for asking. I'll start with the second question. I think we should just now consider Bill 1468 on the establishment of the fund. Because no effective programme is possible without the establishment of this fund. That's first and foremost. If there's no money, it'll all be on paper, and the problem will pass like it was seventeen years ago. With regard to funding to date, I believe that this is more of a matter for the Ministry. I know that this has been allocated to some 25 million for 2008 for the implementation of this programme and the budget changes that the Government of Timoshenko is preparing today, and I think there will be an increase in this regard. I think that this issue is also related to changes in the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u66	Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u67	Dear Vladimir Petrovich, Vladimir Petrovich. Thank you. I hope that I will express myself from the Lithuanian Block faction in more detail, and therefore this is a question that may be a certain analogy to the question that has already been asked by my colleague, but unfortunately that has not been answered. You know there's a law on state-of-the-art programs. What we're now offered is a state-wide target program. Tell me, please, what is the difference between the general, the state and the state. And explain why, you know, that's the answer to my possible question, why does this neglect of basic legal terminology happen? Because that's not what individual Neophyte MPs are saying, that's what people who work long enough in government are saying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u68	Thank you for asking. I think that the difference in the terms “State” and “State” is only that the state-wide programme should be approved in the Supreme Council. That's the first one. Second. The State programme adopted by the Government today has no consistency in implementation, we wanted and supported the government and considered when on the Committee, what we believe it must be approved by the Supreme Council and must be monitored by the Supreme Council in order to ensure that we do not have everything that has happened to all the waste management programmes, including the radioactive ones previously implemented. Huge costs have been allocated, they have all been properly developed, but to date no facility has been completed. That's why we think that when we're taking a state-wide programme, it's going to increase control.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u69	Thank you, Vladimir Petrovich. Please sit down. Dear colleagues, we record statements by factions and speeches by national deputies. Immediately recorded by the National MPs. Mikola Haritonovich, please. Shershun Mikola Haritonovich. Yes, yes, turn on the microphone, from the spot.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u70	Mikola Shershun, “Block Lithuania”. Dear Head! Dear colleagues! I want to make a very brief point of what will be the result if we adopt the bill that we are considering. First. This is an increase in the safety of existing and future generations from the contamination of ionizing radiation from radioactive waste. The other one. Reduced socio-psychological stress associated with the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl nuclear power plant accident. And the third. The non-acceptance of acts of terrorism and, very importantly, the provision of favourable conditions for the continued use of nuclear energy to produce electricity to increase the standard of living of Ukraine's population. This was the way the comments were made today, the proposals were made, and they are very important. So I would ask, fellow MPs, to take this bill as a basis in the first reading, and to take into account the comments made and suggestions made for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u71	Hare Ivan Alexanderovich from the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u72	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! This is a very serious bill. What are the radiation wastes mentioned in the bill? It's about those that are produced or formed as a result of AES activities, those that are formed in industrial enterprises, in medical research institutions, institutions that are formed as a result of an accident at the Chernobyl nuclear power plant. And you can talk about a particular row. So I see two challenges in this direction, two questions that need to be answered. The first question is, Does this program cover all radioactive waste? Is it in line with the MAGATES Convention on the Treatment of Radioactive Wastes, or is it not? I think we've applied this sectoral view here. And we haven't looked at all the radioactive wastes, and the present and future from the point of view of this strategic, complex vision. But it doesn't really cross the meaning of this program anyway. Because we have to start digging up these clots at least from a sectoral, sectoral point of view. That's the first one. The second challenge or second question is to find appropriate funding. We have shelters, we're working on these radioactive wastes. But we never had proper funding in Ukraine. This funding was essentially projected to come from the state budget. And so when something like this fits, there's some kind of near-accident, and then there's money, and the rest of it's gone. And the problem was gone. That's why we're saying that we should act within a new vision, within the framework of the ideology that is in the MAGATE convention. And this ideology will move us to set up a special fund to deal with radioactive waste. And this special fund will be filled by targeting companies, institutions, and organizations that generate radioactive waste. The size of the calculation is determined in proportion to the number of wastes produced. This is what we write in the law on handling radioactive waste. So today we really need to adopt this bill. And we're going to create a normal legislative framework to finance this problem. Finally, we have to understand that there is a part that we have to do today in such a way that those future costs associated with the current activity have to be put at the expense of the current activity, that is, we have to anticipate this perspective. In science, it's called "internationalisation".
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u73	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u74	In science, it's called “internationalisation of the Western”, which is the inclusion in the cost of the current activity of the future costs associated with the current activity. So we finally have to understand that the activity with these substances is related to very large costs in the future. So I suggest that we accept this program in the first reading and then go on to a large, wide program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u75	Yuri Bogdanovich Klukkowski. I can't see. Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u76	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill needs to be adopted, but unfortunately, the drafting of the bill cannot continue. I'm opening a popular newspaper called Facts, and I'm not advertising it: “Ukrainian atomic stations may be without suppliers of new equipment”. It's about lawsuits for tens of millions of dollars to the state of Ukraine, lawsuits that are now being declared fraudulent by many of the solicitors. Sadly, this law states that it takes effect only after another law. And the law states that it takes effect from January 1st, 2009. I'm asking you: and all this time this government program is not going to be financed, this whole year? I asked for nothing. What's going on with the funding? How much is funded? How much will be funded by the end of the year? And here's the answer, the answer in another bill is Bill 1468, which is proposed to be from 1 January 2009. Look up, it's the 10th question we have today in the agenda. So, dear friends, I don't like it? I don't like this approach to legislation. It doesn't change here as many governments as it does. Unfortunately, it's too big. Everyone thinks yes, there's a deputy minister coming to some Supreme Council. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Deputy ministers of the economy, finance, emergency situations, the prime minister or vice - prime minister may go to the meetings, and ministers responsible for the field may come here for strategic vision. Therefore, why do they continue to cut further metal scrapes in the Chernobyl area today? Whom Can I Ask? It was cut off in the past government, in the past, and now it's going on, because there's a lot of money there. Hence, respectable friends, evidently, depend on the funds to be set up for both this and future generations, on the laws that we are about to pass on that program. We have not seen how the previous program has been implemented today, but we are making changes to it. We removed that from there for three years. Every three years the program will be reviewed. Look, it's being removed by law right now. We need to do a serious analysis, but someone has to do it, including the Supreme Council's Scientific and Scientific Administration. I'm asking you to do more serious tests there. The surfaces began to be analyzed by scientific expertise! So, dear friends, we're going to have to adopt this law, but it's going to take a lot of serious work and write what we're going to take from the moment.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u77	Sergei Volodymyrovich Vasilenko, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". You don't? Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u78	Thank you. Dear Arseny Petrovich! Dear colleagues! It seems to me that this is a case where it can be said that form is a failure, and the content is, in principle, relevant and necessary. Why do I have the right to say that? For good reason, I asked one of the rapporteurs whether he knew whether I had long read the law that existed in the Supreme Council on government programs. So I would like to remind you that it is in accordance with this law that targeted programmes to the Supreme Council are to be submitted as part of two very important documents. The first is the State Budget project of Ukraine and the second is the project of the State Economic and Social Development Programme. With the first, we know it was introduced without this program. As for the economic and social development programme, it is not registered at all in the Supreme Council, as far as I know. Thus, according to the form of submission and the procedure itself, obviously, the passage of this important bill is dishonest, illegal, wrong, unfaithful. As far as content is concerned, my colleagues have already pointed out that there are positives, of course, in this bill. For example, for me, the program is said to be aimed at further improving the system and planning work in the field of radioactive waste management up to 2017. It seems to me that under the conditions of our economy today, by means of spontaneous, impulsive, impulsive solutions and lack of strategy, lack of long-term vision of how to move forward in one area or another, this is the right approach: system planning until 2017. On the other hand, the desire to improve the automated system of accounting for radioactive waste is also an obvious benefit. From the media, we know all the time that there's a problem, there's a problem, but there's a feeling that no one knows exactly what's going on today in a particular region of Ukraine with radioactive waste. So it seems to me that in this case, the content certainly predominates over the form, the wrong form of the passage of this bill. I think we can support it, but given that the legislative process is not an impulse and not a contemplation of the night, so that tomorrow we can have another look. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u79	Thank you. Dear colleagues, time for discussion is over. The reporter and the co-reporter, do they insist on the closing word? Don't insist. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as you're aware of the questions you've raised. We now have over 260 different kinds of state programs in Ukraine. Under the valid State Budget Act of the 200. there are 76, if I'm not mistaken, only one third of these programs are funded. The total amount of funding for these programs is at best 25 percent. If you count the total amount that it takes to fund all the state programs, there's no billions left, there's a trillion dollars left to cover the entire amount of funding. Where am I going with this? There will be no objection to giving a protocol commission to the Economic Policy Committee: to understand the number of programs, to contact the Mineconomy, and to submit to the Supreme Council, eventually, the inventory of these programs and the elimination of those who are just out of date that no one will ever finance. They were accepted under various political motives, who had to love the people of one part of Ukraine and so we created billions, more precisely hundreds of billions, of money that would never be funded. So if there's no objection to the stenogram, by protocol, then I'll give it to you. And according to this state-wide program, the committee is proposing to adopt bill 2182 as a basis. You've all expressed your position, I think we should take it as a basis, and we'll know. Dear colleagues, I'll put it to a vote. Attention, colleagues, to the adoption vote on the basis of the draft Ukrainian Act on a State-wide targeted environmental waste management programme. Colleagues, please vote. [[17:12:38]] For -413 Thank you, colleagues. For 413, the decision is made. Let's move on to the next issue of the agenda, the 2181 bill needs, also the government, to be included in the agenda. Dear National MPs, please concentrate, we include in the agenda the 2181 Bill – amending the article of the First Law on the Safety and Quality of Foods – defines the concept of “standards”, which means “standard”. Colleagues, attention, we vote in favour of joining the agenda. Vote. [[17:13:21]] For 225 We didn't make it? We go back to the question, we vote back on the issue of inclusion in the agenda. Colleagues, pay attention! Attention! We are voting for a return to the issue of food safety. Vote. Jaroslav, please encourage your comrades. [[17:13:57]] For 244 There are 244, thank God. We are now voting for the inclusion in the agenda of the 2181 bill. [[17:14:19]] For 242 Colleagues, how do you feel about going full or short? There's only one. There's only one change. Would you mind? A colleague. Well, the opposition colleagues are asking. Let's go meet him. I ask you to speak very briefly, I would say. Let's make it quick without voting short. Please, Mikola Georgievicz, First Deputy Minister of Health. You can see that we're constantly going to a meeting of exclusively opposition. It's a deal. Please, Mikola Georgievich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u80	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished national deputies! A very short change: not to make a word. in the definition. The purpose of the project is to bring the term “standards” into line with the definition given in the agreement on technical barriers. The implementation of the project does not require additional budgetary and other material costs. Please support the adoption of the project. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u81	Thank you so much for being so concise. Colleagues, please answer the questions for five minutes. Sergei Gordienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u82	Please pass the word to Mikoli Vasilovich Kravchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u83	Mikola Kravchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u84	Mikolo Grigorovich, you've reported so quickly that people have never understood, either it's a Soviet bill or it's not Soviet. One. And the second. I mean, according to the WTO requirements. So let's report that we should, at the request of the S.O.T., introduce this concept. One. And the second. Tell me, this is what upsets Ukraine today about vaccination. If we enter this word “standard”, will it not be repeated only through food? We know that the vaccine has not been tested and so on. So wouldn't we have a food situation like this with a vaccine?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u85	Thank you for asking. The point is that this technical error arose when the Safety and Quality of Food Act was passed in 2005. And since then, it's exactly the right thing to do. And it meets the requirements of the WTO when the Safety and Quality of Food Act was passed. Therefore, this amendment will not have an impact on the safety and quality of food, since we are currently working on technical barriers to trade.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u86	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u87	Yuri Carmazin. Please tell the minister of health who signed the bill. It says, under every bill behind which there are the same things that can then be done with this vaccine, it says, you don't need public consultation. Tell me, please, that you really don't think that we really have to comply with article 42 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the 50th Constitution of Ukraine, which states that we have the right to be all informed, including why we have new definitions here now, and these definitions are not reported by Minust, let's say, but reported by Minshravd. I just want to understand the logic. I'm not voting for this bill, I'll tell you right away. It is because of these things that we need to consult the public about things that affect the health of the population. I want your answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u88	Thank you for asking. In this case, the Ministry was responsible for the drafting of the law on the safety and quality of food products, and since there was a technical error and the word “no” fell out today, the Ministry is introducing the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u89	Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u90	Dear colleagues, I would like to address the democratic Caolitics. You tell your members of your "kaolitia" if you want to go to the session. Well, you're just going to school to watch you fall off your feet, bump into disability, one eight buttons. Well, who needs that power? Spit it out. Please tell the population that health - care workers are anxious to get to the Ukrainian market may be cheap but questionable products, such as food products. And I have a question for you. So anyway, in the course of the question asked by a colleague of Carmazin, would they be imperative requirements for the production standards that would come to the internal market. What you just wrote there means one thing -- whatever they want, they'll drive it away. What will result from such happiness on the part of the Ukrainian population? Importers will make money, give them, God, health, share with the parties. But what is this for the population that is at risk?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u91	Thank you for asking. In this case, this amendment has no meaning because the law provides for sanitary measures that are required to be carried out. Sanitary measures specifically prescribe safety requirements, and standards do not prescribe safety requirements. Requirements for labeling, in this case for food.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u92	Thank you. Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u93	Thank you. I ask you to give the word to Sergey Greeneweck.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u94	Sergei Greenewecki.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u95	Greenewic, Block of Lithuania. Dear reporter! According to the draft standard, it is a consensus-based document approved by an authorized body. Please tell me if you have any danger or quality of food. What did you put in the word “consensus”? Because consensus is preceded by compromises, compromises are concessions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u96	That is why the standard is not mandatory. Rules are mandatory in this case. And there was a question about where the content and requirements of the label would be defined. This is in the regulation, the regulation requires that the content of the label be met.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u97	Thank you. Please sit down. I invite Aunt Dmitry's bachelor to the rostrum. Aunt Dmitrovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u98	Dear Arsenius Petrovich! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! The purpose of the bill is to bring the term standard into line with the provisions of the international agreement on technical barriers to trade. The agreement defines standards as voluntary and technical regulations as mandatory. It should be noted that Ukrainian legislation has already recognized a voluntary standard. In addition, the Ukrainian Food Safety and Quality Act does not contain food safety requirements, and the quality of products is confirmed by the manufacturer's declaration under the Ukrainian Compliance Act. Thus, the adoption of the bill would not only harmonize the terminology of the bill with international law, but would also bring it into line with the laws in force in Ukraine. Similarly, it should be agreed with the General Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council on the provisions of the final provisions of the Standardization Act of Ukraine, according to which the requirements of State and other standards will remain binding until the adoption of the relevant technical regulations and other regulatory acts governing these matters. In the light of these warnings, the need to set a time limit for the entry into force of the law, through which technical regulations will be developed for the needs of the food industry, the Committee does not propose to adopt the bill as a whole as a matter of law. We ask that the bill be supported in the first reading in order to further develop it in the Health Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u99	Questions to Aunt Dmitry. Vladimir Dinner, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u100	Evening, Party of Regions. Dear People's Deputies, today we want to adopt this bill, but it is “cheese”. Why "cheese"? These are foods and should be treated very carefully. We have considered this issue on the Committee today and have recommended that it be further developed and finalized in the Health Committee. This is when the whole subject is fully worked out, then these things need to be taken to the conference room. The standard, the strokes of quality and everything else should be further elaborated in the committee. Because we don't know what products are going to be imported, what products are going to be produced, it's all going to affect our population. The bill should therefore be fully developed in the Health Committee with the assistance of scientific consultants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u101	Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u102	Thank you. Dear Aunt Dmitrovna, I will not be as delicate as my esteemed colleague, Evening, he said this bill is raw. It's not raw, it's harmful, it's very dangerous for the population of Ukraine. Please tell us whether this becimto change of the standard and, in fact, the removal of safety standards, food standards in Ukraine, will be gross in Ukraine and continue without marking any foreign non-use, food shortages that include genetically modified products that involve harmful substances for Ukrainian citizens. You think it's a raw bill, or you just don't need it for the Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u103	I believe that this bill is very necessary, but it has not yet been prepared today because it needs to be finalized, its timing is not defined and therefore needs to be worked on, and it is very necessary, because today our basic standard law defines the standard only as a document that establishes rules, instructions, characteristics that are not mandatory, and with these changes, it will already be clearly regulated by law and will be very important to control the quality of food products. It's necessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u104	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u105	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Mr. Head, I want to ask you, do you even understand what's going on or not? You are responsible for your health, and the point is that standards are eliminated, and technical regulations are only four. Twenty-four accepted. And no new ones are being developed, because there's no funding for this, the budget is not being allocated, and what we do is we make everyone sick in general. How cynical, then, is this bill from your committee to be passed. Guys, you've got to take care of something else. But let's see, if there are standards, we have to replace them with technical regulations. But we have to develop them, accept them, and say, if they are, then we move on to them. The whole of Europe is complex! And we're selective. Sneaking the word, aha, changing the word. And we think that we are doing well for our people. You're not doing well. It's categorical. I know you're a good person. How can you do this bill?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u106	Aunt Dmitrovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u107	That's why, yes, that's why I take it very seriously. He needs to be refined, of course. And accept it on first reading and give it to the committee for finalization. And the committee will complete it and submit it to the second reading only in the form that you will understand that it will be very necessary. He's still not clear today. It's clear that he can't be taken like this today. Either give it to the finalization or first-reading committee on health issues for finalization. Or go back to work. But it's better on first reading, and we're taking care of this job. It's, we'll do it, it's a job.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u108	Sergei Shevchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u109	Aunt Dmitrovna, Sergey Shevchuk, BUT faction. But don't be excused. You're acting as an expert, as head of a committee that knows that question. We have every one of them here, and we have a food expert here. Because every day he uses it. My predecessor, the best, you see the expert, he spoke so emotionally. Although he obviously does not have a deep understanding of the matter. As far as standards are concerned, I want to tell the opponents who are speaking out hot today that it's accepted and operating in 151 WTO states. And in Ukraine alone, some believe that it will cause some kind of storm or epidemic. The bill is extremely simple. If the committee wants to work on it, please let it work out for the second reading. This, the provisions of this law meet the requirements of European legislation. Let's take it from the first reading. And anyone who doubts can work on it later.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u110	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u111	Thank you. Please have a seat, Aunt Dmitry. Colleagues, we sign up for factions and national deputies. Sergei Greenewecki. "Litvina Block", from place. Oleg Zarubinski, from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u112	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues! The Lithuanian bloc deliberately voted in favour of including this bill, the so-called bill, in the agenda. Without us, he would not have been included for a reasonable reason in the order of the day. We want to show you what this bill is and that it's not at all raw, that it's dangerous. Everybody's saying there's a little change, and I want to read what's proposed in this change. According to the draft standard, it turns out that this is a consensus-based document that's interesting. Let's move on. According to the draft standard, there are no requirements for the safety of food provided by sanitary measures, but it may include or fully define labelling, labelling and labelling requirements for the product or process. That's it. Here is the answer to whether you can add it to the second reading or simply reject it. It is clear that this bill allows our lobbyists to import food, while Ukraine itself produces the world's best food products, to import any foreign surplus, genetically modified products. I've got some time, I'll use it. According to the Institute of Agroecology and Biotechnology, there are three risk groups in the cultivation and use of GMOs: negative effects on the human body, allergic reactions and toxic effects, increased mutagenicity of the organisms, damage to the lining of the intestine, and so on. [[genetically modified organisms]] The second position is the negative impact on the environment, the appearance of weedless herbicides, the deterioration of soil conditions, and so forth. The third is global risks: activation of critical viruses, uncontrolled plasma distribution, global destabilization of the biosphere, and so on. What are they offering us? We, Ukraine, are offered food containing genetically modified foods. This is when Ukrainian agriculture, Ukrainian climate, Ukrainian agriculture. can provide the best, cleanest, most environmentally friendly products in the world. We believe that not only should this bill not be adopted in the first reading be rejected, for all countries that are members of the World Trade Organization, even as participants, come out of their own interests, out of the interests and health of their citizens. Learn in China if you cannot defend your interests! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u113	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions. Mikola Kravchenko. Out of the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u114	Thank you. In fact, I am surprised by the political power that ripped the shirt on itself in the face of Mrs. Vasuk, who was sung by Petnicki, Deputy Minister, when they ratified the WTO agreement. And now, suddenly, they see a little bill that just corrects the global destruction of our market in Ukraine. And now they're telling a great story like that. They will save Ukraine by not adopting this law. Gentlemen, I would like to remind you that you have taken a direct part in the destruction of agriculture. And, Mrs. Vastuk, whatever you say, I am now thinking that Zarubinski has decided to control the communists and fight them, so I will. I will now monitor how Mrs. Vaszuk's speeches will differ from the Supreme Council 'like the village is dying' and how she votes. Please note, therefore, that the political power of Lithuania to speak from the rostrum is one, one vote from another. With regard to this bill, I must say the following: this bill is actually as frail as it is in the global, large-scale, vanquishing dictatorship of SOTA, the protocol signed by the President, that today it is not even something to say about him. It has to be rejected, here's the only thing I agree with, and it's clear that we have to start talking about that in the STO we have to enter with our heads high and not with the economy destroyed, as we do now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u115	I'll put my word on the line after the speeches. Roman Zvaric. Welder Roman Mikhailovich. Roman Mikhailovich! Roman Mikhailovich, get rid of the word. Xenia Leapina.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u116	Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that all the fears here that so abundantly flow from this rostrum have no basis. I emphasize that the requirements for safety and food composition, particularly for the “Lithuania Block”, are defined by sanitary, phytosanitary and veterinary standards and requirements, and not by standards at all. And standards determine, for example, how to place information on the label, so that the citizens who buy this product not only listen to the chatter from the Supreme Council’s rostrum but also determine that the citizen can get to know the real composition of this product. And that's true all over the world, and we do. Moreover, honourable colleagues, you voted in favour of the Act on Standardization in Ukraine. And this law clearly states that standards are not mandatory. And in fact, today we just have a conflict that, unfortunately, some officials are using improperly. And this whole cry about protecting our consumer's homeland, it's a cry for corrupt officials, not a consumer, because the consumer was protecting another way. And actually, here it's suggested to put the dots above the "and", put everything in place: where the consumer's protection, where the requirements of the warehouse, where the safety requirements are, and where the technical conditions are defined by the regulations. This is just the very, very simple content of this bill. In fact, that's how we're going to respond to the deal that we've joined today, TiBite. And we must do so, and the Sanitary Service itself must now act in harmony with these requirements. And the fact that you and I are dealing with politics is not making it any easier for any consumer in Ukraine. Better to put the system in order, and if we don't trust the sanitation requirements, let's do it. Let's give appropriate bills where we can strengthen the control of sanitation requirements and regulations rather than block useful laws. "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" will support this bill. Moreover, it is thought to be the only way to put order in the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u117	Andrew School, out of the way. Mr. Andrey, will you? You won't. Vladimir Karpuk, out of the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u118	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine". Regrettably, we do have all kinds of laws, especially when it comes to quality, or legislation that corresponds to WTO. I'll remind you that since May 16, we've been members of the SATs. And all these laws on technical barriers, quality regulation and so forth, safety regulations are in place. This law makes it only appropriate to define a standard for standards that operate in the European Union and operate in the World Trade Organization. So there is no effect on quality or safety, really, on food. If there is such a warning, you can accept it in the first reading, go back to the committee that is the main one under this law, but we will vote and support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u119	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u120	Yuri Carmazin. Dear friends, distinguished national MPs, distinguished Ukrainian people! This book is called the Constitution of Ukraine, and it reads in part 2 of the 50th article: “Everyone is guaranteed the right to free access to information on the state of the environment, on the quality of food products, on objects of life, and on the right to dissemination.” Such information cannot be classified. This information -- it was raped by the previous government not to be, not to be, not to be introduced, not to be about genetically modified products, nothing, it's not being introduced right now, because nobody needs it. And now for myths and reality. Of course, this law is not as simple as it seems. There's a legal vacuum going on for a while. Why? Because the transition from standards to technical regulations has time, and this is exactly the time it takes to load everything here. The purpose of this bill, as declared, is to introduce the term “standard” in the article of the First Law on the Safety and Quality of Foods in accordance with the definition set out in the Agreement on Technology. trade barriers. The World Trade Organization is the WTO. The definition of the term “standard” as proposed by the project implies a lack of what standard? Requirements for the safety of food products. That's all he sees. And the consciences of those who comment on such things, for without reading, cannot be commented. That's why I'm saying it's against the requirements of the law. Now, raise the European Parliament and the EU Council Directive 2001/95 of 03.12.2001, as it is called “For General Product Safety”, and let us do it if you want to go to Europe. All right, now let's move on, dear friends. I want you to know that this definition that we had was just approved by the experts of the international working group on Ukraine's entry into the WTO. And so, absolutely irresponsiblely, the things that sound so simple. I want you to understand that in Europe there is methodological control and institutional. That is, the whole institutions produce and view how, and there, the established responsibility of manufacturers or suppliers for the circulation of inefficient and dangerous food suppliers. See how Europe reacted to one thing that it itself provoked in the Ukrainian oil that they had made, and they put a little bit of oil in it. And after that, it's like an excuse to hide from Ukrainian oil at all. Where is the reaction of our government, the President, to all of us with you? There's no response. We don't protect our own. What's more, we say, let's open up even more. Aunt Dmitry, this law cannot be finalized.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u121	Georgi Markovich. Please, from the place, Skudar Georgiy Markovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u122	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! I'm from Kramatorska, where there are about a hundred children in rehab today. You know, this trouble has happened because vaccinations have been brought to our country. We do not know today that these drugs were to be administered by more than two million people. Sadly, children were the first to be like them. I would not like anyone's child from the people's deputies present to be in this situation. But this case should show us that, first of all, it has been two weeks — there are no culprits. No one knows the reason why this happened, why these drugs were taken? Why did children become like rabbits? Today we are discussing a similar law. Is it possible, by not developing standards or taking them aside, to enact legislation on the admission of food to our territory? What are we doing? What's the hurry? Why are we doing this today? We need to stop. If someone's trying to extend this law, does he have to understand that they're sending products here that come from unknown countries with unknown symptoms and then we're going to go around again? Let's start by drawing up a document, and then we'll pass the law. I wanted to. Surprisingly, Tatiana Dmitrievna, the honest word, your committee, why is it that in a country where this happens when the benefactor of one boy's death has suspended vaccination in the country, we suggest that we consider such a law at first reading? It could not be allowed to be considered today, not on first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u123	Replica of Oleg Zarubinsky. And there's Catherine Vaschuk, if she is, she's also entitled to a replica. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u124	Thank you. Dear colleagues, frankly, it's strange that just from the mouth of a man who, in the composition of seven communists today, voted in favour of a bill on state procurement, which clearly has corruption metastases, everyone understands that, you know, heard some, you know, attacks on the Block of Lithuania. I'm not going to reflect, I'm just going to mention how at the end of December 2007, 8 communists voted in favour of the 2008 state budget, which stops the functioning of 102 social laws, restricting the rights of persons with disabilities, veterans, ordinary citizens, by allowing the same budget to enter into force. So please don't bother us, because we can give a full schedule of your activities, based on the interests of no humanitarians at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u125	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. You're talking about the budget. Mikolo Ivanovich, if you don't mind, you remind us that we have a committee meeting there, but you'd be kind of on Wednesday, so that we can make changes to the State Budget Act on Thursday in the part of the division. Colleagues, 2181. The reporter and the co-reporter have a desire to express themselves? They have no desire to express themselves. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm making generalizations. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine proposes to adopt the bill only on a basis. Then, when we vote on the basis, we will consider if we make a positive decision in which to vote on it in the second reading. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm putting Bill No. 2181 to the vote. Vote. [[17:47:42]] For 219 The decision is not taken. Show the factions, please. Can't someone make it? Then let's try to get back to the question of voting. So I'm putting to the vote the question of returning to the vote under bill 2181. Don't shout. Please vote. [[17:48:24]] For the 220. Colleagues! The coalition didn't vote. The decision was not taken. So the following bills. [[You know, I'm watching you, I'm just wondering.]] 2142 and 2234. Look, there's a letter from Teryochin, they're asking, the committee's asking to move these two bills to Thursday to look at them in the same field. Is there no objection? The committee made such an offer. Now I'm proposing a 2,125 bill, the more Lithuania's Mikhailovich came to us, who's going to answer the bill, it's right there on the day-to-day, I'm going to do it. Colleagues! Very carefully, I'd like to say, Mikola Mikhailovich, half a second, we're going to put it in order of day and day. Let's put the bill 2125 into order -- this is a project to amend some of Ukraine's laws on cross-border issues. Comrades! We vote very carefully for inclusion in the agenda. Attention! I'm calling a vote! [[17:49:43]] For 363 Decision taken. Please, Mikhailovich, please, on the rostrum. I immediately announce that I am continuing the 15-minute session to review the bill and then move on to the election of the Vice-Presidents of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u126	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, distinguished national deputies, is placed on the agenda for the approval and preservation of State border demarcation documents. And I would like to emphasize that this issue is not defined in the legislative order. In doing so, between 2000 and 2007, the Government of Ukraine adopted four decrees that approved the demarcation documents and were actually kept by the State Border Service. To carry out the mandate of the Government Committee, which took place on February 26, 2007, it was decided that legislation should regulate the procedure for the approval and storage of demarcation documents. The Foreign Service Administration has drafted a bill amending certain laws of Ukraine on foreign issues. The purpose of the draft law is to establish a procedure for the approval of State border demarcation documents. The second is the definition of the body responsible for storing these documents. The draft law provides for amendments to two laws of Ukraine – the Law on the State Border of Ukraine and the Law on State Border Services, which authorizes the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to approve documents of State border demarcation, unless otherwise provided for by international agreements and treaties. And the State Border Service is authorized to keep documents demarcating the state border. The draft law has been supported by the National Security and Defence Committee, and the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration has reached a positive conclusion. The implementation of this law does not require additional costs from the State Budget. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u127	Thank you, Mikhailovich. Colleagues, very prompt question-answers. No questions asked, comrades? No questions asked. Please sit down. The account. Please, Anatoly Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u128	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, your honorary colleagues, our committee unanimously supported this bill and I hope that it will be supported by a hall of over 400. Our offer is to accept it both in the first reading and in general. He's technological, he's responsible for the government, and he's responsible for the overseas service, he's keeping documents on the demarcation, that's all. It's just that this issue has not been defined by law. Now this hole in legislation is filled with normal meaning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u129	Thank you, Anatoly Stepanovich. There are no questions either. Bondick's got a question, Anatoly Stepanovich, to ask. Colleague Bondick, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u130	First of all, I don't have a question, but, really, I would like to welcome the day before the border guard's day, and in his face, there are borders all of the border troops that are the state. If Russia is proud of its hockey, we are proud of our borders. The bill is very good, and I urge all colleagues to vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u131	Thank you. Honorable colleagues, the desire for factions, and national MPs are not allowed to come forward? Not again. Honorable national MPs, if there is some sort of order in the country, are definitely in the foreign service. So I'm proposing to support this bill, not just on the basis of the draft decision, but as it is in the draft decision, let's put it on the ground, and in general we'll support this bill, it'll be wise as we always do. So, honourable national MPs, I'm putting to the vote Bill No. 2125 of the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on foreign issues. The law is voted on as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[17:54:08]] For 378 Decision taken. Welcome. Dear colleagues, 2118. Draft Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on Family Houses. There is a minister, I ask, colleagues, to include in the agenda 2118, that is, we vote in favour of the inclusion in the agenda of the Family House Amendment Act. Attention, we have a vote. [[17:54:49]] For 370. Comrades, how do you view voting for a simplified procedure for this bill? Is there a denial or not? None of them have. Please put to the vote the issue of consideration of the bill under reduced procedure. [[17:55:15]] For 341 Decision taken. Yuri Alexiyovich, please come to the rostrum. You have two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u132	Dear Mr. Head, the honourable deputies of Ukraine! The bill is drafted by the Ministry of Family, Youth and Sports, introduced by the government, and includes changes to Ukrainian education, preschool education, the removal of family - type children’s homes from the list of preschool institutions. To date, the law on education and preschool education has determined that a family - type children’s home is a preschool facility. At the same time, this is contrary to the Ukrainian Family Code, the Ukrainian Law on the provision of institutional and legal conditions for the social protection of orphans and on the protection of children, where it is determined that a family-type children's home is a single family that is created according to the wishes of a couple or a single person who is not married, who take care of and live together no less than five orphans and children deprived of parental care. What is the need for this law to be adopted? Because disagreement with the legislation leads to foreign citizens showing a desire to adopt children who are adopted and raised in family homes. This, in turn, is contrary to the Ukrainian Child Protection Act, which clearly states that adoption of a child who is a citizen of Ukraine is carried out by foreign citizens if all possible means of transfer are exhausted to care, care, adoption, or upbringing in a foster family or a family home, as well as parenting in a Ukrainian family. Thus, there is a need to harmonize the legislation in force today. Please approve this bill for the social protection of foster parents of family-type children's homes and, of course, orphans, children deprived of parental care who are raised in families and family-type children's homes. This bill can be approved as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u133	Thank you, Yuri Alexiovich. Please sit down. Please, our colleague, Catherine Eugenovna Lukyanova.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u134	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues! The committee considered the bill and unanimously decided to vote on it as a whole. There's a committee decision. Now, one minute. There is a decision by the Committee on Science and Education that would also recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt this bill as a basis and as a whole. The Scientific and Experimental Authority supports this bill, and the Committee on Budget Affairs has concluded that it does not need any additional expenses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u135	Thank you very much. Two "for", two "against", colleagues. Oleg Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u136	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. The Yulia Timoshenko faction supports the government's initiatives to protect orphans and children deprived of parental care, and by giving proper and personal service to the Ministry and Minister Yuri Pavlenko, who shows the example of how to care for the future of our country, I think we are all unanimously voting in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u137	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u138	I'd like a word with Chechtovo Mikhail Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u139	Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u140	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear Arsenija Petrovich, distinguished colleagues, in accordance with the Ukrainian Family Code and the Ukrainian laws on the provision of social protection for orphans and children, deprived of parental care, protection of childhood, article 1 of the family-type children's home is a single family that is created at the request of a marriage or a single person who is not married, who takes up parental care and cohabitation no less than five orphans and children deprived of parental care. However, Ukraine's Education Act, Ukraine's Preschool Education Act, states that a family-type children's home is a preschool facility. This project eliminates this conflict. But I would like to point out that the status of a preschool institution provides certain guarantees, first and foremost, for the protection of children’s rights, as well as an additional opportunity for appropriate assistance. So we suggest that we adopt this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m1.u141	Thank you, Your Honor. Everyone made a statement. No one else wants to take a stand with those factions who didn't take part in the recording? None. Colleagues, the committee proposes that the bill be adopted as a whole. And that makes sense if we support the committee's decision. Please, a letter from the committee, Adam Ivanovich, we will show you any document signed by our colleague Kostenko. Okay, Adam Ivanovich, whatever you say. Is there no objection to the whole? Whoever denies "in general" raise your hand. I won't. Mikhail Vasilovich, do you object to the general acceptance? Do I get it right? Then I'm voting for two parts, colleagues. First, I put the vote on the ground and then I put the vote in general if this is supported. Understand? I see. I'm asking questions about the adoption of the bill, number 2118, as a basis. Please vote. [[18:01:44]] For 380 I'll bet on it. I need two votes now. Two votes are needed to vote in the second reading. The first is about changing the order of the question and going straight to the second reading. Then, in the second reading and in general, there will be two more votes. Understand? Two. Wrong. This is actually ad hoc, because then we're violating the rights of a national MP, and that's not necessary. I'm betting on a vote to change the order of the subject and move immediately to second reading and in general. On the contrary, if the bill was supported, we could. [[18:02:30.]] For 236 Decision taken. And now in the second reading and in general. I'll put it to a vote: in the second reading and in general. [[18:02:52]] For 249 My colleagues, I welcome you to the bill of acceptance in general. A proper and wise bill. So I'm reporting. The decision to appoint the First Deputy is not in Parliament, so I thank you very much for the high trust you have been giving me for eight months. The evening plenary session of the Supreme Council is closed.
