ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u1	Good day again, national deputies of Ukraine! We already made our registration this morning. I declare the evening plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. We just did. I'm on it. Turn on the registration system. We just split up, so please re-register. [[16:09:45]] There are 358 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. I'm asking you to show by factions. Ladies and gentlemen, we have just had a meeting of the Conciliation Board of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I have proposed a day-to-day order, which has so far provided for the procedure of the normal legislative process and the passage of key ratification bills, namely the granting of consent to be bound by international treaties, including those defined by the President of Ukraine as urgent. During the discussion, a number of suggestions were adopted that, to me, are not entirely relevant at this time, but I have to put them, including the vote, to be included in the order of today and tomorrow. First, let's look at 2 bills today: 1294 and 1294-1. This is "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" and the alternative to the faction of the Party of the Regions regarding the status of the People's Deputies, this is after the MP's immunity was lifted. And the second block of issues that is proposed to be included, "Julia Timoshenko's Block" insisted on the inclusion of the draft Decision on the creation of a temporary commission of inquiry for Kharkiv, and this actually caused the inclusion of all other temporary commissions of inquiry. We have three registered. So, 1115, 1137, 1137-1, 1137-9, 1405. These are the three TSCs that have been in our bag for a long time. So I propose to vote in favour of the next agenda. Opinion 1294, 1294-1, 1115, 1137-1, etc., 1405 and all ratification issues that are scheduled for today's meeting schedule. I'm asking for a vote. Yes, please. Out of procedure, please take three minutes off the procedure. Okay, okay, please. Matthew Valentin Grigorovich. Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u2	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear Arsenija Petrovich, I ask you not to take lightly what has just been agreed upon on the Conciliation Council. On the Conciliation Board, we agreed that you would act according to the list that you and I take on March 6th for today. And what we're not going to be able to look at today is it's going to automatically go through the sequence that's defined here for tomorrow. The only thing we argued about was that I suggested from the Communist faction that the first question today is to remove the powers of the national MPs, who today illegally hold two positions: both the National MP and work in the executive branch. It's called corruption in power, and that's what we need to do today. So I'm going to propose to act not as freely as you're going to treat it, which turn we're going to look at, but as we've approved on the Conciliation Council right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u3	Thank you, Peter Mikolaiovich. Yavorowski Vladimir Aleksandrovich, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u4	Vladimir Yavorowski, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear colleagues, I think the time has come when we should get a little chill and get to work in peace. The “Julia Tymoshenko Block” insists that long ago the issue of the creation of temporary commissions of inquiry, both in Kiev and in Kharkiv, depended. We are firmly opposed to involving the Supreme Council through the creation of the TSC and the discussion of this issue separately on the incident between Czernovetsk and. The Attorney General's office, let her handle it. We don't know how we can consider this question? As a result, we have arranged for the Conciliation Council today to immediately set up two temporary commissions of inquiry. That's what's important right now. And we support "Our Ukraine" in that we need to ask that question, which is getting tired of everyone, is the removal of parliamentary immunity. We'll vote for the first time in normal mode 226 votes, and then we'll get to the constitutional level.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u5	Stoyan Alexander Mikolaiovich, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u6	Dear Chairman! Well, first of all, you have to ask questions about voting, not like someone else, something you want to do, but voting is socially meaningful. I've just seen there's no socially significant law. But what is the proposal of the Party of Regions? On the first question, to know the position of each deputy rather than to hide for someone else, the hand vote is necessarily in the hands of our accounting committee, which is counted. Next, Lucenko, Kiev and Harkow are in a package, not each one separately, and so, we'll see how we do it. And then I want to say, there are proposals from our coalition colleagues, there are proposals for opposition. Arsenius Petrovich, you have to put it this way, one law that the coalition is proposing, one law that the opposition is proposing, then it will be wise. And the last, really, let's still define the priority issues, not the ones that someone insists on. We agreed to work in a consolidated way, so let's do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u7	Gerasimchuk Volodimir Volodymyrovic, "Block of Lithuania". Litvin Volodymyr Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u8	Fellow dignitaries seem to have come to some with great disappointment at unlocking the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and making unacceptable proposals on various sides. It seems that at a time when the Supreme Council was not working, the problems that plague people are a problem of work, pensions, wages, and we offer what we agreed on at the Conciliation Council, to consider these decisions at the next plenary meeting, including the problem of energy carriers. So our proposal is that we now have to work from, according to that schedule project, to approve it now. If we agree, by one vote, no - every decision is included in our consideration and we work in plenary. And at the same time, we propose that when it comes to the status of the MP, we also consider the electoral law to change the fundamental situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u9	Kirilenko Viacheslav Anatoliyevich, please. From the rostrum of Viacheslav Anatoliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u10	Viacheslav Kirilenko, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense". Dear Arsenija Petrovich, distinguished colleagues, we now propose to consider amending the Constitution to cancel the 80th article, which foresees parliamentary immunity. But I pay attention to our colleagues and your attention that these are not bills 1294 and 1294-1 -- amendments to the Law on the Status of the People's Deputies, which decide nothing, even if we vote today. And we're talking about the beginning of a procedure for amending the Constitution. And this bill is registered under number 1375. Under it are the signatures of 160 members of the coalition. And now we can in 10 minutes in the roll-call mode in 226 votes to vote in the first reading of the amendments to the Constitution and refer it to the Constitutional Court for a conclusion. I support: one law from the coalition, one from the opposition. So the coalition now insists that we begin the process of cancelling the parliamentary immunity.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u11	Wise. Efraemov Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u12	Thank you, Arseny Petrovich. These are the shortcomings that have not been agreed upon as a result of the work of the Conciliation Council. If our distinguished representatives from the coalition have not yet determined what law they wish to consider in the Hall today, let us give them time to determine on this matter. Arsenius Petrovich, you have an agreed list of issues. Let's look at the three TSCs, let's look at the relevant lists that have been approved, the first questions. And that's enough for us to work this afternoon. Thank you. And as for the vote. If the issue is put to a vote, we insist that the vote be held by hand in the Chamber. The country should know its heroes and should know who would personally vote for what they had promised their voters.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u13	Dear colleagues, I suggest you finish the discussion and finally get to practical work. We have registered bills on parliamentary integrity that are alternative. There is one Block “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”, there is one – factions of the Party of Regions. So these are the two bills -- they're numbers 1375, they're numbers 1375-1 -- alternatives. So both sides get the opportunity to speak accordingly. Aren't those the bills, Viachelav Anatolyovich? [[B in m in s a l in]] . 1375. Not 1294, 1375. Yes, you do. Colleagues, then you'll know what you're bringing in. I have two, four sets of MP bills on my desk. Please turn on Kirilenko’s microphone, the subject of the law - enforcement initiative Kirilenko. What are you bringing in?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u14	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense”. Dear Arsenia Petrovich, fellows of honor! I repeat again under the transcript: both at the morning session and at the Conciliation Council, and now for the second time we insist on the consideration of Bill 1375, which provides for amendments to the 80th article of the Constitution. And what the camera put on your table 1294 means is that this law can once be considered, but it won't change anything without changing the Constitution. Therefore, in the roll-call mode, we now insist that in 10 minutes we vote on the beginning of the amendment to the Constitution, article 80, “On the lifting of parliamentary immunity”. To end this issue at this stage and move on, for example, to the next issue of the agenda -- it could be a bill of opposition. We agree with that.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u15	Thank you. Dear Viacheslav Anatolyevich, I wanted to repeat it again, because that's exactly what I said just a minute ago: 1375, 1375-1. This is a bill to amend the Constitution. I would ask the national deputies to listen carefully to what the chairman has to say. It is not 1294 concerning amendments and additions to the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Peoples’ Deputies, but 1375. Please, Peter Mikolaiovich. You wanted Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk. Please. And let's go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u16	Thank you, Arsenia Petrovich. Ladies and gentlemen, I fully support the words of my colleague Kirilenka, who says that no changes to the Law “On the Status of the People’s Deputy” cannot be made because they will be contrary to the existing Constitution. So if someone wants to solve this question, he's right to suggest - we need to consider the changes to the Constitution. But there is one serious one, but please open a special chapter in the Rules that is written down as changes to the Constitution are accepted. And we can't in any way in 10 minutes, jump in, because someone wants to take changes to the Constitution. Let's go through all the procedures that are provided for in the special, I stress again, in the chapter, and this special chapter, specifically written after we had problems, how we accepted the changes to the Constitution and no one denied it. But when you make fun of it and twist it again and break the rules, you shouldn’t do that.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u17	Dear colleagues! Now I'm going to comment briefly on the bills that relate to changes and additions to the Constitution. First of all, the point is that, according to the Rules, I have, as the presiding officer, full grounds for including these bills. The bills were introduced 08.02 and 18.01 passed a 30-day deadline, so they can be included. Second, and most important. Today it is about accepting this issue and referring to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. That's what this is about. So I ask you to vote for the schedule that includes 1375, 1375-1, two alternatives, three TSCs, and the agenda for the ratifications that you have, I ask you to put to the vote. Vote. [[16:23:19]] For 219 The decision is not taken. Please show by factions. Region Party – 1, Yulia Block Timoshenko – 148, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" – 70, Communists – 0, "Block of Lithuania" – 0. So I propose the next order of the day, if this one doesn't go through. Will the laws on the status of Ukrainian national deputies be considered today? We won't. Okay. Then the next agenda is proposed, Peter Mikolaiovich, please take your seat, thank you very much. Sit down, you don't have to. It'll be fine, Peter Mikolaiovich. Then the next agenda is proposed. The questions about the ratifications that are scheduled to be put to the vote, everything on the schedule seen, forward. [[16:24:23]] For-92 The decision is not taken. There's a third alternative that I'm also asking the factions to show. There is another option that has been considered at the Conciliation Council. All three temporary commission investigators, plus all ratifications. Please vote. [[16:24:56]] For-80 The decision is not made again. By schedule formation. If you'll excuse me, we'll be in the vote for three minutes. Rudchenko Mikolayovich, “Block Lithuania”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u18	Please give the floor to leader Volodymyr Mikhailovich Litvin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u19	Litvin Volodymyr Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u20	Dear colleagues, let us take a simple, clear and clear course. Each deputy is given a draft meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on March 6. Let's vote in favour of this document, and we'll deal with the issue in line with the momentum defined by this project. If such an offer is not accepted, let us now, dear colleagues, I ask Arsenija Petrovich to support. We're starting to consider each individual bill by voting for inclusion in the agenda, not including, I don't think it's going to be in any political faction. And those issues that cause political and other objections will be found in the voting process for the inclusion of a bill in the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u21	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Bodnar Olga Borisovna, Timoshenko Street, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u22	National Deputy of Ukraine Bodnar Olga Borisovna, Timoshenko Street. Please give the voice to the leader of the Kirilenko faction Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u23	Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u24	Dear colleagues! The highest number of votes was the first one. And if you combine Lithuania's proposal with Vladimir Mikhailovich, and combine what happened in the first vote. [[There were few votes left.]] You may agree to put the vote first in the agenda and to consider the abolition of parliamentary immunity in respect of constitutional changes. The second is to make each decision separately: by Kharkiv, by Kiev, by Lucenk. And vote for inclusion. And then the ratification and all the other questions. Please support this proposal, it already matches another block.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u25	Thank you. Stoyan Alexander Mikolaiovich, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u26	Please give the word to Alexander Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u27	Efraemov Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u28	Dear colleagues! We have just witnessed the fact that the coalition has not had enough votes to vote on any decision that is in this room. We are ready to help come out of this situation of the session and find an acceptable solution. Arsenija Petrovich, we have agreed with you that the Party of the Regions is asking for social issues to be included and this is our position. But given that it seems that the Hall is not ready to address these issues, we are ready to support the three commissions. But given that they were dealt with in a package, the Kharkov, Kiev and Lucenko Commissions should be considered in a package. They are followed by questions on the ratification agenda. That's how we vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u29	Thank you. Kilincar's faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u30	I'm handing over Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u31	Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u32	Dear Arsenius Petrovich! First of all, I'd like to draw your attention to the fact that you're in grave breach of agreement. On the Conciliation Board, we have clearly defined that the agenda for March 6 is the basis of work for two days and must be voted in favour. And I'm sure the people's deputies will support it. Second. Once again, I would like to point out that you seem to be affected by fatigue. Then let us comply with the decisions that we had to implement, because we have not yet chosen the leadership of the Supreme Council. We haven't been chosen yet! This issue needs to be addressed now. Next. I would like to propose not only to the Lucenko Commission, to Harkov and to Kiev, but we still have a real proposal for Balog. Because we have corruption and great criminal acts occurring directly in the administrations of the highest echelons of power, and today you are deliberately depriving yourself of responsibility and need to bring the special commission on Baloga into this package that you are talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u33	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the time for the speech is over. So that's how I propose the voting order. Careful, colleagues. There's a schedule of meetings that you have on your hands. In this schedule of meetings, the issue of ratification, including those defined by the President, is exclusively a matter of ratification. I propose to put to the vote first the schedule of meetings and then four to vote on draft legislation. First, with respect to the MP's in touch after the change to the Constitution: he came in, he didn't come in, he didn't come in. Second, one, the other, and the third, the interim commission of inquiry. This is the order of voting. I'm betting on the voting schedule that you have on your hands and that starts with the ratification issue. Please, let's vote. Now let's go, let's get through this vote. [[16:30:47]] For 255 Decision taken. Did you want to step out of the procedure? Who wanted out of the procedure? Alexander Sergiyovich, I suggest we continue to go to the polls. Then I'm going to vote 1375 and 1375-1, inclusion in the agenda. Please, let's vote. [[16:31:20]] For 224 The decision is not taken. I'll put it to a vote. Please show by factions. I'm going to vote 1137. My colleagues, how did the card not work? [[B in m in s a l in]] . Okay. To the vote to return to the vote. Okay. It didn't work out for the Arjevetina MP. He made a statement. [[16:32:12]] For 224 The decision is not taken. I'll put it to a vote, I'll call it. I would like to vote on draft regulation No. 1137 No. 1137, 1137-1, 1137-d. [[Please show by factions]] Please vote for inclusion in the agenda. This is a draft decision on the creation of the TSK for Chernevski. Please vote. Colleagues, silence, we are about to vote. Okay. [[16:32:49]] For-173 I'm betting on a draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Decree No. 1115. Colleagues, I'm just asking you to calm down, because we can't hear each other, I'll tell you everything, calm down. Everything's gonna be fine now. Draft Decision on the establishment of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to investigate the facts of the violation of the Constitution of Ukraine, the laws of Ukraine by the city head Harkov Dobkin Mikhail Markovich and the Secretary of the Kharkiv City Council, Kernis Hennadi Adolfovich, in the system of tariff, property, land, budget and financial relations in the performance of their duties. I'll bet you a vote. [[16:33:41]] For 223 The decision is not taken. I'm voting on the 1405 project on the establishment of the Interim Investigation Commission to investigate the facts of the violation of the Constitution of Ukraine by Interior Minister Lucenk Yuri Vitaliyovich. I'll bet you a vote. [[16:34:09]] For 197 The decision is not taken. Ladies and gentlemen, the order of the day has been approved, please proceed to your consideration of the matter. We're all sitting, calmly, democratically, through the parliamentary procedure. So, the consideration of the draft Law on Ratification of the Decision to Change the Position on the Anti-Terrorism Centre of the States Parties to the Commonwealth of Independent States. Petty Officer Valentin Aleksandrovich. Registration number is 0004. Please come to the rostrum. You see, we have everything -- democracy, as the parliamentarians have determined -- that's what's included, that's not what's involved. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u34	There's an outpost in the Dnipropetrovsk district.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u35	Let's do this. Come on. Imagine, please, you're in a race! Introduce yourself, tell me who you are!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u36	Deputy Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, Galamba Mikolayovich. Performer of duties in the Dnipropetrovsk region on mission
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u37	Mr. Galamba, please. Please. Will you speak, or will you remain silent? Please read the text.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u38	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! The drafting of the bill is based on the signing by the President of Ukraine of the decision to amend and supplement the SND ATC Regulation. The bill provides for ratification of the decision with a warning to individual provisions that exclude the international legal personality of ATC SND. The warnings are also addressed in paragraphs 11, 13, 16, 17 and 19, which define the order of money, goods, pensions, food, medical and sanitary care for employees and representatives of Ukraine assigned to the ATC of the SND. The bill is agreed with interested authorities without notice: Minist, MZS, Minpraci, DPS and the Pension Fund of Ukraine. According to the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, the bill meets the standards of the Constitution of Ukraine and the requirements of the norm-design technology. The ratification of this decision with the warnings noted does not affect Ukraine’s national sovereignty. This bill is supported and approved at meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Committees on National Security and Defence and Foreign Affairs. The purpose of the adoption of the law is to implement Ukraine's internal procedures provided for in the Ukrainian Act on Interstate Contracts. The adoption of the bill will promote further cooperation between the competent authorities of Ukraine and the SND and SND ATC states in the area of counter-terrorism, stress the consistency of Ukraine's actions to meet its obligations to the world community to counter this negative phenomenon, and testify to the support of our State of Action in the area of counter-terrorism. Ladies and gentlemen, please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u39	Thank you. SPEAKER: Billorus Oleg Grigorovich. Thank you. Please, have a seat. Oleg Grigorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Foreign Affairs at its meeting reviewed the draft law of Ukraine on the ratification of the decision to amend and supplement the Regulation on the Anti-Terrorism Centre of States Parties to the Commonwealth of Independent States, and recommended it until the adoption of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The majority of the members of the committee voted in favour of this decision at the February 6, this year. The adoption of the relevant law is subject to the need for ratification of the decision to amend and supplement the provision on the Counter-Terrorism Centre of the States Parties to the Commonwealth of Independent States, which is further signed in Minsk on 28 November 2006. The adoption of the law and its further implementation do not require additional financial and material costs. The main scientific and export administration considers it appropriate to ratify the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the light of the comments made. The draft law was also considered at a meeting of the Supreme Council Committee on National Security and Defence, which also recommended it prior to the adoption of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Supreme Council Committee on Legal Policy considers it possible to adopt the prescribed bill by the Supreme Council. Please support the decisions of all committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u41	Thank you, Oleg Grigorovich. Is there a question for a coconspirator? You don't? Thank you. I'm asking a question for a vote. Ladies and gentlemen of the people of Ukraine, please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay. Peter Mikolaiovich wants to discuss it. We're human beings, we should be able to give the faction a chance. Please sign up for the bill, please. Everything's gonna be fine. Don't worry. Everything's gonna be fine. Sivolski Mikola Ivanovich, “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko”, please. Mikola Ivanovich, are you filming? Take it off, thank you. Vaszczuk Katerina Timofievna, “Block of Lithuania”. Catherine Timothy? Please turn Catherine Timofievna on.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u42	Rubinsky's going to tell the faction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u43	Please, Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u44	Thank you. Dear Arsenija Petrovich, my fellow dignitaries, it seems to me that, in the background of those processes that are taking place in the Supreme Council, the proposed project cannot raise any doubts, and I don't think that the discussion should be turned back into a political statement. The position of the Lithuanian Block faction is to support well-worked draft laws, legislative initiatives, trust our profile committees, and when it comes to the Supreme Council's consideration to vote for it. The “Lithuania Block” will give all its votes for the corresponding draft law. We encourage everyone to do the same constructive work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u45	Thank you. Crnowil Taras Viacheslavovich, please. The faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u46	Dear colleagues, the bill is truly perfectly well worked out. In preparation for ratification and during the signing period, appropriate expertise was carried out. Things that might have aroused doubts were put on notice. This is the case with regard to the rightfulness or also with the additional unthinkable expenditure on the maintenance of the centre, which has already been paid by the Ukrainian State as a result of our contributions. Our warnings from Ukraine are, in principle, adequate to the warnings of other countries, members of the SND, who have made the same comments on the same subject. There is therefore no reason for doubting the relevance of this bill. The points he regulates, slightly expands and provides opportunities for the work of the centre, enables him to consult and cooperate with other structures other than those that have previously been strictly justified and therefore there is a proposal to support the bill and help the centre continue to work properly and adequately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u47	Thank you. Koval Viacheslav Stanislavovich, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u48	Deputy Koval, National Movement of Ukraine, faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Of course, the honourable chairman, honourable colleagues, the draft Law on the Ratification of Decisions to Change the Position “On the Counter-Terrorism Centre of the States Parties to the Commonwealth of Independent States” needs its positive solution, and the faction “Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense” will support this ratification because it is necessary for society. The issues of terrorism are relevant not only to Ukraine, but to the whole world and to put in some kind of safeguards to strengthen the coordination of the nations that create the center and create the center, by making the necessary changes to the situation, it's probably a need for time, so our faction supports the positive vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u49	Thank you. Naydenov, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u50	I ask you to pass the word to Petra Nikolaevich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u51	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I would like to point out from the outset that the Communist faction supports the ratification of this draft law. We would like to draw attention to only one thing: that the coalition itself will not understand that it must act in accordance with the law. And in the presentation of the President to whom you serve, he just wrote down that he's giving orders to Nalavichenko, and you're violating the President's mandate, and you don't know who you're going to report to. No matter what. I believe, Arsenija Petrovich, that we must begin today's most serious discussion on foreign and domestic policy with the adoption of the Law on the Basic Principles of Internal and Foreign Policy, and that we will have fewer problems that are linked to the fact that the President's arbitrary and violation of the Constitution is primarily carried out by the President and his political environment. The adoption of the Law on Basic Principles of Internal and External Policy will give us an opportunity to define in principle the main vectors of our already legislative policy. Legal activities. I believe that improved cooperation within the CIS Inter-Parliamentary Assembly will also need to be considered among the priority issues. And that is indeed the basis that will enable us to get, in fact, very serious intellectual work in preparing a legislative framework in Ukraine. I believe that we must consider the Single Economic Area as a matter of priority today and thus prepare everything that is necessary for Ukraine to be a full, full-blooded participant in this negotiating process. This will remove the problems of both gas and tariff increases, which will stabilize our external market, particularly in the territory of the Russian Federation and other CIS States. I am also deeply convinced that ratification issues today must first and foremost be based on the stricter implementation of the Constitution when it comes to the fact that the people are the only holders of power and sovereignty in the country. And we need to define a list of issues on which a referendum in the country today needs to be initiated, including issues relating to foreign policy, external economic activity. That is to say, it is a treaty campaign, and this will provide an opportunity to address the issues that are exacerbating the situation today. And lastly, dear comrades, we have just received an explanatory note from the drafters of the bill, which was voted in support of the letter of three on joining NATO. So note that the drafters of this bill, after they have voted, have provided us with information that “the decision on Ukraine's accession to NATO can only be taken as a result of an all-Ukrainian referendum appointed in accordance with the Constitution and laws of Ukraine and can take place after Ukraine's implementation of all necessary procedures in relation to NATO”. That is, the author of the bill said that the PPP programme is being implemented, and only then will you have the right to initiate the referendum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u52	I'd like to express myself exclusively on the bill. I am voting on Bill 0004 of the draft Law on the Ratification of Decisions to Amend the Anti-Terrorism Centre of States Parties to the Commonwealth of Independent States. I'd like to make a statement. [[16:47:37]] For 427 Thank you. The next issue of the agenda is 0005, the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement. I'll have the procedure, if you'd like. Instead of working, talking, let's talk. We haven't spoken in a month. I'll be with you in a minute. Well, press the button, please, who wanted out of the procedure. I already said, click on the button. To give you the word from the procedure, you have to press the button and then the word from the procedure will be Bilorus Oleg Grigorovich, Timoshenko's Yuli Block. Oleg Grigorovich, would you pass the word to your colleague?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u53	Dear colleagues, my word is short, I would like us to spend time on empty words and empty statements. Let's work on ratification, we have a huge debt to international organizations and partner countries.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u54	Thank you. Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u55	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, I very much ask you not to make the remarks that I meant when I spoke, I made it clear that we should take a broad view of our foreign policy today. With regard to joining NATO, it is foreign policy. This is the definition of the vector of strategic development or vice versa -- the decline of Ukraine. So I made it clear that today we have to adopt a law on basic principles. And what you've written, you've repeatedly pointed out that you weren't going to tell the truth about what was envisaged in that decision that was voted on. In this explanation you gave, you clearly stated that what was voted practically on the referendum could only be accepted after the PPP program was implemented. So 90 percent of NATO entry, and then you're going to have a referendum. Once again you must understand, Arsenija Petrovich, that we are expressing our wish today to improve the organization of work, not the way you make your remarks.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u56	All right, Peter Mikolaiovich. Thank you. I'd like to ask for a bill. My colleagues, I would like to remind you that we are currently in the process of reviewing ratification bills. This has nothing to do with the previous or future bills that are being passed. Therefore, any statement under the Rules applies exclusively to the bill that we are considering, not to the free topics. Crnowil Taras Viacheslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u57	Dear colleagues, I'm just about to ratify. With absolute support for all the bills that have been tabled for ratification, I would like to recall once again the absurdity that we have allowed in our time when we have distributed the knowledge of the committees, and on this point we have divided, divided, divided the subject of international policy in the legislative sphere of Ukraine. In this case, the bill, which will now go next, was brought to the attention of the Committee on European Integration only because Slovakia is a European Union. A similar bill can come from Georgia, Iran, Sri Lanka, any other country, and we automatically hand it over to the Committee on Foreign Affairs. These are similar bills. And I will continue to insist that we review our decision and bring foreign policy back to one committee -- in foreign affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u58	Okay. Thank you, colleagues. Time's up. Let's go to Bill 0005. Draft law on the ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Slovak Republic on the promotion and mutual protection of investments. Reported Deputy Minister of Economics Boycun Natalia Eugenena. Natalie Eugene, please to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u59	The Honourable Chairman, Honourable National Deputies of Ukraine, with the aim of expanding and diversifying the relationship between Ukraine and the Slovak Republic and the development of a bilateral contractual legal base in the field of investment cooperation on 26 February 2007, was signed in Kiev by the Agreement between Ukraine and the Slovak Republic on the promotion and mutual protection of investment. The conclusion of the treaty is due to the need to bring international agreements into line with European Union legislation in connection with the entry into the EU of the Slovak Republic. The adoption of Ukraine's draft legislation will create conditions for the further development of a contractual and legal framework in the area of bilateral investment cooperation, which will, in turn, contribute to the harmonious development of relations between the two States and provide the necessary conditions for the involvement of capital in Ukraine's economy. The agreement between Ukraine and the Slovak Republic on "Promotion and Mutual Protection of Investments" reinforces the provision by each contractual party in its territory to investors of a State of another contractual party of the regime on management, maintenance, use, profit-making and management of its investments in a regime that is fair and equal and equally favourable than that which it gives investment or income to investors of its State or any third State. The agreement establishes a guarantee against illegal expropriation and nationalization, provides for a free transfer of payments and internationally recognized dispute settlement procedures between the investors of the States of the Contracting Parties and the contracting parties. Each of the contracting parties provides full protection, security, and fair treatment of the investments of the other contracting party in its territory. The implementation of the provisions of the said agreement will contribute to the development of a forward-looking direction for international investment cooperation, i.e. the involvement of foreign investment, technology, the revitalization of foreign trade, the reduction of commercial risks arising from investment activities, as well as internationally and bilaterally based positive views on Ukraine, as a state that has a stable international legal basis and the protection of foreign investment. Please support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u60	Thank you. Is there a question for the reporter? Zarubinski has a question, please, Oleg Zarubinski. Stand in the rostrum, stand in. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u61	Dear Mrs. Reporter! First of all, I'd like the Lithuanian Block faction with the upcoming March 8th celebration. And I have a very specific question. Article 4 of the Treaty provides for compensation for the loss of investments, and I quote: “Through war, armed conflict, attention, national emergency, coup, rebellion, rebellion and so forth”. Doesn't that apply to the force majeure category, which in various international contacts leads to the fact that such investments don't come back. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u62	This article is totally in line with international legal agreements that have already been concluded by nearly 70 countries. And this is agreed by the Ministry of Finance, so we have this is absolutely consistent with the status of investment protection agreements.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u63	Thank you. No more questions? Please, co-rapporteur Tarasjuk Boris Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u64	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! The European Integration Committee at its meeting discussed a draft law on the ratification of the agreement between Ukraine and the Slovak Republic, on the promotion and mutual protection of investment. In our opinion, the ratification of this law will allow for the improvement of domestic legislation by implementing the provisions of the said agreement. It will improve the mechanism for the protection of foreign investment and will result in increased investment activity in Ukraine. So the committee considers it appropriate to ratify the said agreement, and this decision is in line with the decision of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u65	Is there a question for a coconspirator? You don't? Thank you. Are we going to have a discussion? We won't. Thank you. I am voting on the draft Ukrainian law 0005 on the ratification of the agreement between Ukraine and the Slovak Republic on “In support and mutual protection of investment”. I'd like to make a statement. [[16:57:01]] For 433 Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to make a procedural decision on short-circuit day-to-day discussions on ratification, so that we can proceed with the short-circuited procedure. Okay? I would like to vote in favour of the short-term procedure for the consideration of the agenda for ratification. Please vote. [[16:57:32]] For 228 Decision taken. Thank you. Bill 0006. Draft law on the ratification of the International Labour Organization conventions on working time and rest periods on road transport. Reports Fomenko Deputy Minister of Transport Catherine Alexandrovna. Please, Katerina Alexandrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u66	Thank you. Ministry of Transport and Communications of Ukraine, Deputy Minister Fomenko Catherine Alexandrovna Dear Arsenius Petrovich! Dear National Deputies! Dearly beloved! The Ministry of Transport and Liaison of Ukraine has prepared for you today a draft Ukrainian law on ratification of the International Labour Organization Conventions, Number 153, on working hours and rest periods on road transport. Dear National Deputies, this bill is considered by all interested bodies, it is considered by the Government Committee, it is considered and supported by the Human Rights Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. What is the purpose of today’s bill? Dear National Deputies! According to the convention, the maximum overall duration of the vision, especially beyond normal work, should not exceed 9 hours a day, or 48 hours a week. That's the first one. The other one. The ratification of the International Labour Organization Convention No. 153 will allow domestic passenger and freight transport to bring almost all the standards and standards used by international motorists into line. Third. There is no doubt that the safety of transportation is increasing. The introduction of a tachograph system, according to which each driver will have an individual card that will be installed in the car’s pacemaker from the start, will significantly reduce road accidents and simplify the process of State control of carriers. Third. Harmonisation of Ukrainian legislation with international legislation, in particular EU legislation. Dear National Deputies! In view of what has been said, the Ministry of Transport and Communications is very much asking you to support this bill because it is very much needed by our motorists. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u67	Thank you. Correspondent: Hara Vasil Georgievovich, head of the Committee on Social Policy and Labour, please Vasil Georgievovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u68	Dear Arsenius Petrovich! Dear colleagues! I propose that we not all discuss conventions in a row, but we discuss the third, the eleven. Only those where there are some fundamental claims to the convention itself. I propose to support that convention, to ratify the convention, as stated by Ekaterina Alexandrovna, because it is primarily about improving the safety and social protection of drivers of all vehicles in Ukraine. It listed three elements that provide an opportunity to prevent the many accidents that are on transport today. I am the only one who wishes to say that the implementation of the provisions of this Convention does not require any cost, either from the budget or from other sources, that the Chief Scientific and Expert Office and all the branches of the Supreme Council support this bill. The Committees of the Supreme Council for Foreign Affairs and Legal Policy support the adoption of the bill. Our committee considered it on 24 January and requests you to support this convention. At the very end, I would like to say that, in addition to social benefit for transport workers in Ukraine, this, in the opinion of the Committee on Social Policy and Labour, will help to harmonize transport legislation and all legislation in Ukraine with European Union legislation, we have adopted a separate, special law in this regard. Please support this convention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u69	Colleagues: two-for, two-again. I'm asking you to sign up. Crnowil Taras Viacheslavovich, Party of Regions
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u70	Dear colleagues, I have pressed "yes" because I am going to vote and call on everyone to vote in favour of this bill. But I have a little warning that will force me, pressing the pros button, to still have some bitterness. I have a question that, unfortunately, I haven't been able to ask a representative of the Ministry of Transport, why we haven't implemented in some small pieces, yet it's a right that's stipulated by a treaty that's being ratified. If I am not mistaken, article two of the Treaty provides that governments that sign a treaty have the right to make certain warnings and observations about it. There are points in that Agreement that just fit in with this norm and that possibility is foreseen for which some problems can actually arise and then we can have those problems with the International Labour Organization. I mean that part, those sub-items that predict the spread, or the non-proliferation of this agreement for the operation of transport in emergency situations. Now that we have ratified this agreement, we predict that, in the removal of injured persons, the elimination of the consequences of a natural disaster, fires and so forth, will also be subject to the same severe restrictions on working time. I realize it's too late to say anything right now, and so I urge you to vote no matter what, but in the later part of the term, which is foreseen by the final position, the Ministry of Transport will look at it and propose that we then make changes and, for extreme force majeure circumstances, only within the scope of this agreement, still make an exception. Because we assume a responsibility that our brothers would not have. Once again, exclusively on emergency situations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u71	Thank you. Vazivsky Vladimir Mihajlovich, “Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u72	Vazivsky Vladimir Mihajlovich, “Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense”. In discussing the ratification of the agreement, both the committee and the faction discussed the matter, both employers and trade unions were informed. Both clearly expressed their position in support of the ratification of the agreement. Therefore, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” will unanimously support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u73	Thank you. Honourable National Deputies, I am voting on the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the International Labour Convention on Working Time and Times of Rest on Road Transport. Project registration number 0006. Please vote. [[17:05:12]] For 437 Decision taken. The next agenda, the issue of the agenda, 0007, the draft Law on the Ratification of the European Convention on the Non-Application of Ages to Crimes against Humanity and War Crimes. Reported by Justice Minister Onichuk Mikola Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u74	Dear Head, honourable national deputies, your opinion is proposed by the draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the European Convention on the Non-application of Ages for Crimes against Humanity and War Crimes. The Convention was signed in Strasbourg on January 25, 1974, and signed on behalf of Ukraine on January 24, 2006. The Convention refers primarily to the crimes defined by the provisions of public conventions, such as the United Nations Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of Genocide in 1948, which was ratified by the Supreme Council of the USSR on 18 March 1954, and the four Geneva Conventions in 1949, namely the improvement of the fate of wounded and ill-treated armies, the improvement of the fate of the injured and persons who had suffered shipwreck and the composition of the Armed Forces at sea, the treatment of civilians during the war, which were ratified by the Supreme Council of the USSR on 17 April 1949. The position of this convention in the event of their ratification by Ukraine of the nonapplication of the statutes of limitations on crimes against humanity and war crimes is consistent with the obligation to take on the basis of the international treaties I have referred to above and to confirm our State’s willingness to maximize the right of everyone to protect his or her human dignity and to ensure that punishment for crimes against humanity and war crimes does not impede the age of both the imposition of responsibility and the execution of penalties. Honorable national MPs, considering above.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u75	Please finish the dates.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u76	In fact, the importance of such an instrument of ratification, please support the draft Law on Ratification of the relevant European Convention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u77	Thank you. Thank you, Mikola Vasilovich. Please, Oleg Grigorovitch, head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u78	Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Foreign Affairs has considered the bill and unanimously approved its adoption by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The ratification by Ukraine of the convention will confirm our State's willingness to maximize the right of everyone to protect human dignity and life by guaranteeing that punishment for crimes against humanity and humanity and war crimes did not prevent the age of time, both from being held accountable and from carrying out punishment. The ratification by Ukraine of the convention does not entail any additional financial and financial obligations from the State budget of Ukraine, nor will it have negative socio-economic consequences for Ukraine. The main scientific and export administration, the Committees of the Supreme Council on Legal Policy, Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations support the bill, and they recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine ratify the convention. Please support your vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u79	Thank you, Oleg Grigorovich. Please write two in favour, two in pros. Cibenko Peter Stepanovich, Communist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u80	Please pass the word to Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u81	Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u82	Thank you, Arsenia Petrovich. It's too bad you couldn't ask questions, so I'd like to make a point in my speech at the same time. Believe me, it is very alarming that the convention was signed in 1974. Again, in 1974. It's 2008. Where were our respective authorities that they had not so far asked this question. I am very concerned about why this happened. That's one thing. And the second question, which is very principled especially for our faction. Article 1 states that “the crimes against humanity are listed in the Convention on the Prevention of Genocide’s Crimes” and so on. And you know that now we've written down genocide in internal law, which we've defined as genocide. Now there's the President's bill on propaganda or something. The one who would deny that it was genocide had criminal responsibility. I mean, I wanted to ask the minister and clarify before the vote, and it's important to us that these bills fall under this convention or don't they fall? I think they're coming. If they do, it'll be a clear vote. Although at the same time the name of this convention is not raised against it to vote against it, for no doubt we are for crimes against humanity to be long overdue, it is beyond question. But what is being done in our internal legislation, especially those new Presidential initiatives that are completely illogical, which then freedom of thought, how then researchers work, if you deny or have another view, you will be subject to criminal responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u83	I'm sorry, Adam Ivanovich, but we need you to finish your "against" or "against" if you want to. Adam Ivanovich's word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u84	The point is that I said I was in, but with the clarification of the questions that. If I get a positive answer to my questions, I'm against it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u85	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the draft Law “On the Ratification of European. I'm sorry. I don't have anything on my car. Ah, Oneschuk. Please, Onechuk. Comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u86	Dear Adam Ivanovich, I would like to draw your attention to the following: that the convention will apply only to offences that are so criminalized and prosecuted only after it takes effect. That is, if these offences are committed after the convention has taken effect or, I'm paying attention to you, if it's also applied to offences committed to such an act in cases where the statute of limitations has not yet passed. So this essentially means that even if the Ukrainian Parliament, even if the Ukrainian Parliament comes to the conclusion of the need for criminal responsibility for genocide, it will mean that the convention will not be able to extend to these relations, because it will only be genocide after the convention becomes effective.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u87	Thank you. The map didn't work for the Javorowski MP. Please, Deputy Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u88	Dear colleagues, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, Vladimir Yavorowski. The “Julia Timoshenko Block” will support the ratification of this agreement, we think it is absolutely necessary, it will become part of our internal Ukrainian legislation. And as an example, I just want to remind you that, not until the early 1990s, the Chernobyl disaster committee, when the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic was running that day, when the worst radioactive cloud was going over Kiev, and it was clear that they were aware of the results of the Chernobyl disaster, but that they didn't take any action, and then the Ukrainian prosecutor's office recognized a whole range of names as culprits, but at the same time the court did not consider this issue because of the expiration of the statute of limitations. [[Then he existed and was called the commission that I led.]] [[I don't want to call them now.]] I'm convinced that this is the kind of agreement that we really need to get into Ukrainian domestic legislation and help us avoid, let's say, the kind of misunderstandings that I said before. We'll vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u89	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the discussion is over. I am voting on the draft Ukrainian Act on the ratification of the European Convention on the Non-Application of Ages to Crimes against Humanity and War Crimes, project registration number 0007. Colleagues, please be careful, we're voting. For–243 Decision taken. Thank you. Hello. Please show by factions. I am voting on the draft Act on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Republic of Hungary on mutual protection of information with limited access. [[Registration number 0008]] Reported the deputy head of the Security Service of Ukraine, Galamba Mikola Mikolaiovich. Mikola Mikolaiovich, please go to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u90	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! The draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Republic of Hungary on Mutual Protection of Information with Limited Access is presented for your consideration. The Agreement was designed to implement paragraph 6 of the Plan of Action for the Implementation of Agreements reached during an official visit to Ukraine by the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Hungary with the aim of creating legal rules for the strengthening of cooperation between Ukraine and Hungary in the area of national security and the protection of the rule of law on the line of counter-terrorism, drug trafficking, international criminal groups, and in carrying out technical cooperation. The agreement is fully consistent with international practice, ensures a purely equitable partnership between the parties, commits to taking the necessary measures to protect the information obtained or jointly created in the process of cooperation with limited access. According to articles 2, 32 of the Ukrainian State Secret Act, the Agreement is subject to ratification by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ratification of the agreement by creating legal framework for the exchange and protection of classified information will help to improve the effectiveness of Ukraine's mutual cooperation with the Republic of Hungary once it becomes effective. The draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement is accepted without notice by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Economics, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Justice. According to the Ukrainian Ministry of Justice, the bill meets the standards of the Constitution of Ukraine and the requirements of standard design technology. Ratification of the Agreement will not require additional costs from the State budget, as implementation of its provisions will be carried out by the competent security authorities responsible for its implementation, at the expense of the funds allocated by the State to finance their activities. Ladies and gentlemen, please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u91	Thank you, Mikolayovich. Please sit down. As reported by Tarasuk Boris Ivanovich, chairman of the Committee on European Integration. Boris Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u92	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! The Agreement on Mutual Information Protection with Limited Access is signed between Ukraine and the Republic of Hungary on 15 November 2006. It provides for the establishment of legal principles for the protection of such information, allowing proper State control over compliance with the requirements of the national legislation of the two States in the process of exchange of classified information and regulating their relations in the area indicated. The European Integration Committee considers it appropriate to recommend that the Supreme Council ratify this agreement as a whole. This was supported by the Committees on Legal Policy and National Security and Defence, as well as the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority. Please support the ratification of this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u93	Thank you, Boris Ivanovich. Two in, two in. Thank you, Boris Ivanovich. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u94	Yuri Karmazin, “Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense”, Party of Protectors of the Motherland. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to support this bill in view of the fact that the parties to this agreement are public authorities, businesses, institutions and organizations that carry out the activities related to the state secret and have the authority to transmit such secret information to a foreign partner. I would like to receive such information objectively regarding the pollution of the territory, as regards all technological accidents. We would like the interests of Ukrainian citizens to be protected in a timely manner also with respect to the genetically modified and so forth goods that can affect our lives with you. Among other things, the international cooperation in the fight against organized crime and corruption also requires the transfer of such information. And now that we're expanding these possibilities for law enforcement, we're going to step up the fight against those clans that have found their place, including the Hungarian Republic. Everyone knows what arrests have taken place now in the Russian Federation. Until we can see how these rods will be cut in Ukraine. But I hope that, after this ratification of this Treaty, the clan, including the one now in Moscow, and the narcotics that are now in existence, which are stopping, including recently many kilograms of heroin in the Odessa Customs, will be covered. So I'd like to ask all the deputies to vote. I note that the previous ratification was not voted by Communists and “regionals”. And it's just a shame, it's not an application of the ages before.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u95	Thank you. Kirilczuk Eugene Ivanovich, Timoshenko Street. Please, Eugene Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u96	Thank you. Arseny Petrovich, I'm here to see you. The faction will certainly support, have decided to support this bill. But once a vote is made out, you are obliged to announce the outcome of the vote for those who listen and watch, so that you can see who responds to a problem or another. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u97	Thank you, Eugene Ivanovich. Zybenko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u98	Thank you, Arseny Petrovich. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, Sir Arsenius Petrovich, we are on the same graves for the second time today. What do I mean? The laws on ratification are specific and have a procedure for considering them. In bringing the Supreme Council to the ratification of the draft law, the President, at the same time, points out the person he authorizes to report the document. I have absolutely no, let's say, claims against the person standing on this stand, but the President of Ukraine has given the order to present this document to a completely different person. Therefore, if there is no valid reason for this person’s absence, this situation should be corrected accordingly. And once again, I have no objection to the person who reported this document. And the second argument that I would like to make right now. The faction has looked very carefully at the draft law and, coming from a meaningful part of the document, considers it necessary to not support the draft law submitted by the President of Ukraine for ratification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u99	Thank you. I'll take all your suggestions, colleagues. I am voting on the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Republic of Hungary on Mutual Protection of Information with Limited Access, 0008. Please vote. For – 395 Please show by factions. Decision taken. Party of regions “for” – 153, “Block of July Timoshenko” “for” – 152, “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense” “for” – 70, Communists – 0, “Block of Lithuania” – 20. The next one is 0009. Draft law on Ukraine's accession to the Convention on the Protection of Immaterial Cultural Heritage. First Deputy Minister of Culture and Tourism, Kornienko Vladislav Viktorovich, reports. Please come to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u100	Kornienko Vladislav Viktorovich, the first deputy minister of culture and tourism. Dear Arsenija Petrovich, distinguished national deputies, adopted the International Convention for the Protection of an Intangible Cultural Heritage at the meeting of the General Assembly of UNESCO in October 2003 as an international organization dealing with education, science and culture. By the way, the Ukrainian delegation voted in favour of this Convention. Under the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts, the accession procedure should be implemented through the adoption of the relevant law. This bill is being drafted, and today it is being considered by national deputies. Joining the International Convention for the Protection of an International Intangible Cultural Heritage will create the right conditions to preserve and support the traditional culture of the Ukrainian people, contribute to the development of international cooperation in this area. Intangible cultural heritage is seen in UNESCO as the cultural wisdom of mankind, which during a period of globalization threatens to blur or disappear. Its preservation and development are then defined as the key task of organizations and member countries in preserving the cultural identity of countries, as well as in disseminating positive information around the world about different nations and states. All I want to do is describe what are the main objectives of this convention and, in fact, I ask you to respond immediately to the support of this document. The purpose of this convention is to ensure respect for the intangible cultural heritage of the respective communities, groups, and individuals. I mean, today, as we join this convention, we support both the traditional culture, the folklore of the Ukrainian people, and all the national groups that live in Ukraine. The term “non-material heritage” appears in such directions as oral traditions, forms of expression, performing art, customs, rituals, celebrations, knowledge in practice.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u101	Thank you. Correspondent Oleg Grigorovitch Belarus. Please, Oleg Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u102	Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Foreign Affairs at its meeting reviewed the draft law and recommended it to be adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The adoption and entry into force of the Ukrainian Act on the Convention for the Protection of Immaterial Cultural Heritage will contribute to the preservation of the traditional culture of the Ukrainian people and all the peoples of Ukraine and the development of international cooperation in this area. The Convention on the Protection of Immaterial Cultural Heritage was adopted at a meeting of the General Assembly of UNESCO on October 17, 2003. Ukraine voted in favour. The convention is certainly relevant in modern times and in the future. The document rightly stresses that the processes of globalization and social transformation along with the conditions they create for a renewed dialogue between communities also give rise to the phenomenon of intolerance, serious threats, deterioration, disappearance and destruction of non- material, cultural heritage, particularly because of resource constraints and the protection of such an inheritance. The implementation of this Convention does not require additional funding from Ukraine and is carried out within the limits of the funds provided for by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The main scientific and expert office considers the accession of Ukraine to the convention to be entirely appropriate. The Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Culture and Spirituality and Legal Policy support the bill and recommend that the Supreme Council ratify the convention. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u103	Thank you, Oleg Grigorovich. Two in, two in. Tomenko Mikola Volodymyrovich, Yulia Timoshenko Block, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u104	Please convey the word in the field of material and not material culture, Volodymyr Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u105	Yavorowski Wolodymir, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u106	Vladimir Yavorowski, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. I am grateful to Tomenko for his generosity. Dear colleagues! We have to realize how important this bill is to us Ukrainians, this agreement. We need to realize that we will not quickly surprise the world with our cars, our TVs, our metal, or anything else. We are interesting to the world, of course, primarily our culture, our spirituality. We belong to a people who now have more than 500 songs, and Olesia Potter recorded that number about 20 years ago. A thousand, a thousand, a 500,000 songs! We have a remarkable variety of cultural and fighting, and Galicians, and Orientals, and centrists, self - centeredists, which we don't have in our spiritual culture. Because I'm convinced that if we fit into this legal field, this protection is international, especially in a period of globalization, when everything is wiped out, when everything is unified, we have to appreciate it so much and keep it that we're interesting to the world. Because of this, the “Julia Tymoshenko Block” the hot one supports the ratification of this agreement and calls on all who are in this room to support it. I'm sure it will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u107	Thank you. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u108	Yuri Carmazin. Party of Protectors of the country “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. Dear colleagues, Sir Arsenius Petrovich, I am firmly opposed to the approach and the proponents that have been taking place since 2003 after the signing of this convention in Paris. You see, in 2003, we're signing the convention, and so far we're not defining what is not a material cultural heritage, which is a definition, what is there for then in the Ministry of Culture, why are there committees, why do we define? Since 2003, we've been waiting, and what to protect if we've got everybody interpreting it for themselves right now, what, songs, a thousand songs, customs, what? We didn't define ourselves, we don't want to define ourselves. I would ask Arsenija Petrovich to give our committees an immediate commission to hear from Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko if she has come to give an order to the Ministry of Culture. Ladies and gentlemen, prepare a bill, write it so there will be no callousness and formalism. You didn't have five years to write what it was, to define what it was, what it was not a material cultural heritage, and we want it to be protected abroad when we didn't figure out what to protect by our own internal legislation. So I'm asking you to vote in favour of this project, of course, but you have to design it, because one Carmazin is not going to develop all the projects. And to those who voted that the term of old should not go to the fascists and their graves without voting for Project 0007, I suggest that I repent to the Ukrainian people and willingly kneel down. This is true of Communists and regionals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u109	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! I ask to vote in favour of Bill 0009 - the bill on Ukraine's accession to the Convention on the Protection of Immaterial Cultural Heritage. I'd like to make a statement. For 271. Decision taken. Please show by factions, please don't shout. Party of regions “for” – 2, “Block of July Timoshenko” “for” – 154, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” “for” – 71, Communists “for” – 26, “Block of Lithuania” “for” – 18. Registration No. 0010 - Draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and Georgia on the Simplification of the Order of Acquisition and Cessation of Citizens of Georgia residing permanently in Ukraine and Citizens of Ukraine residing permanently in Georgia and Warning of Cases Without Citizenship and Double Citizenship. Deputy Foreign Minister Kostenko Yuri Vasilovich. Please, Yuri Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u110	Dear Arseny Petrovich! Dear National Deputies! The agreement creates the legal possibility of simplifying the acquisition and cessation of citizenship for Ukrainian citizens who are permanently residing in Georgia and for Georgian citizens who are permanently residing in Ukraine, taking into account the constitutional principles of single citizenship, as well as the warning of cases of multiple citizenship and without citizenship. In practice, this legal possibility is that persons who are citizens of one party and who are permanently residing in another territory will be able to change their citizenship within three months of submitting the necessary documents regardless of the duration of such permanent residence. In doing so, the change in citizenship in accordance with the terms of this agreement will be free of charge, and citizens are exempt from all compulsory congregations and duties related to the acquisition and termination of citizenship. Ratification of the agreement will not require changes to the effective acquisition of Ukraine's new legislation and additional financial costs from the state budget. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the fact that today Ukraine has a positive experience in making similar agreements. citizenship. In particular, Ukraine has entered into bilateral agreements on the simplified order of change of citizenship with the Republic of Belarus since April 2000, the Republic of Kazakhstan since July 2001, the Republic of Tajikistan has been operating since April 2003 and the Kyrgyz Republic has been operating since July 2006 and its application has not caused any difficulties for our State. In view of the above, the MCC requests support for the proposed Law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u111	Thank you, Yuri Vasilovich. Oleg Grigorovitch Belarus, please have a brief report.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u112	Honorable National MPs. The Committee on Foreign Affairs reviewed the draft Law and recommended it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ratification of this agreement will create a preferential regime for the acquisition of citizenship by each of the contracting parties and will also prevent cases without citizenship and dual citizenship. The adoption of the Law and the further implementation of the Agreement do not require any additional financial costs from the State budget of Ukraine. The main scientific and expert management considers it possible to ratify this agreement. The draft law was also considered at a meeting of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy, which recommended it for consideration and ratification. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations also considers it possible to adopt the prescribed bill by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please support the recommendations of all these bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u113	Thank you, Oleg Grigorovich. Two - "for", two - "against". Please. Dry Jaroslav. Jaroslav Mikhailovich, please, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u114	Jaroslav Suhi, Party of Regions. My fellow Members, I believe that the problem of acquiring and ceasing the citizenship of the people of the former republics of the Soviet Union today is, and remains, too much regret, extremely relevant. For years, people have been killed in various State institutions, requiring new and new aids, and they spend money on moving. I want to tell you frankly that families suffering from the 1991 split of the Soviet Union are suffering, so it would not be bad or good for the deputy minister of foreign affairs to say this if such a procedure of simplified acquisition and cessation of citizenship by the citizens of other states of the former Soviet Union were to be ensured in Ukraine. I was recently approached by citizens of former Georgia in Truskavka, who lived in the Lviv region a long time ago, there were children born, there were grandchildren born, and they could not acquire Ukrainian citizenship at all, although as far as I spoke to them, they already speak English well. I call on the Ukrainian National Deputies to support this bill and to support the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and Georgia, and I would stress once again that it would be good if we applied this order of simplified acquisition of citizenship to other people who live in Ukraine under living conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u115	Thank you, Jaroslav Mikhailovich. Stratovic Volodymir Mikolajovic, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u116	Vladimir Stretović, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”, Christian-Democratic Union. Dear colleagues, we want it or not, but Ukraine is an integral part of the world community and in the era of globalization, migration from one country to another is an integral element of movement and progress. Therefore, in this situation, when we speak of an appropriate convention today, many Georgian citizens are in Ukraine to obtain a second homeland, it is not excluded that our fellow countrymen are leaving Ukraine and are in accordance with the circumstances of Georgia. Under these conditions, we have no other reason to support this convention and to create the right conditions for a simplified order of citizenship so that everyone who has come to Ukraine can fulfil their civil rights and civic responsibilities. So I don't think there's going to be any opponents out there today, maybe some interesting points that wouldn't allow us to vote in favour of ratifying this convention. Of course, I am convinced that with Ukraine's progressive progressive flow of immigrants to Ukraine, it will be very strong, but once again, I stress that in the era of globalization we must contribute to a very simple, basic order of acquisition of the citizenship of those citizens of the planet Earth who chose to live in Ukraine in order to feel like citizens. So the general conclusion is that we need to support this convention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u117	Crnowil Taras Viacheslavovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u118	Dear colleagues, it is I who have pressed the “against” button and I will tell you why. This is not one of those treaties that we sign traditionally with all countries, like investment protection or something. This is an agreement that is signed only in special cases and countries that have been listed, with which it has already been made, are countries where or should have solved the problems of real Crimean Tatars who have already moved to Ukraine but have not been able to solve the problem of getting out of their citizenship, of becoming one of our citizens, or of Belarus, of countries where there are neighbors, where families are intertwined, and so on. As far as this treaty is concerned. The people my colleague mentioned in the faction, such people in Ukraine from Georgia, live in literally a few dozen. The same situation of people who would like to acquire Georgian citizenship in Georgia, who are Ukrainian citizens, is also literally a unit. These things can be solved at the level of the Civil Affairs Commission with the President of Ukraine as unique cases, and other cases, it's like we're about to open the same treaty with Bangladesh, Vietnam, Laos in respect of these countries, but we know that there's a mass influx of illegals coming from there. As far as this law is concerned, I'm telling you right now, this is the law on the Trinity market and its people, which are there, about the criminal elements, it's not about real Georgians who supposedly live in Ukraine. This is precisely the case with criminal types who, when they are in Ukraine today in the background, can buy freely in places rather than in Kiev, and without any procedures at the centre at the level of local authority, they receive Ukrainian citizenship in two months. I don't understand how we can vote on this. This is not an act against Georgia. Remember, Georgia doesn't control all its territory. This is an act against my speech about those people who are actually at risk of criminality in Ukraine today. We're doing a state filter on them in any institution: the BSS, the government, etc. We're giving it up for ransom, actually, criminality.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u119	Thank you. Dear colleagues, time for discussion is over. I, by the way, took a look at the criticism of the Communist Party of Ukraine about who is presenting the bill. It turns out that the bill is presented by the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, Arsenij Yatsenuk. It's in the best times of my life. So I ask you to vote in favour of this bill. I'd like to make a statement. 0010. To -230. Thank you. Decision taken. Please show by factions. Dear colleagues, 0013. Kostenko Yuri Vasilovich, please come to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u120	Dear Arsenia Petrovich, distinguished national deputies! Today, the legal basis for the relationship between Ukraine and the European Union is the partnership and cooperation agreement, which was reduced by the UCP, which took effect on March 1, 1998. According to article 101 of the UPC, the initial period is 10 years, i.e. by 2008, with the possibility of automatic extension for one year if there are no relevant objections to its extension. Negotiations are currently under way between Ukraine and the EU on the conclusion of a new reinforced agreement. The signing of the validity of the new agreement needs some time during this UPS period remains valid. The EU enlargement process, which was completed on January 1st last year by the accession of Bulgaria and Romania, needs to be brought into line with EU legislation of the new member states. In accordance with the right of international treaties to make the Protocol to the UPC, the accession of the Republic of Bulgaria and Romania to the Agreement strengthens Ukraine's agreement to extend the UPC to its relations with those States. Acquiring the Protocol to the UPU effective after ratification by the Supreme Council of Ukraine for your consideration of the draft law will end the process of contractual legal formation of Ukraine's cooperation with the EU after its enlargement at the expense of Bulgaria and Romania. Given what has been said, the MLC asks for the support of the bill presented. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u121	Thank you. Please, Tarasjuk Boris Ivanovich. Yuri Vasilovich, thank you. Boris Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u122	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! This Protocol to the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement is called upon to avoid the contractual and legal vacuum that arose after Bulgaria and Romania entered the European Union. It is known that the protocol was signed on March 27, 2007, in Brussels. The bill meets the requirements of paragraphs "a" and "in" in the second part of article 9 of the International Contracts Act. And the Committee on European Integration considers it appropriate to ratify the specified protocol. This decision of the committee is in line with the recommendation of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration of the Supreme Council. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u123	Thank you, Boris Ivanovich. Please two "for", two "against". Comrade Zarubinski, please, Oleg Aleksandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u124	Thank you. Dear Arsenius Petrovich, my fellow Members, I think the ratification of this agreement is an urgent, urgent question and I'll tell you why. Because, in fact, after the two countries joined the European Union, this has happened, and it is legislatively correct that bilateral agreements have virtually ceased between the two new EU member states and Ukraine. And so the creation of a protocol that we can, and I hope, ratify, provides an opportunity to prevent the emergence of a legal vacuum, a certain legal vacuum, in Ukraine's relations with these states, which are governed by agreements that have become invalid. And I would also like to say that this protocol is certainly part and parcel of the partnership and cooperation agreement between Ukraine and European societies and its member states. So enough, let's say, objectively, in terms of the ratification, the hypothetical ratification, I don't think there's any minus here, and we should vote for it. The ‘Lithuania Block’ will vote in favour of ratification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u125	Grigorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u126	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national MPs, the objective realities of the present and the logic of the arguments put forward by the reporter and co-reporter, move me to express the position of the faction “Our Ukraine – the People’s Self-Defense”, which supports the ratification of the agreement.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u127	Thank you. I ask you to put to the vote a question regarding the adoption of the law, registration number 0013. I'd like to make a statement. For - 399. Decision taken. Please show by factions. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the next issue of agenda: 0014. Report by Onichuk Mikola Vasilovich. Ratification of the European Convention on the Recognition and Enforcement of Decisions on Child Care and on the Renewal of Child Care. Please, Mikola Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u128	Thank you. Dear Head, honourable national deputies, an extremely important convention, and in the event of its ratification, Ukraine will be given the opportunity to approach the authorities of those countries who have also signed this one free of charge. they ratified this convention – more than 35! – apply for and provide care of children from Ukraine who have been illegally moved across the border. Thus, the Convention essentially establishes a legal cooperation regime for the competent central executive authorities of the countries that have signed the Convention on such an important issue as the protection of children. Please support this Convention, as there seems to be no alternative.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u129	Thank you. Please, Billorus Oleg Grigorovich. Oleg Grigorovich, I ask briefly, because everything is clear. The head of the Supreme Council under the Rules has the right to continue for another 15 minutes, so at 18.15, colleagues, we will break up.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u130	Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Foreign Affairs at its meeting reviewed the draft law and decided to recommend it before the adoption of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Convention provides for the appointment of contractual parties to the national central authorities to implement its provisions, to define the rules for the cooperation of the competent authorities and their procedures in cases of irregular movement of children or the restoration of custody of children. Ratification of the Convention will help improve the legal regulation of child custody in Ukraine's relations with the countries and states that are parties to this convention. The adoption of the law and its further implementation do not cost Ukraine’s state budget. The costs that may arise as a result of the application of the provisions of this Convention are covered by the funds provided for in the State Budget for the financing of the activities of the relevant public authorities. The main scientific and expert management considers it possible to ratify this European Convention. The draft law was considered at a meeting of the Supreme Council Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport, and Tourism, which also recommended it before the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Supreme Council Committee on Legal Policy also considers it possible to introduce the proposed project for consideration and ratification by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please support the Committee's decision on foreign matters.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u131	Thank you. Please register: two in, two in, two in. Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich, please. ‘Block of Lithuania’.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u132	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, distinguished colleagues, we have voted positively today for more than ten, it seems, ratification laws. And even though they're all important, everyone in their own field, in their own sphere, but I think this is the most important one, because it's about facts and things that can prevent the illegal movement of Ukrainian children abroad. Today, Ukraine, and this is not secret information, is a provider of living goods, including children, abroad. And legal aid from a European society based on the implementation of the European Convention for the Prevention of Such, Well, Not Just Crime, But Inhuman Things, Like the Use of Children for Different Purposes, Which I Know Is Extremely Urgent Abroad. I think there are no barriers and no arguments against us voting in favour of the law on ratification of this European convention. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u133	Thank you. Zibenko Peter Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u134	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear Arsenija Petrovich, my speech will consist of two parts. Well, first of all, I'd like to say first of all to one crazy gentleman who didn't figure out whether Odessa was fired or not, and who was trying to accuse the communists of protecting the fascist sidekicks, that's what I'm trying to do. The paradox is that it represents the political power that cares about rehabilitation day and night.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u135	I'm gonna have to kick your ass. Under the Rules, we have the right to express ourselves exclusively in the bills under discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u136	I'll say it, I'll say it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u137	Okay, okay, but please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u138	Who, day and night, care to rehabilitate Fascist supporters from UN-OPA.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u139	What's this about?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u140	But unfortunately, this ratification has nothing to do with it. With regard to the bill from which I took the floor, the faction of the Company of Ukraine will definitely support this document and vote in favour of its ratification.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u141	Thank you, thank you. Dear colleagues, I am putting to the vote 0014, the draft law on the ratification of the European Convention on the Recognition and Enforcement of Decisions on Child Care and the Renewal of Child Care. Please vote. For – 427 Decision taken. Please show by factions. 0034. Please, Yuri Vasilovich Kostenko to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u142	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, honourable national deputies, the signing of the GUAM Statute, has formalized the process of transforming this organization into a full-fledged regional organization whose main objectives are to promote democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights, to ensure the continued development and security of these countries, and to deepen their European integration. The transformation of GUAM into an international organization at the organization’s first Kiev summit in 2006 was evidence of increased cooperation between the countries of the region and Ukraine’s leading role in this process. The initiation of the work of the organization’s secretariat in our area of Kiev has strengthened the role of the capital of Ukraine as an important international political centre. The Statute, which you consider, sets out the goals and principles of the organization, its basic priorities, its structure. The statute provides for the creation of a council at four levels: Heads of State, Ministers of Foreign Affairs, National Coordinators and Permanent Representatives. This structure of the organization in the context of the law of international organisations corresponds to the main elements of the creation of both universal and regional nature, such as the UN and BOE. This document defines the mandate and order of the above-mentioned bodies. I'm not going to count all the positions of the Statute, you see them, you know them. The adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Statute of the Organization for Democracy and Economic Development (GUAM) will enable the organization to initiate full activities to achieve its statutory objectives. In this connection, the Ministry of Internal Affairs asks you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u143	Thank you, Yuri Vasilovich. Oleg Grigorovich Belarus, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u144	Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Foreign Affairs reviewed the project and recommended it to the Supreme Council. I will not long justify it, I will only say that the implementation of the provisions of the Charter is related to the payment of membership fees, and will be made at the expense of the funds provided for by the Ministry of Public Budget in accordance with the State Budget Act. The main scientific expertise is considered appropriate. This is a very small amount, and it is not yet definitively defined. But that doesn't even make up a million. The main scientific and expert office considers ratification of the Statute to be appropriate by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please support this committee's recommendation decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u145	Thank you, Oleg Grigorovich. Two "for", two "against". Please. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u146	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. The honourable national MPs will certainly vote in favour of raising Ukraine's authority as the headquarters of such an important international organization. Our faction will vote for Ukraine to become one of the world’s leaders to produce serious ideas and put them into practice. But our faction will always be firm against those who have now voted against the non-application of age to crimes against humanity and war crimes. I'll remind you that three zeros seven voted against this project by communists and regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u147	Yuri Anatolyovich, this does not apply to the bill under discussion. I request that we abide by the Rules in the Parliamentary Walls.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u148	For these criminals to be punished. Because I was not allowed to say a word for the replication, I would like to call for the vote and support this proposal by the President of Ukraine. I would like to point out that we are proud that this proposal has been made by the President of Ukraine, and I would like to warn everyone who will attack the Party of Protectors of the Homeland or the Block of Our National Self-Defense, that we will give you exactly what the Germans received under Stalingrad. Today, you justify those who are convicted and who are to be held accountable for crimes that do not fall within the normal definition.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u149	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u150	And fear responsibility for the famine, for Chernobyl.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u151	Unplug the microphone of Carmazin. Yavorovsky Volodymyr Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u152	Vladimir Yavorowski, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, town of Kirovograd. Dear Society, the honourable Parliamentary of Ukraine, believe me, I find it difficult to imagine who in this room are among the people who are elected by the people who represent here today the Ukrainian people, who can vote against this document at all. There's another structure in the post-Radians space. It's very normal, it's democratic. There's a structure in which Ukraine, let's say, has a special place, is actually a leader in this structure. That's why I'm convinced that for us Ukrainians, it's very prestigious, it's very normal. This is not an alternative to SND. It's not a challenge, let's say someone else in post-Radians space. It's a very normal structure, which, after we ratify its statute, is very, very normal and democratic. Look, look at his articles, I'm absolutely convinced that after that, she's going to start acting more actively, claiming to be herself and on the world stage. It's very normal and the Yulia Tymoshenko Block will give all its votes for the ratification of this document. We invite you, once again, I find it difficult to imagine who will oppose, but with great regret they will oppose, and who will be against you we already know.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u153	Thank you. Crnowil Taras Viacheslavovich and we finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u154	So, to my colleague who asked who would object, I'm going to be against the motive that this treaty is destroying a beautiful, good structure created with very good intentions called GUAM. I want to remind you that since the desire to politicize this structure has emerged, to throw away from it the real economic needs that were the transit colossal resource of these countries, which was established when GUAM was created, we have suffered very serious losses on GUAM. Remember that it cost us to be part of the GUAM of Uzbekistan, who didn't want that kind of transformation, an unnatural transformation in terms of what we really need in the GUAM structure. Let's remember that after that, there's no even a possibility of expanding that structure, getting involved there or directly, or at some point in Turkmenistan. There is no possibility of any other normal expansion and effective development of this structure. Unfortunately, today we have actually the ruins of GUAM because someone is very eager to turn GUAM exclusively into a political adventure in which a decision is made in general outside the country. I am very sorry that such agreements are actually a major blow to the economic interests of the Ukrainian State itself. And that's why it's only from the point of view of supporting the good start of the former, which was in the GUAM, solely because I'm interested in the interests of Ukraine, not in the interests of God somewhere, of course, where, personally, I'm not going to vote in favour of ratifying an agreement that actually puts the cross really on the necessary, economically balanced process that has always been the GUAM. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u155	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the draft Ukrainian law on the ratification of the charter of the organization for democracy and the economic development of GUAM. This is about Ukraine becoming an official regional leader with our brothers and friends in Azerbaijan, Ukraine, Moldova. I'm asking for a vote. We have a vote of 0034. For 226. Decision taken, comrades. I'm asking you to show by factions. Region Party – 0, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko” – 155, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” – 71, Communists – 0, “Club of Lithuania” – 0. Dear colleagues, we have the final question of ratification, 0035. Kostenko Yuri Vasilovich, please. Please, Yuri Vasilovich, we have nine minutes left, so very quickly.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u156	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished national MPs, very briefly let me say that today we are talking about a framework agreement. I repeat and emphasize a framework agreement. It does not entail any financial or liability. But it will enable us to participate more actively in the strategic context of acquiring validity, acquiring membership in the European Union, which is a priority of certainty for all those present here in the room. It will enable us to participate actively in security and defence policies. I think that there will be a meaningful and strengthened position in the negotiations for a new strengthened agreement between Ukraine and the EU in the area of crisis management cooperation, as well as an opportunity to implement one of the priorities of the action plan of Ukraine's European Union. In view of the above, I would like to look to you for support. Please support this bill. Thank you, Arseny Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u157	Thank you. Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u158	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! The European Integration Committee considered the bill and decided to recommend it to the Supreme Council. The adoption of this law will enhance cooperation between Ukraine and the European Union within the framework of European security and defence policy and will effectively introduce the principle of association with the European Union in this area. It should be pointed out that Ukraine's participation in the European Union's operations will take place in accordance with the principle of volunteering, i.e. when invited to the side of the European Union, Ukraine should make a decision and, if positive, inform the European Union about the forms of its participation in the operation. A positive decision on the ratification of the agreement was also made by the Committee on Legal Policy and the Committee on National Security and Defence. A similar positive conclusion is found in the conclusion of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u159	Thank you, Boris Ivanovich. Two "for", two "against". We've got everything under the rules. The words “for ” and “against ” will mean as provided by the Rules. Vazivsky Vladimir Mikhajlovich “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u160	The “Our Ukraine” faction will fully support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u161	Kamchatny Valeri Grigorovich, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u162	Kamchatny, Block Timoshenko, Kharkiv district. The logic of the reporters forces our faction to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-06-m1.u163	That's brilliant. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the draft Ukrainian Law 0035 on Ratification of the Agreement between the European Union and Ukraine on the definition of a general scheme for Ukraine's participation in European Union crisis resolution operations. Please vote. For 242. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I would like to welcome you to the factions, with the first "wartime" day of the work of the Ukrainian Parliament with the incredibly effective results of our work. Until tomorrow, by 10 a.m., the schedule of meetings that was agreed upon and accepted today. Please. Thank you.
