ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-03-m0.u1	Good morning, colleagues! Please register. [[10:01:36]] Registered -441 There are 441 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is a very fruitful day for part of our birthdays. Today's birthday: Vasiljeva Hennady Andriyovich, welcome to Hennady Andriyovich, he has a Jubilee; to Davidenko Andrija Anatoliyovich; to Donczak Vladimir Andriyovich; to Kirilczuk Eugenia Ivanovich ; to Vladimir Vasilovich Ribak and to Mikhail Vasilovich Cechotov. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Honourable Ukrainian National Deputies, to form a timetable for today’s day and in general to determine the fate of the Ukrainian Parliament, I invite factions to my office. An hour as usual.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-03-m0.u2	The faction leaders' council decided to announce the requests of our fellow MPs and then resume the recess until 1300 hours. Dear colleagues, there have been questions from Ukrainian national deputies: John STANDS to the President of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to preserve architecture monuments that have global significance: The National Reserve “Sofia Kyivska”, Andrijavska Church, Kyewovo-Pecherska Lavra from destruction through careless builders. Friends, I remind you that the Presidential requests are being duly accepted, we need 150 votes to support this request and to send it to the President 226. Please support the request of National Deputy John Stoick to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[10:50:21]] For 135 The decision is not taken. Ladies and gentlemen, here, I see, it's about what we need to talk about. I understand that if we don't have an agreement on how we work by 1300 hours, we're obviously going to have a different hour, there's going to be an opportunity for you to tell the Ukrainian people what you're thinking about the situation. Request by Igor ŠAROV to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for action in the Supreme Raj of Ukraine to mark the 60-year anniversary of the adoption of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the award for this matter of representatives of civil and legal organizations with the marks of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Mr. Mikola Sherschun to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Prime Minister, on the statement made by the Ukrainian Environmental Association “Green World” on the initiative to introduce the Earth’s Ecological Constitution. Mr. Mikoli KATERINCHUKA to the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, for the non-admission of damage to the life and health of citizens in the captured “Faina”. Vladimir LITHUANIA to Prime Minister U.S. regarding the situation around the land areas identified for research and teaching purposes at the Biloczerk National Agrarian University and the reasons and motives for Michael Baranowsky's release from the post of Rector of the University. Vladimir Lithuania to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the real threats to human security caused by the lack of adequate funding for the A-1352 military in the Balkan region of Kharkiv. [[65th Artillery Armour]] Gennady ZADIRKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the payment of arrears on salary to former employees of the State Open Shareholders Association "The Light" of Kirovské Donetské region. YEUGENA GOOD to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, for the creation of the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine’s 2009 projected incomes for the Yemeni region of the Žitomir region. Irina BELOWS to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to change the list of institutions and institutions for education, health and social protection and jobs that are entitled to retirement for years. MICHELLA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for urgent measures to continue financing the construction of the metropolis in Dnipropetrovsk. Mr. Mikoli Shershun to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the financing of rural health institutions from the General Fund of the State Budget of Ukraine for the following year. Roman ZAZALJECK to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine for the improper consideration of the appeal of the national deputy and the failure to take up a case authorized by the Ukrainian National Deputy. Ms. Sergia KOSHINA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the urgent allocation of the target five million dollars for the continuation of the construction of the I-III Gliny School of Education in 2008 and the inclusion in the Programme for the Construction of Social Infrastructure in the Plains Region for their complete completion in 2009. Jury CARMAZINA to the Prime Minister, acting as Head of the Board of Directors, Prosecutor-General for the use of measures to prevent the raiding of the Taras Shevchenk National University of Kiev through the election of the Rector for the use of corruption schemes, the organization of checks on corruption, the abuse of office, the excess of official powers, the violation of article 63 of the Education Act, the Earth Code, former Rector Victor Skokenk and other officials of the university, in deciding on the alienation of land belonging to the university and the organization of verification of the facts, the use of measures to return illegally estranged land to the university and the decision of the question of bringing him and other officials to justice. Jury KRUKA to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine on the situation surrounding Odessa Student Clinic No. 21. Mr. Andria PAVLOWS, Minister of Home Affairs of Ukraine, asked about the verification of the legality of the actions of the Ministry of Interior of Ukraine in Kiev in connection with the construction of a housing building in Kiev on the street of Vasil Stus, 7 - A and possible human rights violations. Vladimir DANILENA to the minister of internal affairs of Ukraine regarding the unsatisfactory work of the authorities of the interior of Ukraine in the Sumsian region in the detection of criminal crimes involving the facts of vandalism over the monuments of history. Mr. Eduard PRUTNIKA to the Minister of Health of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, on the need to take urgent measures to overcome the increase in tuberculosis and to improve the financing of the central district hospitals of the region of Sosnické and Bahmach, as well as the need for the establishment of a field-based obstetric site in the village of Bahmach of the region of Chernigiv. Ms. Catherine Vaškuk to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine, on the improper reaction of the Public Prosecutor's Office and the administration of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in the Luhansk region to the President of Ukraine, the resident of the city of Sevjerodonetska Lugansk, Irina Gavrilova. Oleg MALIČA to the Minister for Regional Development and Construction on the need to adjust the average cost of a square metre of housing for purchase at the expense of the State budget of Ukraine. Oleg MALIČA to the Minister of Fuel and Energy of Ukraine, head of the National Electricity Regulatory Commission of Ukraine, on the urgent development of temporary rules for connecting to electricity networks. Ms. Aleksandra ŠEPELEVA to the Minister of Health for the urgent use of measures to prevent the recurrence of mass food poisoning in preschool facilities. Aleksandra ŠEPELEVA to the minister of health for not allowing the closure of the Alubkin City Hospital. SERGEANT GORDIENKA to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the ill-treatment and illegal closure of a criminal case committed by the deliberate murder of two residents of the city of Kremenchuk. Ms. Gordijenka’s Sergy to the Minister of Education and Science, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the protection of the labour rights of the teacher of the elementary classes of Lubenska Public Education School No. 4 Nadija Lutovic, and the need for further thorough examination of the facts she has presented in her address. LITHUANIA's Jury to the Minister of Culture for the increase of the planned expenditure from the State Budget for the renovation and restoration work at the Carpenka-Karogo State Museum "Hutir Hope" in the village of Mikolayevka Kirovograd. LITHUANIA’S Jury to Ukraine’s Agrarian Policy Minister for additional funding from the State Budget for financial support to agribusiness enterprises through the loan-making mechanism for the Kirovograd region. Mr. Vladimir PILIPENKA and Mr. Viktor LOZINSK to the head of the Council of Judges of Ukraine, Head of the State Judicial Administration, for the purpose of verifying the responsibilities of being the head of the Odessa District Administrative Court, Oleg Gluhanczuk. Group of National Deputies to the Ministry of Internal Affairs on the gross violation of existing legislation in granting the right to use the nadram First Deputy Minister of Environmental Protection, John Blackcourt. [[GELLERA, WHITE, KORSE]] Group of National Deputies to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the gross violation of existing legislation in granting permission to use the nadrama of two primordial kaolins by the Minister of Environmental Protection of Ukraine. [[GELLERA, WHITE, KORSE]] Vassil DEREVLATED to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the improper examination by the Prosecutor’s Office of the Ternopil region of the facts presented in the parliamentary address. The Sovereign of BORDIN to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal occupation by the State Enterprise Ukrab of the Open Shareholder Society of Samarski ribosp. Eugene KYRILČUKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the gross violation of legal rights and the falsification of a criminal case in relation to the citizen of Hanna Sparrow by officials of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in Volinsk. Igor KALETNIKA to the Attorney General regarding the criminalization of Valerius Gordeczuk for violating the Act while serving as Director of the Kyiv Regional Branch of the State Enterprise "Centre of the State Land Cadastre of the State Committee on Land Resources". Katerina VASCHUK and Oleg ZARUBINSKI to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Lviv City Head on the legal assessment of the management of the management of the architecture of the Lviv City Council City Department regarding the failure of the decisions of the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine to recognise the ownership of the joint Ukrainian-English company Western Oil Group on land. Andria PAVLOWS to Kiev City Head on the rightfulness of building a residential building on the street of Basil Stus, 7-A in the Holy District. Igora ŠAROVA to Kyiv City Head for the allocation of funds for the continuation of construction and restoration works on objects on Vorovsky Street, 2 with adaptation for the placement of the State Specialised Art Institute of Kyiv Children's School of Arts No. 2 of the name Verikovsky. Dear colleagues, as I've informed you, we'll be adjourned until 13 o'clock. At 1:00, we'll try the work of today's session.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-03-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, I am destined to say that the consultations are ongoing, and even many people are getting satisfaction from this process, but the result is not yet. So I'm going to take a break until 1:30.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-03-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, very positive news. The first piece of news that we're going to finish in a few minutes. Second news about the coalition negotiations. There is no coalition decision yet, but coalition negotiations are under way. Thirdly, with regard to the fate of Parliament, I think that the question of the dissolution of Parliament is the last one that can stand in line with any decisions. Parliamentaryism must live, and we must do everything we can to ensure that Parliament remains the democratic foundation for the development of Ukrainian society as it is, despite the fact that we have a very difficult debate, but there is democracy, this is Parliament, and we are with you reflecting those social processes that are going on outside. And lastly, dear colleagues, that I, as captain of the ship, am not the Titanic, dear friends, but as captain of the ship, will do all I can to keep this ship going. The sitting shall be closed. On schedule, Tuesday, as scheduled, we meet at ten o'clock. As for the Conciliation Council, I'll tell you separately whether we're going to run or not. What's wrong with that?? The plenary next week.
