ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u1	Good morning, dear colleagues, please register. [[10:03:03:03]] There are 440 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, a few things. First of all, today's agenda. Last night there was a draft agenda that was introduced by the two largest factions, but this agenda did not take into account the proposals made by the three more factions represented today in the Supreme Council. So there's the next proposal. After the announcement, and after the factions, we will interrupt the factions for an hour with the heads of factions in order to bring to your attention the agreed agenda and today hold an appropriate plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So after speaking to the faction leaders, I'd like to announce an hour's break to agree on the appropriate positions on the order of the day. Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, I propose that we move on to the most important issues that stand in the order of the daily Ukrainian political establishment. First of all, respectable colleagues, coalitions. Today is the day when we turn one page of political history and open a new page of political history. I wouldn't call it political apocalypse. Yeah, that's another challenge to democracy, but I hope we can meet this challenge together. It is a shame that the situation again took place when the possibilities were not realized and the chances were not used. It's not the case that they didn't; it's the case that they couldn't and didn't. Today, Ukraine’s political menu has considerable challenges and challenges. However, we should not forget the economic menu, which is also in the order of the day. First of all, it should be the absence of a gas contract for the following year, it should be the absence of consolidated changes to the 2008 State budget, the very vague prospects for the 2009 budget, the absence of a 9th-year socio-economic development programme, the highest rate of outflow of foreign investment among the countries of Eastern Europe, the range of additional threats, starting with inflation and ending with significant fronts in corporate and sovereign borrowing. But these are all the challenges, the challenges that we have to answer in the parliamentary walls. I would like to point out that the honourable colleagues will continue to be responsible on the shoulders of the Ukrainian Parliament. The Ukrainian Parliament is still empowered and obliged to carry out its primary constitutional function is a legislative function. With regard to Parliament's activities, I would like to point out that, according to the Constitution of Ukraine, only the Head of the Supreme Council has the right to sign the acts of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So after today's announcement in this case, if there's a staff proposal for the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I suggest we proceed immediately to its consideration. If there is no such offer, please notify. Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, I am forced to perform my constitutional duty, for someone who is long-awaited, and for me it is extremely sad: I officially announce the cessation of the Coalition of Democratic Forces in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, created by “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” and “The Block of Yulia Timoshenko” on November 29, 2007. Period. Dear colleagues, does anyone want a minute of silence? You don't have to. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for the faction leaders. The faction of the Party of the Regions. Janukovich Viktor Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u2	Dear voters, distinguished national MPs, distinguished representatives of the media! Today we have witnessed and participated in a historic event that is very unusual, and we can say that the vehicle that drove the so-called democratic coalition has arrived finally, and we can say, “Get off! ” I'd like to say a few words without humor. Unfortunately, this is our story. And life has confirmed the validity of the warnings that we have spoken about since the “majdan” euphoria. We have warned that "orange" politicians are manipulating people's desire for justice and truth. They use citizens to achieve their goals, which have nothing to do with promises to bring prosperity, order, and equality to Ukraine before the law. Sadly, our predictions have come true. The “orange” policy has led Ukraine to live for a long time in a state of permanent shocks, crises and scandals. The door’s upheavals were changed by the early elections, by the early elections, by the deterioration of the situation within the country, by the rise in prices and inflation, by the decline in the standard of living of people, by the fall of Ukraine’s international authority, and so on. The adventurous involvement of Ukraine in NATO and the foolish conduct of power during the conflict in Georgia for the first time put the state at real risk of losing peace on our land. All of our calls to unite, to give up the country’s division into democracies and nondemocrats were ignored. Instead, attempts were made to rewrite history. The people of Ukraine were convinced that there was no alternative to the orange coalition. Society continued to divide, the Constitution to subordinate political purpose, and the economy to populist goals. Today the process is over, and as I said, the wagon has arrived and is stuck in the swamp. The so-called “democratic coalition”, which never really existed, disappeared like the dew of the sun. Time and tremendous effort have been wasted, and millions of millions of dollars of trust in the ability of today's authorities to lead the state on the path of democracy and development. In this situation, we continue to stand in our position, and we repeat, the only way out is to unite the country but are united with the Ukrainian people. It is not possible to pursue an independent policy against the Ukrainian people. These times have also gone back to history. None of the political forces represented in the Supreme Council can cope with the crisis on their own, and you and I know that. And any new configurations created without any major power in the state, doomed, any decisions that will be made without the will of the people, a path to nowhere. What do I think we should consider now, and what goals should we set? First, it's important to raise people's standard of living. Because we know what caused the price rise and inflation this year. With regard to the organization of power, to aim for the authorities to work effectively, changes to the Constitution should be made and clear limits should be made to the powers of the branches of power, to harmonize the principles of internal and foreign policy, to protect the country from the actions of negligent politicians, to decentralize power, to carry out a series of reforms, including the courts, to introduce a system of general and local referendums and to implement them.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u3	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u4	To make a number of important decisions that we have discussed with you and promised the electorate. The time has come — it must be done. This cannot be done without the support of millions of our citizens. That's why I say it again from this rostrum. We were not the initiators of last year's election, and we are not the initiators of the next year's election if it happens. We're here to make everyone think about it today. What Is Needed by the Ukrainian People? A fight, a fight, or an effective policy of power that will improve the lives of our citizens? So we will work hard to improve the lives of our citizens and to build a strong independent Ukraine. We feel the support of our citizens and believe that our efforts will bring about the changes that everyone needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u5	Viacheslav Kirilenko, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense". I immediately inform the faction leaders that I will continue as long as I need to continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u6	Viacheslav Kirilenko, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense". Events are unfolding in such a way that it is obvious that the Party of the Regions will have to form a coalition with those who have just been told by Viktor Janukovic, who has spoiled the limit of trust and disappeared like dew in the sun. This is how events develop. And we understand that those who have been trying to accuse us of conspiring with the Party of Regions have actually started to form a coalition with them. And we're looking forward to final legalization after today's coalition announcement: The Party of Regions, the Block of Timoshenko. It's not our choice, it's our choice of colleagues and the Party of Regions. In that case, we will certainly correct our parliamentary activities. But I want to say more than anything to people who support democratic forces: without “our Ukraine” there would be no democratic coalition. It was “Our Ukraine” that made the creation of a coalition of democratic forces and the election of Prime Minister Yulia Timoshenko. We have made every effort to preserve the coalition during these difficult nine months. Yes, we had our differences, we were surprised that sometimes we had a strange vote of the Party of Regions and the "Timoshenko Block" on questions, softly put, questionable. Consider the vote of the Chamber of Tenders, which gave rise to an ostrich in Ukraine who wanted to work honestly. Remember, we couldn't ask the government a whole bunch of reform laws, even though we were surprised. We never saw, unfortunately, a new Tax Code, a block of land issues. We were surprised to see the opposition to the educational reform introduced by our Ukrainian minister, Vakarcuk. We were surprised to note that the partners' position on Ukraine's accession to NATO was not clear. Now we see what caused this inexplicability. At the same time, all these differences could not have caused us to stop the activities of the democratic coalition. Rubikon was crossed during parliamentary holidays when the “Bloka Timoshenko” was conspiring with the Party of Regions, which became apparent on September 2nd this year. And it was this conspiracy that prevented the Ukrainian Parliament from taking a consolidated position on the issue of the Russian-Georgian armed conflict. We can repeat a thousand more times -- it's not a democratic coalition when it can't share a position on Russia's aggression against the sovereign Georgia, on supporting Georgia's territorial integrity and any other country, and it can't give a common position on assessing the illegal actions of the Black Sea fleet of Russia, which of our sovereign territory has been involved in fighting against Georgia. If we can't give a common assessment of the resonance issues that the whole world is talking about, the question is, how will democracy protect this democratic coalition? Can it respond to the next challenges that Ukraine faces after this Russian-Georgian war? And is she willing to give any answers at all to the terrible risks that have arisen since these events in the Caucasus? And that's why it wasn't a discussion about Georgia -- it was a discussion about Ukraine. And it's the discussions about Ukraine that our partners with the BIT have unfortunately not been able to endure. In the 10 days that have passed since our application, we've only seen that the actual prokremly majority -- the Yulia Timoshenko Block, the Party of Regions, and the Communists -- works and takes turns. Because in these 10 days, unfortunately, we have only heard from our coalition partners the assurance that the position on the Black Sea fleet will not change and will in fact support the continued impunity of the foreign fleet from our shores. We've heard that no departure from the anti-constitutional, anti-Ukrainian bills that were voted last week, which are working against national security and defence from the Yulia Timoshenko bloc, will be. And we've heard that there's no desire to meet and discuss all the issues on the board of coalitions. We can't invite our partners forever, let's sit down and discuss all the issues in a democratic, open and public way. We had a wall of silence in our ears, which only confirmed that it was proselytes.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u7	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u8	that only confirmed that the prokremlov majority, actually created on September 2nd in the composition of the “Timoshenko Block”, the Party of Regions and Communists, will soon be legally formed. Under such circumstances, “Our Ukraine” is left with a small choice, we will not, under any circumstances, withdraw from the protection of Ukrainian values and national interests. Therefore, after the final formation of the “Blok Timoshenko” - Party of Regions, we leave to ourselves one way – to move to the national parliamentary opposition, which will oppose all anti-Ukrainian actions to which the prokremlov parliamentary majority will be created. We will not quietly observe how those who have taken such a course will destroy Ukrainian values and gain Ukrainian independence. We will not see silently when, without any public discussion of the previous Party of Regions with its partners and the Block of Timoshenko will change the Ukrainian Constitution for only one purpose: to seize the authority of the President of Ukraine in the external and defence policy for the Kremlin. We will not quietly observe how the two political forces practically distribute the country and resolve their financial and budgetary issues. For all of this “Our Ukraine” will give a conscious and powerful resistance. I think that's where we get the support of the patriotic voters. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u9	Ivan Kirilenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u10	Dear Head, colleagues, our constituencies! As the modern classic said: “There have been times and times worse, but there has not been such cynicism.” Nine months in the coalition were no honey for us, especially for the government and its leader, a woman who had been harassed and destroyed almost daily. But we endured and stood, colleagues, until the last. And you're all witnesses -- we didn't abandon the coalition and the god judge to those who destroyed it from the first days of existence. The apopheus of double standards is the circular that our colleagues sent to their subordinate party organizations. In this “Our Ukraine” circular, the fourth paragraph clearly states that, clearly, literally, I quote: “The preservation of the democratic coalition is not a fundamental and major task for us. The main objective is to run-off elections to the Supreme Council.” That's the whole point. And now, essentially. We're more interested in the working parliament, so let me put it this way, our first plenary week this month has turned out to be a shock for many. At last, after many months of quarreling and opposition, some were shocked by the fact that Parliament demonstrated the ability to negotiate and work productively. On the other hand, it was a pleasant surprise for society and that is the main thing. Indeed, there are two defining elements in our work: political and legislative. Clearly, in recent times, the first one has taken precedence over the second. In fact, the basic legislative work in the pastures of politicians has been good for three years. Whether this country has won, the question is rhetorical. But apparently, politics in this room is greatly and undeservingly overestimated, politics is undervalued, and voters are disappointed. Most people no longer care about our endless separation, coalitions, and accusations. Society, the economy has long evolved, not because of us, but in spite of us. We probably didn't notice how history's creators turned into witnesses. It's made by others, and unfortunately, we make it. There's politics and politics on TV. In a word, as they say right now, reloading. We're all fed up. The recipe is to go down to the sinful land and start working like last plenary week, when politics was forced to give way to healthy pragmatism for the first time in weeks. Yes, together we solved the painful problem of miners and started a long-awaited reform of the fiscal and pension sphere. Millions of our citizens will eventually get, not a comparison, but a merit. Our political power is determined to continue this business style. Take economic problems. Unfortunately, the global financial crisis is going on, it's going on, it's going on, it's going on, it's going on, it's going on, it's going on, it's going on, it's going on, it's going on, it's going on, it's going on, it's going on, it's going on, it's going on, it's going on, it's going on, it's going on, it's going on, it's going on, it's going on, it's going on, it's going on, it's going on, it's going on, it's going on, it's going on, it's going on, it's going on, it's going on, it's going on, it's going on, it's going on, it's going on, it's going on, it's going Thousands of enterprises need reconstruction and technological resupply of new technologies. Where do you get tens and tens of billions of capital deposits? The only way out of this is in a literate investment policy. For how many years, investors have been knocking on our parliamentary door with their proposals, and we don't have all our hands. More than 20 bills that can have a positive impact on the investment climate in Ukraine should, of course, be adopted. So let's, colleagues, in part, support and devote at least a day to the economic problems of the state and provide a perspective at least next year. A similar situation in the APC. With the introduction of the WTO during the period of amateurism toward the village, severe challenges must also be answered to us. In this respect, even from our immediate neighbors, we are already lagging behind, there are products containing GMOs marked, and organic farming products have a very different price, and there is law for everything. With regard to the earth. In the same Russia, the first buyer of the country’s agriculture is exclusively the state. In the nearby Bilgorod region, several hundred thousand hectares have been bought and better owners or tenants have now been identified on competitive grounds, with the obligation to combine plantations with animals and not to change the target of the land. It's not an experience for us. As long as we think that everything is going smoothly behind the moratorium shield, everyone knows that the earth's circulation not only takes place in the center, but also in the depths it sells whole farms, changing its founders, they say, into a quieter one. Clearly, the future of the earth is not being sold, and no one today knows who the new founders are Ukrainian or foreign. In this regard, there are relevant articles both in the Constitution and in the Code of Earth, where implementation mechanisms and problems have accumulated in recent years. These are our debts! In recent months, the government, along with the public organizations of the APC, has been working on modern approaches to protecting and stimulating the development of the agrarian sector, as set out in the bills that our faction proposes to consider in the complex and by devoting this to one plenary day. Without going into detail, I will note that only the VAT aid laws, budget support by the end of this year, the special zero-interest lending regime will cost the budget about 10 billion dollars. There was no such support for peasants. Honorable colleagues, when Parliament passed 350 votes in human and state laws last week, the need for populism fell. Instead, our role for the country’s future has moved to order. We are ready for this responsibility. So let's work together to make up for the time we set aside for the infertile political opposition. So, as they say, get to work! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u11	Communist faction, Peter Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u12	Dear colleagues! I want to address our constituents today more than ever from this rostrum. It is they who are most affected today by what is actually happening in Parliament, what is really happening in our country, what governance and what programmes are being implemented and for whom they are being implemented. I am convinced that this situation in Parliament, as in general in the country, requires a deeper and more correct conclusion. Without a thorough analysis of what has been happening with Ukraine over the years of independence, especially in recent years of orange madness, it will be difficult for us to draw the right conclusions, which must be realized in the future and on which direction to focus finance, human resources and much more. Having accumulated the experience of establishing a coalition of corruptionists in 2004, in 2005, after continuing to accumulate this experience, we know that the coalition, which has ordered a long life today, has created a coalition of poisoners and spies. That's what we talked about, the Communist faction. We've warned you. Because it was a coalition of spies and poisoners that talked a lot about democracy in Maidan, talked a lot about their responsibility, about clean hands and much more. I am convinced that it is the people of Ukraine today who must assess and make statements today about the transition of the “ours” to the opposition. It is difficult to imagine the opposition led personally by the President of the country of Yushchenko. That's ridiculous! But behind this absurdity lies total irresponsibility for all the years of independence of Ukraine and these political forces for the destruction of their people, for genocide against their people for years of independence, for epidemics, for unemployment, for the millions of those whom you expelled from that country, for them to task in Italy, for the expulsion of scientists from institutions, for the destruction of not only economic but also productive, but also scientific and productive bases — all your sins, not sins, and this crime against the people of Ukraine. Therefore, when we analyze today what has happened during the years of independence, thanks to the position and policies imposed by nationalists in power, we must recognize today that for the people of Ukraine their songs are rising prices and tariffs, they are poverty and unemployment, they are hungry deaths, and today the unsuspecting future for our young people and our children, they are destroyed villages and looted farms, this is a desolate land and land that is sold essentially for those who sow saloons and raps here for the cultivation of biofuels of energy for abroad. We must understand today that this policy has led to the destruction of the country's largest industrial regions, and in fact, they have been placed under the control of a transnational corporation, as well as the whole territory of Ukraine, by entering the World Trade Organization without the protection of national interests. And we, the Communists, claim that this is a betrayal of national interests by entering these international European structures without defining its role and place there without defending its interests. We are concerned today that these years of independence, so-called, and especially when the orange madmen are in power, we have a marked increase in our relations with our brothers in the blood of the Slav peoples and, above all, with the Russian Federation. This leads to the fact that it is the people of Ukraine who are suffering from the growing problem of energy security: Ukrainian producers from the fact that they cannot produce; the industrial sector from the fact that we are losing integration links and much more. As soon as nationalists come to power, we have a growing division of Ukraine according to national, ethnic, religious principles. And we are witnessing that it is this orange team and the team of nationalists in power today and at the shrine that have reached a thousand-year history when they are trying, let's say, to pharisaise, noting 1,020 baptisms by the Russians and themselves destroying Orthodoxy. This destroys the culture and history of our people. Today, we are faced with the fact that almost years of independence in Ukraine, under the leadership of nationalists, is a social fascism. And frankly, the aggressor Saakashvili's divination by Ukrainian nationalists is all about the killing of citizens there. And, dear colleagues, I address our constituents as much as I can, which Sirc has eyes to lend to President Yushchenko, this nationalist leader, when our relatives and loved ones are there? Weren't the Russian mothers, sending their sons to serve, protecting their homeland, and their homeland, they died there. These are the sons of our kinsmen and our kinsmen. Our President is arming the aggressor to kill our relatives and relatives from Ukraine as well as those who live directly in Ossetia. We are saying that the weapons of nationalists are today, and in fact tomorrow, it is Fascism. And we, the Communists, warn that if we do not stop this already orange cell, it is not excluded that their policies will not only lead to Fascism, but through the weapons of nationalism, what they do will also lead to more serious consequences. And we are drawn through dependence on the policies of the United States of America not only into conflicts in Ukraine, not only in the post-Soviet area, but also into conflicts at the international level. We are talking about and warning that coming to power of nationalists since 1991 by an orange team that has combined nationalism and large capital will also result in Ukraine losing its independence today because of what Yushchenko is doing. That is why we Communists today say that we must stop this madness. But we also address our constituents: we must understand with you that this madness is possible only because we have not shown our human wisdom during the elections on 30 September last year. It was we, the Communists of Ukraine, who warned that the early elections would not end on 30 September, which had been held last year. They didn't need to be Yashchenka, they were needed to cover.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u13	I ask you to finish, Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u14	The real goals are the Fascisms of Society, the Nationalist Ideology of Planting and, of course, of that.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u15	Let me finish for 10 more seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u16	And the last thing you have to do. Indeed, the main thing must be done: to complete immediate political reform, especially in the part that the Constitution needs to be changed – to abolish the presidency, we see what this is leading to, we must begin the process of impeachment today. We have every reason to argue: President Yushchenko is a criminal, and we must begin an impeachment procedure against President Yushchenko and thus begin a procedure to remove him from power and free Ukraine from this nationalist durman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u17	Vladimir Litwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u18	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, men of honor! As you listen to the talk today, you will inevitably come to the conclusion that it is obvious that people are more concerned about these processes, the anxiety about the fate of the country, the state of affairs in their families than we are today in the Parliamentary Hall, as representatives of the Ukrainian people. I'd like to say that the honourable colleagues, the positions that we hold, refer to the famous words: the narrow circle of revolutionaries, they're very far away from the people. These problems that we talked about today are terrible far from the people. I'd like to say that we all get letters. Let's see what people are saying that they're asking us to do. And this morning, the faction leaders got a letter from the village of Knajichi, and I'll read it. “ The time has come to turn to you and to express all that has hurt us in our souls, the common people, the Ukrainians, the patriots of our Ukraine. Since 2004, when we Ukrainian citizens have rebelled against lies, hypocrisy, corruption, against what we, the common Ukrainians, have prevented us from living in a normal, civilized European state, we have believed you. But you have betrayed us, and nothing has changed for today.” This is a sentence for all of us. I want to speak today on behalf of those people I met last week in three areas of Ukraine, and I met in the villages, and I met on the steps near the district cultural buildings, and I spoke on behalf of those people who are standing near the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and to whom no one is concerned. And this is Rowenkovsky City Association of Coal Disability. It was a very hot law, but they didn't think of it. I'll read them to you in the original language. Listen, please. “We demand assistance in the restoration of rights lost by persons with disabilities in connection with the organization of the Social Insurance Fund for Accidents. Prior to the organization of the Social Insurance Fund, the lost income or part of it was paid in full by the owner in accordance with the rate of loss of professional capacity, i.e. without regard to the amount of the State disability pension, and regardless of the other types of pensions, earnings and scholarships received by the victims. The owner compensated for the loss of profits and did not include damages to the State's disability pension. As a result of the organization of the Social Insurance Fund for Accidents, our material security has deteriorated considerably, as if the victim, at the same time as the monthly insurance, was granted a disability pension due to the same accident, their amount should not exceed the average monthly income that the victim had prior to the damage to health. We believe that such treatment of persons with disabilities is contrary to article 22 of the Ukrainian Constitution.” Further, distinguished colleagues, by text. We're talking a lot here about whether they're violating the Constitution, whether it's the President or the other parties, and why don't we see what's breaking the Constitution with regard to the people, the people we've sworn to serve. Next question. I want to say, for example, at a meeting with the people of the village of Chernobai, the village of the city. More loyally, the towns of the city type of Blackbai, the towns of the city type Big Bodka, the people in the open text say that they are taking the land away from them. In doing so, local leaders, who cynically take not only crops but land from their relatives, are telling us that we must adopt a set of laws, how to adapt Ukraine’s agriculture to the conditions of the WTO and adapt nothing will ever happen! So let's make the decisions that we've been proposing and talking about. These would be the decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Let me finish. They all did.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u19	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u20	I want to say what people in the village of the Grand Sambir of the Sumu district think. Examples like that, respected colleagues who don't bake here at the Supreme Council, but who bake a man. Receipt: To add 23 kips to the utility. This message has to be paid for by a bracelet of twenty. How Can I Survive a Retirement? Next, an inheritance form: a man dies, a wife cannot form an inheritance, she lives in a foreign territory. A decision that has long been made cannot be made! Because we have to pay twice what this house is worth. Another moment is retirement. Retirement. They place each pensioner culturally in an envelope, and they take an envelope of fifty, a bracelet of thirty. Retired says I have no one to write letters to. But it says, you figure out how many retirees are getting a pension in envelopes, and who's earning it? For them, the bracelet of fifty is a large sum of money. And let's actually say that people think about tariffs, about prices. Prices seem to have stopped. But let's actually see what prices and how to survive them. And we're competing here against someone, and they'll say it better against each other. Let's move on. Sales prices. The price of milk is rising, and the purchase prices of dairy products are falling from people. Here's a quote: Let's react. There's a law that stipulates how much, a draft law, how much milk products are to be sold, and how much a percentage should cost the milk that comes from cooking. Let's make this decision. And it's going to be a market law. And one more thing. Horol, a working group of the Horol Milk Conservative. There were three of them all over the Soviet Union who produced mixtures for children. Today, there are 600 tons of dry milk in the factory. Russia got into a fight, Russia didn't take milk. Where's that milk coming from? The other one. In order for these children to take the supermarket, it takes only one place to pay for the package, 25,000 bracelets. Let's make a decision and make the right arrangements. Dear colleagues, and to be completed. I think those debates and those scenes of jealousy that appear, they show one thing: that we are more concerned about who will sit, who will stand over whom, and not what the Supreme Council should be absolutely working. That's what we call it. And there's a famous principle: we don't know what color the cat is -- the main thing is to catch the mouse. This responsible function of the Supreme Council is not being dealt with completely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u21	Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, to agree on the schedule of today's meeting and to take all the factions' proposals into account, I'm not offering for an hour, but for 30 minutes, we'll be there in 30 minutes, and we'll come to my office to consult on how we'll live.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u22	Dear colleagues, we continue our plenary session. Peter Mikolaiovich and I have consulted and asked that we stop imitating Parliament's work, because now it's about the fact that until the formed coalition, we're trying, sorry, to "screw out" the bill in order to have a successful vote. But until the formation of the coalition, or by the time of the dissolution of the Ukrainian Parliament, we have the opportunity to adopt those bills, which have been in place for decades, not for decades, but for five years, on the shelves of the Ukrainian Parliament. So that's what's proposed. It's number one. Today, it is suggested that we go back to the draft road traffic bill, which was not supported, remember? So the next proposal, to vote on it in the second reading, there are a number of provisions that need to be redrafted in the third reading and sent for third reading and during this week we will vote on it as a whole. The other one. The draft Law on Legal Acts, this is Alexander Volodymyrovich's law and Roman Mikhajlovich Zvarič's, they will have a thorough report from this to regulate issues of the issuing and registration of legal acts in general. The third, very important, is the Presidential Bill. We were able to convince and vote for the Presidential Bill, the draft Amnesty Law. So we're going to suggest that we put it in general first in the agenda. Is there a jeweler? None. Are you his first deputy? Where's the boss? Busy? It's okay. He'll be out soon. Question three. Draft Act amending the Notaryate Act, Question four. The draft Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine is about the enforcement of decisions by arbitral tribunals. Next. The second reading of a bill to amend some of Ukraine's laws on the promotion of construction is now an urgent problem, because the real estate market is in an extremely difficult state, 0883, Yuri Sergiyovich Serbin approached our colleague, so Volodymyr. And ratifications of two. This is the tariff of the agreement between the Kabmin and the Federal Council of the Swiss Confederation on Exchange of Internships and the ratification of the memorandum of understanding concerning the coordinated development of the Black Sea District Motorway. Colleagues, I now propose a general list to vote in favour of the schedule. There's no people? There was a lack of interest in the work of the Ukrainian Parliament. Colleagues, I suggest, therefore, that I vote in favour of the agenda: first, 1343, 1343-1; second, 2280, but it is being considered first; third, 1177, 1425, 1425, 1425-1, 2195, 2374 is notariat, then 1399 is arbitral courts, 0883 is construction, 0043 is the ratification of the exchange of interns, 00 44 is the highway of the Black Sea District and the return to consideration of the previously unsupported Ukrainian Road Traffic Act. We've just made up our minds. Colleagues, let's go on the road. Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov I'll give you guys a seat. Wait, we're not done with this, don't run this whole Parliament. Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov, isn't it? So that's the offer. We don't schedule the road until Ephraim shows up, because the faction of the Party of Regions denies road traffic.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u23	We don't object to road traffic, we deny the day-to-day order of issues that are not supported by the majority in the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u24	How are they not supported? We're going to feel whether we support ourselves or not. Okay, you don't want traffic, you don't have to. We just got out of the plenary and agreed to the traffic. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. Anything I quoted without traffic, please vote. Stop. It's a motive. Sign up for motive, three minutes. Yuri Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u25	Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. I give you my word to Hani Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u26	Hanna Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u27	Dear Arsenia Petrovich, fellows of honor! First of all, I ask you to honor the memory of the dead journalists for a moment of silence. I think we should start today's parliamentary session. The other one. I also ask you to consider the Supreme Council's decision to hear the Attorney General of Ukraine in this room with a report on the status of the investigation into the death of Georgia Gongadze. Now, please, let us honor the memory of the fallen journalists for a moment of silence.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u28	Dear colleagues, today is the day of George Gongadze's death. So I ask you to honor Georgia Gongadze, not all journalists. Please sit down. 19 of us have a day of memory for all journalists. Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov, if possible, then you will have a word on the Road Traffic Act, if you wish. Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u29	Dear colleagues, I have come to realize that the stumbling block for today's approval of the agenda is the road traffic bill. I think it's just a bill that shouldn't cause an allergy because everyone understands what's going on on the road. But I can't help but talk about other things. You know, there's a lot of demand for drivers. Yesterday, in Kiev, after 18 hours, all the governors of the State Automobile Inspection disappeared from all the crossings of the city center. And it went on, and I was a witness, until 8:30 or two and a half hours, they just didn't work. Then half of the nine slowly began to gather and the “insidious ” began to carry out their duties. [[Russian]] I think the Supreme Council should initiate consideration of the issue of police work, not just drivers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u30	Kilincarov. Alexandrovska, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u31	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues! I was surprised by the point: the list of bills that we are invited to discuss. Today, Ukraine is experiencing a really difficult political moment. It is a matter of the need for a new person of Parliament, to create a new majority in Parliament, which must assume responsibility for the future development of our State. It seems to me that there are issues that would enable Ukrainian citizens to understand: our Parliament is capable of such consolidation, we have a majority that will take responsibility, or virtually does not. And then all people must understand that early elections are necessary. There are issues raised by the Communist faction. These bills were introduced by Communist leader Petr Nikolaevich Simonenko. It is a bill on the foundations of domestic and foreign policy, a bill on Ukraine's off-block status, a bill on Ukraine's relations today and NATO. Here, I think these issues need to be discussed, voted, and then.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u32	He's stoned.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u33	Kamchatny, Block Timoshenko, Kharkiv district. At some point, we call on everyone to work, work and enact laws. Parliament can work today, we've demonstrated it in the past week. Please stop the debate, let's work.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u34	Colleagues, to talk, talked, and came up with the result they started with. So once again, I'm stressing that the order of the day is extremely difficult to form. And in fact, every bill goes through a very long discussion as to whether it will be supported or not. To the farthest, on the road, the fact that I was informed by the factions has not yet been agreed. So we will try to agree tomorrow on a second reading of the bill. Alexander Sergiyovich's microphone, please, Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u35	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues! I would only make a few adjustments, not because we didn't agree. We have decided to set an agenda for each day of our work. It is my understanding that faction leaders have gathered and agreed on the agenda to date. We don't mind considering other bills, we have a working day tomorrow and tomorrow and so on. And the faction of the Party of the Regions stands ready to consider any bill, including road traffic, which will be put into detention tomorrow by both our experts and those who are required to give an opinion on the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u36	Therefore, colleagues regarding the Road Traffic Bill, tomorrow at the faction leaders' meeting, we will make a decision on the format in which we are considering it. I ask the apparatus to prepare, immediately, both the explanatory notes and the conclusions of the legal department and other authorities regarding the bill. That's the second reading. Second, regarding the decision to hear the Attorney General’s report proposed by the German People’s Deputies, we will also discuss tomorrow at the faction leaders’ meeting and decide when to do so. And please report, Alexander Sergiyovich, to the National MP, Hanna Herman. Third, I go back to the order of the day that is proposed. The first is Bill 2280, Presidential, “On Amnesty”; the second is on legal acts and alternatives – 1343-1 Lavrinović and Zvarič; the third is a series of bills; there are six authors here; this is the draft Act amending the Act “On Notariat”, they have alternatives, from 1177 to the text you have; then, 1399 is about the decisions of the arbitral tribunals; then, 0883 is about the promotion of construction; then, 0043 and 0044 are two ratifications. [[1343]] Do you copy, colleagues? Please vote for this schedule. [[11:31:33]] For 332 Decision taken. I'm announcing the first draft. Let me show you through the factions. Ukraine’s Amnesty Law, 2280 Report to the head of the Department of State on the execution of the sentence of Mikola Petrovich Iltay.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u37	Reverend Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished national deputies! For your consideration, the Ukrainian President's draft Amnesty Act is proposed. The bill has 16 articles. The first three envision the release from punishment by a clear circle of convicts. Article 4 reduces by half the unrepentant portion of the sentence to be imposed. The currentity of this bill is based, first of all, on the humane principles of our nation. Amnesty should therefore extend to the most vulnerable and socially vulnerable categories of convicts, namely, minors, women, older men, war veterans, disabled persons, and so on. It's different. Taking into account the criminogenic composition of the convicted and appropriate judicial practice. At present, 147,700 persons are being held in criminal services. That is why it is suggested that amnesty be applied exclusively to convicts who do not pose a significant social danger. The main criteria for applying amnesty under the bill are, above all, objective factors: severe illness, underage or old age, disability, and so forth. The bill provides for the removal of about 4,000 people and over 600 convicted persons to reduce their sentences. The bill clearly defines those who do not have amnesty. This includes article 6 of the 2001 Criminal Code and the 2001 Criminal Code. Yes, they are: sentenced to permanent deprivation of liberty; those who have previously been convicted repeatedly of committing serious or particularly serious crimes, for which amnesty or pardon has been applied over the past 10 years, regardless of the removal or elimination of the criminal record; those convicted of committing particularly serious crimes, such as murder, banditry, the creation of a criminal organization, robbery, and so on. The project takes into account the longstanding practice of amnesty in Ukraine, and its acceptance will not lead to a deterioration of the criminogenic state situation. The implementation of this law is based on the courts. The bill provides for the obligation of retaliation to the executive branch. To ensure timely counting of amnesty - free persons, their household and working arrangements, including those of minors. Heading to institutions of social protection for the disabled and the disabled who do not have parents to take them for their maintenance and the sick to health care facilities. The adoption of the Act does not provide for additional costs of state spending, but will allow improvements to the social and health conditions for the detention of prisoners and prisoners. Your Honor, please support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u38	Colleagues, we sign up for a question-answer. Mikola Kulczynski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u39	Mikola Kulczynski, “Our Ukraine”. Dear reporter, you can say more specifically whether they belong to amnesty, amnesty, crime, drug possession, and distribution. Are such people subject to amnesty or not? Because for me, this crime is unforgivable and no amnesty is deserved by these people.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u40	I'd like to make a little bit more specific about the categories that fall under the amnesty. To be freed from punishment in the form of deprivation of liberty for a certain period of time and from other punishments that are not related to the deprivation of liberty, persons convicted of deliberate crimes, for which the law provides for less severe punishment than the deprivation of liberty for a period of no more than five years and for crimes committed inadvertently, for which the law provides for less severe punishment than the deprivation of liberty for a term of no more than ten years. First. Persons who were underage at the time of the commission of the crime. One. Women. Two. A person who is not deprived of parental rights, who, on the day that this law becomes effective, has children who are under 18 years of age or children with disabilities regardless of their age. Four. The first, second, and third groups, as well as those with active tuberculosis, cancer third, and fourth stages of international classification. AIDS is the third clinical stage in the World Health Organization. But other serious diseases that prevent punishment. Fifth. The men who reached the age of 60 on the day of the Act's entry into force. Six. War veterans. Seven.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u41	I ask you just one minute to answer, because there are many questions. Upstairs Timoshenko's Yulia Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u42	Deputy Upstairs, Timoshenko Street. Dear reporter! The law provides for the release of a very large category of people with tuberculosis into cancer. I have a question: does this bill provide for any economic sanctions for the treatment of these people after their release? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u43	I've already told you which categories of patients are subject to this law. They are practically sick people who can no longer be cured in our institutions. So after their release, if they're subject to the Amnesty Act, they'll be sent to the health care facilities of the Ministry of Health, we'll take care of them, we'll take care of them with us, we'll take them to the health care facilities of the Ministry of Health, and they'll continue their treatment there.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u44	An oil man.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u45	Oil, Timoshenko Street. Dear reporter! Because we have a strange and sad practice here when we're considering laws without texting, because physically the MPs can't get the text. So please tell the MPs, I'm for those people who listen to us, is there an exemption from this bill for crimes involving the death of two or more people? I mean, it's specifically about both deliberate and deliberate crimes, if there are people killed there -- is this crime falling under this amnesty or not? If a gas explosion like Dnipropetrovsk and there are dozens of people who have died, this crime falls under the amnesty, even if it's not intentional or not? And if it falls under amnesty, and then it's freed from punishment -- then you might immediately know why then to develop traffic movements and laws, and increase sanctions just for what? If amnesty frees us from the punishment of such people.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u46	I'm going to say they don't fit.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u47	Vetwicki.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u48	Deputy Vetwicki, Timoshenko Street. Dear reporter! Have you counted, say, the number of people who will be released from amnesty?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u49	That's how they calculated it. 4,000 persons and 600 persons will be released from prison. It's a sentence of limitations of will.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u50	Landik.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u51	Thank you. Landik. Party of regions. I have been working in these bodies for more than 20 years, and I know what a prison system is and how all the convicts who are there, where they are under conditions, lack of work, normal nutrition and so on. They're waiting for release. Even more conditional. But in the run-up to the elections, we have our leaders in the country who can initiate any law and enforce what the convicted have done in the electoral system. And let's start to look good even in front of them, let everyone go and everything. I am particularly concerned that criminal cases are to be closed, which are open and people have not yet been proved by the court that they are being accused. Maybe there's killers and rapists and so on. I mean, I think the Party of the Regions will support this bill in its first reading and further consider it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u52	I'd like to say that people are really waiting for this law, and it's people who are acting normally, who have not committed particularly dangerous crimes. Indeed, about one thousand persons will also be amnesty from investigators, these and those who are in court, who are in charge of the investigation. But I don't think it's some kind of tragedy, but it's just that we have a lot and a lot of insulators right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u53	Last question, Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u54	Please tell me what is being asked, briefly three questions. What calls for the adoption of this bill? I mean, what's the update of this bill that doesn't fit in with this practice that has been done so far. The other one. The goal, of course, is amnesty, is not only to promote social adaptation of previously convicted people, but to prevent crimes, by the way, to inform you about what my colleague Upper actually asked, we have a program to combat tuberculosis funded by only 56 percent. I mean, will this bill help prevent crime? And the third question. After all, you answer the question asked by your colleague Kulczytski, you left him, or are amnesty for persons convicted of involving minors in drug use. It's a crime for which you have to cut off your hands and your head, not to let them go. Are drug addicts, drug dealers, or amnesties? Thank you. Three questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u55	The first question is why this law is adopted. This law is adopted once a year until Independence Day. We passed that law last year, last year, so it's already a practice. I think it's appropriate and allows us to release some of the convicts who are being held in custody. I already replied that I had counted the number of people who are subject to the law. You've seen that there are no people here who involve minors in the use of drugs.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u56	Thank you. Please sit down. Vladimir Romanovich Moysik.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u57	Dear Head! Dear fellow national MPs! I'd like to start with a report from the committee addressing my colleague Jaroslav Suhogo. In Ukraine there is a basic law on the application of amnesty in Ukraine. He predicts that amnesty is approved no more than once a year. That is, we are obliged each year to adopt a new law on the application of amnesty, the last law that was and is still in force in July of last year. This year has been 60 years since the proclamation of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and this year, in fact, the President's first draft of the law has submitted, usually these projects are submitted by either the government or you, the honourable colleagues of the national MPs. As the reporter said, the law does extend to those who have committed minor crimes and are the least socially protected, women, pregnant women, minors, persons with disabilities of war and work, and so forth. And there is a severe ban on those who have committed serious crimes or with severe consequences. So there is Parliament's will and pardon, and amnesty are, in fact, acts of pardon, and Parliament is determined for what crimes we give social relief for which we do not give. Thus, amnesty foresees both the closure of a criminal case and the complete release from punishment, and the reduction of unspent punishment or substitution, both softer and more. I'm going to say that the law is passed in the spirit of the Ukrainian tradition of amnesty, and the will of the MPs to add or exclude some crime that falls within or falls within the amnesty. Thank you for your attention. The committee asks for support in the first reading, and for two weeks we expect legislative proposals from you, your esteemed colleagues. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u58	Can I have your three-minute question-answer, please? Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u59	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Romanovich, I have such a specific question. What is your committee, Ukraine’s National Deputies, working on a profile committee, amnesty issues, and the pardon committee working with the President of Ukraine? Because the bills we're looking at how they're being implemented, how much we can control the implementation of the legislative provisions that are being voted on here in this room. You can agree that this is of great importance even in the following year. And you said right, we can make corrections, and we can make comments based on the practice that we have or are not involved in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u60	Dear Jaroslav Mikhajlovich, let me tell you that if there were some 230 thousand people in our Ukraine for 1991, this figure has now reached 120. This is the result of the state's criminal policy, including the means of amnesty and pardon. You asked the right question. Amnesty is carried out through the law by Parliament. And according to the Constitution, the President of Ukraine pardons. So the Committee has no direct attitude towards pardon, I'll just point out that I, as a deputy, am the Deputy Head of the Commission on Pardons to the President of Ukraine. And believe me, there are gathered, the head of the commission is Levko Grigorovich Lukyanenko, the deputy chief of the Supreme Court, the deputy minister of the interior. And we're trying to do it in a human way.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u61	Celebrities of the Olinick.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u62	Unfortunately, Vladimir Romanovich did not hear from the previous reporter the answer to his question, and he was never able to answer it. How does the law determine whether or not an amnesty crime involves the death of two or more people or one person? And it's about unwitting crimes, i.e. accidents, accidents on mines, crimes where houses explode, fall. Do these categories of crimes fall under amnesty or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u63	I'll tell you that there's an appropriate article 6 in the draft law. And whether a crime is deliberate or reckless or a mixed form of guilt, if two or more people die, man does not amnesty.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u64	Katerina Samuelk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u65	I heard you said that this bill also applies to disabled people, so I understand the Great Homeland War, so you told the invalids of the Great Homeland War and other categories that are, in fact, benefits in our country, because you have to give them a great feat. But I, for example, have you probably already calculated, if this law is passed, how many people with disabilities of the Great Homeland War fall under this law? Something I highly doubt is that this category, first of all, is either in the SISO or there is punishment, and I doubt that these moral people have actually committed some kind of offence. But if you have that kind of data, I'd like to get an answer, really, how many disabled people do we have in the Great National War, because maybe you mean another one, how many participants in the Great National War, how many participants in the Orange Revolution?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u66	Dear Mrs. Catherine, I wasn't in the wars, I was in the amnesty act. But I will tell you with regret that the disabled, the veterans of that terrible war, are becoming small and, in fact, God is pleased that they are still behind bars. But if that happens somewhere, the law will protect them. They will not be imprisoned, imprisoned, or anything else. Well, it's a law to be stipulated.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u67	Volodymyr Romanovich, one question with your permission last. Please tell me, do you offer only the first reading and send it to the second?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u68	I suggest in the first reading, because I say so. I've already been approached orally by a fellow MP, for example, to avoid amnesty for electoral crimes that have been committed at different times. So there will be legislative initiatives, and the term prescribed by the Rules should be given so that MPs can exercise the right of their proposals. That's what the committee thinks.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u69	I heard. Thank you. Please sit down. Colleagues, there's an offer to sign up for only factions. Is it supported? I'm asking the factions to sign up. Please, Olena Lukash. You'll be out of town? Out of the way, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u70	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we cannot help but congratulate the President's amnesty bill on the occasion of the 60th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. But human rights do not extend only to those whom we want to amnesty. And on this point, we have a few warnings and observations. In accordance with article 1 of the project, the persons convicted of deliberate crimes that are punishable by law less severely than a term of imprisonment of no more than 5 years are liable to complete and unconditional release; and the crimes committed by negligence, for which the law provides for less severe punishment than the deprivation of liberty for a term of not more than 10 years. These are very serious crimes. And we have to agree with the scientific expertise that our faction supports, that the unconditional release from punishment of all the persons mentioned in the article is excessive, because it does not take into account the threefold purpose of punishment set out in article 50 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, including punishment, correction of convicted persons and prevention of new crimes, both convicted persons and others. Such a decision can devalue the very essence of the Amnesty Institute, and therefore it would be appropriate for us to foresee in a draft that the amnesty law exemption from crimes that have caused serious consequences is difficult, possible only if convicted at least a fraction of the penalty is imposed, for example, a third is a term of basic punishment. In particular, it is necessary to note that in the event of the adoption of the specified project as a basis, it is necessary to include in article 6 of the draft regulation that amnesty is not distributed to persons who have been criminalized for violating traffic safety rules or for the use of a means of transport by a person who controls such a means as to cause the death of a victim or the death of several persons. [[This is the answer of the Holy Spirit of Olives.]] Today, we are invited to amnesty these murderers, part two, third, of article 286 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code. In support of the initiative, let us also note that according to article 5 of the Bill, persons who do not have a court sentence are exempt from criminal liability. Thus, criminal cases involving the conduct of knowledge bodies, judicial investigations, are amnesty, not dealt with by courts in which sentences are not legally enforceable. It is impossible to anoint a person when you do not even know if he is guilty and how serious a crime he has committed and whether he may be subject to amnesty at all. These are the three observations of our faction: the first is the inability to be unconditionally released from punishment, the second is the inability to amnesty for crimes involving drugs and trafficking, and the third is the inability to release and amnesty persons, according to which there is no trial, i.e. no guilt, and.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u71	Olive, please, Svetoslav. Out of the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u72	Sveslav Olijnik, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko”. Really. Colleagues, amnesty is a normal legal, democratic institution that operates in every country, in every legal system, and it is in principle an act of such a kind of pardon, not in a legal sense, but in the sense of Parliament's will that some of the people who commit crimes and fall within certain categories defined by law may be released on time from punishment. That is why the faction of the “Julia Tymoshenko Block” will support the draft bill, but only in the first reading because really before this bill, it needs serious committee development and preparation for second reading for the very reasons that my colleague, Olena Lukash, has just noted. The point is that Parliament must clearly determine by which categories of crimes such a release from punishment does not have to take place. Before what my colleague said, I want to add that the same thing needs to be determined, for example, by technological disasters, because it's a scourge today, and there must be punishment for that. I think it's too early to get rid of the punishment where it is, because of some technical negligence, we have people dying. In the same way, there have been cases of arson in the country where the district attorneys, in Odessa, for example, are burning, the land in Dnipropetrovsk is burning, and the tax homes are burning with documentation. Obviously, it is also too early to set free from punishment for these categories of crimes. That's why, once again, "The Yulia Tymoshenko Block" supports the draft in the first reading, and for the second reading, I think it makes sense for the MPs to work with proposals on specific standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u73	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u74	Yuri Karmazin, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”, a party of supporters of the country. Ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that this document should be accepted, but only in the first reading should it be accepted. I agree with the thoughts now expressed by the previous speakers: both Olena Lukash and Rev. They rightly asked the question that he cannot now be subjected to amnesty for the crimes that have caused, including the loss of lives. And this is articles 119, 120, 134, 141, 243, 270, 286, 414th. Absolutely unacceptable, and I propose that I simply delete the article of the fifth bill, which is now briefly discussed by colleagues. I also propose that, in part one of the first article of the seventh, the words “on their own initiative” be deleted, that the court should consider the matter on its own initiative, so it sounds in a sentence. The question of the application of amnesty is decided by the court on its own initiative, the prosecutor's initiative, the authorities of inquiry and the judicial investigation. [[Comma]] Never at the time of the adoption of these laws did we write that on our own initiative of court. This is the fault of those who wrote this law. It's got to be out of here. Next. I believe that article 13 in this law, which states that persons who are exempt under this law from punishment are exempt from both basic and additional punishments. How will we be freed from such punishment as confiscation? With what kind of favor will we free those who committed crimes by abuse of power or by excess of authority or by abuse of power or by exploiting their ability to engage in certain activities? We have to assume that amnesty is not an act that just destroys all the judgments of the courts, and that's just an act of humanism in general. And from that we have to assume that we can't get rid of additional punishments. In general, I want to say that this amnesty bill is extremely prepared. Well, "liberal" doesn't come back to me to say, but let's just say, in some cases, it's thoughtless. These are the questions that I just said, the questions that our colleagues are talking about right now. So these bills certainly need to be considered in two or maybe in three readings. And it is imperative to add "unacceptable application to those who have violated election rights". Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u75	Oleg Zarubinski. I continue to hold meetings in the voting procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u76	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear colleagues, I would actually like to think that this bill should be considered after the Road Traffic Bill. I want to explain why. It is precisely in this bill, the Road Traffic Act, that there is a much more severe punishment for those people who take away the lives of our citizens, who are drunk, especially our drivers. This bill, The Amnesty, provides in one of the segments, one of the articles amnesty to people, including those who were in a drunken state, injured or killed the passersby, killed the people. It seems to me that this is not an act of humanism, which is an act of contempt and abuse, a violation of those who have become victims of these drunk drivers. So it seems to me that given this position and a few other positions and a few other positions that my colleagues have said could be voted for later, already in the second reading. I think we should give a move to this bill, vote it out in the first reading. But to remove the standards where a person needs and deserves punishment, not humanity. Because in addition, the state is not only an instrument of power, it is also an instrument of violence. Violence against those who rob other innocent people of their lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u77	Dear colleagues, the time for discussion is over. Attention! A proposal to adopt the bill will be put to the vote. I'll say it as a basis. Attention! What are you talking about? A whole series of suggestions were made to the bill. They can be divided into two units. The first block is a classic: a thief should be in prison. And now the second block. We always end up with a bag of potatoes being planted for five years and a few billion dollars of budget money being given orders and rewards. In view of this, I ask for the second reading of this bill to be finalized and submitted to Parliament for consideration during the current week, a bill for the purpose of second reading and in general. Attention! Dear colleagues, I am voting on the adoption in the first reading of Bill No. 2280, introduced by the President of Ukraine, of the Ukrainian Amnesty Act. Please vote. [[12:02:50]] For 411 Dear colleagues, the bill in the first reading has been adopted. Break to 12.32 is announced. And after the break, I'm going to ask Alexander Volodymyrovich to hold a meeting because I have a meeting with the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, the break time is up, we continue the morning session. Please. Draft Law on Legal Acts, No. 1343, is under consideration. I invite you to the report of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Roman Mikhailovich Zvarič. MP Zvaric is missing. Please report to the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u79	Dear colleagues, from this issue we have two bills. There's Bill 1343-1. I invite you to report to the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, National Deputy Lavrinovich Alexander Volodymyrovich. There's Roman Mikhailovich. Roman Mikhailovich, the entire Supreme Council has been waiting, and we're happy, he's already here. Roman Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u80	Dear Mikolo Volodymyrovich, distinguished Alexandre Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues, sorry I'm late, but the elevator is stuck. Dear colleagues, your opinion is proposed by the draft Ukrainian Law on legal and regulatory acts. This document has a very long history, and unfortunately, it has to be found that this story is somewhat painful. If I am not mistaken, the law itself was passed with that name again in the second call of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, then it became an object, again if I am not mistaken, of the repeated application by the President of Ukraine of his veto. And such a law has never come into force. I would like to point out immediately that the bill is not of a political nature. If I were to define it with one word or another, I would say that its content is more of a legal process. Despite the fact that most, almost all, if any, articles of this bill are of a procedural nature, I will still allow it to be found that it is in the order of such important legal acts of Ukraine as, for example, the Civil Procedure Code or the Criminal Procedure Code. I mean, it should be noted that this law is very important to our state for the purpose of regulating and streamlining the system of legislation that operates in Ukraine. The law itself is designed to remove gaps associated with norm - making activity. The project proposes to address the issues of types of hierarchies and the legal force of legal acts, the general principles of their preparation, acceptance, take-up and, in particular, the public registration and official publication. The integration and adaptation processes in the Ukrainian society require a review of the preparation of draft legislation with a view to bringing Ukraine's legislation closer to European legislation. This goal is also defined in this draft law. That's exactly why when this bill was drafted, there was a foreign experience of standardization. The draft act itself consists of 10 chapters. I'm going to define very briefly what is the meaning and what is the main purpose of each of these chapters. The first section of the project contains a position on the scope of the law and provides basic terms and concepts that are used in normative activities. The second section of the project contains the positions concerning the types of legal force and the hierarchy of legal acts, as well as each type of legal act. I'd like to put a little bit of emphasis on the concept here and, by the way, I'd even say, a requirement to define the hierarchy of legal acts, particularly at the point of law enforcement, including, above all, at the level of the courts of Ukraine. Section 3 of the project sets general requirements for standardization techniques. So today, we don't have a defined approach to standardization technology itself. And that's why there's a lot of broadness in this issue. Because the appearance itself, I would say, the legal appearance of one act or another is so profoundly different. The fourth section of the draft itself provides for the procedure for the consideration and adoption of the draft regulatory act. Chapter 5 contains provisions on the requirements for the signature of legal acts. And again, this is a position that, because it's unregulated, it's very often raised, I put it mildly, in relation to the need to sign one or the other legislation. Chapter six provides for the order of operation of legal acts and their implementation. The seventh section of the project sets out the procedure for the national registration of regulations. In particular, it determines that a legal act takes effect only after it has been registered by a designated executive authority. The sixth section of the project provides for the order of official publication and the validity of legal acts. We now have an exclusive constitutional distribution in legal circulation, which defines the very general order of taking into account the validity of the laws of Ukraine adopted by the Supreme Council and signed by the President. Clearly, this order of action should be much more detailed. This target is being pursued in the project that I brought to your attention. I'm not going to cite the different legal acts that now, in one form or another, regulate the subject of knowledge that is proposed to be regulated by this bill. Let me just say, for example, that there's a separate decree by the President of Ukraine on standard design technology. It is clear that in a normal state of law this issue should be settled, not by decrees of the President, but by the law of Ukraine, which is proposed in this draft law. There's also a separate decree by the President of Ukraine that regulates the procedure for entering into force of individual legal acts. Again, it is risky to say that, in my opinion, it is a matter that should not be regulated by the President's decrees, which, however, is forced to issue such decrees in view of the fact that the issue is not settled by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, but therefore the responsibilities of the legislator to regulate this area. The implementation of this law, I have to say this for the transcript, because there is an appropriate regulatory norm, it does not require additional material or other costs. Please have your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u81	Please sign up for a question to the reporter. People's delegate to Traiduk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u82	National Deputy Trajduk, Timoshenko Yulia Block. I give my word to Oliynik Svetoslav Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u83	Dear Roman Mikhailovich, as I understand from your report, you foresee the moment when the legal and legal act is enacted when it is registered with the Ministry of Justice as I have correctly understood, right? Is the envisaged registration of the acts of the President of Ukraine and the acts of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine any procedure for this registration, and accordingly, when they are put into effect, that is the first question. The other one. What about the actions of the Attorney General? Does it cover the bill you propose to the Attorney General? Because they are not registered anywhere today, but they are actually bylaws. And the third question is whether there is a theoretical dispute about whether or not there is a responsibility for the violation of the law itself, not the requirements of the law. So once again, liability is legal.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u84	I got it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u85	Let me finish the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u86	Legal responsibility now arises for breaking the law. In practice, however, questions arise when the requirements of a legal act are violated. Is it the responsibility, or is it your bill that solves this issue?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u87	I'll start with the last one. Thank you for that question, they're meaningful, they're absolutely appropriate. First of all, with regard to sanctions for non-compliance with the registration requirement for one or another of the regulations, this cannot be the subject of this law, because of course it carries much more than I would say, the basic character. Clearly, this should be a separate position and, by the way, it exists, as far as I can remember, either in the Code of Administrative Justice or in the Criminal Code even, but it is usually the legislator’s will to decide which sanctions. In any case, it's also established by an appropriate procedure, which has become effective under separate categories of sub-legislative acts and is only then considered to have taken effect after their registration in the appropriate, defined body of state authority. To this day, executive power. Today it is the Ministry of Justice and Authority, the territorial organs of justice. Of course, according to individual legal acts, for example, I'm going to name a very specific example of Kiev's tariffs that.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u88	Let me finish my answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u89	which were determined by the Kiev City Head, since there are certain requirements laid down by law regarding the definition of these tariffs and those requirements were not met by the Kyiv City Authority, the Ministry of Justice or, more faithfully in this case, the administration of justice refused to register such an act and of course it could not be considered as valid. As far as the acts issued by the prosecutors are concerned, I do not see the possibility that such an act could bear the norm of force, it can bear solely procedural force, because the prosecutor has essentially one fundamental task, or to support the state's charge in the court of a person who is charged with an open indictment in a criminal case, or to take a decision to refuse support in a court of law for such an accusation. This is a procedural decision, not a norm. And as far as standards are concerned, I've already talked about the rules of legal regulations and when they're considered to be valid. This position is contained in this draft law.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u90	The national deputy Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u91	Dear reporter, of course, there's a certain amount of absurdity here. After hundreds of Ukrainian laws have been passed, Presidential decrees, Cabinet orders, Supreme Council decrees, we're only finally doing what they say in the locations and statutes of their hierarchy. But, God, he still needs to be done, and such a bill needs to be supported. However, I must determine whether to vote in favour of this bill or not. So, Roman, I'll tell you, I've never seen such a vast, large and, in many places, a fair system of observations from our Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council. You may have seen it in many pages and literally in each article. Do you think that these comments should be taken into account during our next second reading or not? How do you feel about this? Help me identify myself.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u92	Mr. Volodymyr, don't put me in a very sad position when I'm forced from the high court of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to give a legal comment on the quality and content of the findings of the Scientific and Experimental Authority regarding not only my bill but also an alternative bill to be presented by Alexander Volodymyrovich. I'm not doing this right now. I'm just going to stop at what I think a part of these comments is that they're just going to be taken into account in the second reading. And most of these observations are probably evidence of a certain, I would say, not entirely prepared from a professional point of view in terms of analysis, both of my own and of another bill. But in any case, there are some good points. I think it's very easy to count them in the second reading. And let me also point out right now that I don't see any reason why, no matter what project is going to be adopted in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u93	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u94	In order to be useful and positive at the disposal of one project or another in order to be able to carry it out, it should be brought out quickly for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the second reading mode.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u95	Thank you, Roman Mikhailovich. Please sit down.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u96	I invite you to report on an alternative bill on normative legal acts, 1343-1, First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Lavrinovich Alexandr Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u97	Dear colleagues! This bill took a long way to the parliamentary rostrum. The existence of two alternative projects today is obviously simply a demonstration of how much time in Ukraine different legal schools and the various convenings of parliament, and the various compositions of the government have been preparing this draft law. If you looked closely at the text of the projects, you might see some hereditary things that are in one and the other. The answer to that question is very simple. That bill, which I now have the honour to introduce to you, is developed later, mostly by the same working group and the same experts who were preparing the previous draft. This project has been developed in the walls of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine as a hereditary thing that has come from this session hall since 1997, when we first tried to systematize laws and determine how they should be developed, conduct appropriate expertise, approve, change, lose validity in parts or in general. This is an important project that has to answer a lot of questions. I think that all of you in your life have had to face the fact that a branch instruction of some or many people working on behalf of the State is perceived as a higher act of all laws and even the Constitution of Ukraine. We should, after all, clearly lay down this hierarchy of subordinations of normative acts and determine what moment the validity of an act should precede it. How can the publication of acts be combined with the various departments that issue joint acts. What is the territory where it is compulsory to observe the act that is being issued? What time limits should be set for different types of acts, because they are large enough, starting with orders that are approved at the local level, statutes, instructions and documents that are normative in activities, virtually every executive body. I'm going after Roman Mikhailovich's presented project, and I'm not going to represent what's the content of the project anymore. This project, which I represent, is a perfect, eventually, form of what was being prepared for adoption in the Ukrainian Parliament for 10 years. And all the questions that apply to both subjects and the procedures that are necessary for a normative act to be considered by an authority or official who has the right to issue it. This also applies, of course, to the system of state registration, which is very important for Ukraine to have a single legal field, and there is no conflict of norms not only in the hierarchy of normative acts, but also in the horizontal level, which, unfortunately, we still have enough often at the level of the laws of Ukraine, not to mention the normative acts. We need to take a step that will make it much more effective, clearer procedure to work on normative acts, which will make it possible to use each rule in accordance with its purpose and to remove the uncertainty that, unfortunately, is sometimes used, including in the resolution of administrative, civil and even criminal disputes that arise in the courts of Ukraine. I would ask that we take the first step today to adopt this bill, realizing that every year life is moving forward and new circumstances are emerging that will move us to review one or the other. Therefore, the proposal that we today be able to approve this act in the first reading, and we went out during this month to approve it in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u98	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Please sign up for a question to the reporter. National MP Jaroslav Suhi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u99	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, you can certainly only thank you and colleagues of Zarech Roman Mikhailovich as lawyers, for drafting a law whose need for adoption, you have faithfully said, is long overdue, and needs his society. I have a question. From the point of view of legal standards. Will there be any problems or difficulties in working out this bill on such a schedule? We vote 1343-1 on the basis, and all positive and certainly qualified points 1343 are taken as a footnote to the second reading. I mean, it sounded "alternative" here, you know? If not for the word “alternative”. To what extent could they integrate into each other while we're going to base 1343-1? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u100	Thank you for asking. You know, that's the question that was asked in January of this year, and I took a few steps to get us out of the project today, and it wasn't that word "alternative," because in fact these projects are not alternatives. So I started my report by saying that the project I'm presenting is the next step in improving after what was presented. So I don't see any problem here at all. The Committee on Legal Policy, which will prepare for second reading, will take advantage, I think, of course, of Roman Mikhailovich's proposals, and of the proposals from the Institute of State and Law, from the University of Kiev, he is the National Academy of Law, Jaroslav Wise, from the Institute of Law, which made his proposals to this draft law.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u101	Thank you. National Deputy Cibenko, Communist faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u102	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, well, first of all, of course, the legal instrumentation needs to be improved. I'm looking at these two bills this way, this is to improve the instrumentation of the lawmaker. But I'd like you to emphasize once again, and now this is your opinion that, after all, these two bills, they're alternative or are they mutually complementary? And one more question. Please tell us that it is very common for you to know that today, by means of a legal act to introduce a law, the very contents of the law are inequitable. What must we do to ensure that the law does not violate the law? Because, sadly, this situation is very common today. How can this be prevented?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u103	Thank you for asking. In terms of addition, alternatives can be said to be non-alternative and not complementary. It's just a bill that I'm introducing, developed two years later on the basis of a project reported by Roman Mikhailovich. So this is a completely understandable situation, and it was developed in the same walls, in the same offices as the same professionals. With regard to the problem that you have violated, which, unfortunately, exists in Ukraine, is extremely important. And that's one of the greatest gains that has to be after this law has become effective -- what's going to be problematic enough to make legal regulations conflict with each other, and even more so if a sub-law was in compliance with Ukraine's laws. It was here that Roman Mikhailovich was asked about the responsibility for violating legal and regulatory acts. So we have even a draft law that has the President's comment on the administrative responsibility of officials for these actions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u104	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u105	And I am sure that such responsibility should be with the officials. It cannot be that an order or instruction is being followed or put into conflict with the law. The official must be responsible for this.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u106	Thank you. National Deputy Caplienko, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u107	“Julia Timoshenko’s Block”, Vladimir Kaplienko. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, in accordance with that draft law, we see that this law extends to all legal acts except the Constitution of Ukraine. But the question is, what do we do with those legal acts that have already been adopted? Do you foresee bringing them to the requirements of this law? And the second question. The subject of the standardization excuses the introduction of an electronic digital signature. The next question. So far, there is no electronic signature standard in our country. Please give an answer as to how to get out of this situation. And the last. I ask a brief question to pass on to my colleague, the Saints of Olives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u108	Give me the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u109	Alexander Volodymyrovich, the same question that I asked Roman Mikhailovich, only he misunderstood. This is about acts of the Attorney General, which are not procedural, which are orders, in fact, normative documents, which, for example, determine the procedure for the admission of citizens to the Public Prosecutor's Office, or, for example, the basis for disciplinary responsibility. These acts.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u110	Allow me to finish the questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u111	The Attorney-General's orders fall out of the legal field at all, but in fact they result in legal consequences. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u112	Well, I'll start with the last question. From my point of view, if there are signs of norms in those acts issued by the Attorney General, they must be subject to State registration, as are those of the National Bank, and other bodies that are not part of the executive system. For me, that's for sure. It will be necessary to take a closer look at those articles, if necessary, to make a supplement in this section so that we do not have such a vacuum or free norm-making capacity without State registration and public oversight in accordance with the laws of Ukraine. As far as electronic signature is concerned, it means, of course, that the acquisition of a standard for all of Ukraine, which provides for how normative acts with electronic signatures can function, is possible only if we set such a standard. We already have regulations and laws in Ukraine that regulate the use of electronic signatures. I don't think so.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u113	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u114	I don't think this could be any reason to interfere with the operation of this bill. And the first question was. Oh, with the acts that were adopted earlier. The law, of course, cannot have retroactive force. And, of course, those acts that have been approved, which have become effective, do not need a special audit and bring them into conformity, as far as their preparation is concerned. This can serve only their revisions to comply with the newly adopted acts of the higher legal power, starting with the laws, the President's decrees, the decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers, and so forth.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u115	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Question-answer time is up. Dear colleagues, two fundamental basic bills. We are discussing the matter in full procedure. So the request to register with the factions now, then with the national MPs. Please sign up for the performance. And from the people's deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u116	Writing complete. But before speaking from factions, I invite the head of the Committee on Legal Policy, the committee that prepared these issues for consideration. The word is given to Mishchenk Sergey Mikolayovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u117	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Legal Policy has twice considered at its meeting a bill on legal and regulatory acts introduced by the Ukrainian People's MP, Zvarič Roman Mihajlovich, and an alternative bill introduced by the Ukrainian national deputy Lavrinović Alexander Vladimirovich. [[Registration number 1343]] [[Registration number 1343/1]] A preliminary review of the above-mentioned bills showed that, according to its content, the legal provisions that define the general principles of standardization, the system, the species, the hierarchy of legal acts, the requirements of standard-setting techniques for standard-setting entities in both bills coincide. Law projects have a similar structure. And part of the articles, their final and transitional positions also coincide. In support of the alternative bill 1343/1, introduced by Alexander Lavrinovich, the committee came out of its next advantages. It was more successful than the main draft, which was written in terms of law enforcement. Project 1343-1 pays particular attention to the legal force of international treaties. The Law of Lavrinović normalizes the question of defining parts of the text of the legal act. Individually, it is suggested that the legislative settlement of regulatory proposals, and so forth, should be strengthened. Instead, according to the legal and scientific expertise of the bill, conducted by the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the Institute of Legislation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the leading universities of Ukraine, and the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, both have some shortcomings. At the same time, the Committee on Rules of Procedure, Deputy Ethics and Security of the Supreme Council of Ukraine reached a conclusion that it had sent to the Committee on Legal Policy, which was the basis for the adoption of alternative bill 1343-1, since its position was more comprehensive, logical and consistent. After lengthy and lively discussions, taking into account the scientific and legal conclusions on the drafts, the committee had proposed that the authors should submit a single bill to Parliament, laying the basis for the Lavrinović 1343-1 project. In view of the fact that the authors were unable to come up with a joint view of unifying efforts to draft a single bill, at the beginning of the current 3rd session, the committee returned to the consideration of the issue for the second time. As a result of the re-examination of the Bills “On legal acts”, the committee supported the alternative bill 1343-1, submitted by the Ukrainian National MP Lavrinović, and recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine take it as a basis, while the basic bill 1343, introduced by the national deputy, Zvarič Roman Mihajlović, was rejected. The Committee requests that its decisions be supported and recommended to the Supreme Council in accordance with article 109, paragraph 1, of the Interim Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as a result of the consideration of the Bills on Regulatory Acts, in the first reading, to adopt Bill 1343-1, submitted by the Ukrainian national deputy Lavrinović Alexander Volodymyrovich. With the commission of the committee to prepare him for second reading. And when preparing Bill 1343-1 for second reading, we should take into account the individual correct positions of the basic bill introduced by Roman Zvaric and other deputies who will be drafted in the form of amendments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u118	Thank you, Sergey Grigorovitch. Please sign up for a question to the committee head. National MP Miroshnichenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u119	Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear Sergey Grigorovich! As members of the same committee, of course, we have given very much attention to this particular bill and to this issue. Because there are a lot of nuances today, there are problems, there are colossal issues, because we have the unordered and technical preparation of legal acts, and there is a certain hierarchy of them to remove some of the colossals. I would like you to point out now that these two bills are not alternatives, that the Lavrinovich project is ongoing and takes into account all the advantages that were in the cookbook. And that voting in support of this bill is not some unfriendly step toward our colleagues, but rather a social need that will allow us today to solve the problem of norm-setting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u120	Thank you for asking. In fact, these two bills were considered twice on the committee, and we would like one bill between Zvaric and Lavrinović to arrive at the session hall but not to be able to agree. It has been pointed out that since 1997, these bills have been walking on the walls of the Supreme Council, and for 11 years now we have not been able to resolve this process. When these bills were considered, it was found that a group of the same persons of the Ministry of Justice prepared both the first bill and the second bill, two years between the first and the second. So the improvements in these two years of the group, most of them have rightly approached the bill and have already changed from the problems that exist today. So they're not alternative, and so the committee decided to support a more coherent committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u121	National Deputy Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u122	Yury Karmazin "The Party of Fatherland Defenders". "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense." Dear Sergey Grigorovich, studying these documents shows that they are not really alternatives. [[I know Lavrinovich has been working for many years, not since 2007, but much earlier on this bill, back in the days when he was on the Legal Policy Committee.]] And they could be combined completely. So all it took was a good wish, let's say, their two authors for this combination and I looked at it as strange as it seemed to you, something so science-expert management was cruelly disrupting these laws. One point to forty. How much? Page 25. The second is more than 30 pages of comments. Note the small font. Don't you think there's some kind of "guy trapped" around here?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u123	Yuri Anatoliyovich, really, I said in my report that in addition to the observations of the Scientific and Experimental Authority, there is also a remark from the Ministry of Justice and Science. But all of these remarks that apply to the law of Lavrinovich are eliminated in preparation for the second reading. That is, such essential observations as would be unconstitutional, so that this law, which is contrary to the Constitution, is unconstitutional. Therefore, I am confident that the working group that will prepare him for his second reading will eliminate all these remarks and we will go to the Supreme Council with such a clean bill and then there will be no place to hide this “person”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u124	Thank you, Sergey Grigorovitch, please sit down. Let's move on to the discussion. From the faction of the “Parties of the Regions” Lukash Olena Leonidivna, please. Out of place, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u125	Thank you. Dear colleagues! The point is, we need to thank all the people who have worked on these two bills. Undoubtedly, the “Parties of the Regions” faction will support a bill registered by national deputy Alexander Vladimirovich Lavrinović. But it's not that we need to create a working group or that we need to take Mr. Zvaric's best drafts and his working group and also consider these issues for a second reading. We need to gather around this bill, because we're still going to have to overcome the veto, because today all of the issues of norm-making are trying to regulate the President's decrees. And this is a question to Parliament, whether it is worthy of Parliament or not to adopt its own law on regulatory acts and no longer depends on the will of the President, who will personally determine where to print legislation, how these legal and regulatory acts become effective, which of them, according to the President of Ukraine, are at the same time unconstitutional without the Constitutional Court and so on. So personally, I would like to participate in a working group to prepare rights and proposals for second reading, and I urge you now to vote for the law of Lavrinovich, to accept it as a basis, and then to assemble and adopt this multifaceted law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u126	Thank you. Quiet Paul Mikhailovich, please. National deputy Olijnik, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u127	Deputies! First, I would like to start by thanking both authors and all the people who may have stood outside the formal authorship. This is really the right bill and their idea, and because it's a statement from the faction, the faction of the Yulia Tymoshenko Block will support the idea of the need for such a bill, which would be arranged for the issues of the legal acts and, in particular, for their hierarchy, their species, their systematization, and in fact, if you take it and generally call it, it is to put the legal field in order of its unfortunately state of chaos, in which we are now, because today, without effective work, an effective mechanism for the registration of regulatory acts does not have such a responsible body that would guarantee, firstly, the conformity of the Constitution and the laws of the Ukraine of legal acts. And secondly, he controlled how they were implemented and he had mechanisms for rescinding this registration, which was laid down in Bill 1343/1. That's why I would like to point out that aside from the issue of registration, the very important issues are regulating the operation of normative acts in time, in space, in a specific area. All of this again increases the system and order in the legal field. I think that the adoption of such a bill is just the first step, and the next step must be to establish a similar system, and in particular, a part of the acts of the judiciary, with regard to the powers of the plenary of the Supreme Court, so that the chaos that exists today in judicial decisions can also lead to a single logic. In solving the question that the bill supports, the faction emerges from the position of the committee. Why? Clearly, this bill needs to be worked out during the second reading, taking into account the proposals and ideas of the Roman Zvaric bill and the ideas that today appear in the MPs. And since this professional work is going to take place in the Legal Policy Committee, then we come from the point of view of this committee that has determined that it is better to support the alternative law of Lavrinovich. The Yulia Timoshenko faction supports 1343/1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u128	Thank you. Stratovic Volodymyr Mikolajovic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u129	Vladimir Stretović, faction of "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense", Party of the Christian-Democratic Union. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that we are now at the twelfth year of the Constitution's work and we are entering into the adoption of constitutional law. It was prepared as early as 1996, in 1997, I, as the chairman of the committee, introduced it for the first time, but for some reason they saw a political subtext in the adoption of this law, since it regulates the legislative, normative activity called legal technology. And just like the fact that in order for the types of pies or the details to be made, the equipment of the device is a technological map for certain operations, and the draft law provides for the creation of a law that is regulated by law, which refers to legal acts that are the legal force of the President's decree in comparison with the Supreme Council's decree. And to my conviction the adoption of such a law will be of great benefit in law enforcement practice, particularly in the decision of justice and in the protection of the interests, rights and persons of citizens, because it will be clearly defined by what act to be governed by, for example, by a conflict of law, when legal acts differ in their legal power and interpretation of the same legal relationship. And what I'm saying is that at the beginning of our independence, there were a lot of scientific institutions working on this bill, and I can call it the National Law Academy of the name Jaroslav Mudrogo, the Institute of State and the Law of the Academy of Sciences, the Institute of Law of the Supreme Council, and it's the product of the creative thinking of many scientists. At the last stage, as noted by Alexander Volodymyrovich Lavrinovich, a working group working together under the auspices of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine was already working on it. I mean, this law has long been awaited by law students. and other legal professions that clearly receive knowledge in order to understand the meaning of article 19 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which states that public authorities and local governments, their officials, act within and in a manner prescribed by law. Thus the same law will determine the boundaries and ways in which officials should act in their professional daily political activities. I hope that the good start that we are giving to this law today will ensure its approval by the end of the year. And we're going to take one more step towards building the legal state of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u130	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u131	Dear National Deputies! I'm sure it's a big holiday, and we're looking at this bill today. Today, there have been accusations that they are trying to regulate the Presidential decrees, the President's laws that are issued and that they have in them. But let us ask ourselves, why? It's because now, as my colleague Stretovich said, we haven't passed the law on legal acts since the adoption of the Constitution. In view of his absence, it was regulated by the President’s decrees. And the longer we work on it, the longer it will. So welcome to this huge job, and I would like to thank both the National MP, Zvaricz, and the National MP, Lavrinovich. And I also want to thank all the experts at the Ministry of Justice who have worked with this for many years. Because I remember how many years this law had been considered and how it was stressed. By the way, this is where Mr. Mikola Oneschuk brought three other deputies today. And it's a good, positive thing that the Ministry of Justice joins the parliamentary work in almost full control of its warehouse, except for those on vacation. I would still like to stop at some things that I think need improvement in this law. That's what the President's decrees in article 7 and the President's decrees, and the Cabinet's rulings, are actually levelled in legal power. This is totally contrary to article 113 and part three of this article, according to which the Cabinet of Ministers is governed by the Constitution and laws of Ukraine, and by the decrees of the President of Ukraine and the Supreme Council. This is clearly written. So I think this situation needs to be changed and this is one of the conceptually serious observations. Which I like. So that is, even though it is not entirely consistent with the Constitution's large account, it is about interpreting and clarifying legislation in this law by those bodies in which they issue, including laws. In our own time, we made a huge mistake in adopting the Constitution when we wrote that the Constitutional Court had a constitutional court to interpret laws. The Constitutional Court must interpret the Constitution exclusively. And the laws must interpret, explain, and change the exclusive body that accepts them. We need to return when all we have now is power and authority and to this theoretical position. In general, this law must be voted on, supported and installed.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u132	Thank you. Please, Bogdan Ruslan Dmitrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u133	None. Valery Grigorovich Kamchatny, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u134	Dear friends, I represent the city of Kharkiv, the city where law is focused, the Academy of Legal Sciences is a well-known university, which is confirmed by my colleague Miroshnichenko. And today I want to thank, on behalf of the legal community, the drafters of the bill, which we are considering today, because it is, indeed, a very big event and it is completely incomprehensible to me how we have lived to this day without such a law. So today, really, a historical event and the main thing, as I think, is what this law answers is, often and densely, you know, as a principle where there are two lawyers, there are three thoughts. This law will correct the situation when we have a right with the colossals. And in my opinion, this is one of the main advantages and main components of this law. So I urge everyone to support the adoption of the law. I agree with the committee that my colleague Mishchenko reported today, the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko Block, my colleagues, support the adoption of this bill, but in further work we really need to take into account all the thoughts that have been put forward by my colleague Zvaric. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u135	Miroshenko Yuri Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u136	Dear voters, dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. First of all, I would like to express my regret, of course, about the fact that we have two bills. Because in large numbers, two people who were ministers of justice, two true patriots and jurisprudence, such as the spheres of activity and as citizens of Ukraine, made a great deal of effort together with a team of the Ministry of Justice to finally get Ukraine to have a regulated order of approval of the hierarchy and preparation, and publication, and entry into force, and repealing legal acts. And, of course, I think, and I believe, that only by accident did they not allow them to put two of their signatures under a single bill. In large numbers, it could have been any of the alternatives offered. And at the committee meeting, we encouraged the authors, and Alexander Volodymyrovich, and Roman Mikhailovich, we declared that we were willing to do that. So I would very much ask you, fellow colleagues, but that's what happened, political events, all those emotions that now accompany our work with you, did not allow this process to end, and today we have a bill in the hall, because it has to be accepted, regardless of which one will be taken as a basis, from the point of view of the matter. From the point of view, I can tell you, really, a bill that was prepared by the same group, but took into account two years of experience, is a little bit more perfect. So I'd like to invite all of our colleagues not to share now with the faction, but to support the committee's decision. That's the first one. I would like to contact Roman Mikhailovich, representatives of “Our Ukraine” on our committee, to actively join in the preparation of the second reading, because openness in the committee is ensured, and therefore is a guarantee of the position of our head and all members of the committee. Third. Of course, we should not postpone the adoption of these bills, because there is a clear picture of how to complete it, of the work and approve it in general. Of course, this law will bring us closer to eliminating chaos, which is, in the first place, already in law enforcement. We will not have judicial decisions based on denials or, according to lawyers, colleges, different interpretations of the same social relations in various legal acts. The citizens of Ukraine will win. If we care for them, please support Mr. Lavrinovich's draft in the first reading and take into account all the positives from Mr. Zvaric's bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u137	Thank you. Yavorovsky Volodymyr Aleksandrovich None. At that time, the discussion was concluded. Please refer to the Minister of Justice. Onichuk Mikola Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u138	Dear colleagues, honourable national MPs, it is quite obvious that today Parliament has an opportunity, regardless of which bill you prefer, to adopt the strictly necessary law, in this case in the first reading, a draft law that will be able to organize the legal system of Ukraine, i.e. determine the hierarchy of acts, their subordination, well, a kind of culture of the legal field of Ukraine. So I urge you to support this bill today, this legal idea. As for sympathy for one or the other, factions must be determined on their own. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u139	Thank you. Roman Mikhailovich, do you need a closing word? None. I don't have one either. Thus, the discussion is concluded. We're preparing for the vote. I'm voting on draft law number 1343, author of Zvaric Roman Mihajlovich: draft law. Please vote. [["13:29:28]] Z-77 The decision is not taken. Thank you. I'm voting on draft Law on Legislative Acts No. 1343-1. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:29:57]] For 378 The bill was adopted in the first reading. The factions, please. Region Party - 170, “Timoshenko Yulia Block” – 151, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” – 13, Communist faction – 27, “Litvina Block” – 17. Sergei Grigorovitch, please: The Committee on Legal Policy will work fruitfully so that this month we can go to the adoption of this draft law as a whole. Let us now consider the following issue of the agenda: the amendment of the Notaryate Act of Ukraine. I ask you to speak to Yuri Romanović Miroshnick, head of the Committee on Legal Policy of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u140	Dear voters, dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. Well, actually, I'm going to start with just the words I finished my previous speech on. When there is a conflict of laws, when there is a denial, and when there is a conflict or a court dispute, it is very difficult to determine how the law should be applied. My Bill of 1177 refers to the case of the certification of contracts, the alienation or mortgage of residential buildings, apartments, houses, houses, gardens, garages, land plots, other immovable property. And here was a colossion or denial of two laws – one "On Notariat", to which I am now proposing a change, and the other is the "On the Zabavit" Act. How does the Notaryate Act explain this situation? Can such agreements be certified either at the location of the property or at the place of residence or at the buyer or seller? What does the Law About Hostage say? He says only by the location of the property. I've studied this situation myself, and I'll tell you, given not a very high political culture, and sometimes not quite, let's say, the high moral qualities of some notaries, there are colossals, and more specifically, circumstances or situations where the same property is being sold, someone has formed it, let's say, an unconscionable seller, at the place where the buyer lives along with it, has created another buyer at the place where the property is located, and the third person has sold it at his place of residence. Then go to the courts, prove you're a good buyer, prove it, go and look for your money. Exactly what I can say is that if there's a registration at the property location, it's going to be one place, and the potential risks are going to be much less in terms of fraud and abuse in this area. I propose that we bring the Act “On Controversy” into line with the Act “On Notariat” and that such agreements be sanctified only at the place where the property is located. It's a very simple law. I don't think he's going to give anyone any objections. But considering that this issue will be considered by us as a whole of the so-called “little reform of the Notariat”, I think there will also be the position of the Ministry of Justice heard, and our colleagues, but I propose to withdraw this bill and take into account already in the Act on Notariat, which we will now consider, it seems, 1425, so that we will settle it not by two separate laws, because then the second reading, and so on. Or to approve it now in general, because it refers to one sentence, or already, I say, to do it together in that 1425. I propose to support the committee's decision. And I suggest we consider this bill in a reduced regime, in a reduced procedure, because it doesn't cause much discussion in us. And including the bill, I'm also making a proposal, 1425 in the same regime, because there's no special discussion there. We had an agreed position with the Ministry of Justice. We have a clear plan of movement for notary reform, and I think we're going to follow this road map, as politicians now say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u141	Thank you, Yuri Romanovich. Did I understand you correctly that we can believe that the subject of the legislative initiative is withdrawing its draft law, right? Thank you. And you made a proposal, and the committee head also came to me right now in view of the fact that this is a matter that is concise enough and clear enough to allow us to consider it in a simplified manner. Is there a denial in the session room? I'm putting it to a vote so that we can look at this issue in a simplified way. Please make up your mind. [[13:35:15]] For 346 Thank you, the decision is made. We're talking about a reduced procedure. I invite you to the report of Justice Minister Onichuk Mikol Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u142	Honourable Chairman, Honourable National Deputies, Honorable Citizens of Ukraine! First of all, I would like to thank Parliament very much for today's meeting with the forces and for coming to the consideration of the important bills relating to the so-called little reform of the Notariat. And what is the essence and the task that we face? All of you, as national deputies, are witnessing that today there are many lines in state notary offices, and this is largely due to the fact that only they, or state notaries, have the right under the law to form hereditary matters. And so Bill 1425, introduced by the government, which I now have the honour to report, just provides for three important positions. First. With the adoption of this law, private notaries and public notaries will be compared to rights, and this means that private notaries are also entitled, as are state-owned, to form hereditary matters, that is, to take the necessary legal measures to protect hereditary property, to form appropriate parts of the inheritance, and so on. That's the first idea. And I think it's very important to make the notary more accessible today, and the service itself, and thereby diversify the opportunity to form an inheritance among those five thousand 103 notaries that work in Ukraine today. The second idea is to introduce more serious ones, I would say, requirements for access to the profession of notaryus. What is it? Today, internships are essential. You know, notational activity is specific and requires sufficient thorough and professional knowledge, and the proposal reflected in this bill is that instead of the six-month internship that takes place today, it's a two-year one.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u143	Finish up, please, Mikolo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u144	Thank you. The notary environment supports this idea given that we today have sufficient saturation with notaries, and this step would be justified. Well, third. It's a set of measures to discipline notaries more, including setting up work days, reception hours so that they don't -- I want to go to work, I want to, I don't leave, and the citizens are suffering from it. Dear colleagues, given the time limit, I did not stop at other details, but focused on the more important positions of the project. Please support, this is the position of the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u145	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Welcome to the words of Mishchenka Sergey Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u146	Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! I'm not going to tell you what our significance is in the state of society's notarial activity. I want to say this eloquently shows that eight alternative bills have come to the Supreme Council Committee. Including 1425-1, authored by the Coast, Carmazin, and Orphan. Today we can say that, indeed, we have come to the common ground, all the drafters of the bill that we are building on Bill 1425, which was submitted by the Government of Ukraine, but I want to say and note that notaries who know this bill and alternative bills perfectly did not care or worry that the proposals made by the working group by the joint group will be included in the second reading. In particular, I would like to point out that the following situations will be included: the organisation and control of private and state notary activities, the requirements for the workplace of the private notary, the printing of the private notary, the order and reasons for the suspension and termination of the notary activity of the private notary, the verification of the organization of the notary activity of the notaryus and the implementation of the rules of the notary business. We are confident that for two weeks we will work on second reading and send a joint, coordinated project to the Supreme Council that will be voted on by the majority of the Supreme Council. So I'm asking you to support the government bill, and Bill 1425-1 will be removed, and then we'll take it into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u147	Thank you, Sergey Volodymyrovich, please sit down. Coastal Irina Gregory, please. Turn on the microphone from the spot, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u148	Dear Chief! Irina Breezna. The faction of the Party of the Regions. I want to point out the substance of the bill. This bill provides for, as the Minister of Justice has now pointed out, the same powers of state and private notaries. But such proposals do not solve the problem of reforming the system of notary organs and moving into the single notary system. Also, it has to be acknowledged that the order of equal competence provided for in Project 1425 is too complicated and makes notaries dependent on officials, which can then create the basis for corruption. Also, very serious comments raise proposals to secure the legal structure of stopping and stopping private notary activities. Regrettably, it is ignored that while exercising control over professional activities, the organs of justice should not interfere with the process of notarial action. And there are still a lot of observations. But to conclude, despite the decision of the committee, I think that Bill 1425 needs substantial work. And I'm sure the Ministry of Justice will agree with me that more than half of the articles in the bill still have to be substantially corrected. But we have a common goal, which is that the issue of the ability of Ukrainian citizens to make an inheritance must be resolved as quickly as possible. But we must be aware that we cannot limit ourselves to cosmetic amendments to the very old Ukrainian Notaryate Act. So I think everyone will agree with me, including the Ministry of Justice, that the next step is to develop and adopt a new session.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u149	Please, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u150	The new edition of the Ukrainian Act on Notariat should be adopted and limited to a small so-called reform on notariat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u151	Thank you. Thus, we are considering at the same time five draft laws relating to the amendment of the Notaryate Law. Two entities of the legislative initiative expressed the desire that their draft laws be withdrawn and taken into account as proposals for consideration by other bills. This can be decided now only by a vote, in accordance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. So we're going to discuss three bills with you, because the author of Bill No. 2374 of the Ukrainian People's Deputy Feldman, Alexander Borisovich, has not stated that he has not been present and he has not announced that the bill has been withdrawn, so we will also discuss and determine by way of a separate vote. So before we go into the discussion right now, I'm voting on the motion to withdraw, in view of the appeal, Bills Nos. 1177 and No. 1425-1, by which subjects of the legislative initiative have announced that they have been removed from consideration. Please support the national deputies of Ukraine. [[13:45:14]] For 326 Decision taken. And now I've also been asked to withdraw his bill and take into account the drafting of Government Bill 1425. I am voting on the proposal of the subject of the legislative initiative to withdraw my draft law. Please vote, 2374. [[13:45:53]] For 327 Decision taken. So we have a bill of 1425 government and 2,195 bill of Irina Gregory of the Coast. Irina Gregorian, do you have something to say? Please give the floor to the People's Deputy of the Coast.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u152	Since Miroshnichenko, the People's MP Miroshnichenko has already reported an almost similar bill, I also propose to withdraw my bill from consideration, because almost all of the concepts are already included in Bill 1425, so we will not waste time because this is no longer important, it is already included in the bill. I also propose to withdraw this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u153	Thank you. I am voting for a vote on Bill 2195 on the initiative of the legislator of the national MP of the Coast, please vote. [[13:47:10]] For 323 So we have one draft of Law 1425, introduced by the Government of Ukraine, for discussion. Let's write down two in a row, two in a row. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Knazević, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u154	Ruslan Knazević, “Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense”. Our faction will support that bill, which was introduced from this rostrum just reported by Ukrainian Justice Minister 1425. The thing is, you know, you can criticize him now, say that not everything is included, that there is still a limit to improvement, but, in fact, I think that the key when we make a conscious decision about the bill should be taken into account by the Minister of Justice, who said from this rostrum that you know the phrase that we're starting today with a little notarial reform. I mean, we're still ahead of us, I'm sure we just don't have a different perspective in the right order than our hands have to get to the point where we're going to make a radical change in all the legislation on notariat. A committee of legal policy, where I have the privilege of working for the second time, has established a large working group for the drafting and drafting of such a bill for two readings. One bill that was voted off today is a bill where I co-authored. And I'll tell you that it's voluntary to agree that it's been withdrawn on behalf of the bill that the government passed. Of course, it's a technical issue that we're dealing with today, but it's very important. I'm sure every single one of us who went to the state notary offices could not help but see the few 10 meters, 20 meters, or more than a hundred meters of our pensioners who, you know, from the very morning or from the night they're registered there, there, you know, all the time, you know, such chaotic pillars and so on. Well, there's no disrespect, at least, for those people who are absolutely in the absurd order who stand by and have to go to level with the rights and private notaries, bringing them to the level of the state notary. Similarly, it is unacceptable that Ukraine has remained among those countries where, in order to become a notary of enough six months of practice, when the whole world is civilized long ago, it has set more deadlines, because, believe me, we have so many problems in Ukraine with the nature of the notaryate, and their huge number and, above all, perhaps because the vast majority of notaries who have a certificate to carry out this kind of activity are.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u155	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u156	So the decision of our faction is clear, we will support Bill 1425 and we urge the Supreme Council to join in this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u157	Thank you. National Deputy Suhi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u158	Thank you. I would like to give the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Irina Bárezéni.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u159	Please, Coastal Irina Grigorovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u160	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! It should be noted that the reform of the Notaryate in Ukraine began 15 years ago with the adoption of the Ukraine Act on Notariat in 1993. During this time, the level of notarial care of natural and legal persons has increased considerably, as well as the number of notarial actions. So let's not assume that all notaries are still governed by a 15-year-old bill. So we need to start reforming. And despite the fact that I can now talk for a very long time about the shortcomings of this bill, it was agreed on by the committee that the alternative bill 1425-1 would be implemented in this bill with a very large number of substantive, principled, systematic articles. And so for the second reading, this is going to be completely conceptually consistent between all, without exception, the representatives of the bill. So even though it needs to be further refined and further developed, we are working together to stabilize and organize the activity of the notaryate. So our faction will support this bill. And as the former notary himself knows all these issues like no one else in this room, I also ask you to support this bill, because it will be further elaborated. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u161	Thank you, Irina Gregory. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy of Samolik.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u162	I'm not a former notary, no more private. And I want to tell you that the queues in the state notary offices, this is a phenomenon, you can say, disgraceful. But that's because people have more confidence in government institutions than in private, who have thousands of times cheated them, a thousand times. And so you don't have to say that it's, well, absolutely because state notary offices don't do their work. I realize that today, just as every marshal has his own children, so in this case. And we want to create a level playing field for both state institutions and private institutions. And that's why there's no reform here. In order to compare public notarial offices and private offices, this law is adopted for this purpose. You have to be honest with me. That's the first one. Secondly, we, the faction, have decided to support Mishchenka's bill. Well, he withdrew his bill, unfortunately, as well as the regret that Yuri Romanovich had withdrawn his bill. It would be better to create, re-create, re-read, create a working group and work together, really make it a reform that's real, not just patching some holes. And so, of course, I'm just sorry that, unfortunately, it's not just me and my colleagues that you've done away with your drafts, which, among other things, have actually complemented existing legislation. The replacement of internships from six to two years is also not a cure. Well, we often turn to Western experience for convenience and, if not conveniently, forget about it. Please tell me, this is a two-year job. Free work for two years! And once again, we know who owns mostly notary offices and who creates these notary offices. Give me your word, I'll finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u163	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u164	When I finish my speech, I want to say, unfortunately, we won't vote in favour of this bill, and I think that we're not in the state's hands, that we've taken all the bills and we're adopting one person's bill and we're in the interests of a particular bunch of people.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u165	Thank you. The replica. Committee head Mishchenko Sergey Grigorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u166	Dear colleagues, I am very grateful that your faction supported my bill and I can tell you that in the working group what you said about internships for six months and two years, about state notary offices, concerted actions to eliminate these consequences we agreed, and the Ministry of Justice agreed that all these additions would be taken into account on second reading. So what you said will all be implemented into this bill. And so you'll see to the second reading that almost all the positions of my bill, for which your faction voted, are all agreed, and they'll be given by the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u167	From the committee, please give the floor to the head of the committee, Miroshnichenko Yuri Romanović.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u168	Dear voters, dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. I'd like to say, first of all, to the citizens why I'm doing so much today. Because I'm just headin' the notary and the bar. Here comes the law that I've suffered, which we've worked on for a very long time. That's why I'm running around the hall anyway, so that the consensus that is a sign of the work of our Committee of Legal Policy has been realized in the hall. I want to assure Catherine Semenovna personally and all of our fellow communists that I assure you, today's move is just a demonstration of trust that is unique in the light of all the political events of the Ministry. We agreed that this is not a separate person's bill, this is a bill of the Ministry, this is a bill that has been drafted by both Mr. Zvaric and Alexander Volodymyrovich, and in general this position, which will allow us, on the one hand, to take into account all the positives of the Mishchenka bill, there and I am one of the co-authors, but on the other hand, to start working together on the systemic reform of the notaryate that Irina Berezna was talking about. Now we've set up a working group together and we'll guarantee that by the end of this year we'll be trying to offer you first-reading an overall proposal to adopt notary reform as a single system, so that there's no division: a state-state, a foreigner, to order and pay for services to be accessible; and order of work. We work professionally. So I ask you very much, perhaps, to rely on the results of our work, to trust the members of the committee, please support this bill so that the path that we have initiated can reach the core and ensure the harmony of, at least, the lawyers in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-16-m0.u169	Thank you. The discussion is over. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to tell you that this is a draft law that was passed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in 2007 and as a legislative initiative directed to Parliament. After an early election, the change of government was called off and then returned here as a legislative initiative for a new cabinet of ministers. This is a testimony to the fact that this bill, which was prepared by the Ministry of Justice, is aimed exclusively at solving the issues that are in the Ukrainian notary, and this law is not for notaries, it's a law for Ukrainian citizens. And it solves the issues that we can already do today, those steps to improve the functioning of the notary system. Then, of course, they will be next. Now, today, we can take a step that will significantly improve the work of the Ukrainian Notary. That is why I am now voting on the draft Act amending the Act on Notariat. Please be supportive. [[13:59:53]] For 351 The factions, please. Region Party – 155, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko” – 150, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” – 26, Communists – 0, “Clock of Lithuania” – 20. Thus, the bill was adopted in the first reading. I ask the Committee on Legal Policy to continue working so that we can go to the second reading of this bill within a month. At this morning’s plenary session, I declare closed. There's an evening meeting at 4:00.
