ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u1	Good morning, everyone. Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, I ask you to register in the session room. Please turn on the registration system, come on, colleagues, please. [[10:01:24]] There are 418 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, I'll start with a nice one. Vasil Mikhailovich Gorbal, today is his birthday, let's welcome Vasil Mikhailovich to his birthday. [[Applause]] In accordance with article 25 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine today begin with statements by authorized factions at the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The rules of speech are five minutes, and I'm asking you to sign up for the faction on behalf of the rostrum. Please hold the recording. Record completed. Alexeyev Igor Viktorovich, Communist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u2	Honorable colleagues, respected representatives of the media, respected radio audiences, and television audiences! Declaration on the creation of an Antinato MP group. "The proposal to create an Antinato MP group is a natural, legitimate response to actions aimed at accelerating Ukraine's involvement in NATO. Contrary to the will of the vast majority of our people. As evidence of this, three have made a notorious appeal to the leadership of the Alliance regarding the signing of the so - called PPP plan at the April summit in Bucharest. This problem has several dimensions: first of all, Ukraine’s security. An unbiased analysis shows that not only will NATO's accession not only strengthen its safeguards, but it will allow our country to become more involved in the adventures of this military political bloc, it will be dangerously wrong to have relations with the Russian Federation, which will cause great damage to Ukraine's national interests, its sovereignty, and will put our nation on the side of Russia's opposition to the West, a relationship among which signs of cold war are increasingly gaining. What this will mean for Ukraine is understood by anyone who understands such things a little. The issue of gaining Ukraine's NATO membership is one of those that split up our already raging society. In a climate of political instability, acute opposition is extremely dangerous. Preventing illegal developments is an important task for the patriotic, truly democratic forces. We cannot fail to take into account that the authorities unilaterally interpret the provisions of the Ukrainian National Security Act, brutally violates the requirements of the Constitution, avoids the appointment of a referendum on NATO entry, which has been signed by more than four million Ukrainian citizens. This shows that society wants to face the facts. Finally, it is important to bring to the public the true information about NATO and the positive moments and especially the risks of Ukraine's membership in the Alliance, which are all silenced in their dungeons and speeches by officials from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and some experts, in paws. All of this makes the creation of the “Antinato” MP group completely justified and essential. The task of the group is primarily to counteract unconstitutional actions such as signing three speakers without the knowledge and agreement of Parliament, breaking the law. The people should say their word about membership in the Alliance, not when everything is resolved, but now. We must do everything by using the rostrum of Parliament, the various measures, the media, in order to bring the truth to the people, to the people of the truth about NATO. In today’s situation, the preparation of counter-proposals to involve Ukraine in NATO is extremely important. It is primarily about the implementation of the Declaration of State Sovereignty of Ukraine regarding the declaration of its permanent neutral non-block status. Of course, we understand neutrality not as self-sustainment of Ukraine, but as closure in our borders and internal problems. Such a primitive notion of the position of neutralists seeks to impose power on society. It is active neutrality, officially recognized, guaranteed by the UN, the OSCE and other international organizations, primarily permanent members of the UN Security Council. Neutrality, which envisions broad cooperation between Ukraine and other states and international institutions, including the EU and NATO. The implementation of the idea of the legislative anchoring of Ukraine's non-block neutral status is not at all contrary to our desire to achieve better European patterns in economic development, to solve social problems, to the functioning of democratic institutions -- what is commonly called a European choice. We also believe that Ukraine could take the initiative to create a truly pan-European system of collective security as an alternative to block resistance, to develop new distribution lines on our continent. This would also remove the acute problem of NATO membership. As we speak of the creation of the Entinato Group of Deputies in the Supreme Council, we are set up for constructive work in order to realize the national interests of Ukraine and its security. The statement has already been signed by 58 national deputies, and we invite those who care about the problem to join our group. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u3	Thank you. Kirilenko Viacheslav Anatoliyovich, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u4	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. Dear colleagues, of course, each of the deputies who has been elected by the list of any factions chosen to work in Parliament to create new bills. We represent the faction that goes into the coalition. The coalition has received the overwhelming support of voters in past parliamentary elections. We have a country change plan and this country change plan is a coalition agreement that provides for the approval of at least 80 bills that relate to all areas of social, social and economic life. Of course, this covenant provides for changes in many local communities. The most urgent changes that have to take place in the first place are the changes in Kiev and Kharkiv. And that's why we're grateful to all those who support the need for a rapid change in Kiev's city head, because this issue was violated by the "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" bloc before the start of the pre-election campaign. Before the parliamentary elections, our bloc strongly insisted on changing Kiev’s city’s head and clearing the city’s city. So, of course, we are grateful, including coalition partners, for further addressing this issue today both in the plenary room and in front of society. The only thing we don't understand is the language that sometimes happens through categorical statements, because you don't have to blow on things that's been cold for so long. "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" was the first and most definitively in favour of the change in Kiev and the change of Kiev's city head. But we need to understand that the forthcoming election in Kiev should not give the current bankrupt city of Kiev any chance. Therefore, it is the responsibility of all the people who are set up by the democratic and the responsibility of the coalition of democratic forces to identify the only candidate from the democratic forces in Kiev for the complete undeniable victory of democratic views in the capital. We doubt that without the public definition of such a candidate, the election campaign can be successful. So this is a question that concerns the entire Kyiv community, all the democratic forces. And that's why we're stressing this openly, publicly from the country's highest rostrum. In addition, the faction "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" is concerned about the insurmountability of the issue of overturning parliamentary immunity. We insist that Thursday return to this issue and that both bills be voted on. True, we once again report to the voters that the opposition bill leaves key words that guarantee parliamentary immunity, and in particular the phrase of the 80th article of the Constitution, which sounds so; “The people of Ukraine are guaranteed parliamentary immunity.” At the same time, the opposition bill on the abolition of the immunity of judges does not apply at all, and the President's intrusiveness remains the same. In our view, therefore, the bill tabled by the opposition is merely an attempt to distract voters from the need for a swift and unconditional lifting of parliamentary immunity. I am convinced that on Thursday, a coalition of democratic forces will finally resolve this issue. Also, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" insists that this week the Tender Chamber and the Interministerial Commission of State Procurement be abolished. We are convinced that these institutions block the public procurement system, and we are not told about it, but are called by doctors, teachers, school principals, medical chiefs when we arrive in the region. We know that such a promise has been made by the Head of the Supreme Council, and this issue will remain in order for this week. If not, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" will insist. At the same time, we pay attention to all that our preferences are the beginning of structural reforms. Therefore, if no one is working on the new Tax Code, the reform of local self - government, the new Code of Budgets, there may be no changes in the country. And that's the kind of work we're calling for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u5	Thank you, Vjacheslav Anatoliyovich. Dear colleagues, the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko Block, Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich, asked to turn on the direct broadcast to the area. If there's no such objection, there's a lot of people there, I'm giving instructions to the Supreme Council's apparatus to turn the broadcast on. No objections, colleagues? None. Thank you. There is no voting under the Rules. Please, Zabzaluk Roman Omelyanovich. Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u6	Honorable Chairman, Honorable Colleagues, Honourable Voters! What has happened in recent months? The Supreme Council of Ukraine, after a long break, finally began its work, and that's a good signal. The main challenge facing us today is to restore authority, trust in power, which has been largely lost to this day. The power vertical is largely balanced today, and this is obvious. This is a real threat to national security. Our duty is to strengthen and maintain the executive branch of authority at all levels, which is called upon to act decisively, quickly, and effectively. What are we talking about? Today we are discussing the issue of the elections in Kiev. Questions, not even about changing personalities, but about changing the system. You can borrow it. Almost all the political forces represented today in and outside the Supreme Council have declared in their election programs that the land, for example, should be sold in cities on open land auctions. Because there's an obvious land and a construction boom in the country. Is someone making those promises right now? Units. Nevertheless, experts estimate that the cost of land in cities is about $340 billion. Just think about the number. Where such commitments are made, such as in the city of Hmelnick, the results are impressive. The local budget for open land auctions has increased, not by a percentage. But unfortunately, land auctions are exceptions. The President's decrees, the government's decisions, are being ignored, the laws of Ukraine are being violated. You and I know very well how many cities in Ukraine have land that can be sold on land auctions, sold out and marketed. In such cases, money that could go into the development of these cities is placed in the pockets of unclean officials. On October 1, last year, when the country calculated the electoral results, the Kyiv Council held a session where experts estimated that land had been distributed for several billion dollars, equivalent to the city’s annual budget. And how many of these land distributions are free of charge in paws now taking place daily throughout Ukraine? How many Ukrainian cities have not received similar amounts in local budgets? Kiev is the capital of Ukraine. Kiev should be a model for the rest of Ukraine’s cities to manage their wealth for the benefit of their inhabitants. What does the Kiev authorities show? What example does it set for other cities? We've been asking questions for years about the need to reform the housing sector. We are talking about a huge lack of funds to carry out such a reform. That's where the money is from land auctions, from the sale of land at auctions. The cost of auctioning land in cities is a unique, legal, huge resource, which can be used quickly and efficiently to reform and prepare for Euro-2012 and solve a number of other social problems that have matured. The capital of Ukraine is a signal for everyone else. If we start to put order in Kiev, a lot of people will think about it in the rest of the cities of Ukraine. Today we have a unique chance not just to make a decision about the election in Kiev. This could be the beginning of serious, structural, positive changes in the entire system of local self-government in Ukraine, in the system of order in the whole of the government's vertical. Colleagues, we are also deeply concerned about a situation that is also related to authority. This is the situation on the Central Election Commission. For several weeks now, her work has been blocked on purpose, artificially blocked, and we understand that. It does not conform to the law of the decision to deprive the MPs of their powers. We have adopted a law in this room. By not making a decision in the CLTC, blocking his decision, blocking his work, we are multiplying political corruption at all levels, starting with councils. One of the ways that can solve the problem of optimizing power in the country is through constitutional reform, which is inevitable. What do we have in Ukraine today? A mixed form of government in which conflict is established. First of all, we need to eliminate the very mixed form of government that causes conflicts between branches of government every day. It is not obvious, then, that 16 years in Ukraine continues to be a constant conflict between presidents, governments, and the Supreme Council. And the hostages of this grueling struggle for power became the whole country and its people. In addition, most authorities need to be transferred to a region that is overloaded with non-proper authority. That's why the Yulia Timoshenko faction is supporting the constitutional process that was initiated in the country, but only if it was part of the Supreme Council as the sole legislative body of the state. That is why, in accordance with part one of article 80 of the Supreme Council Rules, we are initiating the establishment of a temporary special committee on the rights of the Main Committee to prepare and review the amendments to the current Constitution of Ukraine. Let's get to work! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u7	Thank you. Efraemov Alexander Sergiyovich, Party of Regions
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u8	Dear National Deputies! Dear compatriots! On April 17th, 11 Ukrainian militiamen were seriously affected by the international opposition caused by the declaration of independence in Kosovo. One of them’s lives are at risk. This fact is another indication of the inadmissibility of the policy of ignoring the national interests of the current Ukrainian leadership. Failure to make a stand on key issues of external relations, neglecting the opinion of most Ukrainian citizens in making important decisions, not only weakens the authority of our state in the international arena, but also leads to human loss. The unwillingness of senior officials in Ukraine to take into account the proposals made by the largest faction in the Supreme Council, the lack of compliance with the agreements reached in the process of finding a way out of the parliamentary crisis, is a powerful proof that active leadership goes to the fairway of foreign policy, foreign interests. Despite the threat of triggering a new confrontation in parliament's walls, and thus halting the adoption of social orientation laws, which the Ukrainian society is looking forward to, the President and Prime Minister are again writing letters regarding Ukraine's accession to the plan of action for our State to join NATO. Against the background of the assurances that the Bank’s and Gruszewskis are concerned solely with the interests of their fellow countrymen, such actions seem openly cynical. So there can be no denying the reaction of millions of citizens to this type of appeal. These millions do not want to be passive observers of how beyond their will, our nation is once again drawn into bloody conflicts far beyond it. They do not want their children, brothers, husbands, to risk their lives simply because a group of Ukrainian politicians owns the right to determine, without consulting the people, the main vectors of the foreign policy of the state. The regional party has repeatedly warned of the inadmissibility of such irresponsible actions by senior officials in the state. We were assured that this practice would not be repeated in the name of broad public understanding. We were signed with us to document these arrangements, but when the ink was dry, the agreements reached were broken again. In this connection, the Party of Regions has repeatedly claimed that all responsibility for refusing the course for restoring stability in the state rests with active authority. The dramatic events in Kosovo are not a coincidence or a tragic coincidence. This is the natural result of chaos, which has become a characteristic of our political everyday life. In turn, this chaos leads to lawlessness, to the practice of replacing the Constitution and the right of political relevance, to the constant conflicts at the top of power, to the adventurous decisions that create instability, the uncertainty of people tomorrow, leading to the spread of inflation, the rise in prices and the decline in the standard of living of our citizens. The politics of today’s government, the provocation of new protests, parliamentary opposition, and direct threats to national security. On behalf of millions of voters, the Party of Regions demands that this adventurous policy be put to rest, understanding the need to ensure the adoption of vital laws, we have made the most possible compromises with the authorities. This does not mean, however, that the people will again be deceived and that they will be silently reconciled. That's not gonna happen. We claim this with all our responsibility, and the authorities should remember that we will always keep our word. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u9	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Litwin Volodymyr Mihajlovich, Lithuanian Block faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u10	Dear colleagues! Dear National Deputies! It is a constant impression that Ukrainian politicians are marrying Ukraine for slaughter, this time finally, consciously, or inadvertently. It seems that we are not affected or adequately disturbed by the state's economic processes, as well as by political trends, perhaps because of the joy that Ukraine has been able to unleash on one vector is Euro-Atlantic. And that we will not be forgotten, and we are pleased that Ukraine has been adapted somewhere at this time. It seems that the whole importance of internal property matters continues to be a further redistribution of the spheres of ownership and power struggle. And until there is no meaningful action in the economic, social, humanitarian and political spheres. And until life is built on another search for enemies. And what's more, we usually find them. Visual confirmation of this is plans to work for this plenary week. Please tell me, who needs this picture of business in a bustle? Why does the Supreme Council of Ukraine become a hostage of several politicians, a few who force the vote to endlessly for their questions? Why is the Supreme Council used as a tool for compiling political accounts? Why do we allow the Supreme Council to be a laughingstock? Why do we have the right to manipulate ourselves? And to whom do we give this right? Dear colleagues! Let's see who we give the right to trample on the Supreme Council of Ukraine, drown ourselves. What's going to happen tomorrow? Are we going to hear about the C.V.C.C. tomorrow, Constitutional Court? What are we going to hear again tomorrow? Whom are we going to "break up" again tomorrow? Convinced that these and other questions are being asked or not by every Ukrainian national MP. A confident, critical mass of our discontent in fulfilling our assignment should turn to a more meaningful, responsible work. By its appointment, the Supreme Council of Ukraine should be the most accurate social barometer that reflects social sentiments and clearly identifies what and how to do. Does it reflect these sentiments of the Supreme Council today? No, it's not. People are having a price shock! We're not a pair of lips! This question was postponed until April. Rather, after Easter, it may be better to announce a fast for the entire year so as not to consider the matter! The country is in agony because of government procurement practices. The Ohmatdit Hospital is equipped with medicines that are due in two days. And the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the second month agrees on the changes to the Tender Procurement Act. The village is dying definitively now, and the Supreme Council, even traditionally, is not planning to hear the question of spring-field work, at least to clear its conscience, for the "exile of steam". Perhaps we live by the idea that the SAT will fix everything. He'll fix how a dead man is washed away before he's put in a coffin. We read an exciting correspondence about Russia’s victory in the gas field and are unable to consider it. Who, then, defeated the Ukrainian people? We're all waiting for the moment. We are also waiting for the National Bank of Ukraine to strengthen the bracelet by deceiving the Ukrainian people and then listening to information about monetary policy. We look forward to a new Constitution and do not implement constitutional regulations. Dear colleagues, we have not begun to consider the changes to the budget, despite the fact that the Supreme Council of Ukraine has made the appropriate decision. So the faction calls and requires, dear fellows, let's go to work, to look at the issues that are really hurting the Ukrainian people. Let us, dear fellows, demonstrate our responsibility, at least, to ourselves. If we are not accountable to ourselves, I think we will never be accountable to the Ukrainian people.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u11	Thank you. Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, there has just been a report that one of the Ukrainian peacekeepers has died, so I would like to ask that we do. I don't know the name, now, in Kosovo. It's about Kosovo. I don't know the name right now, we're going to find out the situation, I'm going to tell you the name of this person. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the day-to-day issues. Now we need to approve the schedule of meetings of the Supreme Council on March 18-21. According to article 68 of the Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine yesterday, the Conciliation Council formed an appropriate agenda. I ask him to consider with the next observation that on Thursday we should definitely consider the question of judges regarding the appointment of judges, and 1375 and 1375-1 are also included. We also have a huge debt for out - of - turn elections in rural, rural, and urban heads. So on Thursday it's formatted. Wednesday is the day of opposition. All the opposition bills are included. In view of this, I would like to ask after the decision of the Conciliation Council, which has become effective, and, more specifically, the consent of the Conciliation Council to put to the vote the issue of the approval of the schedule of meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 18-21 March. Colleagues, here's the offer of colleagues, come on, five minutes, please, what are the offers before schedule. Please sign up. Lavrinovich Alexander Volodymyrovich, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u12	Dear Arsenia Petrovich! Dear colleagues! We are now seeing a weekly schedule of meetings that includes the information of the two commission investigators concerning the city of Kiev and the city of Kharkiv, which we have recently created in this session hall. We support the work of parliamentary structures in accordance with our Rules and laws of Ukraine, and we will support those reports that will be submitted by these commissions. But today, when there was no work yet to be done by these committees and what intermediate information could be given, it seems to me that in this case the inclusion of these issues is only because one of the political forces declared it in its electoral programme and put it into a coalition agreement, thus demonstrating that, by political principle, without respect for the rule of law, any question can be resolved without having any sympathy for some politicians who are now subject to careful attention, we are consistent advocates and sympathizers.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u13	Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich, “Block of Lithuania”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u14	Dear Arseny Petrovich! Dear colleagues! I ask you to include in this week's meeting schedule, I emphasize this week's price policy issue in Ukraine. I'm asking you to listen to this question, and I would love to, and I think my opinion is shared by a lot, and if not most of the national MPs, which is very important today for the Supreme Council to hear what is the real plan of anti-inflation measures and what are the notes on the implementation of this plan. It seems to me that the Lithuanian Block seems to me that political issues may be important, but 99 percent of our voters are primarily concerned about the issue of goods prices, especially food products. And we're putting that question down for two weeks, for a month, so it's obviously not being considered. I'm asking you to put it this week. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u15	Kravchenko Mikola Vasilovich, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u16	Please pass the word Adam Ivanovich
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u17	Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u18	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear Arsenija Petrovich, I sincerely say that I am always pleased with your statements when you speak of your adherence to the rules of the Constitution and the regulations. This inspires and gives reason to hope that this will be the case. In this regard, I would like to remind you of the 102th Rule of the Rules, which is that the bill is rejected. The bill is considered rejected if the proposed decisions to support it have not received the necessary number of votes of the national deputies. A bill or bill that repeats it in essence rejected by the Supreme Council cannot be submitted to the current and subsequent sessions of the Supreme Council in due course. The rejected bill is being withdrawn and excluded from the draft database. Therefore, Bills 1375 and 1375-1 on amending the Constitution can only be considered in the next session of this.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u19	Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u20	Thank you, Arsenia Petrovich. Dear colleagues, we understandably refer to the comments that have been made in previous talks. Arsenius Petrovich, the faction proposes that the question of Kharkiv be removed. In fact, there are no previous conclusions of the committee today, no consideration has been given on the committee, but Kiev’s previous conclusions are, have been considered and may be included and considered, a decision that has been made. Next. Arsenija Petrovich, you didn't mention on Thursday that a block of personnel issues, you didn't mention it, or it's being deleted. On Thursday, we have a cluster of personnel issues, and the first question is the constitutional issue of removing the inviolability. And we ask it to be. And the third question. Please do not politicize the issues that today are both price policies and inflation and so on. We agreed on the Conciliation Council yesterday that we would consider this issue on April 8. The 8th of April government is preparing for this issue very seriously and carefully. Please vote in favour of the order that is proposed, taking into account what we have said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u21	Thank you. Kulczynski Mikola Georgievich, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u22	Please pass the word to Roman Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u23	Welder Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u24	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, first of all, our faction insists that after considering the issue of the abolition of parliamentary immunity, the Supreme Council of Ukraine will consider draft legislation on the abolition of parliamentary benefits, this is the number, the registration numbers of projects 1356 and 1408. We would ask that we vote in favour of including these bills on the schedule for this week. This is the first time. The other one. As for the so - called opposition day. Arsenija Petrovich, I would like to remind you that the agreement reached last Friday was that the opposition makes appropriate changes to the Rules in a single line that allows them to form one day as an opposition day. No such changes have been made. Therefore, we do not understand the legal basis on which we give one day.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u25	Thank you. Dear colleagues, here's the next offer. I would like to point out once again that the Conciliation Council met for an hour yesterday in accordance with article 68 of the Supreme Council regulation. All the materials given to you are the result of the vote of the Conciliation Board. That's why I'm laying the groundwork for the meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on March 18-21. Please vote. [[10:37:10]] For 243 I'm asking you to show by factions. Colleagues, now concerning the proposals that have been made. A question was put on this schedule regarding the city of Kharkiv. Yesterday it was decided on the Conciliation Council. Now there's an offer to remove the city of Kharkiv from this document. We have to vote. I ask you to vote for the motion to withdraw today's meeting of the city of Harkov, and then we will vote in general. Excluding, yes. [[10:37:57]] For the 220. The decision is not taken. The city of Kharkiv remains. Please show by factions. So we have information from the Interim Investigation Commission about Kharkiv remains. Next question is about the Ukrainian State Procurement Act. A proposal was made by the Zarubinsky People's Deputy for a second reading during the current week of the State Procurement Bill as provided by the Rules. I'm not sure. That we will be able to address this issue within a week, but I am obliged to put to the vote an appropriate bill on the second reading of the Ukrainian Law on State Procurement. 2010, if I'm not mistaken, the bill. Vote, please. Alexander Mikolaiovich. Please give the word Tkachenko Alexandro Mikolaiovich. Colleagues, calm down. Please, Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u26	Arsenius Petrovich. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday the question was discussed at the Conciliation Council. I've made it clear, I've reported that the work committee has been working on the document, they've been meeting three times and they've been working on it, because there's a lot of questions. We're going to introduce this bill when it's ready, and yesterday it was resolved. Why it came today, I don't understand. Why, then, do we hold meetings of a conciliatory council to then, on the second day, overturn what we agree on in the session hall? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u27	Two more speeches, please, and we'll comment. Zarubinsky’s deputy, Viácheslav Anatoliyovich Kirilenko, and Miroshnichenko, a colleague, will decide on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u28	The venerable Arsenija Petrovich, respected colleagues, is inaccuracies. Of course, the faction of the “Lithuania Block” in order to cancel the corrupt purchasing scheme, but I would like to draw attention to what I have proposed this week, which is about listening to information, if you want the report, formulate the format as you like, it's very important, about the government's price policy and the anti-inflation package in Ukraine. Please place it not on April 8, Reverend Ivan Grigorovich, because by April 8, the prices are rising and each day is rising, but it is set for this week. This is a question everyone needs! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u29	Thank you. Kirilenko Viacheslav Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u30	Viacheslav Kirilenko, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense". Dear colleagues, honourable voters, I think we are making a decision to unlock the public procurement system. The Supreme Council can find new arguments every day, and this will be endless, and in the meantime, the chief hospital doctor, the school director, anyone who works in public procurement, can't get a single copy of the budget, and it's all over the country because we can't make a decision. Therefore, the proposal of the faction "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" is to vote tomorrow on a bill to repeal the bill adopted in the first reading of the bill, which currently provides for the Tender Chamber and the Interministerial Commission of State Procurement. It is to these organs a huge number, an avalanche of complaints from all over the country. After that, it was the adoption of a bill that went back to the old system of government purchases when it was possible to buy anything. And that's what we have to do tomorrow.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u31	Thank you. Lavrinovich Alexander Volodymyrovich. And we make decisions. Lavrinovich, Lavrinovich. He asked for a word, he's gone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u32	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues! I want to remind you that yesterday at the Conciliation Council, the issue was raised that the draft law, which was voted in the first reading, envisaged the improvement of the existing corruption scheme. The faction of the Party of the Regions has proposed a draft law that is not an alternative to this project and proposes to return to the normalization of activities that existed before 2004, without solicitation chambers and interdisciplinary commissions. In this matter, as you can see, there are common views both of the factions of the coalition and of the opposition. And I don't understand why, in this case, another interfractional merger doesn't allow us to solve the question that is being referred to in this room for three months -- and it's not about voting. We call for the liquidation of the Tender Chamber and vote on it tomorrow when the issue of opposition is considered.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u33	Terjehoin Sergey Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u34	Thank you, Arsenia Petrovich. Ladies and gentlemen, let me remind you how these shameful changes were made in 2005. A so - called commission was created at the former Head of the Supreme Council. And that's exactly what this committee has done. Well, that's our offer. If this week doesn't have a decision that makes everybody: after the closing of the Chamber of Commerce, the interdisciplinary commission, then we have to take it out of the knowledge of the Economic Committee, because there's blocking, as we can see, and create a commission where everyone can develop a normal system of public procurement. This question needs to be addressed immediately this week. The faction of the Yulia Tymoshenko for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u35	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind everyone that when the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted a draft Ukrainian law amending the National Procurement Act in the first reading, it was expressly stated that the bill would not be allowed until the second reading if there were a Chamber of Commerce and other bodies involved in corruption schemes. Accordingly, in accordance with the Rules, I would like to remind you that the issue of consideration of this bill no longer needs to be included in the agenda, because it is a second reading. In view of this, I ask the Economic Policy Committee today, after the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to meet me in my office and put a dot in this bill. Because it seems that Parliament does not want to adopt appropriate legislation and eliminate the relevant authorities that should not be in the public procurement system. I ask for an 18-hour meeting today with the head of the Economic Policy Committee, as appropriate, to meet with me tomorrow, or the following day, as will be determined, the relevant bill has been considered in the Parliamentary Hall. Colleagues regarding the next schedule mean I'm asking for it at Zarubinski College. I just got off the phone with Vladimir Seminovich Stelmach this morning. He's on his way. That's why it's this week. He won't be here this week. In view of this, we need to understand that inflation issues need to be addressed, including with the National Bank. Yesterday, the Conciliation Council decided to consider the first issue of the agenda for the relevant information of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the National Bank of Ukraine at the next plenary week, when all the statistical databases for the corresponding two months would be ready. So I ask you not to go back to this question, as we have already made the right decision at the conciliatory council. In view of this, colleagues, I am voting according to the entire schedule of meetings. Let's get to work, taking into account the things I've already said under the transcript, about Thursday, and about the law on government procurement. As for the order of affairs, I think you won't mind if the Chief of the Supreme Council regulates the order of order depending on whether or not there is a question. Please vote. [[10:46:26]] For 227 Decision taken. Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine. Please show by factions. The next question of the order of the day is. I can read: The Party of the Regions is 0, Timoshenko The Block of July is 156, Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense 71, Communist faction is 0, Lithuania's Block is 0. With regard to the next issue of our agenda, this is, in fact, the approval of the order of the day-to-day second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call. Consider all your suggestions made on the Conciliation Council yesterday. It consists of three blocks: two supplements, the maximum compromise order of the day, by this order of the day, all the bills, which are so-called resonances. We need to stabilize Parliament's work first, and then we will move on to those issues that today are mixedly perceived in society that are unlikely to bring stability to Ukrainian society. They're taken to separate apps. Please, there are 427 bills, you have introduced them. I ask for a basis to vote for the order of the day of the second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please put the vote on the ground. Now, after the foundation, Peter Mikolaiovich, after the foundation. [[10:47:59]] For 418 As a basis, it's been accepted. I'm asking you to sign up for five minutes. Please show by factions, please sign up for the performance. Catherineczuk Mikola Dmitrovic, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Please, Mikola Dmitrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u36	The European Party of Ukraine, the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear Arsenija Petrovich, I would like to address you that we have just voted the agenda for the second session, but I don't think there is a very important document that was submitted by our faction this week. Last week is a draft of the Ukrainian Tax Code, which we've talked so much about, which we've worked so hard on. But for today, if we don't start working with this very systemic and very important element for the country, I think we can't do the tasks that we have before us -- the task in front of small and medium-sized businesses, in front of entrepreneurs, in front of the state. Because the Tax Code is a new economic constitution for Ukraine that will allow structural reforms, investment and economic growth. So I would like to ask Arsenija Petrovich, if you please, to vote again and add to the order of the day's second session.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u37	Thank you. Babenko Valerij Borisovich, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u38	Please pass the word to Tomenko Mikola Volodymirovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u39	Tomenko Mikola Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u40	Dear colleagues, our faction's position is to support this bill. We are extremely interested in getting the Supreme Council to work systematically so that we do not approve a decision for a day or even a week. And so strategically, this vote is extremely important, because both the Supreme Council committees, both the public and the experts and the local self-government can plan how they will influence the legislative process because it's clear how we work. That's why we're going to vote in favour of this order of the day. The only thing that we're asking is to determine in our debate in the constitutional process. We are convinced that in order for the Constitution to be a legitimate document, we need to move the constitutional debate to Parliament. Whether it's by creating a TSC or something. But I think we also need to solve this problem without delay. That's why we're here.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u41	Thank you. Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u42	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear Arsenija Petrovich, I would like to ask that we continue to act under the Rules, that is, first discussed, and then voted on any question. As to that question. I would like you to state once again as chairman that concerns the order of the day's second session, to announce that all the observations, or proposals by the Communist faction, regarding the deletion of those or other draft laws that do not meet the requirements of the Constitution that violate international conditions and treaties, are deleted and taken into account. So, let's say, in view of the fact that we've only just received this virtually new order of the day, say again that all the proposals that the Communist faction made regarding specific laws, bills, were deleted. And then we, the faction of Communists, realize that everything that we've had doubts, it doesn't count today when we're talking about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u43	Landik Vladimir Ivanovich, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u44	Vladimir Landik, faction of the Regions, Luganshina. Well, the faction of the Party of the Regions, first of all, welcomes the concerted work of the coalition, which has been able to agree, and we can work in this regime to vote in favour of all issues. But I would like to ask you, Arsenius Petrovich, another question. There are several investigative commissions that have not been voted on. And, I think in the next meeting, you won't mind having these investigative commissions work. I also wanted to address all of us, as well as Ukrainian citizens, on the issue of the City Council of Harikov. It is now possible to say that the seizure of the building by the employees of the BSS, the seizure of documents, the arrest of workers, i.e. the preferred method with the Uzhgorod City Council, is now being applied.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u45	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u46	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherhood Defenders, "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense". Dear Arsenija Petrovich, I have addressed you as the Head of the Supreme Council in order to comply with the Supreme Council's Rules of Laws of 1363, 1365. I remind you that you've signed them up on eight committees, and they're only considered on three committees, one on the other on the other. They are now contradicting the Constitution, articles 42, 50th Constitution, destroying our Ukrainian market today, launching anything beyond the border. So it was very important for them to go through all the committees, so that everyone could speak out, and all the factions would also understand professionally. I can't understand why we have issues in the agenda, regardless of all the committees. Let's do this, I know you know the Rules, let's end this by acting absolutely in accordance with the Rules. I insist that they be removed in accordance with the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u47	Thank you. Dear colleagues! There are several proposals for voting in general, in second reading, and in general. The first is about the Tax Code. A proposal was made by Ukraine’s national deputy, Catherinechuk, to include the Tax Code in the agenda of the day session. This is registration number 1215. A proposal has also been made to include all draft legislation on Ukraine's accession to the World Trade Organization, which has been provided by our reconciliation protocol. The relevant bills are being registered, and I'm asking that we renumber them and include them. And the third is about the Constitution. We discussed this at the Conciliation Council yesterday, and I would like to ask that we discuss, in the form of faction leaders, the further work of the Ukrainian Parliament as part of the improvement of the Constitution. What kind of organizational and legal form of work are we going to define with you, and then we're going to vote in a normal way for making changes to the agenda of the session. The agenda is designed to take into account proposals, primarily by committees and approved by the Conciliation Council. So I would ask that with the rights that I have put to the vote as a whole, and with all the other things that will arise, we will surely negotiate and add them to the agenda or exclude them when we consider a matter. We need to start working systematically. Please, Yuri Anatoliyovich, we're settling everything, please. Dear National Deputies! I ask to vote in the second reading and in the entire order of the afternoon of the second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call. Please vote, taking into account the suggestions I have made. [[10:55:55]] For 415 The decision is taken in general. Thank you very much! Please show by factions. Dear colleagues! In line with our agenda, which we have just approved an advert on the draft Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. [[new editor]] We have Bill 1312, which represents the first deputy head of the Ukraine’s Presidential Secretariat, Alexander Vitaliyovich, and there is Bill 1139, which is associated with Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich. Please give the word to Slapak Alexander Vitaliovich. Please, Alexander Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u48	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, distinguished national deputies, your opinion is proposed by the President of Ukraine's draft Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The need for adoption of this bill is determined by at least two factors. First, it is necessary to bring the organization, order of activities, powers and status of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine as a higher body in the system of executive bodies in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine. Secondly, it is necessary to regulate at the legislative level those conflicts that have arisen in practice when applying the rules of the law in force. This is also the question of the liberation of ministers, this is also the question of ignoring the President's decrees on the suspension of acts of the Cabinet of Ministers on the grounds of their unconstitutionality, this is impossible and the creation of advisory bodies by the President of Ukraine, with the participation of government members and others. In doing so, adopted on 21 December 2006, the Ukrainian Act on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is proposed to recognize that it has become invalid because much of its provisions are contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine. I want to focus your attention on these most important positions of the bill. First, with the aim of ensuring the implementation of constitutional standards, the formation of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is improving. It is envisaged that in the event of a violation of the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine and of this law concerning the submission of nominations for the post of prime minister of Ukraine, as well as in the event of the failure of the proposed candidate to meet the requirements for a member of the Cabinet of Ministers provided for in this law, the President of Ukraine shall inform the Supreme Council of the failure to submit the proposed candidature. Ministers of defense, foreign affairs, are appointed to the Supreme Council of Ukraine solely for the appointment of the President of Ukraine. The appointment of the Prime Minister for the release of the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Defence shall be subject to the agreement of the President of Ukraine. Second, mechanisms are in place to present the Ukrainian Prime Minister's programme of activities for Ukraine's future Cabinet of Ministers. The approval of the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers' Programme of Action by the Supreme Council is carried out at the same time as the appointment of the Prime Minister of Ukraine. In doing so, the Government's work programme should be based on the agreed political positions and programme tasks of the coalition of MP factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This will make it impossible for the Supreme Council of Ukraine to review the Programme of Action of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which will contradict or disregard all the positions of the political parties that have formed a coalition. Third. It is suggested that, on the one hand, the minister’s responsibility for the state of implementation of politics be increased; on the other hand, his independence in making decisions. To this end, the bill provides for the appointment of the first deputy and deputy ministers, not the Prime Minister; the coordination by ministers of the activities of all central executive bodies whose directors are not part of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The issues raised by such bodies are presented by the relevant ministers in the Cabinet, and they present to the Cabinet of Ministers the appointment of the first deputy and deputy heads of their coordinated central executive bodies. The number of deputy ministers is limited to one first deputy and four deputy ministers. Four. The practice of coordinating the activities of members of the Cabinet of Ministers, the heads of other central executive bodies, the work of their governing bodies, exclusively the Cabinet of Ministers as a college body, is being introduced. The rule of law in force, which provides for the prime minister's right to coordinate the work of ministries, to direct, coordinate and monitor the activities of other central executive bodies within his sphere of directing and coordinating local executive authorities, is deleted. This also deprives the Prime Minister and the First Deputy Prime Minister of the use of so-called fiche to govern ministers who, as members of the government, share their rights. Fifth. The mechanism for the interaction of ministries, central executives and their local authorities with local government administrations is improving. This mechanism will allow the heads of local state administrations to exercise the powers conferred on them by the Constitution of Ukraine, namely, to ensure that the Constitution and laws of Ukraine are implemented in the appropriate territory, the acts of the President of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, other executive bodies, the rule of law and order, the observance of the rights and freedoms of citizens. [[Article 119]] A mechanism is being put in place to regulate the issue arising from the refusal of the head of the local public administration to accept a candidate for appointment as head of the territorial department, and this issue of granting an appointment becomes the subject of consideration by the Cabinet of Ministers. Six. In accordance with article 87 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the bill reproduces a constitutional rule on the President's right to propose to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to consider the question of the responsibility of the Cabinet of Ministers. Seven. The issue of the interaction between the Ukrainian Cabinet and the President of Ukraine, the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine is being addressed. The bill, in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine, provides for the implementation by the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine of the coordination and control of the executive authorities in the field of national security and defence, as well as for the provision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to implement the decisions of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, which have been implemented by the decrees of the President of Ukraine. The bill removes the provisions of the current Law on the impossibility of including members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, heads of other executive bodies in the composition of the subsidiary bodies and services created by the President of Ukraine. It is envisaged that their participation in the work of such bodies and services is carried out on public grounds in agreement with the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Eight. The bill clearly defines the consequences of the suspension of the actions of the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers by the President of Ukraine. This is caused by negative practices, failures, and, more specifically, willful disregard by the government of the decrees of the President of Ukraine, which stopped the unconstitutional acts of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The bill provides for a clear injunction for the President of Ukraine to stop the act of the Government, as a result of the suspension of the commission of any authority or person of action aimed at the further execution of the suspended acts of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, as well as the exercise of the powers defined by these acts. Honourable National Deputies, the adoption of the Law will enable the creation of conditions for the activities of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, as a higher body in the system of executive bodies exclusively in the constitutional and legal field, will contribute to the improvement of the system and to the organization of executive power in Ukraine, their approach to European standards will positively affect the implementation of the internal and external policies of the State, the protection of human rights and freedoms and the citizen. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u49	Thank you, Alexander Vitaliovich. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for questions and answers, 10 minutes, please. Grenevetsky Sergey Rafailovich, “Block of Lithuania”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u50	Please give the word to Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u51	Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u52	Thank you very much. Dear Arsenija Petrovich, a respected reporter, believes that the bill establishes that the minister has one first deputy and four deputies. I don't think it's the job of deputy ministers to hire party activists. And in this regard, I have a question about the development of my first sensation. How do you feel about the political status of a minister under the conditions of today’s Ukraine, when it comes to using it, that people who have not worked in the field for a day have no bearing on it, have no authority in this field, and cannot influence serious processes. Your attitude on this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u53	Thank you. First of all, thank you for supporting our attempt to organize the number of deputies, because you obviously know that in separate ministries we have 11-12 deputies today. With a few, three of the first deputies, they're confused and all that. And so the return to the positions we had at the beginning of 2000, when there was one deputy and three, the truth is, in our opinion, a significant step forward. The second question is yours. The bill now preserves the political status of minister. True, the bill prescribes the meaning of a more stringent requirement for each candidate to be a minister. When we were drafting a bill, we couldn't stand up to the professional preparation of the candidate for that position. We came out of the next one, obviously the Cabinet of Ministers bill won't solve all the issues. In time, the adoption of serious changes to the Law on the State Service of Ukraine. It's about creating a serious professional service, like state secretaries, which, under any circumstances, will have potential, an intellectual potential, scientific to perform functions in any department. In that case, we'll secure ministries and offices from.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u54	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u55	In that case, we will be able to secure ministries and offices from some unpreparedness of future ministers. This is the formula for solving the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u56	Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u57	Dear Alexander Vitalevich, would you please tell us what is the derivative of the Constitution or the Constitution of the law? What if a healthy proposal were to be implemented, both the BUTT and the Party of the Regions, to return to the Constitution and to amend the Constitution under the roof of Parliament, and it would be decided that we were going into a full-fledged parliamentary and presidential form of government. After that, in three months, after four months, we will be fundamentally changing this law again, perhaps we should wait until we change the Constitution and then, as a derivative, amend the Kabmine Act. This is not at the root of the political conflicts that exist today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u58	Thank you, Mikhail Vasilovich. I think it's the right thing to do. I would like to wish for the success of the Supreme Council, and I look forward to a certain extension and conclusion of the debate on the future structure of our country. I'm not sure that's gonna happen in three or four months. At the same time, in fact, every day, we are faced with problems that have arisen because of the actual drafting of our law. And this is a problem in resisting the triangle of power: the President, the Parliament and the Cabinet of Ministers. Nothing bad will happen that during a week or two, we will settle all these issues and try to live by the new Law on the Cabinet of Ministers. In the event that Parliament decides to change the Constitution, it will certainly have to adopt not only this new law, but all the actual key laws on the organization of power in Ukraine, and the Law on Local Administrations, and local self-government. Not doing anything today, continuing to realize that we have a lot of conflict issues in the system of higher authorities, I think, is unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u59	Kravchenko Mikola Vasilovich, Communist Party
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u60	Thank you. The distinguished rapporteur, it is clear that the bill you are submitting is now returning the dictatorships to the President in essence. And given what you've just said, that a vertical of power will be created to the areas, that tells us that Kuchma didn't dream of such powers. Kuchma will blink easily. And the regime Yushchenko fought in his electoral programme would, of course, be less than current powers. That's why I have a question. How, though, does this law relate to the President's Ten Steps for People programme? One. And the second. In which country do we live, under the Constitution, in the Parliamentary-President or President-Parliamentary? And your law, to what Constitution does it fit?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u61	Thank you. Of course, by the Constitution and by the proper norm, and by the standard that we propose today, we live in the parliamentary-presidential republic. As far as your first question is concerned. The problem of this day is that the President does not have the capacity to do the best he can in his election program, according to the current law on the Cabinet of Ministers. I'm convinced that this law does not change substantially, and I want to emphasize it, that there are a lot of complex, but still local conflict issues that are being addressed. That's why I can't agree with you that we're going back to some dictatorial regime. We settle the current inadequacies and only. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u62	Ribuk Sergey Mikolaiovich, Party of Regions
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u63	Thank you. Rybub, Party of Regions, Zitomirsk. Dear Alexander Vitaliyovich, there are a number of questions. [[I'll raise my hand so you can see me.]] But I have to ask again what the Zarubinsky deputy asked. Because you haven't really responded to it. The Cabinet of Ministers, the Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister, the Minister, i.e. the circumcision of all law, is the Minister. And here's the function and who can be the minister, it's completely out of professional and professional perspective. We have a minister under this law, if we adopt it, there may be a minister of the coal industry, we may have a person who was afraid of the train yesterday, sorry, maybe a minister of transportation. That's not what I'm talking about. Why, then, is there no reason why this law is being proposed? Please give me an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u64	Thank you. Mr. Sergey, I'm going to answer you one more time just what I said to Oleg. This law does not, indeed, provide for professional requirements for a future candidate to ministers. When I prepared the law myself, as a member of the working group, I defended such requirements, but I was unable to prove myself right. I invite you to join us in working on this law. If we can write down these standards, I think it's only going to improve this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u65	Kosov Mikhailo Vasilovich, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u66	Please pass the word to Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u67	Tomenko Mikola Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u68	Mr. Alexander, we debated with you when we supported and discussed the bill. And I'm still thinking that there are a few norms that are creating some problem for us in the government's relationship with district administrations and in the President's relationship with district administrations, because there is a situation that, let's say, if an unscrupulous head of district administration or district administration doesn't actually work with the government. It's about a whole range of rules that relate, for example, to what the head of the district district administration might disagree with the personnel appointments that go along with the central executive branch, and from the point of view of responsibility, it's about the rule that the government can't even impose administrative penalties on officials of this level, but rather transfer them to the President. Do you not think that this will create a problem in relationships?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u69	Thank you, Mikola Volodymyrovich. I think your question will help me explain once again the urgent need to amend the current law that I am talking about. We have no examples today when the head of the district or district government did not accept any candidates, and she was unable to take office. Instead, we have a huge number of examples, in fact a total violation of the 119th Constitution when, without asking the head of the local administration, the representatives of the central executive authorities are appointed. Ask the head of the local administration later for his constitutional functions is actually unnecessary. That's why we're not proposing a form of peremptory agreement today, and that's why I'm talking about, for example, my right and the heads of administration to make public objections against this candidate. Then the Cabinet of Ministers intervenes. I have the right to be officially invited as Head of Administration to give my public explanations. The final decision will still be behind the Cabinet of Ministers. So I think we've found the only possible and correct form of public debate on personnel issues. As for your second question, once again, I would like to emphasize that we used the rule of appointment.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u70	Please finish the dates.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u71	Thank you. We used the rule of the Labour Code -- who appoints, who has the right both to take the job and to make the right comments and catchups -- is a general rule. It's bad when we have one man in charge of several structures. One more thing I want to say to you is that during the work of the government of Julia Volodymyrna, no case has been ignored if a request from the government were to be asked in any way to bring the heads of local authorities to justice. I'm sure this problem is premeditated, but let's act within the framework of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u72	Thank you, Alexa Vitaliovich. Please sit down. Dear colleagues, I invite you to the rostrum of our colleague, Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, to present Bill 1139P.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u73	Dear Mr. Head, honourable members of the people, I will ask you to vote in favour of the President's draft which has just been reported. I want to let you know that this project, which was implemented much later than the project that I did. I started a project on December 10, 2007, registered at number 1139. This project is proposed to recognize that it has become invalid, the Ukrainian Act on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, as a violation of the Constitution of Ukraine. What and why did I propose that you vote for the bill that is now? Because the repeal of the law, which does not correspond to the Constitution, in my view, is justice, the renewal of justice and the renewal of the Constitution throughout Ukraine, because the adoption of the draft law is caused by the fact that many of the rules and regulations of this law, adopted by the Supreme Council on 12 January 2007, entitled “For the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine”, do not take account of the provisions of the Constitution of Ukraine, it distorts the essence and content of the Basic Law of Ukraine, which in fact led to a balance of government in Ukraine and then those events which then took place in Ukraine. I believe that this is contrary to the Constitution: part three of article 8 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers, contrary to article 106, paragraph nine; part three of article 114 of the Constitution gives the coalition of MP factions in the Supreme Council the right to submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a nomination for the post of Prime Minister of Ukraine in the event of a failure by the President of Ukraine to submit such an application to the Constitution of Ukraine. But the Constitution of Ukraine does not make the role of the President of Ukraine in the appointment of the Prime Minister purely formal. The analysis of the provisions of articles 3, 102, paragraph 9 of Article 106 of the Constitution gives rise to the claim that the President of Ukraine may reject the proposed coalition of parliamentary factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s candidature of the Prime Minister of Ukraine. The mandate of the Coalition of Deputies in the Supreme Council of Ukraine to submit to Parliament the nominations for the appointment of the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine in the event of failure by the President of Ukraine to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the appointment of the Minister of Defence of Ukraine or the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine to the term defined in the first article is also part of the third article 9 of the Act, which does not correspond to paragraph 12 of the first article 85, paragraph 10 of the first article of article 106 and part of the fourth article of article 114 of the Constitution of Ukraine, according to which the submission of the appointment for the posts in question falls within the exclusive powers of the Head of State, who correspond to its respective powers, as defined in paragraphs 3, 17 of the first part of article 106 of the Constitution of Ukraine. Part one of article 22 of the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers, which provides for the transfer by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of its powers, if this is not prohibited by law, does not conform to the general legal principle: the State does what is established by law, is enshrined in part two of article 19 of the Constitution, according to which State authorities and local authorities are required to act solely on the basis, within the powers and in the manner provided for in the Constitution of Ukraine. The constitutional principles of the activities of the local public administrations are set out in article 118 of the Constitution of Ukraine and cannot be violated under the Basic Law. The law, however, has greatly expanded the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers in this area beyond the Constitution by regulating the relationship of the Cabinet of Ministers with local government administrations. In particular, in the ninth section of article 25 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers, the mandate to abolish acts by local government administrations has been strengthened. This is contrary to article 118, part eight, of the Constitution, according to which the decisions of the heads of local government that conflict with the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, other acts of legislation may be repealed by the President of Ukraine or the head of the local state administration of a higher level. This leads us to conclude that the mandate mentioned does not belong to government authority and is not such that, in accordance with article 116, paragraph 10, the Constitution can be established by law. Moreover, the position of part two of the same article of the Ukrainian Act on the Cabinet of Ministers on the part of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine's approval of candidates for deputy heads of local government run counter to part three of article 118 of the Constitution of Ukraine, under which the composition of local government administrations forms the heads of local government administrations. So we see an unnecessary bureaucracy that's planned and is now in the law. Part four of article 25 of the law enshrines the right of the Cabinet of Ministers to bring the head of the local government to disciplinary responsibility. Given that the general principle of involving an official in disciplinary responsibility is exercised by the authority to which he is appointed and released, and taking into account the position of part four of article 118 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Cabinet of the Ministers of Ukraine is authorized for reasons only to appeal to the President of Ukraine with a proposal to bring the head of the local public administration to disciplinary responsibility. Article 27 of the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, contrary to article 106 of the Constitution, gives the Prime Minister and the relevant Minister the absolute right to refuse to enforce the acts of the President of Ukraine. The failure to consolidate the relevant acts of the President of Ukraine with the signatures of the Prime Minister and the Minister responsible for the act and its execution, as is seen in part 11 of this article, makes it impossible for such acts to be officially published by the President of Ukraine. However, under article 106, part three, the Constitutions are issued by the President of Ukraine on the basis of and failure to comply with the Constitution, Ukrainian laws, decrees and regulations. In addition, acts of the Head of State, who are to be secured, are issued within the framework of the President's constitutional powers, which he cannot pass on to other organs. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm surprised by the approach of our scientific expertise, which I'm surprised that it agrees with the majority of the arguments in the explanatory note that I have just made, part of which I have just made. So they agree that brutal violations of the Constitution have been committed, but they cannot agree with the proposed legal mechanism to remedy the shortcomings. I would like to draw attention from this high court of officials, Mr. Bordenyuk, that the Constitution can be respected or ignored at all and that it is impossible to serve the Constitution. Thus, they conclude that the imperfection of the Kabmin law, including the presence in the text of a certain number of regulations that do not conform to the basic law, is not, in our view, a ground for recognition of this law that has become invalid. Dearly beloved, we will go so far as to have such documents written in the higher legislature. The Constitution must be more than anything. And that's why I'm addressing today and the President of Ukraine, Victor Andryovich Yushchenk: Victor Andryovich, today I'm going to advocate for the bill that you tabled, and I'm going to vote for it, but I would ask you to remove the two or three differences that are in this bill with the Constitution. And they are. So thank you for the opportunity to express yourself. I would like to support the bill, explaining this by explaining that if one day continues to work on an unconstitutional legislative act, it is already a major loss to the state of Ukraine, for its interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u74	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please. Yuri Anatolyevich, question-answer? Please sign up for a question-answer. Herman Hanna Mikolayevna, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u75	Please pass the word to Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u76	The sand.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u77	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. I would like to ask you as a lawyer: how do you respond to the innovations you have proposed with the recommendations of the Venice Commission on the improvement and approval of the democratic norms of the European model in Ukraine, because what you are proposing will further strengthen that authority that you used to call authoritarian? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u78	I thank you, Mr. Popescu, but my proposals are exactly in line with the standards of the Venice Commission, which has declared our Constitution perfect. And I would like to say that I have lost my office of the Ministers of Ukraine Act because it was because it violated the rules of this Constitution. And that's why this bill is perfect from this point of view, and it fits those standards completely. But thank you for remembering the conclusion of the Venice Commission, it would be very important for you to remember, too, because you represent the political power that passed this bill, which goes against not only the Constitution of Ukraine, but you know well that the decisions of the Venice Commission as well, and the common sense also contradicts, let us speak honestly.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u79	Tomenko Mikola Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u80	Yuri Anatoliyovich, I support your desire to act in the context of the Constitution and, I think, we now have a serious problem with the fact that once we adopt this bill, we understand that the constitutional process or, more specifically, the procedure for changes to the Constitution is going on. And as you will recall, in a coalition agreement, we agreed on this format of local self-government, where the status and authority of local councils are increasing, and the district administrations have only control functions, and the district administrations are cancelling. So how do you think we can build a further job to give a clear signal that we are actually bringing the status of the Cabinet of Ministers and local self-government into line with the Constitution and realities, but in no way do we question the strong local self-government that will be exactly what will happen with the changes to the Constitution in Ukraine? How do you build a job here?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u81	Thank you, Your Honor, Mikolo Volodymyrovich. I'd like to be told about the Venice Commission, which doesn't exactly fit the conclusions. I think that if we're going to make changes to the Constitution with you, we're going to take into account all the changes in the Venice Commission and all of its proposals. But I'd like you and I not to get confused, Reverend Mikolo Volodymyrovich, a strong local self-government with the saviour that is being done in Kiev today. I would like us not to confuse with you the strong local self-government with the mass sale of land that is happening today in every area, in every area that is happening today in the Kyiv region, both in Crimea and in the Odessa region, and rarely in which it is not happening. Yesterday I had people from Chernigev district, where out of the twenty-four heads of district administrations, there are no, not assigned. And there's also the sale of the land. Yesterday the walkers were, they were telling us everything that was going on, like 240 hectares in the area of the route, and on whom they were formed and so on. That should be the end of it. So I want strong local self - government to be based.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u82	Yavorovsky Volodymyr Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u83	Vladimir Yavorowski's “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, anchored outside the city of Kirovograd. Dear Mr. Jury, of course, we understand very well that the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers is being converted all the time, as it were, into one power or another that is in power. However, regardless of this, because it was in our common coalition arrangements, the "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko" will unanimously vote in favour of this bill and insist that it be adopted today. And my other question to you. Please tell me, Mr. Jurist, when any officer in the President's patronage, i.e. the Secretariat, every day tells the Prime Minister what to do anyway, where to get out of this situation? And how do you see it?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u84	Thank you. Dear Mr. Volodymyr, I would like to remind you that under the Constitution the Cabinet of Ministers is a higher body in the system of executive organs. And when we adopt this law, which is now being proposed, there, at least, is that they cannot be appointed as members of the Cabinet of Ministers persons who have a trial. That's already a big plus in terms of many negatives. As far as I'm concerned, I think the relationship will be settled between the secretaries, the machines, and so on. I think they'll communicate well with each other, and the higher body should communicate with the higher ones, i.e. with the legislature, with the President and so on. I think it's going to work out, and this law doesn't contradict it completely.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u85	Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich, “Block of Lithuania”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u86	Thank you. Dear Yuri Anatolyovich, I am addressing you as a lawyer, an experienced and effective lawmaker. And I ask that the answer be professional. Please say, well, first of all, I mean, I am absolutely not the adept of the current "Pro Kabmin" Act today. But please tell me which body has acknowledged the unconstitutional, unconstitutional, and unconstitutional provisions of the current law on the Cabinet of Ministers. What body, who admitted it? First question. A professional answer, please. And the second professional answer. You said that you would definitely vote for the new Cabinet of Ministers bill, but you made a small trailer: although there are constitutional inadequacies, you will vote for it. Tell me, please, lawyer, how can you vote for a bill where you know that it does not answer the entire series of segments of the valid Constitution? I look forward to a sincere answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u87	Dear Oleg Alexanderovich! As an outstanding legislator, you probably know that no body has declared unconstitutional, first. But secondly, the Constitution obliges every Ukrainian citizen to make an assessment of the constitutionality, of every citizen, and of a deputy, including one. We have taken an oath with you to be faithful to the Constitution and cannot violate it. That's the first one. And the second. How am I going to vote? First, in that project that there is, one or two positions that are questionable. But once again, they're not declared unconstitutional, they're, in my view, questionable, anything at all, perhaps from your point of view. So for these two points, I'm going to vote with disgust.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u88	Konovaluk Valerius Illich, Party of Regions
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u89	Thank you, Konovaluk, faction of the Party of Regions. Dear reporter! I understand your attitude today and the support of the President's bill, but there are a few questions before that bill that you were directly introducing.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u90	I'll report it to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u91	Yes, which concerns the recognition of the existing law on the Cabinet of Ministers as invalid. Please tell me, if the President of Ukraine has expressed his own position on those comments on the six principles that applied to the approved law, why are we now considering the new edition? Or do we not change, and why does this question not become the subject of consideration by the Constitutional Court? And it's hard for me to imagine how the BUT faction will now vote if it voted in the last 100 percent in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u92	Thank you. The point is that this bill, you see and confirm for yourself that at least six, you say, the President has seen, and I see not six, but eleven issues in the Constitution and I'm talking about them right now. First of all, this is the new Faction BUT, second of all, a lot has changed. I think they, you've heard their statements that they're voting in favour. And secondly, the bill, the one that the President introduced, is really much better than the one that existed. And yet I have reported my bill, and I would ask you, Mr. Valery, to vote for it too, because it has to be stopped until, even for one day, a bill in which very many violations of the Constitution are in effect. And you realize that you can't accept drafts as a specific name for the prime minister or for the president, they're changing, maybe tomorrow you'll be prime minister or you'll be president, but it's going to be the rule of the Constitution, then it'll be the rule of every Ukrainian citizen in this country, if it's going to be.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u93	Last question, Kravchenko Mikola Vasilovich, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u94	Yuri Anatolyevich, Communist faction. However, I would like to ask you as a friendly wish: it is not possible for you, a lawyer, to use legal terms and how you advise our voters to “disgustingly” to recognize an unconstitutional decision. It's like a trailer. Clearly, Yuri Anatolievich, that the law has been drafted for future elections, the Prime Minister becomes simply a “wedding general”, the entire structure of the executive branch is in the hands of the President, and I have a question about that. Say, was it worth fighting against the authoritarian regime of Kuchma, which you also fought against, in order to pass such a law in Ukraine today in the face of a terrible democracy?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u95	Thank you, Mikola Vasilovich. I appreciate your attitude as a professional, as a carefree person, we worked with you on the road traffic code, we worked together on other bills. But I want to tell you that this law does not diminish the authority of the head of government, no. It's more consistent with the Constitution. And as for my doubts about the couple of positions, they should have doubts about constitutionality and they should not. It's just a matter of conscience who can admit it, say it, and who can't say it. I can admit it, and I will deal with the violations that I see, in my opinion. I will fight against those methods that are democratic because different views are allowed in the democratic coalition. I don't think it's an election law. I don't think so. And I don't agree with you that the law that Mr. Schlapak reported and the entire structure that was laid down only under the President. You won't find it there. There's absolutely no such thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u96	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Deputy Head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, Yuri Bogdanovic Klukkowski. Please, Yuri Bogdanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u97	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Today, finally, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is trying to remove the reasons behind the sharp constitutional crisis of 2007. We are told that, in fact, the adoption of the gross unconstitutional law on the Cabinet of Ministers by overcoming the Presidential veto and becoming the stone that launched the avalanche of the political crisis. Of course, the validity of unconstitutional law is short - lived. I don't want to explain right now who has the right to declare this law unconstitutional. Those who doubt this, I propose to raise the transcript from January of last year and read, as the then chairman of the meeting said: well, really, this is an unconstitutional position, but let's vote. Therefore, not those who made this law with their own hands and then implemented it are today talking about unconstitutionality. I am authorized to present my position to our committee and my task is greatly facilitated by the fact that the main problems of the current law on the Cabinet of Ministers, which do not correspond to constitutional positions, have already been read by both respondents before. The committee itself concluded that the bill tabled by the President of Ukraine was primarily aimed at eliminating these fundamental violations. And in that sense, it brings the law into line with the Constitution of Ukraine. I would like to emphasize once again that the committee does not share the assessment that was made here by colleagues from the Communist faction that this bill is crippling someone, it reinforces someone that it renews the mandate of former President Kuchma. You know, all this, excuse me, nonsense. The point is that there is a valid Constitution of Ukraine. Those who care so much about her should first consider how to bring this law into line with her. I hope that all those who spoke today about the conformity of the Constitution will vote in favour of the Presidential Bill. At the same time, the committee noted that a number of provisions of the current Cabinet of Ministers Act, as well as some of the provisions of the bills, were not perfect and were therefore subject to further work. For example, the concept of resignation, suspension, and dismissal remained inconsistent. The problem of political positions is that the Cabinet Act rules ministers, members of the Cabinet of Ministers, from the category of civil servants, and I want to point out that it leads them out of the corruption law. I think this position needs to be changed. There is a problem with the suspension of the power of the Ukrainian national deputy, who is appointed to the government, and some of our colleagues have already introduced legislation on this. There's a very difficult problem for me, a logical and controversial problem in the exercise of authority after the termination of the mandate by the Cabinet of Ministers. Of course, it is necessary to take into account the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine in December 2007 concerning the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to release the relevant officials without any application. A standard for so-called, budgetary declaration needs to be reconciled. I would like to remind you that the Budget Code does not provide for such a declaration, it foresees a budget resolution for Parliament. Other provisions of the bill have raised comments from committee members, including the issue of the number of deputy ministers, because we believe that this is a matter of another bill, which is unfortunately not introduced, about the central executive authorities. You remember the discussion a year ago when the Cabinet Act was passed. Thus, our committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the draft law on the basis of the first reading. We guarantee that the committee will work on preparing for the second reading, considering all the comments and suggestions that will follow the Supreme Council's Rules and what we propose for the second reading will be exactly in line with the Constitution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u98	Thank you, Yuri Bogdanovich. Please sign up for questions and answers, five minutes. Ribuk Sergey Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u99	Thank you. Ribuk, faction of the Party of the Regions, Zitomirščina. Dear reporter, in vain, you are so slanderous of the current law on the Cabinet of Ministers, since more than half of the articles in it have been rewritten without any branding or modification. That's the first one. The other one. In the current law, the prime minister's candidate is speaking in a plenary session with a policy statement that you're criticizing, and the one you're writing in the new edition should speak with the government's Activity Programme. Please explain, if the candidate speaks with an activity program, will it be a program of candidates for the Cabinet of Ministers or an active Cabinet of Ministers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u100	Thank you for asking. What I'm trying to say is that I don't want to go through with this bill. I am one of the three deputies who, in sum, made more than four hundred amendments to the bill, yet most of them were ignored. So I know what I'm talking about. Some of my comments were about something that wasn't regulated by the bill and the committee would work on it. As for the government program, that's a very good question, and I thank you for it. I stand in the position that the government's programme of action is a non-normal act, but a political document and that the government is formed under the programme, not first the government's composition, and then some program. So I'm just sharing the bill's position that the political declaration on government activity should be considered when the government is formed, voting for government membership, we should already know what tasks this government's composition is facing.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u101	Thank you. School of Andriy Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u102	Thank you. Your Honor, I understand that now all 400 amendments are made in this bill that you are going to vote on. But there is information from your presentation that there will be financial adjustments in the second reading. That is, you propose to vote on the first reading today, to work on the relevant committees of profile, and to submit a revised draft to the second reading. If so, please confirm or correct this. And one more thing. I generally believe that it is necessary to regulate the activities of all authorities, and I hope that the next bill you propose will be the Law on the President of Ukraine, which I also hope will be supported in the session room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u103	Thank you very much, but I will disappoint you, colleague of the School, the Law “On the President of Ukraine” I will not propose and speak against his acceptance, because I believe that everything concerning the President is regulated by the Constitution of Ukraine and that is enough. As far as the amendments are concerned, some of them are not included, so I will also submit to this bill. Yet, all the rest, I think so, the position of the committee that I report, yes, to support in the first reading, but to work not on many committees, but, as this Rules provide, on the Profile Committee, on the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government. And if you make any adjustments, we will definitely consider them. Regrettably, unlike, fortunately, my revisions were not considered at that time, in the fifth call.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u104	Welder Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u105	Mr. Jury Bogdanovich, frankly, I was intrigued by the sound of the committee's position in support of the President's proposal to strengthen the minister's political responsibility. And that's why I'd like to ask you a question. Since the President proposes that the political and administrative function of the Ministry, in particular with regard to the Minister's figure itself, should the committee take a positive view of the proposal that could be made in a second reading order with regard to the introduction, perhaps, of the State Secretary's Institute, in order to ensure the severity of the ministry's policies, and in particular the gravity of the public service's work in such a vendetta?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u106	Thank you. Well, first of all, I didn't say that the committee was against the separation of administrative and political positions. I was talking about the fact that by establishing political positions, the bill does not regulate them or regulate the status of political positions. And by doing so, he has appointed the members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine from under the corruption law. Because it's where only government officials fall. As far as your second offer is concerned, it's a good offer, but it's not a law. I've already said that my position that the regulation of deputy ministers is not a matter of the Cabinet of Ministers law, it's a matter of the law on central executive authorities, which are ministries in particular. And so that law would have to regulate these issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u107	Thank you. Yuri Bogdanovich, can I ask you a question? The committee proposes on the basis or is the committee proposing on the basis and according to paragraph 109 of the second paragraph in the second reading and in general? I'd like to hear again the position of the committee on this subject.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u108	I can't say what the committee didn't accept because I'm speaking on behalf of the committee. The committee decided to recommend a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u109	Because the members of the committee asked for a second and a whole. Okay. Thank you. I'd like you to take the floor with the National Deputies and sign up for the factions. It's already zero per minute. Because that's the rule. Ribuk Sergey Mikolaiovich, Party of Regions Well, let's do it. Turn on the microphone from the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u110	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. I'd like to pay attention to our room right now. Sadly, this information did not come out. The thing is, you know, the vast majority of the bills are being considered in addition to the profile committee in the Committee on Legal Policy. And the subject of our committee, which I represent, is the conformity of the Constitution of Ukraine. Thus, I would like to testify that our Legal Political Committee has reviewed the bill of the President of Ukraine and has noted that it is in conflict with the Constitution, and accordingly it could not be put to the vote now but would be returned to the legislative initiative. And in this context, there are no separate statements here, but there is a committee decision. If we now vote on this bill, we will violate the rules of the Supreme Council. That's the first piece of information. The second is about Mr. Carmazin's bill. Of course you can cancel the bill, the Cabinet of Ministers Act, but what are we staying with? I think it's going to be the first one. We will be left with the contradictions between the Prime Minister and the entire Cabinet of Ministers and the President deepening, as the rules of the Constitution will be interpreted differently by these two institutions of power. And as a result, we're going to have even more chaos than we have today. Dear colleagues, let us not make politics, but make legislation. And in this context, we have no opportunity and no right to consider the President's bill, and we have no reason to support Mr. Carmazin's bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u111	Kravchenko Mikola Vasilovich. Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u112	Respected colleagues, respected radio listeners, telespectors, to which I would like to draw attention, on behalf of the faction, that the faction would not support the draft law introduced by the President. First. This law is supposed to be in the legislative framework. What are the gaps that allow the President to constantly violate the Constitution when it has to be implemented? Next. It states that changes are expected to take place in order to implement its programme. In general, I would like to draw attention to the fact that in 2005 the same orange team came to power: the President, the Prime Minister and the Supreme Council almost all carried out the same task. What prevented you then, and why did you have problems with conflict? Today, 2008. You're the same team. It would seem to you that the Cabinet of Ministers should have the authority to do what needs to be done. Turns out you don't dance together like that. Therefore, it seems to me that we must proceed from the following. First, the President is in fact destroying the executive vertical, and he has already created three Cabinets of Ministers: the Cabinet of Ministers, which was approved by the coalition, the Cabinet of Ministers, through the National Security Council, the Cabinet of Ministers, through the Registry of the President. Thus today there are prerequisites for chaos and return for robbery and for banditry in power, as well as for successful, respected colleagues, and you are engaged. Congratulations. I would like to draw attention to the next moment. In general, what kind of deridan should be dealt with, that the President decrees that he shall be required to meet at Borispol Airport: Prime Minister, head of parliament, prosecutor, policeman, Security Service, head of city administration, head of district administration? Every escort machine, every security car, everyone, let's say, something else that has to do with the location, and so on. Not only do the power paralyze, but the movement, the ambulance, is not going anywhere. All of this is recorded only to ensure that the faithful are kept at the expense of the State budget, by failing to pay to hospitals, schools and the like. So once again, I urge everyone to note that the President had to think before he could usurp the power: why would he have a 350 million plane that he just bought and driven away? They don't take him anywhere anyway. Well, if you land, there's something to ask -- it's a hand to stretch, well, maybe there's enough corn there, and it's worth a lot today, so let's say, all over the airports. I would like to invite everyone once again to reflect on what kind of vertical power they form: either it's power for decision and governance, or it's power for the deridan to deal with it. The President of this law affirms that he is the chief curator of banditry today, and in fact, what is involved with the deridan is in Ukraine. Thank you. The Communist faction will not vote in favour of the draft.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u113	Grenevetsky Sergey Rafailovich, “Block of Lithuania”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u114	Honourable Arsenija Petrovich, honourable colleagues, was introduced by the President of Ukraine on the basis of the draft text of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers, adopted by the Supreme Council on 12 January 2007, after the President's veto had been overtaken and in line with the amendments introduced by Ukraine's law on 28 December. It proposes, first of all, to remove from the text the existing law a position that apparently does not comply with the Constitution of Ukraine. At the same time, a number of provisions of the bill also do not comply with the existing Constitution or other laws, or, more importantly, with decisions of the Constitutional Court or with further justification and discussion. The nature of the proposed changes to the current law suggests an effort to expand the mandate of the President by limiting the prerogatives of the government and the Supreme Council. For example, according to the first part of article 18, paragraph 2, of the draft submission of the Prime Minister on the release of foreign ministers and defences are submitted with the agreement of the President of Ukraine. The possibility of these ministers being released at the initiative of the Supreme Council is not even mentioned. In addition, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, in its conclusion of December 11, 2007, clarified that the submission of the Head of State to the resignation of the Prime Minister, ministers of foreign affairs and defence was not required because, according to the Constitution of Ukraine, the powers of the President were fully defined by the Constitution, making it impossible to adopt laws that would establish his mandate. For example, the fourth article of article 26 of the draft on the strengthening of the signatures of the Prime Minister of Ukraine and the Minister responsible for his execution, of the acts of the President of Ukraine within the limits of the powers provided for in the Constitution, is drafted to transform the consolidation of the act into a formal act, which cannot be accepted. I think there's a question to point six. By the way, the provision of article 116, paragraph 6, of the Constitution, that the Cabinet of Ministers drafts the State Budget Act of Ukraine and ensures the implementation of the Supreme Council of the State Budget of Ukraine, reports to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on its implementation as amended by references in part three of the first article of the second project, that the main tasks of the Cabinet of Ministers are to ensure the implementation of budgetary policy. I don't think that's the same thing at all. The question is unforgivable whether the President may not apply to the Supreme Council for the post of Prime Minister. We cannot agree with the project’s position that a program of activity is approved at the same time as the appointment of the Prime Minister. It seems that the bill does not extend to members of the Cabinet of Ministers whose positions are political. That's the last of it. It's hardly appropriate to talk about democracy as a principle of the work of the Cabinet of Ministers. It's best to talk about professionalism. Thank you for your attention. The faction supports.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u115	finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u116	The Lithuanian Block supports the first reading, taking into account the refinement of the proposed changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u117	Thank you. Boiler Roman Mihailovich, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u118	Roman Zvarić, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” faction. Dear colleagues, you know that there are times in this room when you have to tell the truth. As far as this law is concerned, it is necessary, gentlemen of the opposition, to speak the truth. This law has not been passed because you wanted to regulate the relationship between the government and the President of Ukraine, or to regulate the sphere of central executives at all. This law has been passed so that you can try to put the President in your place. I want to remind you of the conditions in which he was accepted. After the President introduced 47 amendments to the veto in this bill, the profiling committee considered all 47 proposals by the President of Ukraine in half an hour. I think it's actually a record that can be recorded in the book of Guinness. Here, the law was passed in the session room, and no one even read what it was about. The Speaker of Parliament then spoke in an open text about what was being done in order to form a constitutional majority in the session room, in order to destroy any possibility the President had under the Constitution of Ukraine, to veto any law he considered not to be in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine. So, if you're telling the truth, gentlemen, it is still necessary to take the first step today to really regulate the relationship between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the President of Ukraine and to bring this very important law into line with the Constitution of Ukraine. You're going to be able to do that. And everything will appear on the board, who is really standing on the ground of the Constitution of Ukraine, and who is on the foundation of political relevance. In order for there to be no doubt, I would like to state right here that, of course, the faction “The People. "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" will support this bill, introduced by the President of Ukraine, to amend the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. In particular, we agree with the President of Ukraine that the main objective set by the President of Ukraine is to bring the current law into line with the Constitution of Ukraine. In particular, in the part of the formation of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, particularly in part in the capacity of the President of Ukraine to refuse to submit a candidature proposed by the coalition for the post of Prime Minister of Ukraine, if such a candidature does not correspond to the Constitution of Ukraine. In particular, it is also part of the approval of the government's programme with the simultaneous appointment of the prime minister of Ukraine. I could continue this list, but of course the faction will support this law and call upon its colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u119	Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich, colleagues. Please, Ivan Grigorovitch, so that we can finish the factions from the factions, then we'll sign up for the performances by the national MPs, but after the break, after 12:30. And we will proceed to the voting procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u120	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues, we have listened carefully to reports, speeches, arguments, and should note that many of them are right. Indeed, the law of great political importance. And where that price is, there can't be an ideal law. We understand that because the main problem is the mixed form of governance, which causes conflicts, contentions and even confrontations every day and every action that we witness every day. The faction has made a political decision to take a step forward and to resolve this issue, to remove disputes, to remove confrontations and conflicts. We clearly and unanimously support the adoption of this law in the first, and I emphasize, in the second reading, that is, final. And please, Arsenija Petrovich, put our proposal to the vote and lift the tension in the society that voters feel today, the people feel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u121	Thank you, Ivan Grigorovitch. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to record a performance from the place so that every national deputy will know who will be speaking after 12:30. Please hold the recording procedure, and we'll meet you in the session room in 30 minutes. I'm telling you, get out of here. People's deputies. Yes, the recording is done. Colleagues, 30-minute break according to the 19th Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u122	We continue our morning plenary session. Please speak from Pisarenko Valerija Volodymyrovich, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko”. Valery Volodymyrovich, will you stay put? Because we're actually from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u123	Dear colleagues, indeed, the Law “On the Cabinet of Ministers” today has a rather difficult history of its acceptance and existence. Today, the President has made those adjustments that he believes can unite both power and power and will be able to put an end to the pressures that exist today both in the Cabinet of Ministers and in the system of government in general. The “Julia Tymoshenko Block” will fully support this law. Moreover, I would like to echo once again our position to put a dot in all the debates about this law today and to vote on it both in the first reading and in general. This is really what society needs today. This is really necessary today in order to solve all the problems and to remove the tension that exists in society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u124	Slobodan Alexander Viačeslavovich. Knyazevich Ruslan Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u125	Ruslan Knazević, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense”. Dear colleagues, I am in principle happy with the fact that we have lived to the moment when in the Ukrainian Parliament we began to talk about the fact that unconstitutional laws cannot be passed knowingly. True, it is regrettable that none of the speakers said that during the 12 years of the Constitutional Court’s activities, hundreds of laws adopted in this room were generally or partly unconstitutional. It is a pity that the Committee of Legal Policy, whose object of knowledge is the question of the conformity of legislation with the rules of the Constitution, has now declared it to be somewhat unconstitutional and has voted in favour of this majority, represented by representatives of factions and opposition. But I am very sorry that in 2007, this committee, which was then to be beaten by the Nabath, saw what was proposed for voting, at least nine brutal norms that brutally violate the Constitution of Ukraine, remained silent. And to our comments about what we're doing, the honourable colleagues said, well, that's what happened. Let us now turn to the President with good will and let him make the changes, and we will gladly accept them. The president made these changes, and then there was a bill that just meant to make changes to the nine articles of the law. But they said, you know, they're systematically balancing the law and they're not allowed to vote for it. The case was stalled, and these changes were not accepted. Now that the President is enacting a system law, because no one will say that something is balanced there, we are hearing again a voice that turns out to be a lot of the articles proposed do not correspond to the Constitution of Ukraine. We don't need to be able to determine whether these articles are consistent with the Constitution of Ukraine. We can interpret whatever, each of us, these constitutional norms, but there is a special body that gives an official interpretation. And as long as there is no such official interpretation, I am convinced that these rules are in line with the Constitution until the Constitutional Court leads the other way. In this regard, nothing prevents us from adopting this bill, including in general, and I support that our faction will vote in full for this bill, because no one in this room has the right to quasi-constitutionality. Unfortunately, we only have enough spirit to scream in this room right now, but I'm going to see what references to the Constitutional Court are going to be, and as it is, whoever's yelling in the session room is going to crawl in the Constitutional Court and say that you know, we're too sorry, then there's not enough argument to vote for this law, because there's no reason to say it's unconstitutional.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u126	Thank you. Bondar Alexander Mikolaiovich, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Matvienko Anatoly Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u127	The Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, the “Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense” Block. Dear colleagues! Dear Head! Dear voters! From this rostrum, I want to enter into a controversy with the leader of one faction who, after coming to this rostrum today, discussing the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers, said the following words, that when it comes to a decision of such a high level, which is really a very high level law, the integrity of the Constitution is to be said in vain. It seems to me that this is the main mistake that we make when we talk about our legislative work. We have to work out the holy canons, and apparently these holy canons should be the basis for our activity. If we allow ourselves so much freedom that until the Constitutional Court says so, we can take whatever we want, even close our eyes to violate the harsh Constitution, it also leads to a crisis that we are experiencing permanently throughout our independence. And I want to remind those who were so passionately violating the Constitution law and the relevant laws, and I passed the law that we are reviewing today and that was the reason that we got into the political crisis, that we passed the early elections, that we still can't make ends meet today. So I am not criticizing, but simply calling for what obviously the Constitution should be a holy language, and I urge my colleagues not to go over this condition, because not only this law, but many of the other laws that we obviously have to adopt, but not to rejoice at the fact that political relevance today gives me reason to rejoice over victory over some part of the hall. So I think that's what I want to say. And finally, after the bill, I won't be so keen to say that he's flawless, he needs to be accepted right away. I think we should have respect for everyone who wants to make this bill change. What's more, that's what we're showing respect for the President who introduced this bill. Because only serious, according to procedure, an adopted law can work. And I think that this law actually fits more constitutionally and logically, and I welcome that it regulates what is the exercise of the powers of the President and the government, and I welcome the fact that we are building a connection with the local authorities. But the things that are urgent today need work. First of all, I don't think that the government's program is to be adopted when the government approves, a resolution of mistrust over the year is obviously absurd in terms of the logic that forms today's government. The distribution of political and administrative positions should already be laid down in this law. So I'm going to propose, without counting, I'm going to make my revisions, I'm going to take it up on the first reading, I'm going to work fast and I'm going to accept it as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u128	Thank you. Dony Alexander Sergiyovich, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense."
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u129	Dear colleagues! Obviously, the barter that was assumed in the early 1990s in the gas fields is not likely to be transferred to the session room. When the quays claim that we're exchanging one bill for another, the Chernewsky resignation -- the Kabmin law -- I think it's unacceptable for the MPs. We have to read every bill and we have to verify every law with the Constitution. And it's obvious that in this case, it's not about improving Ukrainian legislation, it's about figuring out political relations: who's the host in the country now? For a specific moment, not a year from now, not after five, this is not about improving legislation but about dragging a political rope. Accordingly, in my view, it would be more appropriate to reject this bill, such as one that, unfortunately, is poorly prepared, which introduces a variety of powers into the executive system, only makes the situation worse. And work with the existing Kabmen Act, apply. I'm going to say that I haven't seen any written analysis report that would positively appreciate the bill. On the contrary, representatives of the think tanks were extremely negative about the bill. I think we should not forget the existing Constitution, think about creating our own constitutional commission. And after we've decided in the Chamber of Deputies what specific legislative changes we're going to make to the Basic Law, then we're going to improve specific bills. Otherwise, Your Honor, for the sake of political relevance, we're going to move on to the barter scheme, which means the early '90s, might remind us that we were in the state at the time. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u130	Bunny Ivan Aleksandrovich, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. None. Ivan Alexanderovich, are you? I can't see, I can't. Hiccup Igor Mikolaiovich, Party of Regions. None. Litwin Yuri Alexiyovich, “Block of Lithuania”. Litwin Yuri Alexiyovich. None. The active participation of the national deputies in the discussion! Babenko Valerij Borisovich, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Nor is it. Philenko Volodymyr Pilipovich. There's Philenko. Let's go back to Babenko, get out of the rostrum. Tomenko? Okay, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u131	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs. I'll be brief. Undoubtedly, I support that point of view that the draft law under consideration is not ideal. And I agree with those estimates that it obviously contains contradictions that are not correlated with the Basic Law of the State. At the same time, I emphasize that I am personally and that the faction of the Yulia Tymoshenko, despite all these shortcomings, will vote unanimously in favour of this draft law for the first reading. In the name of coalition unity, we are ready to vote in favour of this bill in our second reading. We hope, too, for the same consistent and unanimous position of our coalition partners when we consider other bills that have been tabled today, as a frontline. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u132	Tomenko Mikola Volodymyrovich. From the rostrum, Mikola Volodymyrovich, from the rostrum. Well, turn Tomenka on.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u133	We have declared the position of our faction. It is based on our political agreements and the need to work with the coalition that we will vote in favour of the bill. At the same time, what I want to say is that, when we start serious constitutional work that needs to be done in the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament by creating a temporary investigative, temporary commission on constitutional issues, we will do everything we can to balance the system of power in such a way that a system of local self-government is in place in Ukraine and not a system of local councils is subordinated to those who are assigned from the centre. That's why I think this compromise, which is about what today needs to balance the powers between the President, the government and the system of local self-government, we're going to make this compromise, but we're starting work at the same time so that in the Basic Law in Ukraine local self-government is not just on paper, it actually works in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u134	Konovaluk Valerius Illich, the last speaker.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u135	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear national MPs, honourable voters, for us today's consideration of the Cabinet of Ministers bill is not only fundamental, but it must determine how much today the Basic Law, which regulates not only the central organs of executive power, but in general, the President, the Parliamentary Coalition, is able to determine how much this coalition today is capable of securing its own activity. Indeed, it is surprising that many coalition representatives are absent today. But when we discussed this law, we didn't hear at all why a new edition was being introduced, why it wasn't being examined by the Constitutional Court, which had to be the main arbitrator and determine whether the Constitution corresponded to individual positions or not. I am sure that for our political power is a fundamental question of what was involved in the vote in the previous convening when this bill was approved by the veto of the majority of constitutional votes. Therefore, honourable colleagues, we must still speak the truth as called by the representative of “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense”. We need to identify not only what is involved in responsibilities but also to start working on the commitments made by the coalition, and I am sure that this is a matter of principle for all of us. And I want to say, if the faction of the Lithuanian Block is ready to support it, with some comments on this bill in the first reading, let's say today, there's a coalition in Parliament today, or not. You know, people used to say, "Here you are, Grandma, and Juliet's Day." So let us set this day of July once and for all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u136	We've got one more speaker. Yavorowski. Lavrinovich Alexander Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u137	Dear Arseny Petrovich! Dear colleagues! I realize that I may not have wanted to hear what I have to say today. Today we have a valid Law “On the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine”, it was the subject of major debate here in this room, it was the subject of a debate before the Constitutional Court of Ukraine and was then recalled by the Head of State, which showed exactly the answer to the question, are there any positions that can be called unconstitutional? Those who take on more authority today than they can have as an expert in constitutional law or as an institution that can answer that question, I think they're wrong in this case. This project, introduced today by the President of Ukraine, is certainly aimed at some revision of the constitutional norms that are in place today. It envisions a substantial expansion of the President's powers beyond the limits defined by the Basic Law. And here you can call very many articles of this law, starting from the very beginning that the Cabinet of Ministers will have to be guided not only by the President's decrees, but also by acts of the Head of State. Although not only in the Constitution but also in the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine since 2003. It begins with the formation of the Cabinet of Ministers, the nomination for the appointment of the Prime Minister of Ukraine in the session hall, assuming that the Head of State may not do so unless, in his view, the requirements laid down in the Constitution and in the law of Ukraine are met and listed as well. There are no other circumstances in the Constitution. But they appear in the law. This is also true in the article. For example, there is the anticipated early retirement of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine because of the inability of the prime minister to exercise his health authority. There is no constitutional basis for such a decision in the Constitution. The Law provides that this can be done. As for the approval of the Cabinet of Ministers program, I want to get away from the political element here. But from the point of view of law and systematic reading of the Constitution, the approval of the program may be the basis for a resolution of mistrust of the Cabinet of Ministers, as provided for in the Basic Law. Here the program is approved for a nonexistent government. I think it's also a constitutional issue. With regard to the discharges of the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the violation of the interpretation of the Constitutional Court and the Constitution of Ukraine. What the countersignature institution cancels and instead introduces a visit, which means that we have to run quickly and push hard until the ink is dry on the President's order, which leads to an audit.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u138	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u139	I would like to say to everyone that if we read 28 articles, we will see that the Cabinet of Ministers returns to the functions of serving staff of the advisory bodies of the President of Ukraine. I think today, when you vote for this bill, you have to think not only about the coalition agreement, but about Ukraine's future.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u140	Dear colleagues, talks, and discussions are over. Now we've got a reporter and a co-rapporteur and we're moving on to the voting procedure. Are you insisting on the performance, Alexander Vitaliovich? Don't insist. Yuri Anatolyevich, are you on? Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, are you insisting on the performance? Don't insist. Yuri Bogdanovich Klukkowski, are you insisting on the performance? Don't insist. Thus, the chairman sums up the following. Bill 1312 and 1139 on the draft Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine are now proposed. We've completed the discussion. In accordance with the Rules, I am voting on the adoption of the draft Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine as a basis for the first reading. [[new editor]] [[Registration number 1312]] Please vote. [[12:55:05]] For 246 The bill was adopted in the first reading. Please show by factions. Region Party 0; Timoshenko Yulia Block - 155; Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense - 71; Communist faction - 0, Litvina Block - 20. Dear colleagues, we have now come up with a proposal to apply Article 109 of the Third Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, namely, to vote on the bill in the second reading and in general. In accordance with article 97 of the Supreme Council’s Rules, such a vote can take place only in one case if none of the legislators submits their proposals to the relevant draft law. So I'm going to put 5 minutes or so. Please raise the hands of Ukrainian national deputies who have their objections to the Ukrainian Cabinet Act. [[No. 1312]] Please sign up. Five minutes. Boiler Roman Mihailovich, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u141	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues! Our faction has no objection to this bill in general. On the contrary, we believe that this bill is so necessary in order to regulate the constitutional field that we do not understand some of the claims here made by fairly respectable lawyers who say that the current law is absolutely in conformity with the Constitution of Ukraine when it is understood that it is so contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine that the need to regulate this sphere of activity is already so obvious that it is necessary to vote in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u142	Martino Volodymyrna, Communist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u143	Please pass Simonenko to Peter.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u144	Who? I can't hear you. Simonka Petra Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u145	Simonenko, the Communist faction. I want to state that there are very serious objections in the Communist faction and we will certainly benefit from our regulatory rule on the right to change the second reading. So what I'm asking right now is that this term should be defined -- preparing the project for second reading. But, dear colleagues, I would like to ask you again. Let's understand that if we don't force both the President and the government to work under the laws that are in force today, and not to break them constantly and every day, to work in the interests of the state, not in our own pockets, to work for the future of Ukraine, and not in the past, there will be nothing here, whatever laws you don't adopt. So once again, I stress that today we must take responsibility and executive discipline very seriously in general. And if they're using only their position in power today for wealth, that's what the orange team needs to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u146	Bondarenko Volodymyr Dmitrovic, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u147	Please pass the word to John Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u148	Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u149	Thank you. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters, respected Arsenija Petrovich, the law will certainly vote on the coalition. We respect the comments, the suggestions made by colleagues who are not part of the coalition today. Arsenija Petrovich, the coalition is set to vote on this bill. Once again, this is our political decision, and we insist, please put on second reading as a whole. The faction and council of the coalition were determined that way yesterday. And we ask you to support this decision by putting you to a second reading vote and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u150	Andri Petrovich, the faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u151	Please pass the word to Lavrinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u152	Lavrinovich Alexander Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u153	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues! Obviously you're guessing that we have a lot of observations about this bill and there's going to be a lot of suggestions. On the other hand, I would like to remind you that today's law is being enacted into this Hall by the Cabinet of Ministers, signed by the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Zvarič Roman Mihajlovich, and I am surprised that he is so critical of this valid law today. And today, having a draft that violates several articles of the Constitution of Obvious, such as 106, 113, 85, to say that it can be voted on in general, it's obviously disrespect for both the right and the parliamentary system and the citizens of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u154	Thank you. Poor thing. Mikhailo Dmitrovitch, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u155	The issue of the Cabinet of Ministers is of great importance and must be regulated, but it cannot be subordinated to political relevance, it cannot be politically appropriate to repeal the Supreme Council Rules, it must be deprived of the National Deputies of their comments and proposals for second reading and, most importantly, cannot be manipulated by the Basic Law - the Constitution. Because we all know that this bill contains contradictions with the Basic Law, which must be reconciled in the process of second reading. We have already seen political relevance in the Parliament of the past convening, when the Party of Regions and the “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko” voted on the relevant Law on the Cabinet of Ministers and how it ended. Therefore, honourable colleagues, let us adopt this bill in the first reading and in accordance with the Rules. “Block of Lithuania” in the second reading will not vote in favour of this bill today.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u156	Matvienko Anatoly Sergiyovich, “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense” block.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u157	The Ukrainian Republican Party “Cobor”, the “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense” block. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address those who want to advocate for what the coalition votes to take the right to amend the bill. It's not constitutional. So I think Arseny Petrovich, that you made a mistake too, because the speeches clearly stated the desire and disagreement with individual positions. This is also true of the committee’s conclusion. That is why this discussion is pointless, it is necessary to set a time, a time limit for processing, making changes, and going out for second reading, and accepting it as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u158	Replica, Zvaric Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u159	Dear colleagues, I would actually like to explore some information here. Because, really, if the law that was drafted in the Ministry of Justice under the direction of the Minister of Justice, which I was then, of course, there would have been no comment to him, because that law, which was passed by the Ministry of Justice at the meeting of the Cabinet, was not supported. And one of those members of the government who voted against it, along with that member of the Cabinet, who just spoke, was me. Because I thought there were major violations of the Constitution of Ukraine, which I was talking about at a government meeting. But we can remedy this situation by voting in favour of this law as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u160	Thank you. Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, I welcome the political desire to adopt a second-reading bill today and in general, but as head of Parliament by law I have no right to deprive any Ukrainian national MP of his right to impose appropriate rights to the relevant bills. So I'm talking to my political colleagues right now that you can put everything on Parliament's head, that he's reading the Rules and the Laws, but I don't have the right to put the bill to the vote in the second reading. What I propose is that, in accordance with Rule 111 of the Rules, we have the right to shorten the terms of this bill on the committee by no more than half. The regulations provide for a so - called two - week term. I think we'll manage in a week, and I would like to vote in favour of shortening the deadlines for reviewing the bill on the Main Committee of the Supreme Council by half, i.e. within seven days. I'll put it to a vote. [[13:04:25]] Z-70. Thus, no decision has been taken on article 111 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules. The bill is sent for a second reading for a two-week term and we expect this bill to be included. It should not be included in the agenda. As soon as it's ready by the committee, we'll look at it as a whole. Please show by factions. Dear colleagues, the situation will be similar to that of all other bills, including the city of Kiev and Kharkiv -- an exclusive letter of the law. We move on to the next issue of the agenda, this is information from the Provisional Investigation Commission on the investigation of the situation of violations of the Ukrainian Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, the adoption of unlawful decisions by officials of the Kiev City Council and its executive body. Please, please, now announced, Alexander Sergiyovich, after recess, the procedure has already been announced. Now we'll consult you, there's nothing to take a break, we have to work. Please, Mikola Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u161	How long?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u162	Well, do you have 15 minutes? 15 minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u163	Dear colleagues, I'd like to inform you of the beginning of the work of our Temporary Investigation Commission. As you know, by the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to propose to the Rules Committee, we have come to the only, I think, right and compromise decision. We agreed on the name and composition of the committee that was supported by both the committee and the factions. And the decision we made in the 248 National Deputies voted on the question of the establishment of a Temporary Commission of Inquiry, consisting of 17 National Deputies, according to the proportional composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Now I would like to point out that, as we are concerned by the fact that some of the officials of the Kyiv City Administration have appeared in the press who, with some scepticism, have responded to this commission. Once again, the commission is not an instrument of opposition, or coalition, the commission is an authorized institution of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, for which the majority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine voted. So that's how we're going to do it. The commission of inquiry today received the following materials from the institutions of power to which we referred: the materials of the Cabinet of Ministers provided by the working group, and the materials that the Cabinet of Ministers considered at its meeting, the materials of the CRU, the materials of the Ministry of Environmental Protection. on environmental and environmental issues, materials provided by the main factions of the Kyiv City Council, including parliamentary queries and answers to these parliamentary requests. Today we expect materials from the Kyiv Prosecutor's Office, the Tender Chamber, and other structures to which we referred. At today’s meeting, the commission heard the head of the State Committee of Vojvodin Volodymyr Vasilovich, who informed of the situation surrounding the watershed, as well as the head of the KRU of the Ukraine of Sivuleski Mikol Ivanovich. Let me inform you of the main emphasis of these two officials on the situation in Kiev. With regard to landowner issues, Kyiv is in a special situation, according to the State Commission, which is confirmed by other ministries and the Cabinet of Ministers. The Kyiv City Administration and the Kiev authorities have established their own system of decision - making regarding landowners. This system is in direct contravention of current legislation, but the saddest of all in this history is that the State Committee of Land Resources and the Cabinet of Ministers have no information on how, in what way, land is allocated. Any attempt to get information about the cadastre, about the decision-making procedure, about the stenography of the decisions, is prompted by rejection. Today, we, like the authorities of the state, are not able to paint a complete picture of the land life of Kiev, but the information given to us by the State Commission certainly tells us that, in fact, all land matters have gone beyond existing legislation. The most resonant question that you all know about, and today, Dercomym spoke again about what he hoped the Ministry of Internal Affairs would actively cooperate with the Attorney General's Office, and we will bring this matter to an end together. This is a so-called decision, already called “so-called”, on October 1, when, according to the latest information, 18 cooperatives, the founders of which are only four individuals, have been allocated 1,700 hectares free of charge. The graduation was for the students who gave a witness, who wrote two papers: one paper to obtain land, the other paper to refuse this land. According to the State Department, the price of this land issue at market prices is 30 billion dollars. When it comes to other types of land issues, they create a problem not only from the point of view of coming or not coming to the budget, but also about creating problems for natural use, problems for the safety of the lives of people in Kiev. If you look at a bunch of land allocation materials actually near rivers or in conservation zones, I'm not going to read 15-20 of the positions that Derzcomy gave us right now. According to the State Commission and the Cabinet of Ministers, if this trend continues for several years, we will have no free beach and no access to Dniper. Because this is the area where the earth is to be decommissioned. The next position is extremely important, which was worth mentioning, is what's going on in the management of state-owned and municipal property. According to the Cabinet of Ministers, the actual system or artificial bankruptcy of utilities has been created to date, or because of bankruptcy, the transfer of a share of municipal property to entrepreneurs or businessmen. It's not the authority of the commission of inquiry to define what they are as businessmen, whose political powers they belong to, but the fact remains that a program of privatization of the vast majority of utilities is actually being developed. And actually this concept was implemented, starting with the godfather bank. You know that the previous government had a 51 percent share of the godfather bank, now the territorial community has a 24 percent share. So the Cabinet of Ministers stresses that essentially lost control of state-owned enterprises, of utilities. The next extremely important topic that the supervisor of the Audit Authority was talking about today is two parts. The first part is a serious financial breach. And the CDC found that these financial irregularities over the reporting period, which they analyzed, accounted for a billion 229 million dollars. But not only is the problem of a large number of financial violations, but the problem is that the structure and management system itself is also outside the legal field. I would like to remind you that the government of Viktor Yanukovitch has created a special working group of the Ministry of Economics, which has prepared the relevant material and sent the Cabinet of Ministers, which, by the way, was preparing to consider this issue, but because of objective circumstances, the previous government has not considered it as a matter of governance structure, a regular schedule, the number of people working, finance and so on is completely contrary to the current legislation of Ukraine. So let me give you an example of what I'm going to say today is that the number of civil servants working today in the Kyiv City Council system is the largest in Ukraine, and it's 2,000,255. You can imagine that many people, and all of them, in fact, in every unit where people are, the state and the number of people are in conflict with those normative acts that are approved by both the previous government and the current government. Another very important point that the Ministry of Ecology and the Ministry of Environment have asked us to focus on the fact that the serious decisions concerning the Bugle Island and other objects actually create environmental hazards in Ukraine, since the total decrease in the area of conservation, as you can see, is not only shrinking the land but also destroying the plantation, is already creating a systemic problem. For example, just one division of one area on the island of Zhukov led to the decision to cut out more than two thousand trees and more than three thousand shrubs before the construction work. This is just one land area on the island of Zhukov. Finally, on the issue of court decisions and we also have a lot of questions on the committee about law enforcement, which, I'm sure, will soon inform us whether there are judicial decisions, how the system of law enforcement works, why a lot of parliamentary requests are actually released in the air and there are no real answers to these parliamentary questions. We are systematized material that tells us that we have a number of court decisions today that speak of violations of laws by the Kyiv City Council, or by the Kiev City Administration, or by the Kiev City Head. In particular, it is the decision of the Obolon District Court of Kiev in Case 2-128 of 8.04.2007 concerning the illegality of the release of the director of the TRC “Kiev”. The Kiev Economic Court ruling in Case 3070 of 28.04.2007 on the establishment of a breach by the Kyiv City Council, including the Kiev City Head of the Ukrainian Code of Master's Law on the Contract of Land Rental. The decision of the Shevchenkow District Court of Kiev in Case 2A-166 of 05.07.2007 established that the order of the Kyiv City Public Administration for the increase in salaries for the services of the ZHK signed by Chernivetsk, which exceeded the mandate. The District Administrative Court's ruling, now I'm just calling the numbers: 640, 641, 643, which relates to the increase in housing and utility tariffs. The decision of the District Administrative Court has resulted in a violation by the Kiev City Head regarding the implementation of the rules of law in part of the non-information provision. We have another story that relates to the fact that once court decisions are made, they are not carried out by the Kyiv city authorities. In particular, at our request, the Ministry of Justice provided information on the fact that, according to a specific ruling of the Dniprovi District Court of 21.02.2008 on the illegal release of the Chief of Social Protection, the State Department of the Executive Service made a warrant for the necessity of execution, this decision of the court following that prescription. After that, no decision has been made so far. On the other hand, I can tell you that there is a history of failure to execute judgments in Kiev has been catastrophic and we have the only one, I hope, in Ukraine, a case that I hope we will solve together, that is to say that Kiev has failed to comply with the ruling of the Supreme Court. You remember how the head of the profile committee reported that we had an occasion that at some point in time a religious community called the “Messenger of God” took an illegal lease on athletic manoeuvring. After that, we have accused this decision, there is a decision by the Supreme Court, it has already passed, I think six months or more, the decision of the Supreme Court of Ukraine is not being implemented. It's still rotting in there, it's losing sports equipment, it's not possible for children to engage in it, and this religious community, which, as you know, is owned by Leonid Chernewsky, is blocking the execution of the Supreme Court's decision. Another very important thing that I would like to say is that it has to do with the danger, in my opinion, that there are statements by the highest officials of the Kiev authorities that they have their own discretion to determine what structures, what authorities they work with and what courts they recognize. This precedent, I believe, is extremely dangerous for Ukraine's stability and the rule of law in the country. If today the city head of any city decides for himself who's more handsome, the government, the President or the Supreme Council, we will find ourselves in complete legal chaos. So I would ask the Supreme Council to respond in the same way. The Kiev City Council can't say that they like the President's Secretariat or the President doesn't like the government, that they don't like the Supreme Council, which votes to 248 votes, is an unacceptable thing. You know, there are so-called October 1st vote in court today, the student vote I was talking about. The Kiev City Administration does not send its representatives there, appealing that they do not need this court and that they are not interested in the matter. I also think that the Attorney General's Office, other institutions, regardless of the fact that our commission has found that only 10.7 hectares have been given to the Attorney General's Office in Desert Vodice, will act in accordance with current legislation, and we await the conclusions of the Attorney General's Office, which will finally put a stop to the rule of law in the capital of Ukraine and in the territory of Kiev. Finally, I want to say that today we have asked the Kiev City Administration to allow us to continue our work in the Kyiv City Administration. Sadly, they are not yet ready to provide information. But I hope that after today's discussion, the commission will sit in the Kyiv City Administration. And the officials of the Kiev City Council, the Kiev City Administration, will come to the hearings of the commission of inquiry and will give arguments that, for example, when they gave land to a public organization, they may have had a good purpose for Kiev. Because the committee has the impression that, in fact, the landowner’s system and other issues are systemic corruption. But that's our impression, we have to confirm that. So, dear colleagues, the information is now complete. I hope, Arsenija Petrovich, that we will have the opportunity once we have finished the work with a systematic serious report.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u164	Thank you. Question-answers for 10 minutes. Please write it down. Alexandrovska Alla Alexandrovna
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u165	The Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Nikolai Vladimirović, I would like to draw attention to the name of your commission. Temporary commission of inquiry into the circumstances of the violation of the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws. That is, it was in the vote on the establishment of your commission that the commission would examine the circumstances that accompanied the violation of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. I mean, I was sure that today you would begin by clearly stating the facts of the violation of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine that your commission is working on. Once again, I say, “the commission to investigate the circumstances of the violation”, that is, when the commission was already established, there was an understanding of what provisions of the Constitution are being violated, what laws are being violated and you have to report to us who, in any way, is being accompanied. I didn't hear anything today. When you make a definition of what happened and then you have to investigate.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u166	Here's the situation, I understand the logic of the question, because once again, I want to say that we've held one meeting and today, especially today, we have a problem with law enforcement structures, they can't provide information that quickly. Because you know that only the Kyiv Prosecutor's Office has challenged a large number of decisions. But without such decisions, we and I had no right as chairman of the commission to talk about, let's say, specific things, especially in the part of direct or screaming violations of current legislation. For example, in this part, only land. The members of the commission today have received all the documents, if necessary, we can distribute them to you, where they say, there are 15 items in order for violations of land use, the Earth Code, laws, and there are lists of direct violations, all the documents we have, I just didn't want to record that moment. And once again, the greatest danger in the land of drainage is that it is a system that no one knows about, and today it is virtually impossible to get information from the Kyiv administration. So we want to keep working to show you the full picture.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u167	Pisarenko Valeriy Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u168	Thank you. Mikola Volodymyrovich, I'd like to thank you, first of all, for the fruitful work you've done and the really significant facts you just told us. I'd like to make a note of this. Dear colleagues, let's not expect the prosecutor's office of Kiev today to give the materials to this commission peacefully, because the commission will actually be under a lot of pressure today, given the capital that Chernewsky and his team earned during their stay in Kiev. Mikola Volodymyrovich, I wanted to ask you. Please tell me, and as the commission relates to the fact that today the session of the Kyiv City Council is held in the wake of the court’s false decisions, in fact, these false decisions are followed by the State executive service. And can such a council continue to exist, the city of Kiev in general. I think that this crazy level of corruption that has now taken over the Kyiv City Council doesn't even allow us to assume that it still exists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u169	Dear colleague, I think we have witnessed this situation, and of course I think we need to think about how to find a way out of this situation, because I think it's about creating an extremely dangerous precedent when a court decision is falsified. Someone was delivered to the Central Election Commission. In the Central Electoral Commission, it was taken into consideration. The Central Election Commission viewed him as a document. This document appeared to have been announced before the meeting of the Kyivrad City Council, and at this document Kyivrad held her meeting. So in this chain of course, everybody has to take responsibility because I'm on the committee myself, we haven't considered this issue today, but I've personally reviewed these documents and it seems to me that a person like me, not with legal education, clearly sees that this is a falsified decision of the court, starting with the absence of a form, the sealing of a forged one and so on and so forth. So, of course, I think that the law enforcement authorities should put the dots over the "and" here. Imagine a situation now in any institution.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u170	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u171	To make a decision in a rural or district court that will stop or open up an authority of the State or, say, a local government. So I hope that these executives of the Central Electoral Commission, the bailiffs, there was a real bailiff and the people who were involved, of course, have to make the right decision about their responsibility, because if we miss it, they'll stay that way. By the way, I forgot to mention that unfortunately, our law enforcement agencies did not respond to the work of our previous Interim Investigation Commission, when you remember, we were looking at in the Supreme Council when there was no room for beating up two deputies in stock, members of the Kyiv City Council. We then looked at it, handed it over to the law enforcement agencies, showed the video that it was the guards of the highest-ranking Kiev authorities who beat up two deputies in the session room, and from the prosecutor's office neither welcome nor answer. So I want, of course, all the decisions that we're making here at the end of the day, maybe not just for the commission of inquiry, but if necessary, we, the Attorney General's Office, have invited us to the session room and on the resonance issues they've informed us.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u172	Philenko Volodymyr Pilipovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u173	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, please give the floor to colleague Bondarenko Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u174	Vladimir Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u175	Vladimir Bondarenko, city of Kiev, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear Mr. Mikolo, we've all observed a rather long period of time that has responded to events that have taken place in Kyivrad, but I've actually been struck by some of the most moral-ethic things, particularly the savage beating of members of the Kiev City Council of Naumek and Brigent directly in the Kiyevrada session hall, the savage beating of a lawyer. As a matter of fact, Medvedzko quickly reclassified her as a fact rather than as a specific claim to the son-in-law of Černovský Mr. Suprunenko and to Komarnicky Denis, who is the leader of the faction. So it's very important to me, not just land theft, but how this power, by any means, including completely criminal criminals, protects itself by engaging in the work of bandits. And one more thing. The Kyiv students, who have thousands of applications for land, are the moral decay of young people. Did the commission include these issues in its work plan?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u176	As for the second part. You know, today, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, I understand, has completed this investigation and will hand these materials over to the prosecutor's office. And I also think it's extremely important in terms of what's going on in a particular system, in fact, we're starting to have sort of sort of sort of sort of sort of sort of sort of sort of sort of sort of sort of sort of sort of sort of sort of sort of sort of sort of sort of sort of sort of sort of sort of sort of sort of sort of sort of sort of, you know, kind of kind of kind of kind of sort of sort of sort of sort of, kind of, kind of like, kind of like, sort of, kind of, kind of like, kind of like, kind of, kind of, kind of like, kind of like, kind of, kind of, kind of, kind of, kind of, Now, what is being done with the earth today, so that you can understand, is a system that is already being passed on to the region. That is, when you take the materials, the heart is affected by the pain and regret that a hundred hectares have been given there to the Charitable Happiness Foundation, both there and there. So there's a community organization, there's people who write these letters, and then they're giving up this, and private people who directly relate to the families of those people who run Kiev get hundreds of hectares. So on the surface, it looks like the disabled organization, we're helping it, this disabled organization, it's totally cynicism, because there's no disabled people, there's no Afghans, there's no students. So, of course, this is fundamentally important to us, we've got some of these materials, we're going to get some more. And, Arseny Petrovich, if I may, I will continue. There's a question on the other side.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u177	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u178	We'll look into it. But as for the prosecutor's office, there's a delicate question. I'd just like to focus on the fact that we haven't considered this issue. I'm going to say my point of view. Because we didn't talk about it on the commission. The D.A. didn't give us any material. Here's the solution. So the general prosecutor's office is 10.7 hectares in the Vodica Desert. I'll remind you that I'm one of the people who's in the session room here, and I've raised the question of decommissioning land in the Vodica Desert to politicians who were loyal to Leonid Kuchma. Then we made Kyivrada and Mayor Alexander Omelchenka cancel those decisions, and we made them. I was at the Kiyevrada meeting and they corrected their mistake. Now it turns out that when there was one authority and we said there was no democracy, we were able to do it. Today the Attorney General's office is actually bribed, and another bribe is given to the apartments, and we also have the materials, and we appeal to the Attorney General's Office. Obviously, it is not within the power of the commission of inquiry to focus on this. But I'm just calling your attention to why we don't have anything from the Attorney General's Office, because they got land and apartments and respect and respect from the Kiev authorities. Clearly, then, we need to think about how to get out of this situation so that the trials can be brought to an end.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u179	Herman Hanna Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u180	Anna Herman, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear Mr. Tomenko, there's been a lot of these statements in your speech today, like I'm sure we think we do. Have these conclusions ever been voted upon, or are they just your personal impressions? That's the first one. That didn't surprise me in your speech. As a Democrat, I think you've allowed yourself things a little bit incompatible with democratic principles. You tried to accuse Chernewsky of any abuse for his belongings to a religious community. Would you like to take those words back? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u181	I think that belonging to a religious community does not relieve you of responsibility for decisions of the Supreme Court, the laws and the Constitution of Ukraine. And I am convinced that the members of the religious community, the “Messenger of God”, led by the Nigerian of Adelaide, first, if they respect Ukraine, should follow the decisions of the Supreme Court, not teach the Ukrainian people to watch them on television. So I think that I was sincere and consistent in the fact that either a Greek Catholic or an Orthodox, or a representative of the Protestant Church, must execute a court decision and respect this people and the country in which they live. As far as my accent is concerned. These accents are built on the fact that, in fact, maybe I was wrong about what I was saying. You should've said that the Ministry was saying something that it had given, clearly, that it was a violation of the law, that kind of, that kind of thing. Here I am ready, let's say, to correct my position, because, in fact, the investigating commission did not authorize me to talk about.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u182	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u183	tell me about specific charges, but just to determine that the C.E.O. found a violation, the Ministry of Ecology, the State Department, the Cabinet of Ministers. So all the facts he's given, there's no fact that's not documented before me either by the Ministry or by the Ukrainian authorities, or by the Cabinet of Ministers. So I don't have any fictitious fact that the commission of inquiry doesn't have a signature, a seal, an official of Ukraine who claims, or the same as the court rulings that Kiev contains evidence of systemic violations of Ukraine's laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u184	Thank you. Dear colleagues, in accordance with Rule 80 of the Rules, we have a special order of consideration for the work of the interim commission of inquiry, but I will then comment after we have moved on to the issue of the city of Harkov. I'm asking you on a daily basis to listen to information from the head of the interim commission of inquiry on the activities of the TSK on the investigation of the facts of the violation of the Constitution of Ukraine, the laws of Ukraine in the field of tariff, property, land, budget and financial relations by Kharkiv's urban head, Dobkin Mikhail Markovich, and the Secretary of State Kernes Gennadiy Adolfovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u185	Dear Mr. Golovo, honourable national deputies, the basis for the establishment of the commission of inquiry that I am leading, have been the appeal of 250,000 Kharkiv, a fourth part of the city’s population, and the violation of the Constitution of Ukraine and the current legislation of Ukraine by Kharkiv city chief Dobkin Mikhail Markovich, the Secretary of State Kernes Gennadiy Adolfovich, and other officials of local self - government and executive power in Kharkiv. The composition of the commission consists of nine members. Today, after 12 hours of recess, the first session of the commission took place. Nine seven members of the commission were registered. The following questions were discussed at the meeting of the commission. First. Election of the secretary of the interim commission of inquiry. It was chosen by our colleague, Catherinechuk Mikola Dmitrovic. The other one. Work plan. The members of the commission unanimously decided to build the work of the commission of inquiry along the following lines: breach of legislation in tariff, land and budget areas. In addition, it was agreed that if further inquiries were to be made, they would be considered at the meetings of the commission of inquiry. It was organizationally decided to meet with the commission no less than twice a month. And the exit meeting of the commission of inquiry will be held in April and April, in the city of Kharkiv. To this day, I have all the information about the work of the Interim Investigation Commission concerning Kharkiv. I would like to refer to the chairman for a meeting -- the head of the Supreme Council, Arsenija Petrovich Yatsenuk, with the request to include today and put it to a vote, and I am confident that the House will support, draft Supreme Council Decision No. 2228 on the appointment of alternate deputies of the Kharkiv City Council and the Kharkiv City Head. This draft decree is registered to the deputies. In this draft decision, it is proposed to appoint alternate members of the Kharkiv City Council and the Kharkiv City Council for the last week of the 70-day period from the date of taking effect of this decision and to conduct them in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on the Election of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils and Rural, Rural, Urban Heads. The Central Electoral Commission, taking into account the proposals made by the relevant territorial electoral commission, shall determine in an orderly manner the amount of budgetary expenditure required for the holding of the successive election of members of the Kharkiv City Council and the Kharkiv City Head. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall, within the limits of its authority, take immediate measures to ensure funding for the extraordinary election of MPs of the Kharkiv City Council and the Kharkiv City Head at the expense of the earmarked subsidy from the State Budget of Ukraine. It is proposed that this decision take effect from the moment it is adopted. The reason for this is that today we are considering the draft decree, we will consider the early election of the Kiev city head, we propose, given the appeal of hundreds of thousands of people, we will consider the question of Kharkiv. Dear Head, I ask you to put this matter to a vote. I'd like to finish. Here some, the great experts in the Rules tell us that the Chief, most of them, violate the Rules. I would like to remind you of how those who talk most about compliance with the rules of the Rules, as they did when there was Frost sitting in the position of the Chief. What did they do? As they considered, in one minute they considered everything in the world: both the Kabmin Act and other bills, and, for example, the decree on the change of members of savings, members of the Supervisory Board, and the change of members of the Supervisory Board of Eximbank. No one was looking at anything, but we've had a quick look at it, breaking all the rules of the Rules and Law, and today they're starting to tell us that we're violating something. In fact, the coalition is always governed by the Constitution, the laws of Ukraine, and the rules of the Rules. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u186	10 minutes to enroll in the question-answer. Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u187	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you know I'm surprised at how we're dealing with such an important issue. Well, first of all. You know, we do have a presumption of innocence. We are hearing today that only today has there been a meeting of the interim commission, there has not yet been any document before this commission, no circumstances have been studied, and a draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is already being proposed. Dear friends, I think -- actually I'm talking to the TV and radio audiences who are watching us -- this farce that is happening today in the Supreme Council of Ukraine: and with the adoption of the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and with regard to the question of the appointment of consecutive elections in the city of Kiev and in the city of Kharkiv -- it is said that the political purpose is to close the illegality of the decisions that are taking place today in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I ask you not to support these decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u188	Dear Mr. Papiev, as you have heard, I told you what the commission was doing today. Here, in the hall, there are seven deputies who are members of this committee, and let them say I lied. And the draft ruling that I'm talking about is like the Ukrainian National MP, like any one of you, anyone has the right to legislative initiative, anyone can make any projects and ask the House to support them. He'll support the hall or he won't support it. It's already a question of the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u189	Stonewall Valery Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u190	Thank you. Kamchatny, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko”, town of Kharkiv. Dear colleague, it was said from the mouth of the City Council of Kharkiv that they, for them, are not the Supreme Council, which is an organ they do not know. They are representatives of local self - government and are not going to let anyone in to check them out. How can a set-up commission act in this case if it is opposed by the city’s authorities to verify their work today?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u191	I hope that the leaders of today, the leaders of Kharkiv, are smart enough not to interfere with the work of the national MPs, because there are various kinds of responsibilities involved. There is a decision of the Supreme Council to set up a commission of inquiry. According to the Constitution of Ukraine, the decisions adopted by the Supreme Council are binding on all government authorities, local governments. So I don't see any problems with the legitimacy of our work. If, in violation of the requirements of legislation, the leaders of Kharkiv today are going to interfere with our work, I think there are law enforcement agencies that should take steps to ensure the work of the commission of inquiry.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u192	Miroshenko Yuri Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u193	Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear Mr. Olege, please tell me that you have just said that in order to make a draft decree for the election, you don't need a decision from the commission that you're introducing right now. You're not speaking on behalf of yourself, you're reading a draft decision. In this context, can a person lead a committee, a temporary commission of inquiry, that is already involved in a decision? That's the first question. The second question, you said here to the whole country, is that, given that the previous summons voted in violation of the Constitution and the laws. So we can vote with the same violation? The third question, right now, is how do you appreciate that the U.S.A., where they're not aware of this question, is storming the Harkowe City Council, violating all the laws, and in this way perhaps trying to execute a political order? Oh, that's right.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u194	Dear Yuri Romanovich, first of all, the commission did not make a decision on the report, so I will not report the decision of the commission. It's about my commitment. I'm not saying it's the commission's decision. So to blame for engagement is no question. Secondly, I didn't say that if you were breaking the law, we should be breaking the law. I said that unlike you, when you were constantly breaking the laws, the democratic coalition always abides by these laws. And with regard to the activities of the BAF, I hope that the motive for the activation of the activities of the law enforcement agencies has been, including the decision of the Supreme Council to set up a temporary commission of inquiry. Finally, they woke up and began to do what they were about to do long ago.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u195	Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u196	Martinyuk, the Communist faction. It is a pleasure to listen to a fellow member of the Regulatory Committee yesterday, who is able to understand how, when, and who does not need to violate the Rules. It is a shame that a colleague has fled from a regulatory committee to a more prestigious budgetary committee, but perhaps there is a basis. So, if your colleague Lazko is very much in compliance with the Rules, please tell me why you violated the 83rd article of the Rules, which says that the head of the commission who reports before going to the rostrum, by the way, this also applies to the previous report, that a written report of the interim commission of inquiry should be given to the session room. And in this written report you have to be clear, there's no time to read here, I think you'll get acquainted with this article and you'll work according to it. That's the first one. Second, the speaker should speak on the subject of the speech, not on the subject of the comments.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u197	Dear Adam Ivanovich, first of all, you say I escaped from the regulatory committee because you came to this committee. Where you are, there's nothing we can do. This is the first time. Second, we remember when in the past you were in charge, how often you turned off the microphone, and how you personally violated the Rules. And last but not least, I've been expecting until now, an expert on the Supreme Council Rules, well, of course, apart from our esteemed Sergey Volodymyrovich, Adam Ivanovich, what we're doing right now is not a report to the commission. According to the seventh decision of the commission of inquiry, the report should be in three months, and this is the information on the work of the commission. With this information, I went out and spoke.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u198	Stoyan Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u199	Dear reporter, since you've made a draft decision on Dobkin's election, that means you have arguments and facts about these elections. So why would you even want a commission to work? You've already determined everything. The plea has already been signed. Maybe you don't have to spend money, you don't have to drive, and you have to vote now? And I have another question. Please tell me who else your political power intends to change, who else is disagreeable with the mayors of cities who are not leading your political forces? Declare the entire list and then let us vote together. And how do you view how, for example, I'm going to make a decision about the re-election of the head of the Kyivsky district council of Cherkaskie, where there are many violations where your colleague Hubski took possession of the land, many other things. Let's clean it up together. Is that what you can do? You didn't come from the commission, from yourself, and already the aprior is Dobkin's sentence. It's not right and it's wrong.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u200	Honourable Alexandre Mikolaiovich, the basis for the draft decree on the early elections of the Kharkiv City Council and the Kharkiv City Head were violations of legislation by these authorities. These violations stem from the appeals that people make to me as national MPs. And as a national MP, the subject of the legislative initiative I made this determination. And as for your question, who else is to be converted. Dear Alexander Mikolaiovich, the Democratic Coalition will initiate the re-election of all in the world who do not work for people, who violate the rights of people, who exploit people and who abuse their powers. He's going to vote against them. Tomorrow, there will be other measures that abuse people’s trust, and we will vote for them. We hope that you, as a just person, will support us in this.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u201	Pisarenko Valeriy Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u202	Dear colleagues, I would like to remove today all the issues of politics that have been put into order by the day about Kiev and Kharkiv, but I do not want us to unite these two issues today. In Kiev today, a check of the Cabinet of Ministers has been carried out by the ministries and the authorities. There are clearly established facts of corruption and theft of state property. Kyiv's question has been resolved, and it needs to be voted on. Dear Oleg Valeriovich, I would really like to offer you, as a colleague, as a conscious politician. You've created a commission that should work out the facts today. In fact, today you have many appeals, work on them, and calm down in this hall so that most of the halls can vote for the decision you are calling for today. Then, when we consider the issue of Kiev, we do not need to put in extra stress, agree with me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u203	Valery Volodymyrovich, both in Kiev and in Kharkiv, lives alive. And they have the right to have the organs of local self-government that people put on their necks as a result of whether they have given a spider to whom, or 30 dollars to a pre-election office, they have the right to have their cities run by worthy leaders. And there's no exception to whether Kiev is this, or Kharkiv, or Dnipropetrovsk, or any other place. Where the Mayor is insane, our task as the MPs of the Democratic Coalition is to clean up these people. And I hope that today everyone alone will vote, at least from the democratic coalition.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u204	Sivolski Mikola Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u205	Mikola Sivuliski, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Please pass the word to Vladimir Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u206	Vladimir Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u207	Vladimir Bondarenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Mr. Olege, in Kiev, after the tests that took place, there was a clear and structured picture of the violations. In land legislation, these are primarily numerous, 70 times, changes to the Master Plan, which have simply turned the city into a Wakhanalia. This is the building of 107 plots in the central, historic part of the city. These are hundreds of acres of land in green areas. We would recommend that you take the method of testing the Harkowan mayor to arm you, because I think it works in the same way that it does in Kiev, and it has the same results. So I recommend simply learning our experience and taking up arms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u208	Vladimir Mikolaiovich! We will certainly take advantage of your friendly counsel.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u209	Thank you, please sit down. Omelchenko Alexander Alexandrovich. Alexander Alexanderovich! The position on the decision on the town of Kharkiv is very brief.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u210	Good afternoon, fellow MPs! I represent the faction and head of the Committee of State Building and Self-Government. The committee I lead has not considered the issue of Harkov on either the subcommittee or the committee. At the request of the Governor of Kharkiv region, a group, three national deputies, who went to Kharkiv and brought material for violations by the City Council and the city’s head. The subcommittee studied the issues, considered them insufficient, and the committee assigned the subcommittee working group to continue its work until March 31st. Therefore, on what basis has today been put into order the day’s question about Kharkiv, I do not personally know. There is no legal basis for it, without considering the subject in the session room. I ask the Head, Arsenius Petrovich, to remove the question of Kharkiv today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u211	Thank you, Alexander Alexander! Thus, the position of committee head is that there is no committee conclusion, and once, honourable colleagues, there is no committee conclusion, there is no subject. Without the committee’s conclusion, we do not have the right to include in the order of the day appropriate decisions. What is more, the decree that is directly required by article 79 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government, so let us wait. The more I support the position of a colleague from the Timoshenko Yulia Block, the conclusion of the committee will be, let's include. And there will be an appropriate written report of the commission. Dear colleagues, we have six minutes left and we still have 15 minutes left. Let us move on to the 2220th draft of the Order for the Assignment of Elections of Deputies of the Kiev City Council and the Kiev City Head. Please report to Seminoga Anatoly Ivanovich. You're going to say it now. I suggest so, fellows, now the faction of the Party of Regions has written an application for a recess along with the "Livina Block" which I ask to do. We've got 15 minutes left to work, so if we're going to take a break right now, it doesn't make any sense. Let us listen to this question to the stage to which we will listen. We'll have two hours, we'll be working properly in my office in two hours. Okay? Thank you. So now I know what the break's about. This is a registered decree to vote by hand, already the city of Kyiv, the city of Kharkiv. Let the subject of the legislative initiative, the report, take the lead, and we will meet at a recess as far as we can. Please, Anatoly Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u212	Dear Chief! Honourable fellow members of the People's Council, dear Kyyans, were the reasons for the introduction of the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the appointment of vice-presidents of the Kiev City Council and the Kiev City Head, which was the violation of the Constitution of Ukraine and the current legislation of Ukraine, the Kiev City Head of the Chernewsky and the officials of the local self-government and executive authorities in Kiev. According to part two, article 19 of the Constitution of Ukraine, government authorities and local authorities, their officials are obliged to act only on the basis and within the limits of the powers and in the manner provided for in the Constitution and in the laws of Ukraine. On the basis of existing legislation, the city’s city head and officials of the local authorities and executive authorities in Kiev should act in the interests of the territorial community of Kiev. Yet, the interests of Kiev’s city chief, Mr. Czernovecki, and individual officials of local self - government and executive authorities in Kiev run counter to the interests of the territorial community, as evidenced by their decision, as well as the appeal of the capitalists to the authorities of the state for this reason. Such decisions are evidenced by an unwarranted increase in housing and utilities tariffs, which was prevented only by the active position of the Kyiv City Council deputy corps for the support of Ukraine's 5th vocation. The most striking examples of violations of Ukrainian law by the above - mentioned individuals have been the decisions to sell land to the territorial community of Kiev, which has not been known to the capital in recent decades. Only on October 31, 2006, about a hundred plots were sold out in one night, each of which took only two minutes to review at a city council session. The results of such a vote and the protocols are still hidden from the public of Kiev. The record number of plots sold was the Kiev City Council session, which took place on October 1, 2007, at which more than 400 lands were allocated in one plenary day, provided that the project decisions are hidden from the Kiyevrada deputies and unknown to the Kyiv public to this day. We all know that the Chinese were always political-active citizens, and that's why more than 60 initiative groups were created in Kiev, requiring the city's head to hold a local referendum on mistrust of the city council and the Kiev city head. Regrettably, no initiative group has been able to register and hold a referendum in Kiev on the basis of imperfect current legislation and the cynical corrupt activities of the Kiev administration. The Chinese were denied the right to give an assessment to the executive authorities they had chosen. It was these initiative groups that took the initiative in gathering signatures to refer to the Supreme Council with the request to appoint the next election in Kiev. I would like to draw your attention to those boxes -- that's where the signatures of more than a million Chinese people who ask the members of the Supreme Council to vote in favour of the election in Kiev. And I am speaking on behalf of these Chinese to you, honourable national deputies, to support this decision and to appoint an extra election in the city of Kiev, the Kyiv Council, the Kiev City Head. I am convinced that this will be a serious contribution by the Supreme Council to the fight against corruption at the local level. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u213	Questions, Answers. Please sign up. Lyszko Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u214	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. With both hands, I support the presidential election of Mayor Kiev, and I suggest that we vote and not waste time.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u215	Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u216	Silent Pavel Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u217	Dear Anatoly Ivanovich, in the Middle Ages, the Chinese simply expelled their owners from Kiev outside the capital. I understand times have changed. You might say, Don Carleone is resting compared to what we've heard today -- this is a famous you know, who led the cheesy mob, played in the "Baptized Father" novel. Compared to what was happening in Kiev, it is simple, as they say, "flowers". But not one Chernewsky did. What should be done with the group of people who signed their signatures? Will they be drawn to the crime scene? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u218	You know, there's a commission of the Supreme Council working today, and it seems to me that the primary function of this commission, the interim commission of inquiry, is to investigate the criminal acts that are taking place in Kyivrad. And there are too many today. I want to assure you that no meeting of the Kyivrada has taken place with a violation, first, of actual legislation. Second, the Supreme Council Rules. To this day, the deputies of Kyivrada, even the deputies of the Supreme Council and state institutions such as the Cabinet of Ministers, cannot get a report from the Kyivrada on how the MPs voted on certain issues. Information on the vote of the members of the Supreme Council is open and can be found on the Supreme Council’s website and introduced to it. In Kyivrada, unfortunately, this information is closed today. In fact, a club, a certain company or a mafia, if you want one that is not subordinated to any government authority today, the Cabinet of Ministers orders are violated, the President's decrees are violated, the Supreme Council's decisions are violated. I am convinced that today every MP who votes in favour of this decree will be aware that he is.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u219	Let me finish. Vaklov Viktor Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u220	Anatoly Ivanovich, I fully support your position and I will vote in favour of this ruling, but please tell me why you don't think that so far there's any reaction from the prosecutor's office in Kiev to what's going on in the capital. After all, the number of facts published in the press has made it possible to break more than one case. It is not the issue of the Supreme Council to engage in criminal persecution if the law is broken.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u221	Thank you for asking. I'll add the following information to your question. Virtually every session that takes place in Kyivrad, the deputies of the factions of the Yulia Timoshenko and other democratic deputies send an appeal to the Attorney-General's Office and the Kyiv Procurator's Office asking to challenge any decision which is a grave violation of the laws of Ukraine, the Constitution of Ukraine and the rules of Kievrada. Sadly, each time we receive a receipt that there is no trace of crime in the actions of Kyivradya. This indicates that today the Prosecutor’s Office and the Attorney General’s Office, and the Kyiv Prosecutor’s Office, are actively involved in the conspiracy that is in the city of Kiev, the country’s destitution, and Kiev’s property. There are facts that are now known to all the Chinese and to the allocation of land to the general prosecutor's office and the city's attorney's office, and to the allocation of property, apartments in particular, once again, to the representatives of the Attorney-General's Office. Perhaps that is the explanation.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u222	Shevchuk Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u223	Dear Anatoly Ivanovich. Shevchuk, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. Kyiv is known to be the city of the final part of the European Football Championship in 20012. It takes enormous funds, including from the city budget, to prepare. We learned from the report of the commission that land was donated free of charge to some 30 billion dollars. What do you think, considering the importance of this event for Ukraine, will the re-election of the mayor and the creation of a new management team in the capital of Ukraine help prepare Ukraine for the final part of the championship?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u224	Thank you for asking. I am convinced that only today will the elections in Kiev open the way for Ukraine to prepare for such an important step as 2012 is for our country. Indeed, increasing revenue to the city budget is the task of the future government, which will allow for an increase in budget revenues to the Kiev budget. But let's also look at this building that's going on in Kiev, before the Republic Stadium, there's an inexplicable construction. Today, if we are going to hold international competitions there, we need to at least clean up this building. That is to say that the authorities that set aside such land blocks are violating Kiev’s approved master plan for development, yet again violating this master plan for each session because a decision is taken to deviate from the general plan. This does not allow our city to develop today. So in answer to your question, I confirm that only the elections in Kiev will enable us to prepare our capital for the 2012 elections.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u225	Pisarenko Valeriy Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u226	Arseny Petrovich, I don't want to waste time, I think it's clear, I'm asking you to go to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u227	Thank you, Anatoly Ivanovich. Bondar Olga Borisovna. He will report to the first deputy head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government. Please, Olga Borisovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u228	Honorary colleagues, the State - Building and Local Government Committee discussed the draft Supreme Council decree on the appointment of the successive election of the Kiev City Council, the Kiev City Head, at its meeting on March 17, 2008. The project envisions the appointment of alternate members of the City Council and the Kiev City Head on the last Sunday of the 70-day term from the date of taking effect of this decision. Before considering the bill at the committee meeting, the committee's working group was informed of the findings of violations of the current legislation of Ukraine by the Kyiv City Council and its Head, which I led as the First Deputy Head of the Committee. The group was set up to study the circumstances set out in numerous petitions by the Chinese, law - enforcement and social organizations, Ukrainian national deputies, and Kiyevrada deputies. Materials, analytics, papers, and conclusions have been transferred to the interim commission of inquiry for Kiev. Within the scope of the supervisory function, a working group of the Committees of the Supreme Council provided for in the Ukrainian Law on Committees of the Supreme Council conducted an analysis of the application of legislative acts by the Kiev City Head and the Kiev City Council. As a result, documented violations of Ukraine's laws, decrees by the President of Ukraine, decrees by the Cabinet of Ministers. In particular, the Ukrainian Law “On the Capital – the City of Kiev”, on local self-government, on the planning of the construction of the territory, on the Cabinet of Ministers, local government administrations, public service and others. Yes, contrary to the requirements of article 42 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine, the Kiev city head is practically not taking part in the plenary sessions of the Kievrada session, nor is he calling or taking the lead on them. Mr. Tomenko, in his previous report on the work of the Temporary Investigation Commission, has already provided you with examples of how many decisions we have today, the legal decisions of the court, which are now valid, but unfortunately not implemented by the Kiev City Authority. In particular, this applies to those terrible municipal tariffs, with two court decisions. But most of the violations have been detected in the field of land use. And that's what my colleagues mentioned during the discussion of this project. During the consideration of the draft decree on the appointment of the successive election of the Kiev City Council and the Kiev City Chief of Staff, the Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government was guided by the following. According to article 85, part one, paragraph 30, of the Constitution of Ukraine refers to the powers of the Supreme Council. Thus, the city’s successive election may be held only on the basis of a decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that by this decision the Supreme Council of Ukraine does not suspend the term of office of either city head or city council. Under the Ukrainian Law on Local Self - Rule and Council, the head will continue to exercise his authority to elect a new composition of the city council and a new city head. It is only by the will of the electorate, not by the decision of the Supreme Council, that they cease to be authorized. The grounds and order for the suspension of the city’s authority and the city council are set out in articles 78, 79 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self - Rule. They note that the authority of the city council and the city’s head may be suspended on time if they are violated by the Constitution or the laws of Ukraine, the rights and freedoms of citizens, are not ensured by the exercise of the given powers. In view of the documented failure and violation of the requirements of the Constitution and the laws of Kiev by the city’s head, the Committee on State Building and Local Government decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Decision on the appointment of successive elections of the Kyiv City Council, the Kiev City Council as a whole. I hope the moment of truth is right. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u229	Is there a question for a coconspirator? There are no questions for the co-conspirator. Please sit down. From the factions, from the national MPs. Matvienko asks. If anyone wants to speak, sign up. Five minutes. Please sign in. Matvienko Anatoly Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u230	Dear Head, honourable MPs, honourable voters! I, as a member of the committee, have a special opinion, and this is what I found when I consider this issue at a committee meeting. And so, using the right of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to make this special point. The content of my individual opinion is not about denying the desire to set things straight in the city, but I am in genuine solidarity with those who want to put order in the capital and do so as soon as possible. The content of my position and the individual opinion is that in dealing with such important issues as we are currently considering, it should be considered honestly and openly in accordance with the Constitution and the law. To turn it all into a farce, as we're trying to do right now, it's first of all to show disrespect for the Constitution and the laws and to show disrespect for the citizens of the capital. In this part where we are now considering the bills that have been tabled, unfortunately, they do not correspond to the law in force and the constitution in force. Derogation from the rule of law and the Constitution only exacerbates the situation in general, including the deteriorating situation in Kiev. Wrong action today is not going to solve the problem you're saving for so quickly. But on the contrary, it will exacerbate the crisis and will not solve the problem, and it will put an end to it. Why? Because the wrong thing that we want to do now with the emotion to do so will give rise to a court order to overturn our decision, drag it all into a court-martial situation and push the issue of the solution to the Kiev problem. What is a violation of the Constitution? First. This is article 6. The Constitution obliges us to act only within and in accordance with the law, speaking of a higher legislature. If so, articles 78 and 79 of the Law on Local Self-Government obliges us to act only in the presence of legal decisions. None of you, including the committee, have made legal decisions. Clearly, we have no right to make these decisions in our emotions. There is no basis for this. The other one. With regard to the city council, we still have to have official information in accordance with article 78 that a court decision or prosecutor’s office is not being carried out. We don't have such official information, we don't have such documents. Third. Subjects that can initiate under the rules of articles 78 and 79 are clearly listed. Neither the TSC nor the Kabmin are among those subjects. It's also a violation of the law. And finally the fourth. We can't set up an extra election in this situation that we're in right now, because the Elections Act on the Local Council does not provide for that norm, and this rule should be introduced into the relevant Local Elections Act. What should we do? Obviously.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m0.u231	That's it, thank you. Well, that's it. [[B in m in s a l in]] Anatoly Sergiyovich, come on. One minute left, Anatoly Sergiyovich. Colleagues! Here's the next offer. Quiet! Listen carefully! Everyone's about to finish! Quiet! I propose to put it on the basis of voting, voting, and reading it again after the break. Please vote for Bill 2220. [[14:14:59]] For 244 For - 244. People’s deputies are urged to vote in general. Let's vote in general. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[14:15:28]] For 246 For 246, the decision is made. Thank you. The next meeting is tonight. I'll have the factions show you. Thank you.
