ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-11-m0.u1	Good morning, dear colleagues, please register. [[10:03:08]] There are 432 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the Hall, and the morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine declares it open. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the factions. Vladimir Litwin. Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-11-m0.u2	Dear Head, distinguished fellow national MPs, the events that are unfolding today in Ukraine, have finally demonstrated that the governing camp has failed to meet with the willingness to systematically implement those measures, first to produce, and then to implement those measures that need to be implemented and produced today. The constant references to the fact that everything is responsible for the financial economic crisis in the world is part of the truth, more precisely, a small part of the truth. There's a nice phrase that you can make one big lie out of two half-truths. We have the impression that that is the case. Let's face it, in order to know how to deal with this systemic crisis, unfortunately, which was created in Ukraine as a result of internal and social, and economic policies, we need to find out first, and what exactly does the Ukrainian economy represent today? Sporadic, totally unsystemic legislative initiatives by legislators cannot solve matters. The individual bills passed by the government, the individual MPs who are not in a group that do not balance themselves in terms of overcoming the systemic economic crisis, are nothing compared to what other countries are doing to overcome a crisis that is much smaller there. Because, once again, I want to make this point, all that's happened is that the financial and economic problems of the international environment, the international level, are being made up of what Ukraine has done. What's more, I'd like to put it this way, it might not like it, but it's the right thing to do. This had to be done with such a life, it had to lead the country into a pen to allow the International Monetary Fund to enter Ukraine under such conditions! If someone wants to say that this entry is due to Ukraine, let's be honest -- no, because Ukraine is now cooperating with the IMF on the stand-by system, a system that most other countries do not want to engage in with the IMF, because there is another system that does not provide for strict requirements from the International Monetary Fund for Ukraine's internal policy, for fiscal policy, for pricing policy, for tariff policy. The stand-by system that we're being advertised, and everyone wants to do it now, the first person in the state, for the sake that we've done it, really means extremely strict requirements, starting with the mandatory acceptance of the Ukrainian budget, our internal budget, to the costs of this budget, the acceptance of the housing and utility tariff, the acceptance of the price of gas for consumers -- for individuals. And there is, unfortunately, even agreement on matters related to the agricultural market. In these circumstances, therefore, extreme acuteity raises the issue of ensuring minimum standards for people in such a difficult situation. The Lithuanian Block, our colleagues, a number of our colleagues have made it possible to remove from the so-called anti-crisis law the things that will enable the government from December 1, 2008, according to the current budget, not to raise the minimum wage, and from January 1, 2009, not to prove the minimum wage -- think about it, dear fellows -- even to the biological standard of living, which has already been reduced three times deliberately. [[has another name]] So all the things that happen around the bill, more specifically around the law, we think about it as principle. And we insist that today, and we ask that today be put into the agenda and voted our Bill 3342, which foresees the return of the text of the law to what the MPs actually voted. Because the moment after this vote and what there is today. The law makes a very serious difference. Please support us in this regard, and more specifically, to support the common people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-11-m0.u3	Bodnar. Ivan Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-11-m0.u4	Dear Head, colleagues, distinguished voters, the first days of November became true in the ten days that have struck the world. No exaggeration, and despite the crisis, a billion - year - old international audience has been observing a few months - long presidential race on the Pacific continent. You can look at many different features of American society, but let's face it, we have an instructive example and a lesson of almost perfect, civilized society, where, on the basis of respect for the law, a proper attitude towards the opponent, a high political culture that has foreign dirty technologies, wild images, military rhetoric, brutal cynicism. And most of all, it's not even about how new and powerful personalities come into power. It's about how experienced politicians come out of it. They were not yet counted as competing candidates, and their parties, headquarters, and all of America extended their arms and united their efforts to combat the economic disaster for the future, for the future, for the people, and for the nation, whose name is the United States. In fact, Bushy and Fordy, Clinton and Obama come and go, and they have the Americas and the fundamental question, not what she gave you, but what you did for her. Did not the powerful men of Poland and Slovakia, the post - Soviet Baltica and the Balkans, behave in a similar way in difficult times? Here, too, during the years of trials, both the authorities and the opposition left the barricades, stood next to them, shook hands, got a loan of trust from the people, and made their final choice. Where are they today, and where are we? In the last five years, little Slovakia, in fact two of our Volinis, has received more than $25 billion in investment, almost as much as Ukraine. As they say, comments are unnecessary. And there's no investment, there's no development, there's frozen reforms, like yesterday and the day before, we have the energy economy in the world, there's a lot of other problems. What solution is offered by opponents today? Again on the shield is the slogan: “You are giving a timely election!” The truth is the prophetic words in the folk song: “My mind is dimmed by vain dreams.” And a few days ago, with incredible efforts, it is said, we saved Parliament and the country together because we adopted, doubtless, the most plentiful law of the year. Don't do that. A few weeks from the state with the proud name “Ukraine” would leave only a name. Those who do not believe listen to the leisure of people who are very familiar with financial and banking matters. And if the country is largely accounted for, it should not be an election, but a choice. Many loud election campaigns in 17 years have failed because the country and its authorities have never made their decisive choice: the European Union, the European Union, the European Union, and NATO. That is why they view us as freaks and do not rush to support us in any particular way. Lesson and conclusion here for all of us: not from the train, colleagues, suggest you go down to the team today, but from the barricade down and together let's pull this heavy plow. Now, more than ever, you need open friendly hugs next door, not clenched fists and gnashing teeth across the street. Enough fruitless opposition to the nation is forcing the elite to work, not for the creation, but for the destruction. Last week we passed an important law, but this is just the beginning. International aid saves the banking system, partially stabilizes the bracelet, and stimulates the balance of payments. But the main task now is to revive the economy. The abyss, like everyone else, fell down almost instantly, it would take a long time to scrape off. And every step on the top requires extra force, and usually new laws. Not allowing mass unemployment, at any cost of stimulating exports, smartly organizing imports, urgently and in fact re-establishing the internal market is far from a complete list of urgent tasks that the government and, of course, the parliament can do. Are there any answers to these painful problems in the bills proposed this week? Of course there is, but all the challenges and risks cannot be predicted in one moment. And that shows only one thing: the legislative body must work as a good clock during this time period. This week, after considering the government’s proposals and supporting them, we will give a encouraging signal to peasants, metallurgists, and builders. Next. Energy, transport. And let us go around this time without annoying discipline and finding a guilty daughter - in - law, for we too have a good memory. For two years in this room, when the situation was much more favorable, the issue of equalizing social standards has already been raised. And what was the answer? Remember that eloquent gesture? Now these respectable politicians say quite the opposite. So what did the view of the seat change in principle during this time? The unpredictability of mutual accusations and suspicions is now evident. We claim that this is not our policy at this difficult time. We hope that at this moment they will not only listen to us but also hear us. Give it to us all, God, and thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-11-m0.u5	Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-11-m0.u6	Viacheslav Kirilenko, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear colleagues, last week we passed an important anti-crisis law, but which above all should serve to protect the banking system and most of the investors who invested their money in the Ukrainian banking system. But it's in line for the adoption of other bills. And we have, as promised last week, introduced a social anti-crisis bill to Parliament, which foresees a series of completely simple decisions that need to be taken. I will immediately point out that “Our Ukraine” is ready to give up one-person authorship and to offer colleagues from other MP factions a joint bill that would be supported by a majority of the MP Corps. What's the point? First of all, we're proposing a moratorium on increasing the expenditure of the authorities throughout 2009. And this should apply, first of all, to the inability to increase the staffing of all public authorities and local self-government, as well as in social insurance. Secondly, this moratorium should provide for a moratorium on increasing all government expenditure, except, of course, the wages and payments of utilities. And thirdly, this moratorium should prohibit capital construction, the acquisition of cars and other unnecessary costs for all public authorities without exception, for all local governments, for all state and municipal enterprises, and for all social insurance institutions. We pay particular attention to socstres. Dear colleagues, we forget when we're looking for a million, another to help ordinary people, that the total budget is only three social insurance funds without the Pension Fund -- over 16 billion dollars. And oftentimes this money is used as anything, because the social media funds are far beyond the focus of social attention. Please tell me, what should the Unemployment Fund do now? Self - advertising or the financing of the unemployed, which is increasing? Of course it's the other one. That's why we're making proposals to four social laws. First. We have to provide partial unemployment assistance. These articles in the Basic Employment Act, namely, “On unemployment insurance”, do not work. And a huge number of people are now forced to go on forced leave, or they're busy two, three, four hours. This is especially true of metallurgical, chemical, machine - building enterprises. Our bill therefore proposes to unlock the three articles of the basic law and to provide temporary unemployment assistance. And that's two thirds of the fare, and that can be paid. But not more than six months. Second, everyone's talking about public work. But we know that local budgets can't finance empty and public jobs, and businesses now have no circulation costs, so talking about community jobs for the temporarily unemployed can only be a conversation. That is why we propose to amend the Employment Act and allow this year's funding from individual programmes of the State Budget for Public Works. And this is more than just building roads, railways, bridges, infrastructure, cleaning cities and villages, and other jobs. Thirdly, we have a problem with a single tariff grid. And by the way, it's a big problem. We've introduced it in three stages. And it is a shared merit of all the political forces and all the last four governments. The government has now frozen the first-level employee's wager of 545 dollars by decree. And this bet has to be at least a minimum wage. Thus, we are obliged by law to establish that the tariff rate of a first - grade worker cannot be less than the minimum wage. And the third. We cannot reduce not only real wages but also real pensions. Because the tariff rate games that the government has now begun in connection with the 939 that it has adopted are one thing, and the rate of retirement insurance may decline from the following year. That's two. If we make changes to the basic pension law, the real pension since 2009 for 14 million Ukrainian pensioners can be reduced. And this is an amendment to the fourth social bill that we're introducing. I repeat, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" is ready to surrender, but we ask the House and the Head of Parliament to adopt this bill immediately, because from January 1st of the following.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-11-m0.u7	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-11-m0.u8	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-11-m0.u9	Thank you. Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-11-m0.u10	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear voters! So called anti-crisis measures, which were voted a week ago by scraps of the orange coalition, only satisfy the interests of the rich, primarily the interests of the bank’s capital and the IMF. No more, no less. And the real sector of the economy: people are alone with huge problems. You and I are now witnesses as enterprises in Donetsk, Zaporzik, Dnipropetrovsk, Kharkiv and other areas stop. Ukraine loses sales markets, reduces its work week and wages, sends people into forced labor, unpaid vacations, increases in unemployment, cuts in deposits, increases in prices and tariffs. You have to understand that there are representatives of powerful financial and political groups and oligarchs in power, so the so-called second anti-crisis package, which is currently scheduled to be considered in Parliament, as well as the first, will in no way contribute to solving your painful problems that arise in crisis situations. It is designed to place the main burden of this crisis on your shoulders — the shoulders of ordinary workers, employees, pensioners. From the outset, we Communists have offered a series of specific economically sound proposals that would greatly mitigate a crisis, prevent mass layoffs, and stop businesses. We believed and thought that without increasing the role of the state in the management of the economy, without adequate state mechanisms that would force the oligarchs to take social, national interests into account, the crisis would be impossible to overcome. First of all, we've proposed and we're convinced that we need to immediately adopt a nationalization law, which is a normal legal mechanism that protects any state from selling property at no cost in a crisis. Energy, a military-industrial complex, machine-building, chemistry, metallurgy, transport are strategic sectors that provide security for the state, and are the main sources of public and local budgets. Secondly, the de facto wages and social benefits for 2009 are frozen and prices and tariffs are rising. It is therefore urgent to adopt a law on moratoriums to raise prices and tariffs in 2009 and freeze them at the level of 1 November 2008. Thirdly, we propose to ban the release of workers from metallurgical and other knowledge-based enterprises and companies in strategic sectors. In the event of such stops, wages should be paid at the expense of billions of their owners. All over the world, you've been bragging about the fact that you've been robbing the people of Ukraine for the past three years. If such social requirements are not met, then it is necessary to place an arrest on the property of an oligarch. We also propose legislative banning unpaid vacations and cuts in wages in enterprises in connection with the reduction of the working week. Thus, criminal responsibility must also be imposed in the face of a crisis. Ukrainian metallurgy and other magnets have so much looted and shipped abroad that they must now return these funds to the economy of Ukraine and aim to provide social security for workers and development, and to modernize production. For example, in Stahan, Zaporozhye, and Nicopoli, for example, he shuts down his factories. And abroad, in Romania, in Bulgaria and in the United States, these factories work, because there the state has said the following, if you, Mr. Colomoysky, cut down, we'll take your businesses. Now, I want to personally address you, distinguished pensioners, you have to know that reducing jobs, free vacations, reducing wages, will soon lead to the impossibility of filling the Pension Fund and the result of paying you your pension. And that will be the second blow on your families. Fourthly, if the owners of strategic enterprises are unable to fulfil social obligations to their employees, the control package of such an enterprise should depart from the state or collective of workers, i.e. “adopted”, feed — answer! Dear voters! Time has shown that this authority, the authorities of oranges and oligarchs, is unable and unwilling to carry out their duties and work in the interests of society. Today’s almost zero confidence in the President and his political supporters is a testimony. Therefore, we urge workers and all who are in pain for Ukraine to prepare for the all - Ukrainian political strike. If the authorities can't protect people, if the state is only defending the interests of a bunch of billionaires, I'm sure the people have to change that power.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-11-m0.u11	Alexander Stoyan. Alexander Efraemov, right? Party of regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-11-m0.u12	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues, journalists, voters! You know, there's no limit to my surprise. Everyone is saying that there is a crisis in the country, and the leader of the faction who has formed the Government, who has the Prime Minister, tells us how proud the American order should be and how they do everything in America. It is not to say that yesterday a meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers was held, at which we expected anti-crisis legislation to be considered, and today we do not have a single bill from the Government that truly reflects what the Government thinks to date to change the situation in our State's economy. At the same time, we have heard more and more frequently, as the tone of the Government's literacy, professionally and we have overcome all the problems that exist in our State continues to decline. Indeed, according to an analysis of the rather respectable European and world-renowned Deutsche Welle, Ukraine is now ranked third to the level of poverty among European States. [[Germany]] To date, we are ahead of Moldova and Albania alone in this “glorious” issue. [[& Tiles]] If we are still doing this professionally in our State, I think we have every chance to move forward with the Government. Now with regard to issues relating to the International Monetary Fund. Other countries take loans externally to professionalize what they have in the State and create a airbag. What we do in our country reminds me of the bad family that ran away from our neighbours for money and then rejoices that all the problems in this family have resolved and forgets that this money needs to be paid, and in this case, it is still necessary to pay interest on it and protect itself from the fact that, within the IMF structure, these money chains in two days when they arrive in our country have not gone to the foreign banks owed by our corporations. Therefore, I would like to request our distinguished representatives of the authorities, representatives of the coalition, to present their anti-crisis measures to remove the country from the situation they have put in place, and most of the issues that exist in our State today relate to non-professional work, particularly those of the Government in the State, not from outside economic problems. If you lack sufficient opportunities, professionalism and other qualities to prepare this decision, we, for our part, have a package that is ready to be considered, invite you to consider these bills, and I think our experts will be working on this package in the next day or two. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to the priority issues that the Government would not put aside from its problems to the problems of the regions and to the problems of the people. When we have five million citizens living in cold apartments today in November, in fact, two weeks before winter, the Government must answer why this is happening, rather than proud of television screens, because today the whole city is gas-free, because for some reason they have not been able to calculate with the company for the gas they needed before. And the second question. The State which is proud here is the United States of America, above all, taking care and protecting its citizens. And the crisis is referred to as tops, and the crisis is felt only in financial institutions, and the situation of the Government is being rectified. To this day, you are trying to shift all the problems that are in the sick head of the government to the healthy head of the people who live in our country. And the last. You know, the amendment that we've adopted and that we've all advocated for you to understand what might happen, it's not just written that we're increasing to inflation, it's written that we're increasing to the difference that exists at this level, and tomorrow we might have a situation, because of the lack of funds in the State, we can see the decline in purchasing demand and deflation, and that's why the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-11-m0.u13	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-11-m0.u14	Our dignitary representatives of the Ministry of Finance will convert the minimum wage, not to the increase, but to the reduction. And that, Arsenius Petrovich, is the main concern to date of the Party of the Regions and why we have not voted in favour of the sombre bill that you have tried to carry out here in the Supreme Council Hall. And the last. Dear colleagues, you know how much we don't talk about all the things that happen in our State to any person, if he's normal, to any organization, they're looking at themselves first, and they're trying to keep things straight. For two months now, we have had a statement by the Speaker of Parliament to release him from his post. In view of my appeal to the chairman of the committee yesterday after the Conciliation Council, I say that the Committee has considered this decision and we are prepared to consider the matter in the Chamber. The Party of the Regions proposes to consider this issue with a view to considering the voting order. And in order not to delay the procedure itself, vote cards in the room today. If, Arsenius Petrovich, you have indeed written this statement and there are no stones, you have no reason to refuse to ask the question. If there's something else going on there, and you're going to delay this rule, then we'd like to be able to determine on the faction's advice when this question is put into the hall and put the point of view, especially in our relationship here, inside the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-11-m0.u15	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let me return only to a brief comment on the so - called anti-crisis law. Yesterday we did not have a proper discussion on the Conciliation Council. The language is in the correct interpretation of this article. If you have any suggestions for viewing this article, please check it out. But once again, I insist that the moratorium norm is not included and everyone has fought for it. The limit norm is also not included. Introduced is a rule that has been voted on, which requires the government to index the minimum wage and minimum wage below. Not below inflation. However, if there is a discussion, we need to get out of the discussion properly. Let's put it in the agenda and figure out who's right, who's wrong. With regard to the question of the satisfaction of the statement made by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. According to article 76 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, it needs to be included in the agenda. I am putting to the vote the question of the inclusion in the agenda of the day of the satisfaction of the statement made by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the withdrawal. In accordance with the requirements of the Rules. Please vote. [[10:33:52]] For the 220. Please show by factions: Region Party – 170, BUT – 1, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” – 2, Communist – 27, “Block of Lithuania” – 20. [[Thank you, colleagues.]] The decision is not supported. So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. Dear colleagues, it is suggested that we consider the issue, so that there is no discussion. Someone's holding on to something. Make a decision. I said I'd get out of the chair at any moment. And when it comes to political insinuations to decapitate parliament and then go to the early elections, this model is understandable. You have a new head of parliament, stand by at any time, but don't protect the legislature! Dear colleagues, now regarding the meeting of the Supreme Council today. The first question Vassil Georgiyovich Hara asked yesterday is Bill 3330, a decision to recognize one that has become invalid. This applies to parliamentary hearings. Is there no objection to considering it? We'll vote, you'll decide. 0980, 0978, 0922, 0923, 0880 are bills in second reading. Come on, colleagues. We have a package of legislation that can be seen as part of the fight against the financial crisis. Yesterday the government reviewed the bills and they should come to Parliament today. If they come today, we'll set up committees on Wednesday, and then on Thursday, we'll be able to look at them if there's a committee decision. But in accordance with the Constitution, I have put bills to the president and the government, and I propose, and I ask you to support them. Please take a look. 0861 we've taken over the counters, and I emphasize that this is the bill that concerns the President's veto on the purchase of land for private property for social purposes. But 1365, 1366, further bills; 2448, 2474, 2614, 3011, 3065, 2609 and 3107. I also propose to include a bill, and I don't remember the number that was introduced by the Lithuanian Block on the 5th amendment. I just don't remember his number right now. Yes. The government offered 3281. I'm asking you to sign up for five minutes from the factions, from the factions, please. And then, if it's not enough, it's from the national MPs. The Communist faction. Who will speak from the Communist faction? Alexandrovska, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-11-m0.u16	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Arseni Petrovich, you have to make another comment about your violation of the Rules. You have put to the vote the question of whether your statement is satisfactory. But we were actually given a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, registered under number 3351. [[From the hall.]] [[Unheard]] .
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-11-m0.u17	I ask the staff of the machine not to interfere with the work of the session. Thus, we have been handed over the draft Decree 3351 “Response to the Supreme Council of Ukraine”. And you should have put to the vote the draft order on the agenda, not the mythical one you're talking about. I therefore demand and insist on putting to the vote a draft Order No. 3351 on the appeal of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And please don't leave.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-11-m0.u18	Hanna Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-11-m0.u19	Arsenius Petrovich, I must tell you that, despite your not being one of the strongest factions in Parliament, you have taken the second most powerful step today. The first step you took was when you filed the application, following a coalition agreement; today you have courageously put to the vote the question of inclusion in the agenda. I think it's a worthy step and a worthy imitation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-11-m0.u20	Thank you. Vladimir Litwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-11-m0.u21	Dear colleagues, regarding the schedule of meetings. I want to remind you that at the Conciliation Council we proposed, asked and insisted that we include issue 3342 first. And, Arsenija Petrovich, I ask you once again, we agreed, and you have actually admitted that you have incorrectly incorporated an undeclared norm into the law. So our request and our insistence is to put Bill 3342 first on removing a rule that the Supreme Council of Ukraine has not voted on. And we would very much like to avoid ignoring the position of our faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-11-m0.u22	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-11-m0.u23	Yuri Carmazin. Please give the floor to the head of the European Party, Mikoli Catherinechuku. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-11-m0.u24	Mikola Catherinechuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-11-m0.u25	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, the faction supports your proposal for inclusion in the agenda. At the same time, we would like to suggest that you delete Bill 1365 because it has not yet passed all the relevant committees, only three have passed with eight scheduled ones, and it carries, once, with technical and economic justification. Instead, we would ask, we would propose to include Bill No. 2215, which is the Ukrainian Tax Code, which will allow, in an existing situation, to create the necessary conditions to reduce tax burden on businesses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-11-m0.u26	It's amazing. Ivan Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-11-m0.u27	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues! We generally support the order of the day proposed by the Chief Executive, who in principle agrees with the factions’ leaders at the special meeting of the Supreme Council. Arsenija Petrovich, once again, I would like to remind you that we have raised the issue of personnel today with regard to the State Property Fund. There are conclusions of a profile committee, it's still taking place in the summer, it's been filed by the government since January 14th, all the documents are, you can go according to the procedure that is, you can ask this question and you can look at it. We also suggest, I didn't hear you say it or not, the government is proposing and the faction is proposing to consider a bill that allows the budget to be filled at this difficult time -- it's an excise assembly for individual kinds of products. Thank you. Today we support and invite everyone to work constructively.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-11-m0.u28	Thank you. Dear colleagues, once again, I would like to point out that the law is signed by me by the one who is filed by the Main Committee for signature, and there have been no frauds. 3342 is included, including 3342, as you insist. Now, as far as 2215 is concerned, we have to get it out separately, and we just don't even have it ready under the Tax Code. So here's my proposition: for the next one, if we see that the committee has been introduced, I would just suggest that the committee consider it. After that, we will bring him into the Parliamentary Hall. With regard to the question of Lukyanov’s ruling, I put to the vote what Alexander Ephraim said as the head of the regulatory committee. There is a decision of the Regulatory Committee, and I'm going to do it again. Let the decision be made, I will immediately put the second time to the vote of Lukyanov. I just need a decision from the regulatory committee. No problem. There would be a decision. I'd like to take the second time. Dear colleagues, I propose. 1365. Now, colleagues, for Semenyuk. I suggest we put it in the agenda, and let's define when we look at it, when we invite it, because it needs a report. Okay? Let's define the order after we invite. Colleagues, do you take this approach? Say it again? Okay. 3342 is the first one you want to put. Colleagues, 3342, first. We vote in favour of 3342, the first question of the agenda. That's cancelling. Comrades, be quiet! Draft law 33. You haven't given it yet? So then we'll look at it when it's handed out into the hall. Surrendered? Surrendered. Colleagues, pay attention! I'll put it to a vote. A hand-to-hand schedule? Colleagues, who doesn't have a schedule? There's no schedule? I suggest then that we know what we are voting for, because then we say again that we have not heard what we voted for. 30 minutes off. I'll give you all a schedule. And we'll follow the schedule that's been approved, just announced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-11-m0.u29	Comrades, we are continuing this meeting. I gave you the schedule, please. ((Mw w w w w a l i) You haven't given it up yet? Well, we'll wait three more minutes then, okay? I'm asking everyone to schedule, we'll wait another three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-11-m0.u30	Colleagues, in 10 minutes, we're ready for circulation. That's why I'm asking for another 10 minutes of tech break.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-11-m0.u31	Chief, may I begin? I'm on it. I ask you, read the schedule, write down who has the questions on schedule, and then we will vote. Please make a record of who has offers to schedule, please make a record of what is counted, which is not included. Belarus Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-11-m0.u32	I had a question like this, there were ratification laws on the Conciliation Council yesterday in the draft agenda, there were few, there were only two of them, but these are our international commitments. They're gone all of a sudden. The committee is working, making ratification recommendations, and today we ask for two bills: Bangladesh and Cyprus.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-11-m0.u33	Reportedly, Oleg Grigorovitch, Wednesday is a ratification day. If we get there, we'll consider today, if we don't, tomorrow will be on. They don't fit in the agenda, they vote in the machine. Please, Igor Fedorovich Sharov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-11-m0.u34	Dear Arsené Petrovich, please unify our two speeches and give the word to Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-11-m0.u35	Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-11-m0.u36	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear colleagues, we are grateful that Bill 3342 is included in the agenda, and we believe that this is already a positive fact, because the bill is designed to eliminate the possibility of hitting tens of millions of people in their pockets without raising their minimum wage to a minimum of living minimum, which is due to take place in accordance with the current legislation of January 1, 2009. And more than that, from December 1, 2008, the minimum wage was not raised from 545 to 605 dollars, by 60 dollars. This is also going to happen because in the 2008 budget, which is valid, this is the norm. So it's not about some new expense, or some populism or anything. This is about doing what is already part of Ukrainian legislation, and this is very important. Besides, I think that when we vote for this law, we will remove some unpleasant things that concern violations of constitutional norms where it is strictly forbidden to narrow social rights, to narrow down the social guarantees of Ukrainian citizens. And yet another question, dear colleagues, is this unit, "To be included in the agenda and the decision-making process." Since all these bills, which are written, are now to be included in the agenda, I ask for such a heading in black on page 4 “For inclusion in the agenda and decision-making” to be deleted, because we include everything in the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-11-m0.u37	Sergey Teryohin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-11-m0.u38	Actually, a very brief observation under the first law. Terhochin is said to be responsible. It makes no sense. Let's write better "not guilty" or, to the extreme, "not responsible" I'd like to give the word to Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-11-m0.u39	Ivan Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-11-m0.u40	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, I insist once again on behalf of the faction and on behalf of the government to put forward a bill for today that fills today's state budget, which, indeed, is today in those conditions that every penny is a road. This is a question of the excise congregation for certain kinds of products. I called the bill number on the Conciliation Council. Please pay attention to this. And order of voting for inclusion in the agenda. Arseny Petrovich, well, personnel issues are always the first, and they're the last ones. This may not be entirely correct in relation to the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-11-m0.u41	Peter Simonenko, and we finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-11-m0.u42	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there is virtually no question in this order of day that has anything to do with overcoming the crisis. So they're trying to offer us some kind of project, they might, in other circumstances, make sense to look at today, but it's about what's going on in the state of crisis. For thousands of years today, people are freed from their jobs, and businesses stop. Today, budgetary discipline and budgetary order are being disrupted. Tomorrow there will be nothing to finance the work of the same teachers and doctors. Pensions problem, employment fund filling problem. They're freed by thousands, they're accounted for by the Employment Fund, and there's no money, because there's no action to support businesses that have to work today. Therefore, the Communist faction is surprised and once again we claim that it is not possible to do so. The government and the President.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-11-m0.u43	Colleagues, I would ask that the word “Our Ukraine” be taken by Mikola Volodymyrovich Tomenko, those who have not been able to speak. Viacheslav Kirilenko and Mikola Tomenko
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-11-m0.u44	Viacheslav Kirilenko, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense". Dear Arsenia Petrovich, fellows of honor! The bill that is now being proposed, 3342, of course, is good. But we're introducing, me and my colleagues, a bill that deals with social issues and above all, unemployment issues, 3344. And this bill needs to be adopted now, by the end of this year, because it's gonna be late from January 1. Because if we don't take it, there's gonna be a blow to the pensions, a blow to the salaries. We're not going to be able to provide partial unemployment with the fund's money, and we're not going to be able to accept it in the budget next year because of the central budget for public work financing. That's why I ask my colleagues again and you, Mr. Head, to put this bill 3344 to the vote now for inclusion in the agenda. Let's look at it later, but let's see if it's involved. And once again, I stress that we can give up authorship for the benefit of other factions and bring together.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-11-m0.u45	Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-11-m0.u46	Dear colleagues, this morning at the Conciliation Council, we returned to this question. And I would suggest, Arsenija Petrovich, that we put this question in order of the day. I mean, Parliament is obliged to respond to these television shows that we see in Ukraine next week regarding national MPs who are systematic and criminal. I think that if the acting head of the Security Service makes such statements, he should be responsible for such statements. And if these statements are not confirmed by the relevant decisions of the courts or the prosecution, we should adequately and, I would say, react harshly to the kind of homicidality that is taking place. My suggestion, since the Rules of Procedure, chapter 35, clearly provide for a procedure for the consideration of the question of the criminalization of national MPs, is the exclusive right of the Attorney-General and the Attorney-General. So it is urgent to hear the information of the Attorney General tomorrow. Whether the Office of the Attorney General has evidence as provided for in the case of illegal or other acts of the national MPs. If the Attorney General tells us that there is such evidence in relation to one national MP, we must immediately begin the procedure for the removal of parliamentary immunity. If there is no such thing, we must respond appropriately to this active television activity of the head of the Ukrainian Security Service. So my proposal is tomorrow's information from the Attorney General and depending on the content of the information, obviously we should invite the acting head of the Ukrainian Security Service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-11-m0.u47	Thank you. Colleagues, I'm a brief comment on Laws 3142. Ivan Grigorovich, did the committee pass? I'm fine. Now Bill 3344, which Viacheslav Anatoliyovich insists, and 3342, they did not pass. Regulation. So I'm going to put the bill to the vote without a committee decision. Right? That's right. Just like we did. Now for the Attorney General's office. I'm going to put the matter to the vote on the Attorney General's information. Well, actually, we're asking the Attorney General of Ukraine to come to the Supreme Council and provide information on the removal of parliamentary immunity and the criminal responsibility of individual Ukrainian national deputies, if there is such information. And about the personnel question about Valentina Seminouk. The regulations provide for the need for presence, and I make it clear that the head of the State Property Fund is present, so I have a proposal to put to the vote the day-to-day question of the release of the Head of the State Property Fund and depending on if the Head of the Property Fund arrives today, we will consider tomorrow if tomorrow, then tomorrow we will consider the matter. If she's gone, then we'll look at her without her. Understand? Colleagues! I'll ask you two questions first: the Attorney General's Office. Invite tomorrow's plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Attorney General of Ukraine to provide information on the activities of individual national deputies and the course of criminal investigations involving Ukrainian national deputies. With that request, if there is such information. Please vote. [[11:35:19]] For 412 I'll brief the Attorney General and invite him to the plenary tomorrow. The second question I'm asking is about getting into the agenda of the Valentine's Day Order of the Semenyuk Foundation's post of head of the holding fund and considering this issue today, if it comes, and tomorrow, if it's not there, is that clear? Please vote. [[11:35:54]] For 230 The question is included. Colleagues! The next bill, on inclusion, I ask two questions about inclusion in the agenda: 3342 – inclusion in the agenda – paragraph one, paragraph two, consideration of the matter without a committee decision. So is 3344. I'll tell you now. And so 3342, the bill. Oleg Zarubinsky, about getting into the agenda. [[11:36:38]] For 219 The decision is not taken. The bill is not included in the agenda. Let's see the factions. Next bill, 3344. I'll give you my word after the schedule. Viacheslav Anatoliovich Kirilenko, please. Now I'm going to finish the formation and I'm going to take a break.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-11-m0.u48	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. Dear colleagues, I would like this bill not only to be a product of “Our Ukraine” or of my own, but I would like all the political forces working on it and it to pass through the committees and then to be introduced into the hall. So now I'm ready to vote without committees and I would even ask that social policy specialists who are in every faction in Lithuania and in the BUT and in the Party of Regions, and of course in us, do their best to submit this bill on Thursday because it's about unemployment, about public jobs, about the tariff network, about the Pension Fund. We're not going to make a political product out of this, let's just make a professional product. So I'm asking your commission to profile committees so that no later than Wednesday, the bill was considered and put into the hall on Thursday, and we've made a consolidated decision by the entire Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-11-m0.u49	I suggest you do it this way. Váchaslav Anatoliyovich, as you say, I have such an offer. Option one, add to the agenda, but subject to committee input or consider the matter when the committee's decision will be made. First choice, colleagues, attention. First or Second? Guys, we need voices. The other one. I'm asking then, yes, I see there's a question on the vote, if we figure it out tomorrow, then we'll bring it in tomorrow. Váchaslav Anatoliyovich, I can see that we can fly, not wish. I will now complete the formation, sit down, deputy Lukyanov. Now, half a second. Next bill, colleagues. Order 3333, Deputy Hara filed, we vote in favour. [[11:38:56]] For-360 Now the second reading of 0980. Voropeyes. Colleagues, the European Bill, please vote. [[11:39:15]] For 226 We didn't make it? “For” – 226, the decision is made, everything is fine, everything is done. 0978. Costus's Bill. It's a second reading. These are bills that relate to increasing competition, they directly relate to the financial crisis. Colleagues, we vote! [[11:39:50]] For 369 Alexander Sergiyovich, this is the answer to the bills that have been tabled, the bills are submitted by the Party of the Regions, and you said there are no laws. 2223 – Government Bill, Greenewsky Sergey Rafailovich introduced. [[11:40:22]] For 223 Not supported. 0880 is also the Greenewian Bill, but this is the second reading. If you recall, this is true of the State Service. There are changes to the law by order. Please vote. [[11:40:49]] For 246 That's the thing. 246. Now the next bill, 1365, is the draft Law on Market Surveillance. This is the Presidential Bill. Colleagues! It's a simplification of procedures in small and medium-sized businesses. Please vote. [[11:41:14]] For-50 No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. It's okay. The next bill, 1366, is a bill amending some of the laws of Ukraine, it's about the placement of small architectural forms. Please vote. It's okay, it's a normal thing: it supports Parliament something, something doesn't support it. [[11:41:38]] For – 57 Not supported. The next bill, 2448 and 2474, there's an alternative to Jaroslav Suhogo, we need to support Jaroslav Mikhailovich to look at it. This is a change to some of Ukraine’s social protection laws. Colleagues, many children, we vote. [[11:42:10]] For 433 Thank you. 433. The next bill, 2614, is responsible for violating the securities market. This is, by the way, what caused this, including the financial crisis in the world, and, more specifically, the absence of this responsibility. We have a report by Vladimir Romanovich on bill 2614, please vote. Colleagues, pay attention, we vote. [[11:42:40]] For 223 The decision is not taken. The next bill, 3011, is a bill to amend some of the legislation on opposition, illegal absorption. I'll bet you it's simple, raiding. It's a bill that's struggling with raiding. Please 3011 votes. Colleagues, concentrate, please. I'm addressing all the national MPs, concentrate on the subject of voting. [[11:43:11]] For 219 The decision is not taken. The next 3065 bill to amend some of the Ukrainian Investment Act, please vote. And the question of investment. [[11:43:36]] For 221 It seems that we are deliberately failing the government’s laws. 2609, Ukraine's Amendment Act to the Code of Administrative Violations, please vote. [[11:44:01]] For the 220. Thus, the bill, introduced by the Lithuanian Block, is 3107. Please vote. [[11:44:26]] For 290 For -288. Order of the day formed, colleagues. Sit down, Lukyanov, sit down. It's not Majdan, Lukyanov, it's not Majdan, we've been through this. Dear colleagues, it means "Litwina Block", and whose second signature is it from the faction? Alexander Efraemov made a proposal for a 30 - minute break. I think that's when we get together at 12:30 already after a full break. Please. Yes, you calm down! We need to be calmer, then we'll get to the bottom of this. Calm down, Lukyanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-11-m0.u50	Fellow students, please, after the break, which of the factions wants to speak. There were two factions: the Lithuanian Block and the Party of Regions. Please, Alexander Ephraim. Who will express themselves? Litwin? Litwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-11-m0.u51	Dear National Deputies! You know that on Friday, the Law on the Priorities of Preventing the Negative Consequences of the Financial Crisis and amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine were passed. After the law had been passed, it was entirely obvious that, with the sanctification of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a position had been put in place, which the Supreme Council had absolutely not supported, on the grounds that the minimum wage was rising to the level of inflation. But I would like to point out that this is above the level that will be officially established. If our authorities follow the International Monetary Fund with zeal for 2007, the inflation rate will be set at 17 percent. Anything above 17 percent will only be indexed by salary. That is why we, the honourable colleagues, have proposed to bring the law that was passed by the Supreme Council into line with the vote that was carried out by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And you don't have to look here for a clue that the Supreme Council voted. The decision of the Supreme Council was not supported. And the fact that the Head of the Supreme Council, by voting, proposed the norm, as if it were accepted by the Supreme Council, which was rejected by only 193 deputies, is a testimony to the fact that the service floor was performed. And you have to admit that. And the Supreme Council will return, and bring the law into line with the results of the vote. At the same time, dear colleagues, I would like to stress that we do not go to the International Monetary Fund and that our authorities do not try to like it. I want to show you this, I'm convinced that each of you, these are just the questions that were received in Mogilov-Podilski at the meeting with the people. They ask how to live for this minimum wage when it takes 350 dollars to heal the ODS. [[acute respiratory disease]] Why, dear colleagues, we refused to include this issue in order for the Supreme Council of Ukraine to pass the law that it voted in accordance with. What do we finally want to discredit the Supreme Council of Ukraine? That's not what we want! But I am convinced that we must do everything we can to ensure that crisis problems are not solved at the expense of the people. I would like to ask, my fellow Members, to return to this issue and vote in the manner in which it was adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Otherwise, we leave the right not to vote in favour of the bills tabled by the President of Ukraine and the Government. Let's see how you make decisions if you don't want to hear people and correct counterfeiting. And the Supreme Council will not be able to work and will not work if there are such actions, in fact, matters that limit, in a mild sense, the crime of the service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-11-m0.u52	Who else wants it? Alexander Efraemov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-11-m0.u53	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues. We have certainly supported and, if you are asked to vote on what Vladimir Mihajlovich is proposing, we also support that this issue be voted on as it was originally intended when the session hall rejected it. And we also believe that the norm that has been voted upon improves the lives of people in our State, which is simply unacceptable to date. But there is a second question that we have raised today and which I think we have dealt with in a hurry, so we have also asked to take a break to discuss this issue. We know what gravity today lies on the shoulders of the Speaker of Parliament, the situation in which he works every day. And it is only natural that a person, when he is so heavy, has written a statement asking him to be released from his post. And for a number of reasons today, but above all with the coalition, it did not vote in favour of the statement. Given that the issue of voting has been urgently raised, many deputies have failed to approach their workplace and some have failed to work out the cards that we have often had, and there are statements on this issue, Arsenija Petrovich. And given that your card has not worked for some reason, you have written a statement and yet not voted for it, we would like to go back to that and ask for the inclusion of a statement by the Speaker of Parliament on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-11-m0.u54	Would you like to speak? Five minutes, please sign up for the speech. But before I record the performance, I'm going to comment briefly. Dear colleagues, the first question, about some misunderstandings and the second question, about the release of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, are related issues. We need to find any excuse and that's the right thing to do. Once again, there was no change in the text of the law, no moratoriums on salary restrictions were voted on, no moratoriums on social pay cuts were voted on, no restrictions were voted on. It was that in the text of the transcript, the government was obliged to index wages and minimum subsistence minimum to the level of inflation. All other questions in the 2009 budget. So you don't need these insinuations, everything's clear, and it's long since been clear that there's only one thing going on: the struggle for power. But all of this is well showered with love for the people. Ivan Stepanovich Plush, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-11-m0.u55	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, distinguished national MPs, it is very difficult for me to determine what is going on in such a situation. I respect Arsenius Petrovich as a young, capable politician, and I cannot make a decision for myself. Did you make a statement that you wanted to come in? Do you want to leave? How am I doing?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-11-m0.u56	Basil Hara. Ivan Stepanovich, I'm going to have to ask you this question: do you want to come or don't you want to come? Then you won't understand. Please, Hara is a colleague. Vasil Grigorovitch, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-11-m0.u57	40 seconds, respectable Arsenius Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-11-m0.u58	Let's add.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-11-m0.u59	Dear colleagues and respectable Arsenius Petrovich! We discussed this issue at the Conciliation Council yesterday. Actually, it's a matter of honor and conscience, I want to tell you. I, like all my members of the faction, the Party of the Regions, claim that this rule did not receive a certain number of votes, and it should have been withdrawn. I'll remind you, Arsenius Petrovich, what he said yesterday. You yourself have suggested that, for each item adopted by the Committee and not adopted, the Supreme Council shall vote. The fifth paragraph did not receive the required number of votes. Before his vote, you're next.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-11-m0.u60	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-11-m0.u61	They took a break and went to consult each other. As far as I know, no one at the meeting supported this fifth paragraph and, therefore, it should not have been there. However, when you put the vote to the vote at the end, you said that the fifth paragraph was supported, and we were voting in favour of the law as a whole with the fifth paragraph. It's the floor. It's the same thing. And the second. I'm addressing the Yulia Timoshenko Block. You will recall, please, a statement by the Prime Minister, who swore to the people that she would give it to all those who would pay the workers' wages. And how do you know that you are not voting today to amend the law and eliminate the forgery that has been done by the leadership of Parliament? I therefore propose that we put him to the vote again and think about his conscience, his dignity and the voters to whom we appeal: we say one thing and we do the other. Arsenius Petrovich, I ask that we put to the vote to find out who is next time in Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-11-m0.u62	Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-11-m0.u63	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, frankly, it's very difficult to have a discussion, an honest discussion, because you're always commenting on the speeches of the national MPs. This is strictly forbidden by the Rules. You have no right to comment on my speech, including those of others. Follow the Rules. The other one. The obvious tension is that there is a direct link between wanting to restore the honest and true text of the law to those things that relate to the satisfaction of your claim, by the way. Why? Because the next day after this vote, when we had suspicions, as you put it to the vote on Saturday, "Block of Lithuania" made a statement that warned us not to manipulate, not to fake. You don't have to tie it up. And the last, very simple moment, and I think he's filming the discussion. The national MPs were given the final result of this law, more specifically, sorry, the version of this law, where black in white is written, fifth paragraph: “Unacceptable”. We're opening the transcript.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-11-m0.u64	Peter Cibenko. Give me another Zarubinski. Calm down, Oleg, you're calmer. It's okay. Let him finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-11-m0.u65	I also wish you to be very calm, everything will be fine, don't worry. So I want to say what the chairman says, I have: “19.40. Yes, everyone supported Amendment 5.” Do you remember that? And we already have a text that says, "Amendment 5 disagrees." What's this all about? No subject matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-11-m0.u66	Peter Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-11-m0.u67	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, unfortunately, today in Ukraine counterfeiting becomes, if you like, a card for Ukraine. In the days of the media, it was reported that a false document on education had been discovered in Iran, and a person resigned immediately. Here in Ukraine, counterfeiting took place at the highest level. The speaker of Parliament played a key role. In fact, Arsenija Petrovich, you personally went to every person's pocket every month for 200 bucks. Because what was voted was completely inadequate because it was found in the final document. You couldn't do it alone, you're overturning that decision that was taken by the Supreme Council earlier and signed by the President, that is, the decision to impose the minimum wage at the minimum wage. So, colleagues, I propose to vote on this document -- and to support and resign.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-11-m0.u68	"Julia Timoshenko Block", Ivan Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-11-m0.u69	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues, is very sorry to hear the discussion that is now taking place. The afternoon has passed, and we have not yet made any decisions. On the first question, believe me. Everything will be clear when the 2009 budget will be presented, when the economic potential, the potential for revenue, will be calculated. After the preferences given to the industries to get them out of the crisis quietly, we'll see that we have and then we'll understand everything, because no law has been repealed yet, which makes it impossible for what we're talking about. But the main second question is, is to make a coup here and eventually bury the Supreme Council. It's clear that today Arsenius Petrovich's release and non-election, because there are no votes, the failure of the Chief of the Supreme Council -- it paralyses the final work, it's again the question of the next term's election. They won't be here again this year, which means, next year, half a billion -- per parliamentary year and next year -- which is at least half a billion per presidential year. Guys, we're counting something, are we thinking about something? But when will this madness end? Yeah, let's get started, guys!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-11-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, I am tired of repeating the same thing, I have only one happiness that all Supreme Council meetings are recorded on audio and video. The 128th amendment you're all talking about wasn't included. Because she predicted a wage constraint on an index that was determined by the government, that's the key difference. And the amendment that you all voted for called for mandatory indexation on the inflation index. So this is a discussion that has nothing economic but political. And the 219 votes that were just on the board about not supporting the changes to the 5th article are a powerful testimony. But does the Party of Regions want to ask again the question of the 35th resignation of Yatzenuk? This question is supported. Ivan Stepanovich, the answer to your question, apart from my comment, is this: "The Yulia Tymoshenko Block" and "Our Ukraine" have made a clear request: if no statement is supported at this time, cancel your application, Arsen Petrovich. Let's take a look. I am asking the question of the return to the agenda of the day of the release of the Chief of the Supreme Council on my own motion in accordance with the Rules. [[12:48:14]] For 229 Now, dear fellows, questions. Factions please: Region Party 174, BUT – 1, Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense – 8, Communists – 27, Block of Lithuania – 19. I am now putting to the vote the question of the inclusion in the agenda of the day's issue of re-election, more specifically, the release of the Chief of the Supreme Council. Vote. And we vote exclusively by ballots, as stipulated in the Rules. Is the whole EC voting? Please vote. [[12:49:00]] For 229 Decision taken. I'm asking the Counting Commission to prepare the ballots, and we're going to vote. The word of Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-11-m0.u71	Thank you, Arseny Petrovich. You did, indeed, as an honest and decent person, by putting the matter to a vote. But we have, if you know, and you know it, a vote on this matter is registered. And we would ask you to bring this matter to a logical conclusion, to put the order to the vote. If the deputies in this Chamber change the voting form in accordance with this order, that is to say, if not, then we will vote in ballots. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-11-m0.u72	Is the order handed down? Is that a decision on your hands? [[B in m in s a l in]] What's that? You don't? Place the order in the hall. Calm down! There's no part of it. Wait 10 minutes, they'll give it away, it'll be all right. Now we're going to pass the verdict and we're going to vote. 10 minutes to multiply the determination. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, it's not on the right side of the hall, come on! It's a decree to change voting, colleagues. Right? Decision number, Ephraim's microphone. What's wrong with you? 3351. First multiply, then distribute. Well, you're showing a decision that doesn't exist. We're going to vote now. [[P w a]] Dear regional colleagues, take your time to live. The decision will now be made. Alexandre Sergiyovich, we work almost as in Donetsk: he said, he did. I said I did. I've set it up. Vote. Now you're going to get a ruling, we're going to change the voting method, and you're going to vote, calm down. Dear colleagues, as long as the decree reproduces, it's only 10 minutes away, but there's also a statement of two factions for a break, just until we multiply the determination. So at 1:30 a.m., we're going with a hook. Let's take a break. This is BUT and our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-11-m0.u73	Dear colleagues, I ask you to calm down. I'm going to start by saying that you can be sure that there's going to be a voting procedure today. Everyone calm down, as stipulated by the law, everyone manifests himself. Now come out of the factions, and then I'll announce the voting procedure. Please. From those factions who asked to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-11-m0.u74	Honorable and Respectable Fellows! Don't worry, there's a ticket queue at the rostrum, don't worry, it's five minutes. So I want to ask you to calm down. There will be no Sabbath. It will be what the Rules provide. By regulation, we have clearly chosen the Head of the Supreme Council with ballots, so line up for the ballots, we will receive the ballots, we will vote, and then legitimately the outcome of this rostrum will be voted by the Head of the Counting Commission. If you have a coalition, my friends, announce it here, it'll be even simpler and more basic. If that's what it is, please. If not, get in line for the ballots, my friends, and we will vote exactly as the book says and how we chose the Head of the Supreme Council. Thank you and let us begin the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-11-m0.u75	Viacheslav Kirilenko is out of town. Second statement of factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-11-m0.u76	Viacheslav Kirilenko, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense". Dear colleagues and honourable voters, unfortunately, we do not have a day in Parliament without events. Just in the morning we were saying that the government is preparing anti-crisis bills, the opposition is preparing to actively argue with the government essentially anti-crisis bills. Our faction prepared a social anti-crisis bill. We hoped that this would be the case, even though the relatively calmly relative river area would be the work in Parliament, be sure to do so this week. However, our expectations proved futile, since there is a desire to destabilize the situation in Parliament again. We don't agree with that. Therefore, “Our Ukraine” does not support the resignation of the speaker Yatsenuk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-11-m0.u77	Thank you. Alexander Efraemov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-11-m0.u78	You know, respectable colleagues, nothing in history changes, the obvious always becomes secret. And when Arsenius Petrovich wrote his statement, we believed that it came from a pure heart and soul, and when he held on to his job today, we see real, where we have a coalition, where we have interests, and who today protects us from the faction of the BUT Speaker of our Parliament. At the same time, Arsenius Petrovich, I would like to remind you that we have registered an order in the form of a vote, and we would like to ask him to vote in the room, which is the first. Second. I would like to remind myself that your deputies and your first, and just the deputy elected at-hoc on the voting procedure, we voted cards in the room. That's why it's no big deal. And if you have indeed written a statement and wish to leave this place, please do not arrange the circus, but unlock the work of the Supreme Council and the vote in the room will show the results of those who are on the face and show whether there is a coalition, whether there is a coalition in which coalition there is no coalition.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-11-m0.u79	Dear colleagues, I'd love to make this decision, but you can see that it's impossible to make it. And the voting requirements, I remind you, were required by the Party of the Regions to vote for the appointment of the Prime Minister by hand. Did you vote with your hands? Vote. A party of regions demanded to vote on the ballot, voted on the ballots, voted on the ballots. The third question, in order to unlock the work of the Supreme Council, is that we take the Rules, and I propose a voting procedure today. Please, Mikola Harritonovich Shershun, head of the reckoning commission, give you the floor. Let's start the voting process. Mikola Haritonovich, please. Quiet! Now we're going to vote that you're going to spend the maximum time you're going through, the country needs to see its heroes. From the place, the word of Shershun.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-11-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, I ask you to calm down and listen. Dear colleagues, I believe that in this situation, the Supreme Council must decide and make a decision, and the Counting Commission will carry out its duties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-11-m0.u81	Mikola Haritonovich. Sergei Sobolev, please, and Alexander Efraemov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-11-m0.u82	Sergey Sobolev, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. It seems to me that it is clear to everyone that, under the command of the President of Ukraine, the so-called “One Center” for Ahmed's money at the end, was able to scrape the required seven votes. After stealing two more cards from Booth and Ribakov, they try to create a coup in the state. The first thing you do is give back the cards of Booth and Rybkova you stole. Second, show me how many votes you have in the room. The voting method set out in the Rules. So announce the voting procedure, Arseni Petrovich. The Head of the Counting Commission refuses to conduct it, take it off the vote, we have a lot of questions about anti-crisis action and we're moving on them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-11-m0.u83	Dear colleagues! Well, listen very carefully! I'm asking you, let's conduct a human voting procedure! Let's go, as you voted for the appointment, and we don't vote, we vote, we close the subject. Why are you "hunting the moment"?Oh, my God! Yet, by law! But you yourselves shout, “All things are according to the Rules! ” You won't understand! You have one day or thirty - five Fridays! Ephraim and Simonenko want a break. Let's take another 30 minutes, and then we'll be together at four o'clock. My colleagues, once again, two factions again wanted a break. We're closing in the morning. 30 minutes, four o'clock, yes, 16 o'clock, we're opening the evening. So let's vote, but I'm asking you, in a human way, not to fight.
