ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-18-m0.u1	Good morning, dear friends, if he's good. Ladies and gentlemen, please register in the session room. [[10:04:39]] There were 435 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. In accordance with the Rules, I am announcing requests from Ukrainian national deputies. And so, the questions came from the Ukrainian national MPs: Alexander Popov to the President of Ukraine on the social protection of workers in the area of housing and utilities; Igor Kaletnik to the President of Ukraine on the release from office of the Head of the Herson District Administration, Boris Silinkov, for the illegal spending of budgetary resources and damage to the State on a particularly large scale, and for the systematic abuse of land, which has resulted in a material loss of some 2 million dollars; Viacheslav Kirilenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the failure to respond to the parliamentary appeal regarding the need to stop the construction of a steel mill in the Bilocerkow region of Kiev; Mikoli Shershun to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-responsibility of the response to the amendment of the 2008 Act on the State Budget; Kseniya Llapina and Andrija Davidenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on public procurement; John Hare to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for the creation of the National Natural Park “Raising” in the area of the river Desna; Alexander Kemenyash to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to take urgent action to address the problem of mining in the village of Solocin in the Svalia region of Zacarpathia; Igora Kaletnik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, acting as head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Minister of Internal Affairs for Unsatisfactory Documentation of Crimes involving Illegal Imports into the Territory of Ukraine by Subjects of Entrepreneurship in the Viennese Region; Mr Andrija Pavlovski to the Minister of Health of Ukraine on the activities of the municipal enterprise Kyiv City Dentistry Hospital; Vladimir Bondarenko to the Minister of Health of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of Ukraine, on the threat of life and health of people caused by Leonid Czernovicki’s actions in the area of non-target use of funds worth 70 million. the bracelet for the establishment in hospitals of autonomous sources of electricity; Spyridona Kilinkarov, head of the Ukrainian State Property Fund, Attorney General of Ukraine, on violations of current legislation in the process of alienation of state property; Vladimir Karpuk to the head of the House of Auditors of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the verification of the targeted use of funds provided for in the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2007 for the purchase of a positronic emission tomographer, gamma-lower apparatus and experimental programmes in the Donetsk and Dnipropetrov areas; Mikhail Kosova to the Minister of Transport and Liaison of Ukraine on the violation of the Ukrainian Law on preschool education by the Ukrainian public postal company “Krošta” in connection with the intention to reorganise the preschool facility number nine in the city of Lviv on Maksim Rilski Street, 9; Mr Andrija Pavlovski to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the prevention of raiding of the utility “Kievské měszé žamotologia“; Mikoli Kulczynski to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the abuse of office as Prosecutor of the Hadi district of Poltav district of Dmitr Hodatenko; Mr. Mikoli Kulczynski to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the facts of the violation of existing legislation and abuse of the service position of the Polish city head, Mr. Andriy Matkowski; Alexander Golub to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the invocation of the responsibility of officials of the State Committee on Forestry of Ukraine, guilty of issuing an illegal order; Mikoli Tomenko to the Attorney-General of Ukraine for information on the reason for the change in the target destination of the land provided to the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine for the construction of a residence; Valerija Shamanova to the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the examination of the actions of the Office of the Public Prosecutor of the Luhansk Region regarding the alleged violation of her labour rights; Vasil Spak to the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine on the non-use of measures to halt raids on the open stock company Kamyanec-Podil Power Plant of the Hmeljna District; Jury Crook to the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine on the use of appropriate measures of prosecutorial response to eradicate corruption in the prosecutorial and police departments; and Alexander Kamenjar's latest request to the Attorney General of Ukraine for non-execution by the law enforcement authorities of the Zakarpat district of the 18th District of Zacarpathia of decisions concerning members of the peasant farm. In accordance with the Rules, I have two requests to put to the vote, namely: we put inclusion in the roll-out mode. a roll-call vote for one third of the deputies to consider the request and another 226 votes for the request. [[This refers to requests for the name of the President of Ukraine.]] So I'm asking for support from Alexander Popov to the President of Ukraine for social protection of housing workers. Please vote. [[10:10:43]] For 240 Decision taken. I now put to the vote the question of sending Alexander Popov to the President of Ukraine for social protection of housing workers. [[10:11:11]] For 235 Decision taken. I am voting on the question of support for Igor Kaletnik's request to the President of Ukraine for the release from office of the Head of the Herson District Administration, Boris Selinkov, for the illegal spending of budgetary resources and for the loss of the state in a particularly large way and for systematic land-use abuses that have resulted in a material loss of some two million dollars. Please, it's a question of support. Vote. [[10:11:54]] For 225 Decision taken. All you need is 150 votes. Now 226 votes are required to send this request to the President of Ukraine. I'm asking you a question of voting: about sending a request. [[10:12:21]] For 223 The decision is not taken. Thus, Igor Kaletnik's request to the President of Ukraine for the release from office of head of the Herson government of Boris Silenkov did not find support for the Ukrainian people's deputies. Please show by factions. Party of regions, for – 174, BUT, for – 8, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”, for – 14, Communists, for – 27, “Block of Lithuania” – 0. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you of the results of the factions that have taken place. Unfortunately, my predictions about Parliament's work have come true. And there are two definite positions. The first position – coalitions – on the need for immediate consideration of the issue of early elections in Kharkiv; and the second, similar, categorical position – on the impossibility of considering the issue raised by the opposition faction of the Party of the Regions without a proper roll-call vote. I offered a third position, which was in the following position. We have five social bills in our daily schedule. So my proposal was: let's vote on the draft Labour Code in the first reading, as we've already discussed it; the second, we'll go through the bills on minimum living standards: the social categories of citizens, the subsistence minimum, that is, the bills passed by Hara, the Lithuanian Block, there are a number of bills that have been tabled by “Our Ukraine – the People's Self-Defense”, BUTT. Focus exclusively on the social aspect, and lock up after lunch. Sadly, however, such an offer did not find support in either coalition or opposition. In order not to reintroduce the physical resistance in Parliament’s walls, I think it would be logical, so to speak, to break up. But for that, but for that I would like to, I'd like once again, to have the positions expressed by the respective factions under the microphone. I'm going to the faction, and more specifically to the coalition, who's going to say a word from the coalition about whether the coalition is ready to step away from the question of how to deal with the issue of the city of Kharkiv about the early elections. Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko, please as coalition coordinator.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-18-m0.u2	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues, we have already made a clear agreement on this issue with coalition partners. Yesterday my colleague, Anatolyovich Kirilenko, expressed his clear position. We cannot tolerate what is happening today in the first capital of Ukraine, we clearly insist, we urgently consider and make the right decision. This is going to be a signal for all of Ukraine, because we have enough problems in other cities. So we insist, we consider this issue immediately, we remain in our position.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-18-m0.u3	So social bills are also only after considering the Kharkiv issue? Please turn on Kirilenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-18-m0.u4	Arsenius Petrovich, we never gave up on resonant social issues, and we always insisted on them, and today we say, right after Kharkiv 1408, the MPs canceled, 180 million dollars were sent to solve the immediate social problems of the poor vulnerable. Please, we are ready to begin solving these problems immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-18-m0.u5	Thank you. Please, Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov's microphone. Alexander Sergiyovich, are you ready to allow Parliament to consider the question of the early election of Mayor Harkov?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-18-m0.u6	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues, Arsenius Petrovich, we would like to support your proposal, to consider today in the Chamber a cluster of social issues that require urgent consideration, because if we do not consider today the bill on subsistence minimum, then there may be a situation that it will not be budgeted for the following year, this question. We therefore turn to our coalition colleagues: it would probably be right to return to the agenda that you approved on Monday at the Conciliation Council to complete the consideration of the Cabinet of Ministers, thereby supporting your President, who introduced the bill. We would further consider a number of social issues and thus end the day in a constructive note of work. What Kharkov is concerned about is the provocation that is being cast into the Hall by a conscious coalition that does not want to work and therefore wants to block the work of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-18-m0.u7	Yes, thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. There's a wish. Vladimir Mikhailovich, is there a desire to say a word? Please turn on Volodymyr Mikhailovich Litvina's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-18-m0.u8	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues! Obviously, before Easter, we have to stop, think about what's going on, actually, in the Supreme Council of Ukraine and in our country, because the Supreme Council of Ukraine is increasingly closing in on itself, on its internal divisions and on conflicts. We suggested that all the questions of an antagonistic nature should be brought up on Saturday, in the afternoon, and those who wish to discuss them would be on this day. We propose to calm down during the break when the Supreme Council does not work in plenary, to agree in advance on a meeting with the President, the Government and the Supreme Council of Ukraine to discuss the state of the country, the extent to which we are responding adequately today to the processes that are and will arise in the future, and, finally, what measures will be taken to ensure that people do not suffer first. And one more moment, dear colleagues, which I would like to mention. Yesterday we were to consider the question of the appointment and release of judges. We require the judicial corps to abide by the laws without letup. But at the same time, the disrespect we show for these people, I think, is evidence that the Supreme Council of Ukraine should understand its responsibility in this matter. We could consider the appointment and release of judges and then continue with our discussions. So our proposal is to now think about what's going on, to arrange for such a meeting, obviously in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, so that people can learn the truth about the state of society that is felt by everyone and what will be done by the Supreme Council, government and President of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-18-m0.u9	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-18-m0.u10	Dear colleagues, honourable voters, I would like to bring to your attention that all the latest sociological research that is being done in Ukraine, that is, asked in our people how the people of Ukraine feel about power, so, almost 77 percent of those surveyed today are talking about a negative assessment of the activities of the Supreme Council. Nearly half appreciates more than half of the government’s negative activity. Sixty percent misjudges the President’s activities. So to all branches of power, the people have already determined how to treat themselves, and in this case, it means only one thing that we need to do today, not to solve our clan issues, which today are showing some political forces in the Supreme Council. The President practically signaled that the work of the Supreme Council would be blocked because the next week, on April 23, at the Council meeting on constitutional development, he was trying to practically extend the concept that would also create preconditions for the usurpation of power, that is, the establishment of the Yushchenko dictatorship in our country. We are witnessing today that the territorial communities are involved in the struggle for the power of the clans, that we see in Kiev, that we see in Kharkiv, this is happening in Odessa, where today there is also a wave of national dissatisfaction against the mayor of the city of Odessa. This is how we have now responded to the proposal of our member of the Kaletnik faction regarding the Governor of the Herson region, who must have long been brought to criminal responsibility, and here in the Hall they do not want to betray their own, who exactly is the representative of certain clans. So, honourable citizens, we are with you today to witness what is the result of the September 30th election. So today we need to look again with you at whom we trust the authority and what authority we give to the representatives of certain political forces who speculate on our troubles on our mountain, who promise and talk about many things, and the work comes when we choose the Supreme Council, whether they choose to elect a district council, they forget about the people, and they just do what they do, by dividing businesses, they take it from the point of view of Ukraine's economic independence, or whether they have already come to what they trade on the left and on the right. I no longer say that here in the Supreme Council I regret that there are doctors, including those who, national deputies, voted for the poor people of Ukraine to prepare the same genetically modified product, including rotten meat, in order to obtain mother’s benefits, delivering very much of this product as smuggling including. Therefore, the faction of Communists today condemns all these actions and again urges the people of Ukraine to be very careful when they are identified as part of their support for the election of representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-18-m0.u11	Is there a desire for the NH-NS faction to express itself? You don't? Dear colleagues, let me sum it up. First of all, it's about judges. I fully and fully support Vladimir Mikhailovich, we demand that the judicial system work properly, but unfortunately we showed how we work yesterday. Therefore, our work is an indicator, including for judges how we cannot work. The other one. I'm sorry that my proposal for a normal hourly, one-and-a-half-hour job and a reduced procedure for six social bills is not supported, and then we could block, unlock, and then we could break up. So unfortunately, that's what's going on, I don't want to just be cramming around the rostrum right now. Third, concerning the Constitution. I would like to point out once again, Peter Mikolaiovich, that the Constitution will not be adopted without Parliament. This is a discussion that already has a dot. And believe me, any attempt to adopt the Constitution outside Parliament will not end in anything except that it will go to Parliament and it was, by the way, the language of the President of Ukraine. And last of all, with respect to the rules of procedure. I've given instructions to factions that criticize regulation violations, not regulations, but provisional regulations, so that the Supreme Council's apparatus can reproduce the provisional regulation. And so that people who are critics can even read the rules. That would be very important. And we saw the 44th and 86th articles, which did not allow the Head of the Supreme Council, unfortunately, to conclude the matter of the Cabinet of Ministers. I asked yesterday and asked the committee today to replace the reporter. There is no such decision. This is paragraph one. Item two. About the schedule. The schedule is approved by the Conciliation Board. And the turnaround is not foreseen at all. And paragraph three. Once again, I would like to state that there is only one person here who can catch me breaking the rules. This is Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk. But he didn't catch me on it. That's why I'm asking. And Sass, and Sas, I'm sorry. So let me ask you, let's just translate the discussions into a practical plane. The rules are being implemented. And, if so, who is to blame is the wife. So do you. You cannot reconcile on political issues, but you have a guilty wife. In view of this, dear colleagues, let me briefly sum it up. You and I have passed 35 laws as a whole. That's not so bad. We ratified the WTO with you. You and I have accepted the budget. You and I have passed a number of social laws. Of course, it's three minus. But this is our job together. A total of 174 questions were considered. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! By the will of the coalition, Volodymyr Mihajlovich, please repeat the microphone of Lithuania. And opposition, yes. Please, it's Lithuanian microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-18-m0.u12	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues! A great request, I am addressing both the Head of the Supreme Council and you, your esteemed colleagues. The 26th April anniversary of Chernobyl. We held parliamentary hearings. An appropriate draft of the decree has been completed. Let's make an exception and vote in favour of this draft decision. This is going to be a reaction, this is going to be the position of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'd like that very much, Arseny Petrovich. Dear colleagues, let's make this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-18-m0.u13	Mikola Dmitrovitch, please sit down. Well, don't sit down, all right. Colleagues, like Chernobyl, what's the position? Shall we vote? By Chernobyl, comrades, shall we vote? I held parliamentary hearings. The only question is, can I go to the author of the bill? Mikola Haritonovich. Well, we should hand it out. That's what we should read. Anatoly Ivanovich, come on, let's turn it back into a mess. It's a serious document, come on, serious document. Give the microphone to Seminosi.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-18-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, we made a decision at the committee meeting yesterday. This decision was registered. Regrettably, the Supreme Council's apparatus has failed. Is it? The decision is in hand.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-18-m0.u15	I've already been informed that the decision is in my hands. Ladies and gentlemen, let's do one good thing for today. I am voting on the draft regulation 2367 on the state, measures and prospects of overcoming the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. Is the remark correct? Let's put it on a base, and there'll be an addition. I ask you to vote for base 2367. [[10:28:16]] For 446 I have a question. As far as I can remember, it was part of the agenda when we formed the agenda on the conciliatory council. Right? Yeah, okay. Please. Anatoly Ivanovich, please, what adjustments.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-18-m0.u16	Dear colleagues, the decision was taken by the committee and already, when it was printed and distributed, an offer was made: Ohmatdit Children's Hospital to assign national status. It was an offer from many Chernobylers, from public organizations. This proposal is supported by the Health Committee. I also ask you to include this addition in this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-18-m0.u17	Is there no objection? There's no objection. Vladimir Yavorowski, is there something you want to say? The word of Vladimir Yavorowski. I must give all the deputies the floor to the unifying decision that unites the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-18-m0.u18	Vladimir Yavorowski, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear Arsenija Petrovich and honourable Mr. Seminoga, I spoke at these hearings, you know, and there was support for the idea that the grassroots organizations, the primary organizations of the Chernobyl community, should be involved in the self-cleaning of the pseudo-refrigerators that are now darkened in these ranks. That is why I do not insist that this be brought to a decision, but that it be a protocol, at least, a commission that should be made to the side of the Supreme Council so that the grass-roots organizations can deal with the issue themselves. Because the government and the authorities once did so, the counterfeiters were added several times more. This is a very important and painful question. Let this be just a protocol assignment for the Black Bill Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-18-m0.u19	I think it makes sense. We have the right under the Rules to do such protocol tasks. They're going into protocol. Anatoly Ivanovich, there is no objection.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-18-m0.u20	None.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-18-m0.u21	There's no objection. Please rephrase the motion to Decree 2347, 2367, if you'll excuse me. Again with Ohmadit.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-18-m0.u22	Instruct the Cabinet to prepare documents for the Ohmatdit Children's Hospital national status.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-18-m0.u23	I don't think there's any objection. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to celebrate. Another word for Stretovich and Lukyanov. I can't help but speak to the people's deputies - breaking the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-18-m0.u24	Vladimir Stretović, Christian-Democratic Union, faction “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense”. Arsenius Petrovich, as a lawyer, you know the expression: “Let the world perish, but let justice live.” We haven't been working for weeks, and this document is of social importance, at least I'll make it to the known population, to the many Chernobyls that are adopting parliament, which is what we're talking about. And we're already galloping, we don't know where we're going, there's been no report, there's been no discussion. Well, you can't break the Rules at least in this part. I realize that many people don't want to work, but we are a public institution, and we have to lead people to what is being done in Parliament, how we respond to the challenges of the day. Thank you. I ask you to comply with the Rules, at least with a report, if not with all the resolution, but also with the opinion of our voters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-18-m0.u25	Vladimir Lukyanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-18-m0.u26	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished fellow MPs! I am glad that Parliament has finally found the strength to unite around issues that really benefit our citizens. And I would like with this determination, when I finish work today, in May, I would not want to be in the same mood to come and work for the benefit of our citizens and the whole state and beyond. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-18-m0.u27	Sulkowski, Ribuk. I'll give it to everyone. Please, Sulkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-18-m0.u28	Dear Arsenia Petrovich, fellows of honor! You know that the Party of Regions has always advocated the interests of the Chernobyls, protected them and will consistently defend and defend them, yet create such conditions to protect the Chernobyls fully. Today, individual politicians want to use the rostrum in public once again, and to fight for their electorate, so that more supporters can bury themselves and so on. For 17 years now, this is the rostrum, from this rostrum, that's all they've ever said to these niggers! Except they didn't promise during election campaigns and so on. And that's why I want to stop the previous speakers, and I urge you to make this decision now, because it's absolutely necessary. And there will be parliamentary hearings.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-18-m0.u29	Fishbowl.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-18-m0.u30	Thank you. Rybub, Party of Regions, Zitomirsk. Dear colleagues, I would like to briefly draw your attention to the decision itself. Of course, let's say there's some kind of push forward and bring the whole society's attention to the Chernobyl disaster, and let's vote because there's a number of specific points and government orders and all that. But what I want to say is that both this determination and this assignment are formed on an old 86-year-old platform. And here we need to think about how to return and return those same finances today, not passively productive forces and productive relationships to the territories of run-off, neglected, abandoned Chernobyl, because if you take, on the one hand, how much money we give, and on the other hand, how much is lost from what's stopped. productive forces and manufacturing relationships, the Chernobyl territories get zero. Please pay attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-18-m0.u31	Stoyan. And after Stoyan, Timoshenko. And we're closing the discussion. Mikola Dmitrovich, do you want to talk?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-18-m0.u32	Dear colleagues, you've seen how consolidated all factions have now voted for social issues. So I see that the room is set up to vote on social issues. For five weeks, important issues are: subsistence minimum, minimum wage, support for families with children, and much else. Arseni Petrovich, since we've started working, let's go now, please put to the vote -- who's for today's lunch on May 1 -- the solidarity of the workers to show solidarity to the people of work, to support the people of work and to vote in favour of social issues. At least try to place it in the order of the day. And the Labour Code. Then we'll see that we're really together for the people, and we'll give everything political after May. By May, everything about the workers. Thank you. Please put my proposal to the vote -- working on social laws today before noon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-18-m0.u33	Tymoshenko. Catherinechuk. And Boiler.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-18-m0.u34	Dear comrades! Mikola Timoshenko, Communist faction. The only thing that was relevant at the parliamentary hearings was to create the only one — I emphasize! – and correct the decision of our Supreme Council, not by whom, as we created the Ministry of Emergency Situations and Coma, which is why we are solving the issue. So I'm stressing once again that we should adopt a decision that deals directly with Chernobyl's problems. Many recommend it, and in 22 years, it has been cut apart. People know these authors, who are even sitting in the hall, and they're today tending to the problems of Chernobyl. I insist on the principle of creating a single central body that deals with the problems of Chernobyl. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-18-m0.u35	Dear colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-18-m0.u36	Anatoly Ivanovich, half a second. After that, you will speak after the word. Catherinechuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-18-m0.u37	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues! The European Party of Ukraine, Mikola Catherinechuk It's very good that everyone has now demonstrated the political will to solve the problem of Chernobyl. But I would like us not to rush or vote in general right now, just because we have to see if it's a purely political act, if there's money in the budget. If there is no money, this political will is fiction. We're just doing, like others, unfortunately, and what we're not doing is political populism. Let's look at the technical economic justification for what's being proposed. And what is such a tradition that immediately after parliamentary hearings, the need for voting is very good. And on the basis of the vote. Arseny Petrovich, I demand that today our faction be asked about two tours in Kiev. I think what's happening today is not going to hold up any of the age-old walls of any city, because the invasion that was stopped, the Mongol Tatars, does not stop today the raid of officials who are robbing this city. So I demand you, Arsenija Petrovich, ask the question of two tours in Kiev for a vote if we want.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-18-m0.u38	Roman Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-18-m0.u39	Dear colleagues, the faction stands ready to support the proposal of Deputy Stoyan on one principle condition: that we will also give a gift to the oppressed workers of the city of Harkov and vote on Decree 2228.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-18-m0.u40	Valérie Konovaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-18-m0.u41	Thank you. Thank you, Arsenia Petrovich. Dear colleagues, honourable voters, I am convinced that the issue is, indeed, very important, but we are not talking, for some reason, about the fact that the majority of the points that we propose in the ruling are regulated by law and law. If we constantly determine what to speed up, to step up, to make, and to forget that an active government does not finance the vast majority of the benefits to black people, it does not fulfil the commitments set out in the budget. Why, then, do we set a precedent today when things are not being done that are already accepted and accepted by Ukraine? Why is it that there is no financing for the treatment of black people, no housing? Why are the measures that now determine the elimination of the consequences not financed? Therefore, fellow believers, let us speak only constructively and responsibly about these problems, not just them. You know, with the slogans, we're going to blur the consciousness of our choices today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-18-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, and under the auspices of the discussion by Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-18-m0.u43	Dear colleagues, we all understand that we are now going to a grave violation of the Rules, because the question of the Cabinet of Ministers law has not been completed and there has been no such precedent. But I think the question of Chernobyl, it's really worth getting together. Regardless of the political views and the 446 votes we have just seen in support of this decision, the Supreme Council understands the seriousness of the issue raised. And then I'm absolutely convinced that the case that happened this morning, that we didn't get a day's work order for today, and what they're saying today is that there's no report under the Cabinet of Ministers law, so yesterday it was defined. Mr. Matvienko, Mr. Anatoly is in the hall right now. And we kindly ask him to go to the rostrum and report on the remainder of the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers. We find it very interesting to see if.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-18-m0.u44	Dear colleagues, I repeat for the fifth time, in accordance with Rule 86 of the Rules, the rapporteur is determined by the committee's decision. Yesterday I asked for a committee decision, today I'm asking for a committee decision, there's no reporter. No one wants to report the Kabmin law. In accordance with the 44th Rules, I cannot put it to a vote, so it is not possible to conclude consideration of the 60th amendments. We read the books. Dear colleagues, I suggest you finish the discussion. I report that we held parliamentary hearings on this issue. And by the way, parliamentary hearings have revealed terrible things. Well, for example, do you know how much Chernobyl funding is spent in a year? $1 billion, 200 million. One simple, banal question arises: Where does the money go? [[B in m in s a l in]] The government program provides 17 billion dollars. Same situation. In the last 16 years, there has been no change in quality in the solution to the Chernobyl problem. But there are terrible changes, such as statistics from the Ministry of Health: 70 percent of people with thyroid cancer are directly or indirectly related to Chernobyl. These are people who were up to 14 years old at the time of the Chernobyl tragedy. And lastly, this is Parliament's first ruling with the results of hearings that are not of a recommendational nature. We decided that this was not a recommendation organization, but rather a Ukrainian Parliament, whose acts are required to be implemented. So look, there's no "recommendations" here, and there's a clear imperative language here -- "do, do," and so on. Dear colleagues, taking into account Anatoly Ivanovich Seminoga's appeal, I am voting on 2367 as a whole. Please vote. [[10:42:56]] For 437 Comrade Stoyan wants a line. Please. That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-18-m0.u45	Alexander Stoyan, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear fellow countrymen, respected citizens of Ukraine! You have now heard with which cynicism, with which disrespect for the working representatives of “Our Ukraine” said that if voted for Kharkiv, they would vote for all social issues. So I want to say the minimum wage, and the new level of pensions, and the new level of living minimum applies to the employees of Kharkiv. And if you're worried about poor unemployed and miserable Feldman, who wants power in Kharkiv, then vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] But what I'm saying is, let all Ukrainian citizens know, what was done today, Arsenij Petrovich, is your fault, you're the provocator, you provoked this issue to be brought up first, knowing that the Party of Regions and other colleagues would not vote, and you ruined the work of the Supreme Council. You have all the responsibility. If you continue to do so, you will not be supported by the coalition, and we will no longer support you. Think of what you are doing and working for Parliament, not for Feldman and others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-18-m0.u46	Feldman, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-18-m0.u47	Thank God, the Party of Regions consists of, for the most part, trained, normal people. But there are supersonic, stupid, uneducated people. I forgive them, as the entire city of Harikov forgives them, who suffered as a result of the banditry. We'll suffer a little longer, but we'll get to it anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-18-m0.u48	It's very sad, dear colleagues, that we haven't considered the social bills today. I'm very sorry that we didn't consider Kiev's election today, and I'm sorry, Kharkiv. I'll be happy to. You sit down, please. Comrade Stoyan, you're a national MP, not a provoker, right? Yeah, take your place, what you're yelling at. So you and the faction get rid of it. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, shall we consider a socialist? We won't? Let's talk about it, I suggest. Ladies and gentlemen, please stop setting these things up completely uninteresting. You do, you meet at the Supreme Council Hall, you tell one thing. You go out on people, you want to go out with a beautiful face. Let's go with the normal face now, close the plenary session, vote Chernobyl, and we'll be like normal, decent people acting. Are you going to be like this again? Some of them are Harks, some of them are some kind of devil. Honorable national deputies, in line with the decision of the factions’ leaders, not the decision of the Supreme Council’s own head. The plenary session of the Supreme Council is closed.
