ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-31-m0.u1	Good day to you all, dear fellows! Please register. [[10:07:23]] There are 441 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. In accordance with article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the honourable national deputies of Ukraine announce the opening of an extraordinary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I would like to remind everyone that according to the requirements of the Provisional Rules and the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine, the order of today's extraordinary session was published in the newspaper Voice of Ukraine. Today we have two issues of agenda: the first question is the President's decree to declare the state of an exceptional environmental situation in six areas of Ukraine and the second question is the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Ukrainian Law on State Budget and Other Legislation. It's about the fact that the honourable colleagues, that 23-27 of the current month in Ukraine had an accident, there was an extraordinary situation in Ukraine, namely, the disaster that thousands of people suffered. As a result of this catastrophe, honourable national MPs have suffered human sacrifices. So I ask for a moment of silence to remember the people who died in the disaster. [[A Minute of Silence]] Please sit down. Dear colleagues, given that the situation is extremely unusual, I would ask everyone to respond with understanding, first of all, to the state of the room, and secondly, to the adoption of the bills that are being proposed. I would like to invite the Ukrainian National Deputies to consider draft legislation, namely the Ukrainian Law on the Approval of the Ukrainian Presidential Decree on the Recognition of Individual Territories as Areas of the Emergencies of the Environmental Situation and the draft Ukrainian Law on the State Budget, by a reduced procedure. Do you support such proposals that I put them to the vote? Dear colleagues, I am putting to the vote the question of reviewing the reduced procedure of Bills 3023, 3019-1 and 3019, with alternatives. Dear colleagues, please vote. We'll figure it out. [[10:09:52]] Thank you. For 397. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I announce the first issue of the agenda: the draft Ukrainian Law approving the Ukrainian Presidential Decree on the Declaration of Certain Areas of Winnitsky, Ivano-Frankovsky, Zakarpatski, Lvivsky, Ternopil and Cherniewskie Districts in Areas of Extreme Ecological Situation. I would like to point out that an appropriate decree has been adopted by the President of Ukraine on the basis of the decision of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine. However, such a decree takes effect only after its approval by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I invite you to the emergency rostrum, to protect the population from the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, Shandra Volodymyr Mikolaiovich. Vladimir Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-31-m0.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished Arsenius Petrovich, Julius Volodymyrna! First of all, I want to thank all of you for meeting in such a short time to make very quick decisions to help those who have been affected by an extreme environmental disaster in the western regions of Ukraine. No exaggeration, hundreds of thousands of people are looking at what is happening in Parliament today. And much depends on your decision. The trouble that has come in six regions of our country today must unite all of us, no matter what ideology, what party colors. I think it will be worthy of the support of those affected by the disaster. A few words, the cause of the disaster, were a powerful cyclone that rained up to 250 percent of the monthly standard in six parts of Western Ukraine in a few days. Experts describe this flood as catastrophic. According to the observations we have had before the last 200 years of such floods, there have been no such floods. Sadly, the flood caused the loss of lives. At present, it is estimated that 30 people were killed, 23 people were drowned, 3 persons were electrocuted, and 3 persons were killed by a technical electric current, and 1 person by a landslide. There were also 767 submerged locations, 553 car bridges, 728 pedestrian bridges, and 660 km of car roads in four areas were damaged. 349 population sites have been destroyed and 349 have been demolished. In three days, the hydrometer gave a warning that stormy rains would be a storm wind. On July 2, an operational headquarters was established, and on the morning of July 25, I, as a minister, went with a group of experts to the scene where the operational headquarters was established and on Friday, July 25, the first meeting of the operational headquarters was held. The government of Ukraine created a government commission that I led, which was already created on July 25 for prevention and rescue work. In general, 8,892 persons, of the 2,087 units of technology, are involved in the work. All forces were directed to the first stage of emergency work and 5,334 persons were rescued and 29,462 persons were displaced. I would also like to thank the rescue workers of the MNS, the soldiers of the Armed Forces, the local authorities, the executive authorities, and all those volunteers who worked in the rain, under thunderstorms, under lightning. By risking their lives, they saved others’ lives. It was very difficult, but people did what they could, did what they could. Worked and slept for two hours, worked 24 hours a day, often unheated, often without food, but worked as hard as possible at all levels. Secondly, more than 4292 times have been lost by the MNF and others, by the Armed Forces and the utilities. The water from the houses. Round it up, huh? I don't think I'll call everyone. I would only like to ask you to support the President's decree on the introduction of a state of emergency in six regions, six areas of Ukraine. This will allow more speedy handling of tasks faced by local authorities, executive agencies, more speedy work, a reduction in certain procedures. I just want to point out that the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine in these areas work and work, this is not a restriction on legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-31-m0.u3	Thank you. Please sit down, Vladimir Mikolaiovich. I invite you to the rostrum of our colleague Anatoly Ivanovich Seminogu. Anatoly Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-31-m0.u4	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! As a result of the heavy stormy rains of July 23-27 this year, when two monthly rainfall rates fell, there was a catastrophic flood in Winnitsky, Ivano-Frankovsky, Zakarpatsky, Lvivsky, Ternopil and Chernivsky areas. This flood has caused extensive destruction and damage to a large number of residential buildings, utilities, transport networks, and energy and communications networks. In accordance with the decision of the National Security and Defence Council, the President of Ukraine signed decree No.682 of 28 July 2008, declaring certain territories in Winnitsky, Ivano-Frankovsky, Zakarpatsky, Lvivsky, Ternopil and Chernivian regions a zone of extreme ecological disaster. According to article 85, part one, paragraph 31, of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on a Zone of Exceptional Environmental Situation, such an order is approved by Parliament. The President of Ukraine asked the Supreme Council to approve Decree No.682 and introduced the draft Law “On the Approval of the President’s Decree on the Declaration of the Special Territories of Vinnitsky, Ivano-Frankovsky, Zakarpatski, Lviv, Ternopil and Chernivsky regions as zones of extreme ecological situation”. The proposed bill received support from the Cabinet of Ministers and a positive conclusion from the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Committee on Environmental Policy, the use of the environment at its meeting, decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to support the bill in the first reading and generally as a law. Thank you for your attention. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-31-m0.u5	Thank you, Anatoly Ivanovich. I'm asking you to sign up. Two in, two in. It's written. Dear colleagues, the only thing I'm asking is if I'm going to announce my last names, please raise the hand of that national MP who's going to be speaking in order to ensure a continuous broadcast. Recorded “for” Karpuk. Raise your hand so that the camera can see you. Ah, Viacheslav Kirilenko. From the rostrum of Viacheslav Kirilenko
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-31-m0.u6	Viacheslav Kirilenko, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense". Dear colleagues, we are obliged today to support the President’s decree, which has responded very quickly to the situation in the six areas of Ukraine. Surely we must now celebrate the work of the Ministry of Emergency Situations, which, despite the lack of a material and technical base, despite the fact that equipment needs to be upgraded and modernized, has made every effort to save people. Of course, this session should not be just a once-in-a-lifetime step, not to mention the victims, of course, here will be the main hope of how the decision of Parliament will then be implemented by the government. But now that this is such a difficult situation in six areas of the country, I would like to say that from this event, Ukraine has to draw a conclusion and learn lessons. Since we must immediately follow this calamity, we must approve of flood control programs that, unfortunately, were not approved during the course of activities, including that government, and that is to say, people were left alone before the unexpected event. And the government should propose to Parliament and the country a system of interaction between all authorities in such extraordinary situations that all bureaucracy on the ground and at the centre will know its manoeuvre, from the head of the village council to the prime minister of Ukraine. Regrettably, we have seen such a course in the face of this natural disaster everywhere and far from everywhere. So Parliament must now support the President's Order and the next issue quickly, without any policy on the subject, to approve the changes to the Ukrainian State Budget, which are channeling money towards disaster management in six Ukrainian areas. The president here has introduced a bill, he has clearly allocated the funds that go through every particular area, and people in these areas have been waiting for this money for a long time. I think if we're working quickly now without the collapse, at least in this situation, of political reckoning, without politics, the people waiting for the help of the Ukrainian Parliament will say thank you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-31-m0.u7	Thank you. Vladimir Litwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-31-m0.u8	Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to thank all of us for being together and in a business mood. I am convinced that when we come to the consideration of the Law on Change in the State Budget, we will not have a demonstration of who loves the Ukrainian people more. Because the analysis of those events and the participation of the main actors indicates that we have this trend -- who will first recover and tell us that he is with the people at this terrible time. But I would like to say that we should have a serious conversation, not about the consequences, but about the reasons why it happened. There's a story here that says we have to take some programs. I want to say that the programs have to be implemented. Example? Please. The National Comprehensive Program for the Development of Ukrainian Danube 2004-2010. The budget for this year is 400,000. Seven-and-a-half thousand. Next, a comprehensive flood protection program in the Tisa River Basin. We had to allocate a million 380s, set aside 18,000. Who is responsible for this? Next, the Integrated Program for Protecting Rural Populations from Water Harmfulness to 2010. This year, as many as 40,000 dollars were allocated. So the question is, Why do we always have natural disasters when we have one political power? You'll analyze it and you'll see. Next. I'm going to say again, dear colleagues, we need to act in accordance with the law. The law provides that we accept a decree in the form of the Law establishing the right state. And secondly, if necessary, we are making changes to the state budget. And according to the law, article 10 on the zone of environmental special conditions should be introduced by the President of Ukraine, to whom the government should make appropriate proposals. That is why we do not need to draft two bills on the first reading today. We need to adopt one bill, which is clearly envisaged now, today to allocate money to people, by the way, 4 billion with just as the government says, not as it does in the bill. Money should be placed directly in the form of subsidies. To create a parliamentary commission to ensure that these funds are not stolen by election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-31-m0.u9	Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-31-m0.u10	Dear colleagues, our constituents! The Communist faction expresses deep sympathy for the families of the dead and the victims, not only of the natural disaster but also of the man - made disaster in Ukraine. Therefore, the Communist faction will support the proposals and vote in favour of this decree and vote in order to make urgent arrangements for order. But the faction today offers to consider the matter urgently and to express its mistrust to the minister in extraordinary situations. Weather services have warned in advance that a disaster is coming and we see how they are today harassing Ukraine, one amphibious show that no one has done anything, no technology is prepared, no man is unprepared. So let's say the towns aren't broken down, the ones we need to say, didn't determine where the bread would be baked, how the drugs would be supplied, how the technique, the helicopters should be provided, nothing was done. One amphibious point has been made to Ukraine and laughs all over the world. Today, as a result of the incompetence of the minister and the ministry today, Romania and Ukraine are accusing Ukraine of not being warned or premeditated to eliminate these consequences. Next. I'd like us to take a closer look at what the State Reserve is doing today. Today he advertises the “bush’s scissors”, the chicken thighs, telling how much to eat rather than tell how much brick he has, how much sand he has, how much glass he has, how much wood he has, how much wood he has, how much wood he needs to use to help these regions, the hospital to rebuild, the schools which on September 1st should, so to speak, act as how much technology is being carried in order to. I could've worked. Third problem. We need to look closely at what we have the heads of the government that the President is running today. It's like he's giving orders, and, look, it was hard to understand that there was a disaster, so let's say it was hard to get the same bulldozers out of the area, to figure out how many bags he had, what military parts in the area were there, how to rehabilitate them to work, and how to make the wreck. I'm telling you, "ours" how to work, and you scream at what you're hiding people, please scream for it. So, Your Honor, I'd like to remind you that the disaster is manual, who cut down the woods in the Carpathians? Let's be responsible for that. Who did this, and who destroyed it? So you get rid of it, you run it yourself, your representatives head the government, do it. I'm saying that we have to deal with these issues today, because if the heads of government don't have enough intelligence to figure out in which state of the dam, how to flush water in order to avoid such consequences, it just shows that we don't have a minister or heads of government at all know what they need to do. And there's one more thing I'd like to do. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a question that we should also consider from the point of view of the organization. And if we have a water pool today is practically uncontrollable, and it's carrying such a disaster, then today we should also create a water ministry and so people should be constantly engaged today, not as today the Ministry of Emergency Situations has thrown away Ukraine and destroyed, let's say, many of the resources we have today. Thus, the Communist faction expresses mistrust, first of all, to the minister of emergency situations, and urges the government to consider his responsibility and immediately release him from office. It's different. To deal with the responsibilities of the heads of the district and district governments, why were no measures taken in line with the warnings of the Weather Service? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-31-m0.u11	Thank you. Alexander Sergiyovich, who is speaking from the faction of the Party of the Regions? Lavrinovich? Please. It's just that it's been a while since we've met colleagues, so there's a desire to talk more.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-31-m0.u12	Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! Today, we were met by a disaster that accompanied a natural disaster in Ukraine. And today in the session room, I think we can show how unanimous Ukrainian parliamentarians can be in those steps that we need to do in extreme situations when we need to do something to save people and save their homes, their agricultural conditions, and eliminate the consequences of that disaster of infrastructure that is in Ukraine today. The Party of the Regions will support an unreserved bill approving the Ukrainian President's decree to declare a large number of Ukrainian regions in the western part of Ukraine as a zone of extreme environmental disaster. This is one of the, unfortunately, few cases where we see very clearly, exactly in accordance with all the constitutional and Ukrainian laws of the head of state. And we should unanimously support such actions. We must do our utmost to eliminate the consequences of this phenomenon as soon as possible, and so that Ukrainian citizens who have suffered as a result can receive the due attention of the State, both in personal compensation and in restoring opportunities to live in their homes. In addition, of course, it should be noted that the fact that even on the human mountain, we have a desire to compete and prove who is most effective is a bit of caution. And when we look at the proposals that are the second part of today's issue of order, we also should not close our eyes on this and realize that if we need to find reconciliation, all the subjects of the legislative initiative, and the national deputies, and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and the President should be involved today in having one agreed position. And not to do pyar tourism in environmental disaster zones, and not to interfere with working there for those who need to do their jobs professionally and can do their jobs today, saving people and.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-31-m0.u13	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-31-m0.u14	As we resolve the problematic issues that lie ahead of us in the day - to - day order, we need to understand that today all branches of government will depend on the result of the agreed action. And as for the monitoring situation, the Ukrainian authorities' actions are part of the warning of the consequences that we have today. As for the evaluation of the actions of both managers and government officials and managers of energy enterprises, I think there's going to have to be a principle of evaluation where these steps are not qualified or professional. Similarly, it is necessary to include clearly a mechanism to protect against looting, which is always present in the face of great distress, so that there is no looting, both at the local level and at the state level. We are proposing a series of steps today to complement those projects that have been put into the session hall so that today's parliamentary decisions are as effective as possible. We support the draft Law approving the President's decree on zones of extreme environmental situation in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-31-m0.u15	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Mikola Tomenko, please. Last performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-31-m0.u16	My fellow Members, I would like to pay tribute to all the factions of our Parliament that we are gathered today, because the last few days have heard various political statements about the relevance or impeccability of such a meeting. I think that the initiative of the government and our faction, which is now supported by all political forces, says that there should be no politicization or partying. To be honest, I was surprised to hear one of the leaders of the political parties talking about the need to partisanize the disaster. As a scientist who wrote about the previous political period, I know that such decrees were adopted five times in the time of Leonid Kuchma. And I think the heads of the previous president's administration should remember that. I even know that during the flood in Zakarpat, more than a hundred percent voted in the Kuchma referendum. But I think it's not the day or the place where we should be looking for parties that are responsible for the disaster. Our political power insists that we should work today in such a way that MPs leave the session room only after a bill on budget changes has been passed, and where we will know clearly the financial capabilities, tools, mechanisms and responsibilities that lie ahead of the entire system of power, starting with the Cabinet of Ministers, ending the system of local self-government after the consequences of this disaster have been eliminated. The second thesis, which is extremely important. The entire decree penetrates, as it were, the President's key opinion that the Cabinet of Ministers should provide, execute and do. I think when we get to the budget problem, we have to transfer this ideology to the budget bill, and we need to know that there's only one structure that's responsible for what's going on, it's the Cabinet of Ministers, because my stay in Western Ukraine and Zakarpat, it's saying that the local authorities are doing too much self-reliance, and there has to be a single system of responsibility, a single system of financing, a single system of charity accounts and the only responsibility for it all. Only in this way can we cope with such calamity. Our political power will vote in favour of this bill, and we ask our fellow national deputies to support our faction's initiative and to list the weekly earnings of the national deputies for the elimination of the disaster in six areas of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-31-m0.u17	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the time for discussion of the bill is over. Honourable Ukrainian national MPs, it seems that there is a very clear and consolidated position in the Ukrainian Parliament -- a position not of politics, but a position today to defend the interests of the Ukrainians and, in fact, to overcome the consequences of this terrible catastrophe. In view of this, I would suggest the following approach. According to article 184, 185 of the Provisional Rules, the bill is adopted in the first reading and in general. Thus, there is no need to spread questions on anyone without discussion. The other one. Ladies and gentlemen, I am submitting to your consideration a proposal for a protocol decision by the Ukrainian Parliament, according to which the Supreme Council of Ukraine should once a quarter receive information from the Cabinet of Ministers on the actual consequences of the disaster. Why am I suggesting this? Because we always do this: when a disaster occurs, the moon is spoken, and then, unfortunately, it's often forgotten. In order for us to have a situation in which the consequences of this disaster are eliminated, I would suggest a protocol decision by the Ukrainian Parliament to listen once a quarter of the relevant information provided by the government with an objective picture, how the disaster has overcome, what decisions still need to be taken by the Ukrainian Parliament, what assistance needs to be given to the government, and what assistance needs to be given to specific people. In view of this, honourable colleagues, with such a protocol decision, I put to the vote Bill No. 3023: Ukraine's Law on the Approval of the President of Ukraine's Order on the Declaration of Certain Areas: Vinnitsky, Ivano-Frankovsky, Zakarpatski, Lvivsky, Ternopil and Chernivitek oblasts – Areas of the Emergency of the Ecological Situation – on the basis and in general. Attention, fellow officers! With such a protocol, please vote. [[10:37:39]] For 439 Decision taken. In accordance with article 185 of the Provisional Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I am announcing the adoption by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Ukrainian Law on the approval of the President's decree on the declaration of specific territories: Vinnitsky, Ivano-Frankovsky, Zakarpatski, Lviv, Ternopil and Cherniewsky, zones of exceptional ecological situation. I would like to submit a draft law for signature to the President of Ukraine immediately, please. My fellow Members, I propose to move on to the next issue of the agenda: this is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for 2008 and amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. We have another alternative, this is our colleague Paklusenko. I don't think there'll be any objection when we give him the third word after the keynote speakers. Or in the course of the conversation, Alexander Vitaliyovich, when you report your bill, I will then invite my colleague Pecklesenka to make my proposals. I invite you to report on the Presidential Bill of the First Deputy Head of the Secretary of the Ukraine Slapak Alexander Vitaliyovich. I'm reporting. Dear colleagues, in accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, in the event that the President of Ukraine has designated the bill as a first priority, he shall be considered at any stage of legislative action as a priority, first, regardless of any other issue of the agenda. Read the decision of the Constitutional Court. Alexander Vitaliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-31-m0.u18	Dear Arsené Petrovich, distinguished national deputies, present, beyond any doubt, today awaits all Ukraine, hundreds of thousands of people, not only in the western areas of Ukraine, but throughout Ukraine, the decision of a wise, balanced and effective, with people not just waiting, working. And I'd like to print, for example, the district councils, the Donetsk administrations, the Dnipropetrovsk administrations, which have started recalculating large sums of money in the affected territories. However, these funds, which the government’s contingency fund, which have been earmarked very quickly and on time, will not be sufficient to deal with the consequences of this disaster. So the President is making proposals: to change what parameters of the law on the state budget of Ukraine. In preparing this bill, the President made only three ideas, the first idea of how many of these costs. The number of funds recorded in the Presidential Bill is 4 billion 90 million dollars. They are taken from calculations and acts submitted by district government administrations that are consistent with two key ministries – the Ministry of Emergency Situations and the Ministry of Regional Policy. This amount is almost 1.5 billion different from what the government is offering. Yesterday, however, the budget committee found out, for example, that in the region of Ivano-Frankiv, the government is offering a figure of 480 million. This figure is not even taken from an official letter from the district administration, but from an electronic document sent to the government on Saturday by the head of the local emergency department. On Monday there are much more recent documents. That confirms a much higher amount of money required to eliminate the consequences of the disaster in the region of Ivano-Frankiv, namely, a billion 708 million dollars, confirmed, once again, by the district administration and two ministries. So we're proposing to take the latest, most recent data that came from the territories. The second principle proposed by the President is the reality of the sources of income that we have to fund these expenses. Let me remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that on July 1st of this year, we have over 8 billion dollars in over-budgeting, and when we made changes to the government budget, this figure was called about 30 billion dollars in the budget and about 22 billion dollars in the state budget. We have a specific resource that is now at the disposal of the state, and then also at the disposal of the Supreme Council. So there's a supply of this resource, because it is, because it's the fastest it can be brought to the territories, and it can be directed to our victims. Of course, the President supports the initiatives that the Government is taking today with regard to changes in certain excise rates and so forth, but we think that when we go back to the general budget discussions, then we're going to look at these issues in terms of the costs that will be financed at the expense of such additional possible ones, and I want to stress that, revenue. And it is not worth tying the financing of human misery to new ones today, once again I would like to emphasize only possible incomes. And thirdly, the President himself is the initiator of the most rapid and broader changes to the 2008 budget. However, if we get involved now in the discussion on another budget article that really needs such changes, we're afraid to talk about the main issue that we're talking about today -- the allocation of funds directly to the people who have suffered. And so he's proposing to limit the bill to just the articles that apply to the disaster zone today. All other questions should be considered in terms of both income and expenditure, in addition, when you meet for the next session. Regarding yesterday’s meeting of the Committee on Budgets, the distinguished Arseni Petrovich and the distinguished national deputies, the chairman of the committee announced a recess in which he invited everyone to seek a compromise solution. Such a compromise was sought by those who remained in the hall, then sought out the territories that were present, the first deputy heads of administration to be responsible for eliminating the disaster on the ground today, representatives of other factions. There are proposals made by the factions of the Party of the Regions and submitted them to a bill that. the author of which was the national deputy of Pecklusenko, and such proposals were made by representatives of the Lithuanian bloc. We have all considered them carefully, and we believe that a coherent, consolidated project can be presented. For the protocol, Arsenija Petrovich, I want to now name those proposals that are proposed to be taken into account by considering such a coherent project. First of all, the People's Deputy Pecklesenko is proposing not 200 million dollars but 500 million dollars to send to the Reserve Fund to increase the government's ability to maneuver in the elimination of other natural disasters that the Lord may not bring about. We did not object. It is proposed to create a special committee of MPs that can control the purposeful use of these funds and the efficiency of using them. I think it's the right offer, and it's being perceived. The Lithuanian MPs pointed out that the demand for regions for more than three billion amounts relates not only to objects of municipal property, but also to objects of state-owned property. After that, we carefully analyzed each object’s resources needed to eliminate the disaster on these objects and divided the amount into three billion 90 by two. The left side is more than two billion dollars -- the funds that should be, in our position, directly channelled as a target grant in the region, and more than a billion dollars should be channelled to the Reserve Fund for the further direction of ministries and departments whose facilities have also been affected in these areas. The adoption of this, in our opinion, agreed, I would like to stress this, a bill that would be supported by both the President and individual factions, supported by the factions of our Ukraine, the Party of Regions, the Lithuanian Block, I hope that other factions in this room will support it, could be the bill that people are waiting for today. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-31-m0.u19	Thank you, Alexander Vitaliovich. The Law on the Announcement of an Emerging Environmental Situation has been signed. Valentina Alexandrovich, please send him to the President of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, the next bill introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is announced. Julia Volodymyrna will report. Prime Minister of Ukraine Timoshenko Julia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-31-m0.u20	Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to express my gratitude to all the factions, all the deputies who have arrived today for the next meeting of the Supreme Council and that today, in the first vote, it is obvious that the Ukrainian politician has the will to unite around important issues for Ukraine. I would also like to give you information that the Ministry of Ecology and Environment, along with the “Ukrhydroenergo”, has raised all the archives in relation to similar natural disasters in Ukraine and all the data available today in the administration of the Ukrainian government, which we have about 200 years ago -- there was no such thing in Ukraine. If it is said that the 69th and 41st years had similar natural disasters, the archives show that there has never been such a scale in Ukraine. In fact, we have suffered in areas like these, six regions, extraordinary damage: both people, and the state, and infrastructure. Today, 721 submerged areas, submerged dwellings, and dwellings are submerged under the roof and virtually no longer have 40 thousand,601 buildings. It is almost 41,000 families who have lost their roof over their heads. Agricultural arrangements. A beautiful crop stood in these regions. 35,000 hectares of agricultural land are not to be further processed. Practically all grains have been laid, the grain is growing today and its quality, and it is practically unfit for harvesting. In addition, 28 watersheds have been flooded, especially since we have more than 200 settlements virtually left on the islands because all pedestrian and road crossings have been destroyed. And throughout the country, 386 highways and 569 pedestrians were destroyed in these six regions. You can just see that almost a thousand bridge crossings have disappeared, which means all communications have been broken. And today food, water, medicines, essentials are practically delivered on helicopters or floats. In addition, even ships carry everything that is needed for these locations by hand. I can also say that nearly 18,000 people were evacuated during this time. I want to tell you that work has been done tremendously. And first of all, I would like to express my gratitude to those Ukrainian citizens who, in such a terrible state of natural disaster, helped their fellowman, saved all who could be saved. And what I'm saying is that a few people died in the rescue of others. I think that the spirit of mutual assistance that was involved in this natural disaster tells us how highly spiritual our people are and how highly spiritual people are. Besides, I know the amount of work I've been doing, because I've been in a disaster zone from day one, knowing the amount of work, and I want to thank the Ministry of Emergency Situations, and the local district, district, and local authorities. Why? Because humans did not sleep five days in a row, and they did what was necessary and possible to do with the amount of technology that they had left behind, with the amount of opportunities they had left behind. I can tell you that it's absolutely right, it's destroyed all the practical possibility of saving because technology was sold years ago. Everything needs to be restored today. I would also like to say that as of today, 57 bridge crossings have been restored, even in these days, 58 km of roads have been restored and 12,000 houses have been drained of water, using all the pumping measures. But at the same time, all the government decrees that we have adopted, and what have we done today? The first line of money has been allocated to people, depending on how the property was affected by five thousand dollars — the first level of the category of victims, the advance. The second category is where there is a capital need to build, repair a dwelling, that is two and a half thousand advances and where the property is damaged, the family is given a thousand dollars in advance, until the real cost of the damage is determined and the number of people lost is known. A decision has been made that compensation for lost property, including the loss of all agricultural opportunities, will be in full measure. In addition, we have made a number of decisions that have been made by the Cabinet of Ministers reserve fund to renovate budget institutions, schools, hospitals, clubs, other institutions and, in addition, a billion two hundred million dollars have already been allocated to rebuild highways, dams, bridge crossings and, in fact, to clean up the bays after the steep mountains have endured all that was on their way. In fact, to this day a billion two hundred are the money that is already being used and that we could restore some of the roads and bridges. That's the money that Kravtodor sent to the government. In addition, it is now decided that all works are performed without tenders are renewable, but after that control of the Audit Authority introduced very easy methods of testing and assessing the property of the affected families and in fact simplified all procedures that we could only simplify. But the main thing is that there is not enough financial resources to do what is necessary within the existing budget for recovery. And that is why the government, after examining the situation, has come out with a draft of changes and budget additions, as provided for in the Ukrainian Law on Extreme Environmental Disasters and Exceptional Environmental Situation, article 10 of this law stipulates that the government is drafting a bill, sending it to the President, and the President is sending it to the Supreme Council as an urgent one. We have passed these procedures and, to date, a bill of government has been considered on the budget committee and a bill of government has been supported. I would also like to point out what kind of money is being spent today to deal with the natural disaster within the budget that is being proposed. I want to make your point that the amount of damage you're going to have to cover goes up to 4 billion dollars. This is not to say that in the process of finding out that there is no more money, because mountain roads, which damage and bridges, need special building technologies, are virtually nowhere else to go and go. That is why the government has today proposed to build direct expenditure from the budget at the level of 3 billion 645 million. Well, I would say that virtually the presidential and government spending are the same, because the government today is offering direct expenditures to a billion billion dollars from the “Stoodor” that are already being allocated and plus an additional 2.2 billion direct money. In fact, it is a matter of 3 billion 645 million and plus the bill proposed by the government of 24.3 billion that the government has the right to grant sovereign sovereign guarantees for the acquisition of credits for the construction of roads, bridges, dams and all that is needed, including preparation for the euro, including transit networks, which is a major additional resource that can be managed in the process of determining the consequences of a natural disaster. In fact, if you say what kind of resource is available for this and other car and bridge crossings, that's 27 billion 945 million in total, I want you to pay attention to that. And if more than 4 billion are needed, the budget has a mechanism for compensation and financing for all of the damage. That's why, I can say that the government bill, it also provides for the preservation of the balance sheet of previous changes in the budget. Because we are now proposing to accept, at the same time as changes in the budget, the introduction of additional increases in excise duties on tobacco. Because Ukraine has the smallest tobacco excises in the world, and at least 3-4 times compared to other countries. And that's why we'd like to keep the balance of those changes in the budget that have been made by both the government and the President, where there's extra money and agrarians and teachers and doctors and everything else, I'm not going to count, actually, and including on socio-economic subsidies to the regions. The budget proposed by the government takes into account the balances of the previous changes that we have voted with you for re-reading and does not undermine the interests of any sphere, no direction, and no consumer of budget resources. In addition, the government document correctly builds the arrangers to simplify procedures. Because when a natural disaster, the budget manager can only be the Ministry of Finance through the Cabinet of Ministers reserve fund, because it does not provide for additional procedures that need to be carried out at the level of shells, miscreants, and raids. Because when money is allocated directly to areas, it is a change to the budget. And we need to gather for all levels, take changes, reconcile, and so forth. With regard to the Cabinet of Ministers reserve fund, we can quickly manage the expenses and direct the funds directly needed. In fact, I am convinced that today the Supreme Council will find a consolidation of all political forces to accept changes and additions to the budget that take into account all the proposals and fractions that have come, both to the government and to the President. And I think it's today that we're able to show the unity of politics, not criticism and disunity. Thank you all for working together.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-31-m0.u21	Thank you, Julia Volodymyr. Alexander Paklusenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-31-m0.u22	Dear colleagues, distinguished radio audiences! First, allow the faction, on behalf of the faction, to express its condolences and condolences to all the victims, each person, each family. Since the first minute of this tribulation, the faction has gathered for an emergency meeting and a number of comprehensive measures have been taken, including the draft law that I am sounding today. What were we guided by? Tasks. First. Stop the element. Second. Restore the vitality of the objects. The third most important thing is to compensate for the loss to every family and every person who has fallen into a disaster zone. In this regard, we immediately set ourselves a challenge, what should be the amounts? We believed that the Government was obliged to calculate all the amounts needed to restore the viability of public property. Regrettably, the Government has neither counted nor submitted objects nor amounts to the budget committee. Second. We believe that the territories today should have given the amounts they consider necessary to bring law into this body. The territories have all counted and paid the sums. And we took them into our own account. What is the difference between our three laws? First. The Government's law takes all the money to Kiev. We say, however, that the Government needs resources only for those facilities that are within their jurisdiction. All the rest: 3.3 billion, as the Territory has been estimated, please be in the territory instead of lining up under your offices so that people, instead of dealing with the issues on the ground, will flock to your host offices. That's the main thing. And the third question is very important: verification. My draft regulation has a question of control. With the first minute, every penny must be controlled by Parliament. And then we'll be sure that this money will come by appointment. And the last thing I want to say. Julia Vladimirovna, you may not have been given the draft law that you are introducing: the draft law does not contain a billion two hundred, which you are talking about, is 750 million dollars. The draft Law does not contain 3.6, there are four hundred and eighty. What are we talking about, your words or your document? If you've changed and gone to our proposals, then tell me. So I could only say one thing: you're offering the sources of vodka, tobacco, higher stakes on top, you can't vote for that. But the biggest problem of this proposal, that there is no money, is that they are going to be gathering. We're saying that you have a real overperformance today of 12 billion. Please, with this 12 billion. tomorrow must come to Territory 3.3 billion. That is why I know exactly that today there will be no law, either governmental or presidential or mine, but the law will be passed jointly, collectively, it will be adopted today, and the money will be received tomorrow.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-31-m0.u23	Thank you. Alexander Mikolayovich, I'm sorry. If you don't mind, I'll ask you a question. So you're your bill, I take it, in response to what you're proposing in the president's, did I get it right or didn't I?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-31-m0.u24	Not in the president's, but in the agreed one.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-31-m0.u25	Agreed. Okay. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to sign up. Two "for", two "against". Like the situation, colleagues, unorthodox, even the one who signed up with the minus, I'm just going to give my word, and you're going to express your position. Formally, I have the right to give my word to all five regular factions. So let's do that if there's no objection. Tushenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-31-m0.u26	It's already written.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-31-m0.u27	Now it's going to be minus. Colleagues, I propose. Now I'll give everyone a word. Please, Oleg Lazko, and then the faction leaders will determine who will speak from you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-31-m0.u28	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! As a member of the Committee on Budgets, I would like to focus on the differences that are between the bills that are being discussed in the room today. But first of all, I'd like to say that there was an eight-hour budget committee meeting yesterday. It ended about 11 o'clock. And as a result of the lengthy discussions, the budget committee decided to support the Government's bill of amendments to the budget. And it's a shame that we have a few bills in the room today, instead of having one, and it would be a decision on it. Now it's about the differences between the bill passed by the Cabinet of Ministers and the Presidential Bill. The first is the amount of aid to eliminate the consequences of the disaster. As stated by the Prime Minister, the government bill generally provides for 27 billion dollars, and the Presidential Bill is 4 billion. Feel the difference, as they say. The second contradiction between the two bills is the source of the coming. The president is proposing that the budget be revised to pay the cost of eliminating the consequences of the disaster, the Cabinet of Ministers, from the increase in excise duties. What difference does it make? That 8 billion they're talking about is already written in a bill that we've discussed with you. These 8 billion are paid to budgeters, to intervention in an agro-industry complex, not to depurate for the purchase of prices in peasants; to support miners, to increase pensions for pensioners, to pay for the savings. That's why the government is offering to raise excises on tobacco, on vodka, that is, take money from those who make billions, sell people cigarettes and vodka, and put it in their pocket. That is, to eliminate the consequences of the disaster, not at the expense of wages, not at the expense of social benefits, not at the expense of the citizens of Ukraine, but at the expense of those who could share their earnings and give some of them to the budget. That's the difference in coming. The third principle of difference is how money is used. Alexander Mikolaiovich Pecklusenko here broke up that, you see, the government bill is forcing everyone to go to Kiev, and let's give the money to the region. I want to give you information about the subsidy, the use of subsidies for socio-economic development for this year is a billion and 180. As of today, 614 million have been listed in the region, of which 195 million have been used, the President. So less than 20 percent of the money is used. The president suggests that the Presidential Bill proposes that more than 3 billion should be corrected, that it should be made the local budget manager. So they're going to use them as they use subsidies for socio-economic development. Today, when tens, hundreds of thousands of people need immediate, immediate assistance, the only way to resolve these issues is through a government reserve fund that allows the government to gather and make decisions at any time. If we go through subsidies, by making decisions at district sessions and then district councils, you can imagine that by the new year they'll be dividing these subsidies. And lastly, we think it's no time to pull the blanket, as some political officials here have tried to blame someone. I think that first we need to do everything we can to eliminate the consequences of the disaster, and then we need to draw conclusions as to how to avoid these calamities in the future. Therefore, the proposal for the Yulia Block Timoshenko: in the first reading, support the government bill before the second reading to take all proposals from other factions into account, including the decision to raise salaries for budgeters, to increase pensions for pensioners, on the subject. Yes, but it is necessary to make these decisions, these are other decisions, but they need to be made now, when changes are made to the law. And go out with a consolidated bill for second reading and today accept it. People are waiting for us to make decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-31-m0.u29	The faction of the Party of the Regions, Hanna Mikolayevna Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-31-m0.u30	Dear colleagues, to be honest, I thought that we would come to this room today and see a document that was harmonized, discussed, aimed at helping people immediately. To be honest, I thought that even though we would not hear here today in the hall about which President is good or who is good or who is kinder. They're one authority, and they were supposed to be sitting in one office yesterday or the next, saying, "Julia Volodymyrna, here's your offer, here's mine, let's take the best of them, we'll put in a bill and we'll agree, either you bring it in, or I'll bring it in." What do we have today? We have a demonstration of how the President loves the people and a demonstration of how the Prime Minister loves the people. And it will come out like Frank: “You love, brother, move like bread and a piece of fat.” Therefore, it would be best for us to take a break, sit at the table, get the best things out of our bill, the bill of the President, the Prime Minister, to submit a bill. It doesn't matter whose name it is -- whether it's presidential or whether it's premier, whether it's voting together and not making fun of people. If that were possible, I'd ask you to do it. If not, let's unite around any bill. We do. The Presidential Bill has already taken into account the proposals made by the Party of Regions. And that would look like a harmonized bill. I would suggest, if I were to vote in the first reading, that BUTT should make its best proposals, accept all of this together, and end it today. That's the first one. Second, there was the figure that people were given a thousand dollars in advance, and so on. I don't know which of the people who talked about it here, the last time he was in the store, and he knows what he can buy for a thousand bucks. I'm offering you, dear colleagues, that without waiting for excises on tobacco, money collection and so on, tomorrow immediately of the money that we have, we will list every person who has suffered at least 10,000 dollars, because for 10,000 there is something we can do. It is our duty to give this money to the council district immediately, where people know where it is. From Kiev, you know, you don't really see the situation in every area. Dmitry Pavlitchko once said that it was better to see Ukraine from the Doña terricone than from the Levia High Castle. From the terricone and from the High Castle you can see better places than we do from the Mount of Vladimir. So we have to give that money right away in the regions. They'll gather, don't worry. So we're going to get together, and they're going to get together quickly, and they're going to figure out what they're going to do. Keep going. Third. Arsenya Petrovich, I am addressing you personally, because when I turned to your management yesterday, I wanted those seats in the MP's sanatoriums that the MPs didn't use to give to the children from the flooded regions. They told me it wasn't legal. Why do we not legally have what we have to give to people, but what we have to eat is legal? The MPs don't use it anyway. Let's make a decision now, and those sanatoriums, and the Cabinet, and the MPs, let's give it up for those suffering children. As their mothers and parents repair the house, let the children get some health and rest. I think you'll all support me in that. And I pray you, I pray you, let them not share the affliction, share the joy. And we're in trouble today, and in front of her, we all have to be the only ones. We support either the president or the prime minister or our bill, anyone but one, by making the best of the three bills there is. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-31-m0.u31	It's a block of Lithuania. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, will you? Oh, no? Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-31-m0.u32	Dear colleagues, at all times and in all respects, were united. It was also in our history. Sadly, as we consider the day’s order, the proposals from the president, and the government today, we see that we have a disunity. We're seeing tight fists again today. And at the same time, we need to understand that the compressed fist is always empty. And you know why there's such a hell of a fight for one bill and another? Because they're not thinking about people, they're thinking about who's going to split the money. And that's the main thing and that's the defining thing. Therefore, we must support that bill, which provides for direct and direct funding tomorrow, to start counting people and areas that have been affected. The other one. I think, dear colleagues, when we consider making changes to the budget, then we'll talk about where to look for additional funds, including in terms of increasing excise duties, which is what money is needed today. In addition, respectable colleagues are saddened to learn that this problem, which is still unknown, will have limits, but a number of areas are not included. So I'd like to take into account the problems and needs of the Plain area, where the cost of the lost crop on exclusion of insurance is 50.4 million dollars, the direct cost of the lost crop area is 23 million 100,000 dollars. In addition, buildings in the social sphere, farm buildings, and individual dwellings have suffered a loss of 5.8 million dollars. We may also need to consider these needs so that we do not meet again if the boundaries of this natural disaster are increased. And one more thing, dear colleagues, is that we don't have a system of work, that when we have a problem or another, we demonstrate heroic efforts and try to solve this problem. Perhaps it was necessary to consider and make a decision in law regarding the early demobilization of children whose homes and parents had suffered to help them. Perhaps we needed to think and make decisions about the formation of student teams to help us work in peace to eliminate the consequences of this disaster. Unfortunately, the race is going to be over, and the money is going to go through. And I'm afraid when we make a decision today and the relevant legislation is signed, they'll forget about this problem tomorrow because they forgot about Dnipropetrovsk. Please tell me, after the accident on the house, is all the problems solved? No, it's not. Other natural disasters have been forgotten because we live by political companies. Let's at least demonstrate today and not talk about the reason for the conversation, or we'll support that bill. Let's take one bill, consider the proposals and support it. At this point, I have to say on behalf of our faction, the President is offering more money and he's suggesting that we address it through the district administrations. So let's not hide behind this political rhetoric, take this document, take it into account, and vote in the first reading and in general, because by making amendments to the vote, we will then emphasize that no one will ever be able to cheat at the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-31-m0.u33	Peter Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-31-m0.u34	Dear colleagues, I would like to inform you that the faction of communists, understanding how complex the issues that require a concrete solution today, will be voted in favour of the projects that are being put in place, and we naturally express our views, which are not only a surprise, but also an outrage. However, at the end of the second session, we faced exactly the same situation when the two bills were about budget changes -- both the Presidential and the Government. It's happening again in two weeks. Today's woe would seem to unite, and in this case it shows that the orange command led by Yushchenko is unable to bear responsibility for the situation of the country and to make concrete proposals that will: first, immediately ensure the financing of the necessary measures; secondly, they will be targeted; thirdly, under the strongest control and, of course, they will have to do all these tasks expeditiously. Regrettably, the President of Goverlusalis, we say, from where he sees only small Ukrainians or legs wet, and the leaders don't want to run the country to organize all the services. Secondly, it seems to us today that it is not only the buildings and bridges that need to be talked about but also the tragedy. We need to understand that we need to finance immediately, because it is inevitable that there will be no financing for the epidemic, which will sweep over Ukraine now, not just those areas. And in that, let's say, the threat is real, we're facing it. Next. I would like to reiterate today's political assessment that the Supreme Council has just been held hostage by the President's discussions with the Cabinet of Ministers. This once again shows that these people have no responsibility at all and no morals are discussed there. Next. I would very much like to ask respectable comrades, as we begin to speculate today, please let us all return the pioneer camps, the tuberculosis sanatoriums, what you have taken away and let us bear the responsibility, let us say, in front of our children. And the last. Once again, I look to the representatives of the big business, and the Communist faction gives us the impression that these issues are being prepared and they are being addressed by who is the war and who is the mother of the mother. Who has grief today, and who has it in his pocket? The heads of administration have gone crazy. Give them the money, give me the emergency minister, I'll manage. If you can't arrange it, you can't trust that amount because they'll only deal with the screws and the retards again. I would therefore like to emphasize once again that the faction categorically condemns the actions that, and again, the inactivity that is being done. We will surely vote in favour of the funds, but once again we warn the citizens of our Ukraine, we must establish the fiercest people's control over every working copier, otherwise these transactions will necessarily be placed on their pockets in the face of the plight of the Ukrainian people.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-31-m0.u35	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “Our Ukraine – the People of Self-Defense” and the latest performance by Mikola Ivanovich Derkac, head of the budget committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-31-m0.u36	Viacheslav Kirilenko, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear colleagues, I'm with your permission in fact. We're not going to contradict the Presidential and Governmental Bills. Moreover, we welcome the fact that the opposition has tabled its bill because it highlights the opposition's desire to think about the country despite its opposition. At the same time, we will vote in favour of a bill that is more effective in coping with natural disasters. If you look without prejudice, without political hysteria, without the history of past political relations, the Presidential Bill is better and more effective. First of all, the Presidential Bill just makes more money, and the money is needed by people and emensaries and builders who work in the disaster zone. The government bill foresees 2 billion 300, the presidential bill 4 billion 200, the difference is obvious. Ask any resident of the French, the Bukovina, the Carpathian, which he prefers, he will say he prefers when the state gives more money now. So the motive here is obvious. Next. The distribution of money. In two weeks this situation will fall, the great water will go, the first aid will go, the emotions around the disaster will subside, and the planned work of power will begin, and that will begin to be interesting. And I, as a former government official and a member of two governments, can tell you that if I give a billion and a half plus to the reserve fund, all these heads of district administrations, together with the mayors and heads of villages and villages, will largely go to the Cabinet of Ministers. And it's not the question that there are democratic ministers, there are in many cases under those ministers who are sitting under everyone and they're going to torture that head of administration and the head of the force until he goes back into the village and says, "Nothing I can beat out of those billions." Therefore, the President and “Our Ukraine” propose a specific allocation of money by region. For this is a special addition to the Presidential Bill, each area already knows how much it will receive in the case of our support of the bill: the Winnitsk Region – 54 million 660, the Zakarpatsk Region – 135 million 615, the Ivano-Frankiv Region – a billion 357 million 745, the Lviv Region – 303 million 500, the Ternopil region – 101 million 450, the Cherniv region – a billion 137. Total: 3 billion 90 million specific money that will not go to the government and will not go after it, but will go to the people in the area. This is a fundamental question for us because we are going to split up, and this problem will remain, and it will only get worse if we transfer all the money to the contingency fund. And the last one on the revenue side. I want all the people in Ukraine to understand us correctly, we are for raising the rates of the excise congregation, especially when it comes to harmful things such as tobacco and alcohol. But this should be done when we adopt the 2009 budget. And now we're proposing to take into account the increase in total VAT revenue, by customs, in other general incomes, and there are redefinitions on which the government has reported on a number of occasions. And now this money is going to be allocated to coping with a natural disaster, and there is no debate about excise duties. Because now all these lobbying is activated, and because they're going to protect their interests, we're going to lose a week. So there is money in the budget already, please, 4 billion 200 million people in six areas to cope with natural disasters. And we vote for it in the first reading and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-31-m0.u37	Mikola Ivanovich Derkach, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-31-m0.u38	Dear Arsenia Petrovich, distinguished national deputies, members of the government! First of all, I am deeply saddened by the loss of human life by the elements that claimed tens of thousands of lives. Our own people, our nation, our own politicians, have been put to the test. This time the disaster struck nature and, as always, it highlighted a series of acute economic, environmental, social, and social problems that required the government and society to unite in the fight against it and against what might be expected tomorrow. Today, there is no longer any indifference to the plight of the injured and the destruction of the territories. Because of this, both the Supreme Council and the President, and the government, and the authorities in place, concentrate their efforts on coping with the consequences of the disaster. The Committee on Budget Issues considered the proposed bills amending the Ukrainian State Budget Act for 2008 and amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts in numbers 3019, 3019-1 and 3019-2. All the bills are united in a single goal: to provide financial resources for urgent measures to eliminate the effects of natural disasters and to stabilize the situation in areas affected by submergment and destruction. At the same time, each of them offers his own approach to the solution. The Government's Bill No. 3019 focuses on the increase in the expenditure of the contingency fund by almost one and a half billion greaves and the expenditure of Ukraine under the special fund by 755 billion dollars, as well as the increase in the amount of State guarantees for the liabilities of Ukraine by 23.5 billion dollars. Expenditures are to be made on the basis of an increase in the revenue of the State budget by 2.3 billion dollars in which, for the total fund, 1.6 billion VAT dollars from imported goods in Ukraine 504 million excise sums and goods produced in Ukraine by 980 million dollars. As a result of the overall increase in government budget income, 1.1 billion dollars are offered for the increase in excise duty rates from goods produced in Ukraine and for the use of nagrass. Regrettably, the practice of amending tax legislation, along with amendments to the State Budget Act, continues. This does not correspond to Article 7 of the Tax Scheme Act and Article 55 of the Provisional Regulations of the Supreme Council, which prohibits the amendment of the tax rules by the State Budget Act or its amendments. The Constitutional Court’s decision on this matter has not been taken into account. Presidential Bill No. 3019-1 is the main one to establish a separate subsidy from the State budget for Winnitsky, Ivano-Frankovsky, Zakarpatski, Lvivsky, Ternopil and Chernivsky areas in the amount of 3.1 billion dollars, as well as an increase in the costs of Ukrainetodor, with specific allocations in the areas indicated. The additional expenditure of the State budget is projected to increase the revenue of the State budget by 4.1 billion dollars as a result of excess VAT and excise revenue from imported goods into Ukraine, i.e. without amending tax legislation, which is a real source of expenditure. The Pekleshenko People's MP's Bill, Alexander Mikolayovich, provides for amendments to the 2008 Act on the State Budget of Ukraine and amendments to certain legislative acts of Ukraine, similar to those of the President's draft 3019-1. [[No. 3019-2]] Unlike the Presidential Bill, the bill proposes to increase the expenditure of the contingency fund and the corresponding revenue of the State budget by another 300 million dollars. In addition, the bill makes a reasonable suggestion to create a special commission of the Supreme Council to control the elimination of the consequences of a natural disaster and to spend the corresponding budget. According to the Committee on Budget Affairs, all draft laws contain risks of effective implementation, since each of them is not well documented because it is clear that it is virtually impossible to assess the fullness of the damage today. In addition, the government bill will be effective only if tax legislation is adopted, which has not received unanimity support from members of the committee. Alternative laws, in turn, contain separate non-compliances with budgetary legislation and errors in terms of standard-setting techniques, which will not allow the proposed standards to be properly applied before they are implemented. Having examined the bills and following article 105 of the Provisional Rules of the Supreme Council, the Committee on Budget Affairs decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of a draft Act amending the Law on State Budget 2008 and amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine on the basis of number 3019. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-31-m0.u39	Thank you. Alexander Pecklesenka's replica, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-31-m0.u40	Dear colleagues, despite the complexity of the discussion, I see that we have reached a negotiated decision. Today, no one is doubting the amount – 4.3 billion is likely to be. Neither does the source. I think that only the right source can be overworked. Are there any problems and differences about where to concentrate this money -- concentrate it in Kabmin or concentrate it on the territory? Our proposal is simple: $500 million of Cabin money, if not sufficient, we can always increase it, should be in Kabmin. The same Regional proposals, three with more than a billion, should definitely go immediately to the Territory. If you do not trust your fellow party members, who are mainly the leaders of these envelopes, whose “most” are already your problems. We trust them, we guarantee that the territory uses this money in.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-31-m0.u41	Ladies and gentlemen of the people of Ukraine, we must now proceed to the voting procedure for these bills. Dear colleagues, I would very much like to ask each of the honourable colleagues of the national MPs to hear my personal position and to support this position as the only effective one right now. You've heard of the budget committee's proposal to adopt a government bill. You've heard that a number of large factions are proposing to adopt an exclusively presidential bill. You've heard that we also have a third bill, which has been passed by the largest faction, the faction of the Party of Regions, which has been taken into account in the consideration of the Committee of Budgets. I would ask, colleagues, that we don't have political dances for the tragedy, and that there be only one case when politicians win, but when the Ukrainian people win, and that we try to demonstrate it today. I suggest the next approach. I understand that this is not entirely the case with the 109th Provisional Rules, but the only right approach for which I ask you all to vote is to adopt a project submitted by the President of Ukraine on the basis of the provisions of the Prime Minister's bill and the bill introduced by the faction of the Party of the Regions. [[Let's make a deal, fellows.]] Then we announce two hours off. The budget committee should sit down, reconcile all the figures completely, because we have an imbalance in numbers, we don't know what we're accepting right now. Because the Cabinet of Ministers is offering some figures, the other members are the national MPs are proposing others. We might have a problem then balancing the budget. Whatever it is, let's take a two-hour break. Let's give it an hour, if you want. And so. Let's give it an hour, because in two hours, the new budget will come up. And so we're going to have a five-minute vote in the second reading. Can I make that offer to you? Can I do that? Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the adoption of the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian State Budget Act, tabled by the President of Ukraine at the same time as the bill passed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and sending the bill to the committee. [[and the position of colleague Pellshenko, yes, definitely]] and send the bill to the Committee on Budgets. Hourly break. And meeting in an hour at the parliamentary room for second reading. Colleagues, please vote. [[11:34:24]] For 440. I wanted to thank you again and say that we do have a Parliament that can unite. We'll meet in the plenary in an hour.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-31-m0.u42	Dear National Deputies! As soon as the meeting was concluded, the Committee on Budgets of the Supreme Council of Ukraine asked for 30 minutes to be printed. I think it's actually going to be 45 minutes. Therefore, 2: 00 p.m. to make a final offer to the people’s deputies. They've just voted 17 in favour, so in principle there's a consistent option. I don't think it's going to be easy, but we're going to model the passage in the Parliamentary Hall. So at 2 p.m. I'm sorry, another 45 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-31-m0.u43	I don't know who or what we're waiting for. I now invite Mikola Ivanovich Derkach. If he can hear us, Mikolo Ivanovich, I ask you to come to the parliamentary rostrum. The Prime Minister and everyone in the Parliamentary Chamber should proceed to the procedure for the consideration of the bill. I ask the camera to report once again that a plenary session is about to begin. No beeper, no report. Camera, can I ask you to find the Ripper, please? Where is Mikola Ivanovich Derkac, head of the budget committee for the report? Please find the Ripper. We have been waiting fifteen minutes for him. Mikola Ivanovich, please come to the rostrum. Dear colleagues, the head of the Budget Committee has appeared. Please, Mikola Ivanovich, inform us of the Committee's decision on budgetary matters.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-31-m0.u44	Dear Arseny Petrovich! Dear national MPs, members of the government! The Committee on Budget Affairs proposes to adopt legislation with such indicators, all in additions, additional spending of 5 billion 802.2 billion dollars, including a total fund of 5 billion 46 million 800,000 dollars, a special fund of 755.4 million dollars. Second. The funds provided for, the stated costs are to be sent directly to district government administrations 2 billion 320 thousand dollars, in addition, where the state budget reserve fund is approved 1 billion 600 million dollars; the special road fund expenditure is 755.4 million dollars; the general road fund is 46.5 million dollars; the agrarian fund is 1 billion dollars for the village's 400 million dollars. Third. Provide government guarantees to obtain credit for the road economy of 24.3 billion dollars. Four. The Ministry of Economics of Ukraine is the principal authorising officer for state budget subsidies to deal with the consequences of natural disasters. Fifth. The committee decided to recommend that the Supreme Council accept these changes in general as a law. Involve the Chief Executive of the Supreme Council, together with the Committee on Budget and Minfin, in the text of the law and appendix, editorial and technical clarifications to the submission of the law for, at the signature of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please put to the vote a draft order that is given to you. Thank you. Dear Arsenija Petrovich, as a national deputy, wanted to ask you if this proposal of the budget committee was not fully passed, as there were differences on paragraph three on the budget committee, to provide State guarantees for obtaining credit for the road economy 24.3 separately. It's like a people's MP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-31-m0.u45	Can I ask you a question, Mikola Ivanovich? So you're saying that if we don't have support, we're going to remove state guarantees and vote without state guarantees? Do I get it right?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-31-m0.u46	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-31-m0.u47	So you're proposing two votes? First ballot in general with guarantees. If we don't get through, we're removing state guarantees right now, these 24 billion, and we're voting without an amendment to state guarantees?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-31-m0.u48	That's right, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-31-m0.u49	Now for the second question. Peacocks. We didn't discuss exactly what was important, and now I'm going to give everyone a word, colleagues. We did not discuss yet another issue concerning the Ukrainian Act on Rates of Excise Congregation. You didn't say anything about that. The government bill made a proposal for excise duty rates. Have you made any decisions on this matter or not? Are we dividing these two bills or not dividing them?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-31-m0.u50	This was the decision of the Committee on Budgets. It is only by exciseism on tobacco products that this bill should be considered separately. Before the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-31-m0.u51	I mean, do I get it right, I'm asking the whole room to hear it right now. We have a 3019 bill that has incorporated amendments to the Act on Excise Assembly Rates and Tobacco Products. In order to consider and adopt this bill, which is in your hands, I will need a few votes. First vote on ad hoc, change of procedure, because this does not come with article 11 of the Temporary Rules. The other one. About getting into the daytime. And the third. On the adoption of the bill as a basis and as a whole. Terjehoin will report it. Right? That's right. I see. Now, ask me a question, please. What are the questions of the Ripper before Nicholas? Colleagues, I'm asking you to sign up. There's a pen written down. Please turn on the microphone. I'm sorry. Please repeat the recording procedure. Don't shout. It's not factions, it's national MPs, it's not factions coming from factions. Popov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-31-m0.u52	Lavrinovich, please pass.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-31-m0.u53	The word Lavrinovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-31-m0.u54	Dear Mikolo Ivanovich, what you have reported raises a question. We have the Constitution, there's the Law on the Extraordinary Environmental Situation, and there are the subjects of the definition that in this case make proposals for changes in the main state resource. From what you've reported, it doesn't come to pass that the project we've put in place by the President of Ukraine is today such that we are now going to consider it with the amendments proposed by our colleague Paklesenko of the Party of Regions, our colleagues from the "Lituin Block" who are here, and there will be some other project that no longer has the basis for which we voted. Did I get you right or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-31-m0.u55	So, dear colleague, all the proposals that have been made, in this case, you have named your colleague Pecklesenko, the increase in the reserve fund, has been increased, and the committee has voted, agreed. In addition, the Committee proposed to increase the agrarian fund to a billion dollars and to pay off, and to compensate interest on bank loans to agrarians to 400 million dollars. I said that, voted on the committee, and was added to the voting room. All the other questions, they are. Yes, and with respect to total income. I called it $5 billion. 802. It's a common fund and 755 is a special fund. This is all done by increasing. If we vote on the Tobacco Excise Act, this will not be taken into account for the time being, why it has been proposed to separate the vote and put it on the agenda, and the procedure will continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-31-m0.u56	Thank you. Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-31-m0.u57	Dear fellow MPs, I don't understand what the excise is doing here, and what are we today mixing sin and righteousness? We have just voted in favour of the absolutely principle: to increase the aid to the affected people in the region. Instead, in the project that we have received, we get to reduce the expenditure under the budget programme "County from the State Budget" to the district budgets of these areas and to anticipate them instead to the Ministry of Economics. [[I don't believe my eyes!]] That means we're taking the centralized funds back in Kiev and we're going to keep those heads of district administrations, the local councils, and we're going to use this power in one hand instead of developing local self-government, giving people places to decide who these funds are going to go to. So you basically changed the thing that we voted for. That's not going to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-31-m0.u58	Let me finish. Let's do the next one. Who's next? Turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-31-m0.u59	Respectable colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-31-m0.u60	Olena Lukash. Ah, half a minute, let Mikola Ivanovich answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-31-m0.u61	With regard to subsidies to areas. You see what I called $2 billion 320. What difference does it make? That's consistent with the law, by the way. We cannot increase the amount of the subsidy to those positions, to State-wide programmes. That's why we went to increase the Reserve Fund. These will be the costs that will be met by a number of ministries and so on. And they wrote accordingly that the Ministry of Economics would agree on the arrangement of the funds. These are state-wide programmes and, of course, costs. They can be implemented through the Reserve Fund.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-31-m0.u62	Olena Lukash.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-31-m0.u63	Thank you. It's already quite clear that we have another bill on our hands than the one we voted for. Please pass the word to Lavrinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-31-m0.u64	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! The proposals that we have now read carefully after the work of the Committee on Budgets show that there has been a substantial audit as the core project 3019-1, which has been voted on as a basis, and those proposals that have been made by the National Deputies and have been supported by the rapporteur authorized to report, this project. In this context, we have a proposal to return to the proposals that we made in the morning: that we should now adopt the whole project that was adopted in the first reading - 3019-1, with proposals made by the People's Deputies from the factions of the Regions and the “Block of Lithuania”. And on that point, because this break and this work didn't have a positive effect, it just made it more difficult to make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-31-m0.u65	It's your right.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-31-m0.u66	The last two speakers. Please, Alexander Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-31-m0.u67	Thank you, Arseny Petrovich. We need to understand in principle: we are adopting one bill, 3019-1, and another bill, 3019-1. Shall we vote for it, Arsenius Petrovich, or shall we continue? Because if you do, then you have to finish the procedure you started under the first bill. Now, this is a matter of principle, and let us then conclude the procedure for a unification bill, which included the proposals of the Party of the Regions by Pecklusenko and the proposals of Vladimir Mihajlović Litvina from the Block of Lithuania. And I think we'll understand and we don't have to do any more insinuations. Now the second question is that we are outraged by what individual people want to do today, speculating on people's mountains, to include incomprehensible 24 billion under government guarantees, which we understand are very large or very large.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-31-m0.u68	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-31-m0.u69	which can carry a very large corruption component. Therefore, Arsenija Petrovich, we urge: do not put the question to the vote in general, but it is not clear what draft regulation you will be making in general. A question on the 24th, 24 billion government guarantees by a separate vote in the Chamber. This is a fundamental issue that we insist on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-31-m0.u70	Colleagues, there are other questions from factions. One at a time, I'll give with my hands. Klukkowski, after Klukkowski - Láško, finishes with Vladimir Litwin. Oh, and Hell's sake, yeah, of course.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-31-m0.u71	Thank you. Yuri Klukkowski, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear Arsenija Petrovich, honourable reporter, I would like to understand the purely formal legal side of the issue that is being addressed. Are we considering the law or the Supreme Council's decree? I thought we were considering amendments to the law and we wanted to vote on the law on amending the budget. Instead, we are given a draft Supreme Council ruling. But I would like to remind you that these acts are laws and regulations of the Supreme Council have different legal powers and laws are not passed by regulations. So I think there's something juridical mixed up here. And we can't vote, decree: to adopt the law in general
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-31-m0.u72	Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-31-m0.u73	Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. I'd like to pay attention to those who say that, as if the cost of eliminating the consequences of the disaster was reduced, they're actually significantly increased -- the total cost is 5 billion 802 million, of which over 5 billion are from the general fund. When the bill was adopted in the first reading, there were three billion expenses. This is the first time. Secondly, to our opponents from the Party of Regions, let their representatives on the Committee of Budgets tell us that they, together with the representatives of the other parties represented on the Committee of Budgets, voted for the increase in the Government's reserve fund, and for a billion 400 to support the agrarians so that the price of grain does not fall from 1.5 thousand to 700 dollars, and all the questions that we need to vote on today. And we've always adopted, if you remember, the law just came into effect. The draft decree is that the law should be passed. That's why it's always been like this. Yuri Romanovich, don't shout.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-31-m0.u74	Vladimir Litwin, out of the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-31-m0.u75	Fellow Members, I am immediately proposing an organizational order: not to announce recesses or hold any meetings, for after the meetings fornication occurs, and here, in the Supreme Council in the session hall, to make a decision. First. Secondly, we still think that when we adopted the law as a basis, we had to vote, if we wanted to, the amendments to this law. If we don't, let's vote on Bill 3019-1 with the suggestions of colleague Pecklesenko and our people who have spoken, and let's end any conversation. If there is a desire for national distress to fail and make other decisions, let us vote after the conclusion of this consideration to continue our work. And I would like to remind you that the next meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is convened only on the basis of the decision contained in the decree of the President of Ukraine. If you want to make other changes, please have 150 signatures, and we will.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-31-m0.u76	Alexander Paklusenko. And the Prime Minister is asking for words. A Turk?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-31-m0.u77	Dear colleagues, I would like to thank all members of the budget committee who supported our proposals for the Commission's creation point, in part two billion directly to the Territory, for the paragraph supporting the sources of over-repletion. I see that three of my four proposals have been taken into account, but the fourth observation to withdraw 24 billion has not been taken into account. Clearly, it is the law of distress and sorrow. The trouble in the western areas and the woe that we supported in the agrarian sector was all unanimous -- a billion 400 -- now you're adding a happiness point to this bill's authors. Keep your happiness to yourself. Please, a bill in pure form, without your derelict $24 billion.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-31-m0.u78	Alexander Turchinov. Mikolo Ivanovich, you must be seated. If we have to, we'll ask you to answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-31-m0.u79	The microphone's not working.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-31-m0.u80	Turn the microphone on from the rostrum from the Turkish government's bed.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-31-m0.u81	Is the microphone working? Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, on your orders, the members of the Budget Committee, together with the Cabinet of Ministers, together with the representatives of all the factions that were actually involved in this work, have carried out all the tasks that have been assigned and have in fact resolved the issue of urgent effective funding. In particular, with regard to proposals for subsidies that were in law. Both Mr. Pecklusenko and representatives of the President’s Secretariat agreed that they had written subsidies not only for the financing of local problems but also for public property, such as roads, dams, railway canvas, power lines, and so on. You realize that subsidies cannot finance these objects. That's contrary to both budgetary discipline and common sense, that's not possible, that's nonsense. And that's why everyone agreed, Mr. Peckleshenko, that's why everyone agreed to discuss the issue. Public property is financed by a reserve fund. All objects related to local problems are financed by a regional subsidy. That's why, dear colleagues, I'm telling you and the deputies from the regions. I beg you, let's hear it. That's why they came up with 2 billion regional subsidies, a billion 600 reserve funds. In connection with the adoption of the Presidential Law, the figures you received are in line with the Presidential Law. You realize that in the part of reducing subsidies that are not used by non - governmental entities, it is reduced, and this part is increased, of course, by the contingency fund. That's the first one. Next, dear colleagues. At the suggestion of the deputies of all factions, I emphasize that all factions have made a decision, which is a very difficult situation, you know, with agrarians. And there's also a serious problem, and there's also a billion- and 400-million-dollar offer to make loans. All the factions, I emphasize, were clearly behind this position. As for the 24 billion, dear colleagues! It's not a budget resource, it's a term that allows you to get State guarantees, give state guarantees to a credit resource if you need to get it involved. Why is this proposed? For the sake of the fact that, yet, dear colleagues, we have not even finally summed up the state’s losses. And that's why we don't have to re-gather the deputies so that we don't get a session, and that's why we have this proposal. So, dear fellows, if you'll excuse me, I'm going to finish my speech now. And that's why, honourable colleagues, the only thing I'm asking, is for you to make professional decisions. I am very much asking for any position not to take. And when they say, "Add that to the Presidential Law," that means that we are completely balancing government finances. There are positions, they're all agreed and there's an offer to vote for them. Thank you. The only nuance. Dear colleagues in excise matters. They also agreed on all the factions that there is no objection to the increase in excise duties on tobacco, but there is no objection to anyone. The smallest excises in Europe are in Ukraine. And that's why it's an additional resource, my fellow dignitaries, look what resources we're directing now, and we need to confirm these resources with the additional positions that the Cabinet of Ministers is asking for. And that's why they proposed to vote first on the law that the Tax and Finance Committee passed and then to vote on the changes that I've just mentioned. I ask you very much, my fellow Members, to support these changes and not start again with the voice “to abrogate” a new law or a new one, I apologize, some hybrid that ultimately completely balances the situation of the elimination of the disaster. I thank you and I hope for your position and your statements, a consolidated vote for a united position that has been reached on the Committee of Budgets. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-31-m0.u82	Colleagues, last one. Let's give John Stepanovich the word and give Alexander Pecklesenko and Alexander Schlapak.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-31-m0.u83	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues, I want to act by law or by order when such failures occur. Just now, Alexander Valentinovich said that what we did during the break, we want to add that, that, that. It's impossible to do that. So let's not do that. Why are we here? We have a project, we took it as a basis. The committee is a big deal, but its mandate will consider the proposals and bring them up to date. Arsenius Petrovich was obliged after the vote on the basis of a general vote, for this was the sound of proposals made by all the parliamentary groups and factions. You didn't do it, you took a break. After the break we were taken to the settlement, that's it. once said we have a national MP: “nonsense”. That's why. ‘anons’.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-31-m0.u84	Do you need me to tell you, Ivan Stepanovich? Let me talk to Ivan Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-31-m0.u85	Arseny Petrovich! If this is no way out of the way that you have led us into, follow the Rules. As a basis, put in draft Law 3019 as a whole. Tyre 1, of course.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-31-m0.u86	Alexander Pecklushenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-31-m0.u87	Dear colleagues! I repeat what we have said from the outset, today we will adopt the law and tomorrow the money will go to the regions. We stumbled on something. It must be made clear that everything that is necessary for the regions today, for the Government, is in the draft law. But some sly guy stuck a 24-billion-dollar spot there that didn't need territories. Here they sit, ask them, do you need these 24 billion? Everyone says no. So whoever needs them, we turn to you, who cares about us, you don't have to be afraid to collect us three times a day when it comes to money that people and the state need. You don't care about us. You make sure that every penny comes by appointment to the people and to the territory. Please record your corruption scheme of 24 billion and let us vote as required by law, common sense and our constituents.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-31-m0.u88	Alexander Schlapak and Paul Zebrowsky last.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-31-m0.u89	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished national MPs, I would like to bring to you the point of view that I have once again spoken to the President about the situation that has now arisen. I have reported precisely the positions that were discussed at the committee meeting, and the President supports this position, the decision of the committee that we have all adopted and carefully calculated, he considers absolutely correct and fair by excluding one principled and one additional position. The President believes that it is not worth considering the guarantees that are now worth 24.3 billion in this bill. It's not against these guarantees, but we have to do everything right, so the government has to demonstrate what roads are about, what prices are about, what costs are going to come back and we're going to vote this, maybe we need more money, but it's going to be done I'm going to hope when the big bill is being followed. Another amendment by which the President himself corrected me, he proposes such a thing, we have an idea of the chief budget manager for the funds that will go into the territory. So, Alexander Mikolaiovich Pecklusenko, in order for the funds to go into the territory, would the President propose to make a standard that has already been used in the Supreme Council, to be recognized directly by the chief budget administrators and the two billion that should be sent immediately to the territory. If the government considers it necessary to accept certain ways of using these resources, no one will interfere with that, let the commission of Mineconomy or Minfin be prepared, but let the funds go in the territory, let people know in principle that tomorrow this resource will be in the treasury accounts of the areas. These two positions I'd like to take into account, and so my proposal is to support the committee's decision on these two rights, this is the President's request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-31-m0.u90	Paul Zerbowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-31-m0.u91	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to support Alexander Vitaliyovich on the basis that it was certainly possible to vote on the whole bill that the President passed, but let's say, most of the points that are in today's amended decision could be taken by consensus on the budget committee for government participation. I think it would be right to make such amendments because there are state-owned objects that must definitely be financed directly from the contingency fund and that is what everyone has agreed to. No change compared to the Presidential Law has been reduced. It's only been increased by the agrarian fund to a billion and 400 million dollars for farm loans. However, there is certainly a problem with 24 million, billions of 300 million dollars. The thing is, we never got what roads are going to be built, how are we going to compensate?? This money, because we understand that the “Kravtododor”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-31-m0.u92	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-31-m0.u93	The only source of revenue is the state budget, there are no other sources of revenue, and because of this we need to be aware that how and for how many years this money will be spent, will it not be after a while that the “Streaktodor” will not build roads, but simply pay interest and give credit, that is the point. We are ready, seriously, to scrupulously consider the government's proposals for guarantees for September sessions in September. And I think no one in this session room would mind holding the Euro-2012, no one would mind bringing our roads to European standards, but it should be scrupulous, clearly and under the control of Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-31-m0.u94	Colleagues, the word has been given to the Prime Minister and I ask that you complete the discussion and proceed to the voting procedure. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-31-m0.u95	My fellow Members, I think that this is an intense discussion of the State's guarantees of involving money to build roads as at least strange, because in each budget, these guarantees were given by the State, given by one article in the past, and in the past year, this is a traditional absolute model. It is used: First. In order to be able, on a concessional basis or in the sleep of a state-private partnership, to engage very serious powerful teams that will build roads in Ukraine transit, including for the Euro, and including, considering that most roads, including in a mountainous area, have been destroyed, including this and the significance of the state, it would be a certain system of adding money to those that are clearly not enough to restore almost a thousand bridges and almost, well, I would say, at least 600 kilometers of roads. That's because the money we're giving out isn't enough. The procedure is standard, nothing different from last year. And I propose now, Arsenija Petrovich, including that the task was given to the Committee on Budgets, to go as the Committee on Budgets has practically achieved understanding between all factions. Item number one. An understanding was reached that the law on excise duties on tobacco was being voted on. And it was just a unanimous decision not to take away the money that is now going on, from pensioners, from teachers, from doctors, from agrarians, from all of them. That's extra revenue. The hall is defined. There's a wish to vote -- it's beautiful. There is no wish to vote – so this bill will not be included in the agenda. The second question. That's what the Committee on Budgets did. There was a decision on the budget committee that all proposals made for a law adopted on a basis were put to the same vote at the same time. If for some reason there are no votes, then 24.3 billion should be excluded, considering that you simply may not need to build roads in Ukraine and leave what is. Just take a normal vote and make a decision. And I am convinced that today, by normal vote, the decision will be taken. With 24 billion guarantees, no 24s, but all one decision will be taken by Parliament. I urge the Supreme Council today to vote, first of all, on the increase in excise duties on tobacco. Because Ukraine does not take these excises at all. We're different from the whole world. And now we're giving the budget a billion million plus just one of these excises. And the second. I ask that the entire Parliament vote on the entire budget committee proposal, including 24.3, because there are state programmes. And if it is necessary for the Supreme Council to keep its hand on the pulse, let us vote as proposed by Mr. Zebrovsky, with a reservation that all decisions on 24.3 are taken by the budgetary committee and then implemented by the government. To get control. It agrees with the Committee on Budgets. So I'd like Arsenius Petrovich to put the budget committee to a vote in a sequence like this.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-31-m0.u96	Yes, dear fellows, now I'm asking for your attention. So first of all, short information for those who don't quite own the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. In that case, if a bill was passed, and it was accepted as a presidential basis, and the formulation was the following. At the same time as taking into account proposals, both alternative opposition and cabinet ministers, the budget committee is sitting down and doing what it has done -- adding clearly all the proposals. It's not a decision that is passed, as, unfortunately, it was adopted when we voted the State budget, because it's illegal, and I'm paying attention to the need for the budgetary committee to comply with regulatory requirements, but it's a law that adopts the bill in the second reading and in general. And the exhibitions that we have here now are given in a table that's always been done, and no decision is taken. But it's a deviation. As far as the substance of the question is concerned. All the suggestions that were made are taken into account. The only proposal that is unaccounted for and which causes the most contradiction in the room is 24 billion. Did I get it right or not? Now we're going to have to deal with the budget manager. The other one. We talked to you about voting on the legislation on the excise congregation. [[Half a minute. Colleagues, one second.]] By voting for the bill, large factions put the issue of State guarantees aside. I mean, according to article 11, we have to: first, makead hoc. The other one. In view of the fact that we are not now the State Budget Act and other changes, we are now adopting only the State Budget Act. So in fact, in the course of the session, Parliament divided one law into two bills, which is allowed if we vote on it. We vote for excise and we vote for the law that you now have on your hands, except it needs to be changed. The third question is not solved. This is a question for budget managers. Your insistence, part of the insistence, is that such officials be the local authorities of the state and executive authorities. The proposal now being made is the Ministry of Economics following the standard procedure for the allocation of budgetary subsidies. Formally and legally, I have to go as follows: the contentious proposals on which they insist must be put to the vote. That's the only way. I mean, if. There's a second option. Peacocks. Not "no", not "yes", but half a second. There's a second option: putting to the vote what the budget committee has proposed, but we're going to fail it. Why, then, would we follow a course that is destructive? So there are two questions that I propose to vote on. Makes you notice the issue of guarantees. I'm going to ask you a question about the guarantees for support. Please vote in favour to support a guarantee of 24 billion. [[You heard me.]] This is the amendment that we made on page two, paragraph one. Attention, colleagues! Please vote in favour. [[15:22:46]] For 175 Now it's about budget managers. I'd like to hear the position of the warden so that we don't cause any trouble. That is, if we are once again consciously making a decision whether we support the position of the headminister of Mineconomy, or whether we support the position that was previously expressed with regard to the local authorities. Attention, colleagues! So that we don't go through the troubles of the populists. Understand that it is right not to make it seem like we would vote well for the local authorities. But then the Treasury won't release the money. So let's listen to Matthew again, let him clearly give us a position, will there be normally funded expenses if we vote in favour of the Ministry of Economics? Turn on Matthewsuk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-31-m0.u97	Dear Arsenia Petrovich, distinguished national deputies! The Ministry of Finance believes that it would be the only right decision if we recorded this subsidy in the State Budget under the Ministry of Economics and provided a separate supplement to distribute it by region. This would allow the Ministry of Economics to develop different order, to make a timely distribution of this money, and so on. If there is no one, the chief cost manager in the State budget, it will only delay the process, because no one at the state level will be able to manage this subsidy. Please support this decision of the Committee on Budget Affairs. This will accelerate the allocation of funds to district governments.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-31-m0.u98	Colleagues, the proposal is this: Once again, if you don't know what to do, you have to do it by law. Right? And the law says this: you're asking for support in changing the budget manager's budget, and more specifically, you're asking for the leave of that supervisor that was foreseen in the previous bill. Once again, I am putting to the vote the issue of support for the amendment made by the Committee on Budgets to change the budget manager: from the executive authorities to the central authority of the State Executive Authority, the Ministry of Economics. If you vote in favour, the Mineconomy becomes an orderly. Understand? Vote. [[15:25:38]] For 199 Colleagues, now we don't have any questions that might have a difference. I ask you again to take a closer look. Now we're going to vote on excise. We had an agreement with you that we would vote excises in case they rule out guarantees. Bull? It was. So let's be honest. Colleagues, be quiet! Attention! Because you and I have made a decision. Alexandrovska, do you want words? I'll give it to you. There's nothing wrong with me! You're the one who messed up! Look, we've accepted everything. It's okay. It's okay. We have every question fully accepted. Colleagues, excuse me, let's finish the voting procedure. So now we're going to have to vote on this bill as a whole, in an editorial that's set out in a regulation that's been passed by the Committee on Budgets. Understand? So we vote in favour of the second reading and, in general, except for those amendments that are not supported, but in the wording in which the Committee on Budgets gave us the text of the regulation. Is there one of the national MPs who insists, or is there a government that needs to be changed? Because I want this law to be passed and signed, not just accepted. Okay? It's okay. Colleagues, I'm voting on the second reading and the whole bill. The only thing I'm going to fix is that we were on the budget committee saying that the city of Chernivci is a separate subsidy. That's why we're voting in this way, please. Now we're going to vote the way I promised.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-31-m0.u99	And yours. with Pellsenko's offer. Colleagues, once again, stop, stop, and the vote is over. Once again, colleagues, let's all calm down. I'll say it again. And so, let's vote on the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Budgeted Budget, I emphasize. Because we don't have any changes, we're now issuing another law, there's no change in the law of Ukraine amending the law of Ukraine on the State Budget, in accordance with the text of the regulation by the Budget Committee, except for two amendments that were not supported by the Parliamentary Hall. Okay. Vote. [[15:28:33]] For 441 Hooray! Dear friends, the law is passed. Now, colleagues, I'm putting the question to the vote, I'm carefully reminding you again, you and I had a bill that we approved in the first, in fact, Prime Minister's reading, where we have amendments to the law on excise duty rates on tobacco products. This bill is on your hands. Please. Open a bill, it's on your hands, 3019. Attention! I am voting on the question of the inclusion in the agenda and the consideration of the bill is the Ukrainian Act on Excise Assembly Rates on Tobacco Products. Alexander Sergiyovich, please, half a minute. We made a deal! We had a fair deal in my office. If there are arrangements, they need to be maintained. Let's be honest. Please. We made a deal! With a faction? Vote. Attention, colleagues! Vote. [[15:29:54]] For 327 Thank you, colleagues, for the 327. Attention, colleagues! Now that bill is in your hands, the committee's decision is. I propose, first, a deviation from the procedure and the adoption of the bill that you have in your hands in the first and second readings. Is that the position taken? Roger that. Dear colleagues, I'll put it to a vote. Sit down, please. I'm betting on a vote on acceptance. Listen carefully, I'll tell you everything! Not two bills, one bill you discussed on the committee, what you brought me. It's about acceptance. First, on the rejection of procedures and adoption in the first and second reading of the Ukrainian Act on Excise Assembly Rates on Tobacco Products – and all, nothing more, just tobacco products, colleagues! Dear colleagues, please vote! [[15:31:11]] For 381 Colleagues, decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I now request the Committee of Budgets and the Committee of Teryochin. Sergei Anatoliyovich, I ask you very carefully: to immediately draft these bills, to submit them to the Head of the Supreme Council, and so that we can submit these bills to the President of Ukraine for signature today. Dear Ukrainian national deputies, I would like to thank you all very much for your extremely fruitful and constructive work. And I think the Ukrainians also appreciated our work. If necessary, we will meet again, dear friends. I declare the next session of the Ukrainian Parliament closed.
