ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-07-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Today we have two nouns. I would like to welcome, on behalf of the Supreme Council of Our Fellows, Korzhov Anatolia Leonidovich and Ukolova Viktor Alexanderovich, who is now 40 years old today. [[Applause]] Please register. [[10:01:16]] Registered -377 There are 377 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The morning plenary session is open. Dear colleagues! Today, as in the previous plenary days, we have no agreed agenda, because there are not as many Ukrainian national deputies in factions who would agree on the agenda for today, and today we do not have the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the consultations or meeting of the President of Ukraine in the morning. As we prepare for the start of our plenary work, I announce a break of up to 12 hours for 30 minutes. And I would like to ask the heads of the MP factions to meet me at the office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at 11 p.m.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-07-m0.u2	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Let us begin by saying that it is clear that there is no point in agreeing on the schedule for today’s session because we are standing before the two elections. The first choice is a new coalition. The second choice is to suspend the Ukrainian Parliament's powers on a permanent basis. I think it's nothing original, nothing new. I think we need to understand clearly and realize that whoever says anything outside, but the fate of the Ukrainian Parliament is exclusively in the hands of Parliament itself. If the coalition is formed by the end of this day, this will close any discussion about the termination of the powers and the work of the Supreme Council. If this coalition is not formed, there is an objective basis for applying article 90 of the Constitution. In doing so, I make it clear that article 90 of the Constitution cannot be applied without consulting the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the deputy leaders and the leaders of factions. In view of this, dear companions, we still have plenty of time to agree, but the probability of this is cheap every minute. I think it would be appropriate for faction leaders to express their position in accordance with the Rules, and this was agreed upon by me at the meeting. And I'd like you to sign up for the factions for the factions. Now, with regard to the insinuations of the different ones that arose today after meeting with the President. I was present at that meeting. I have not heard the President's speech, nor the word "release" nor the word "departmental termination" nor the word "command". This is so that there are no different kinds of insinuations. Gasuk Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-07-m0.u3	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-07-m0.u4	Ivan Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-07-m0.u5	Mr. Kirilenko John's word.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-07-m0.u6	Dear Head, colleagues, distinguished voters! It seems clear to everyone that under the conditions of artificially provoked political crisis in Ukraine, a party of wars is taking over -- hawks are conquering. Regrettably, political ambitions have been victims of such social stability, harmony, understanding, along with the economy. Our political power has consistently, persistently and openly proclaimed such civilized principles and transparent political relations for 10 months. We've been patient. All of you are witnesses: the threat of out-of-court elections has been hailing Ukraine or not since the first days of the new coalition’s work, and BUT has been fighting and fighting for its viability until the last minute. We have the faction's solution, we have 155 signatures, we're ready for the restoration of the democratic coalition now, but there are no steps to be taken. What were we not accused of during this time? What public suspicions of treason, the formation of a fantastic coalition, the coup d'état! There is neither one nor the other nor the third. There's an axioma in mathematics, which is an obvious truth. The days before the planned devastating political painting, we would like to remind Ukraine of a number of distinctive axioms. The first, whatever the summation of the future elections, if they still happen, the next coalition will be formed either on the basis of the Party of Regions or on the basis of the BUIT. Take calculators, gentlemen, invite no sociologists, experts, and count whether it's on the right or on the left, but not on the bottom. If the election authors dream of something else, they won't. The year, for example, was negotiated to create a broad coalition between the Party of Regions and our Ukraine, not in this room. Now there is a unique opportunity to bring them to a successful conclusion. I say this without irony, because two months later, serious politicians from Donbass can actually create a completely different configuration in this room and then before seeing the PPP, NATO, but it is possible that “Yes is great and powerful!” So don’t rub the country and the people, do what is planned today. No one's interrupting, because tomorrow might be too late. The other one. Whoever whispers, promises, promises, no one in this election will win a definite total victory. The truth is, Ukraine is not Russia. For 18 years in a row, half the people vote, whether it's a parliamentary race or a presidential race. That is what will happen today. And if once again they do not want to unite strong for the sake of the country, as in Germany, political gatherings will go hand in hand for us and for Europe. What they are leading to last year’s story is vividly clear. But as we do, history teaches nothing. In order to make a deal, it is necessary to cover up another political battle, knowing its sums. Our political power has always acted and advocates that authority, authority, responsibility will be sufficient for all. It was we who offered the most important, supervisory committees of the Supreme Council, the appointment of ministers, the controlling organs and the opposition itself. Unfortunately, they didn't. Of course, you want more now. And we have enough politicians who have not worked and who do not want to work in opposition. Third. About what the next election was for, it seems that both the factories and the farmers ’ walls had written about. The main goal is to humiliate and humiliate Julia Timoshenko, because the credit goes to everyone. What did we live to see? In order to remove the overly harsh Prime Minister, it is necessary to destroy Parliament and, along with him, parliamentaryism, because on the day that the castle will be hanged, democracy will end, democracy will begin. And it's all for the sake of one thing: winning the presidential election. The position of head of state in Ukraine has long been a diagnosis, not a post. I'm saying this without regard to anyone, because history keeps repeating itself and it's going to happen over and over again. The Constitution also provides for two consecutive terms. Where does his first day of work begin as a new guarantor? Right, from prepping for the next term. What should we do about it? Right, calculate and neutralize future competitors. Where are they? In Parliament and in the government. And then, according to the text, over the years of independence, almost 20 governments and a semi-parallel parliament. Country, people, where are you? And who needs you? Really, those who propose a single term may be right, but for 7 years. For from the first day on the nation’s leader will likely care for the nation and for the memory of his actions, not for the next election. Once again, though, it takes understanding and unifying efforts.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-07-m0.u7	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-07-m0.u8	the Constitution is being clarified. And the fourth. Over the past few years, we have witnessed tremendous world shocks: wars, conflicts, terrorist acts, stock markets, the scourge of the world economy, finance, mortgages, famines have become not a threat, but a reality. It's got the whole world clung to us, we've got a lot of echoes right now. Someone is looking after our baby-sitter and giving us the opportunity, the politicians -- what do we do? Are you still fooling around, or are you going to come around? The patience of the Most High and of the people is not limitless, and we have been using it for too long. One of the well-known politicians of the day predicted October-2008 in Ukraine in October-93 in Russia. Boron, God, we're going to have that tomorrow, because it's not going to be Ukraine or even Zimbabwe anymore. The stake is still in our hands. Obviously, it should no longer be put to the test. There's still a few hours left. God help! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-07-m0.u9	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-07-m0.u10	Silence, comrades! Well, act human! Why, at the end of our quarters, you do not behave so well! Quiet! Please, Viacheslav Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-07-m0.u11	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! First. I want those who are now crying not to be offended because we are defending the interests of our constituents. We advocate the interests of those who sent us here to Parliament to protect national values, national priorities and national Ukrainian interests. Sometimes we fought this battle only with opposition, sometimes we had to fight with former partners who understood their own national interest. We will continue to have that position because it corresponds to the position of our voters and millions of them. The other one. We should know the whole Parliament and the whole country, we never put ultimatums on anybody, nor do we put ultimatums on anyone. We're announcing our programming principles. I realize that the unprincipled politicians who are now roaring in the hall don't like it. It is much easier to make a situational arrangement under the carpet, but it is unacceptable for us to do so. So we've just taken to arming the program principles that have been published here both in front of the opponents and in front of former, or perhaps future partners. Third. On September 2, unfortunately, the Ukrainian Parliament took place. And now to pretend that there hasn't been a real coalition for a month between the Party of Regions, the Communists and the BUDGET -- it's impossible. These events took place in our history. During these events, Parliament adopted a large number of decisions. Unfortunately, much of these decisions run counter to Ukrainian national interests. In order for this never to happen again, potential future partners need to get on the trust regime with each other. And to do that, you have to give a minimum, but a principle evaluation of what happened. So I can inform the electorate and you, the honourable colleagues, of the positions that we needed to resolve in order to restore or re-create the coalition, most of them settled. But there is an unresolved principle that some colleagues apparently try to refer to as the question of Georgia by manipulating ideas. My colleagues, I'm going to disappoint you, this is about Ukraine, this is about how we see the sovereignty of our country in the near future and the furthest future. Whether we're going to allow foreign troops to travel in and out of our territory, alien ships are going to sail anywhere, where another country and other capital will give them a team, whether we will respect our own sovereignty, our own country, our own national interests and our own people. (U in m in s a l i) And the fact that the opposition MPs are roaring again suggests that they disagree, but that's their right. We call for future coalition partners to be identified and to accept the last item that we have left to implement. [[B in m in s a l in]] Arsenius Petrovich, do we have a doctor in the Supreme Council?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-07-m0.u12	Let's bring it in.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-07-m0.u13	Please. I think some of the colleagues need it now. Please give the command to keep the doctor in the room. [[B in m in s a l in]] That's why. I tell people who want to listen, not shout. We are on our way to solving this problem. True, there is a part of the circumstances that hold back the rapid and effective completion of the consultations. These circumstances are linked to the position of the leader of the “Timoshenko Block. ” We were saddened by the results and style of the visit to the capital of the Russian Federation. [[B in m in s a l in]] It's not about what happened. This is very good, and each Prime Minister must go to the capital of our strategic partner. But, colleagues, here are three complications that ask us additional questions. First, there are no gas agreements, but there is a proposal for the transmission of the gas transport system to Russia. [[B in m in s a l in]] The other one. Why did the Prime Minister of Ukraine sit silent and observe when the President and Prime Minister of another country accused our country of trafficking in arms? Unless the Prime Minister knows that the proportion of exports of Ukrainian weapons to Georgia is only 6 percent, and the proportion of exports of Ukrainian weapons to Russia is 28 percent, that is, almost 5 times higher. Is it not known to Prime Minister Timoshenko that Russia has recently been actively and purposefully carrying out the supply of arms to Georgia and has not seen any shame in this? And I don't know what an ostrich is.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-07-m0.u14	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-07-m0.u15	My colleague spoke for an extra half a minute. And it is not clear that such an ostrich position by the Prime Minister is directly affecting the defence complex of Ukraine and the interests of our exporters, who, year after year, from the arms trade to the state budget, provide more than four billion U.S. dollars. Finally, we do not like the fact that the Prime Minister of an independent country is silently sitting and observing when the Prime Minister of another country insults the President of a sovereign state. You can treat the President as much as you want, but a politician of this level should not afford this kind of behavior at inter-State meetings. And I want to say that these circumstances, of course, further inhibit the effective conclusion of the negotiation process. So far, it seems to us that the real script in the Kremlin, and here, it's just a smoke screen. But we will continue to do everything we can to ensure that the democratic coalition becomes, but on the basis of the protection of national interests, national values and national priorities. That's what our Ukrainian electorate tells us. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-07-m0.u16	Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, I ask everyone to calm down. Well, stand up, have some restraint, colleagues, why are you yelling? Please, Alexander Volodymyrovich Lavrinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-07-m0.u17	Dear colleagues, I'm sorry, I'm gonna have to get out of here because it's closed. We've just heard two important speeches. And I think that, obviously, few people in Ukraine today are the secret that the fourth year in a row, starting in 2005, the whole of Ukraine has been a hostage to the relationship of two people. Recall 2005, how processes have developed within the so - called orange team, how they are developing today, how this has affected the country in previous years, and what results today. And remember, last year, it wasn't that long ago when it was necessary to stop a working parliament, a working coalition and a working government. Any means could have been applied: from the bullying within this house, from the stopping of all legal institutions in the country, from ignoring all the rules of the Basic Law, from other laws of Ukraine, so that the country could then be put into a situation where, on the basis of political arrangements, contrary to legislation in Ukraine, the first pre-elections took place. It's a slightly different situation today. And today we see a competition for any of these two persons, of these two political forces, to be responsible for the next term’s election. Everyone wants to take responsibility for his partner in the modern coalition and for the previous. So that's what the competition's all about. We have seen that the existence of this unification throughout this call has been ephemeral enough. And when the opposition tried to work the coalition to show how it could work, we quickly became convinced that Parliament could not work. Similarly, we see how the entire system of government can work in a country where the main purpose of the activities of senior officials is to compete with one another and defeat each other. Clearly, we do not need these choices. We were not initiators of the hooligan elections last year, and this year we are not initiating them either. We could work peacefully and confidently in the status of the Ukrainian opposition in this Parliament. We could have negotiated after choosing a different form of coalition, but today we have a situation where we're facing a choice, whether the consultations we've been trying to conduct are going to work or not. There's no result. There is a desire to look for the possibilities of rebirth, the restoration of the coalition that was created at the very beginning. Please, there is no obstacle. And we see that the positive summation of such negotiations that they are currently conducting is very unlikely. And we would like to warn the Ukrainian people against repeating another year of existence under this orange team, which has been abusing the Ukrainian people for the fourth year.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-07-m0.u18	Peter Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-07-m0.u19	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! It has become clear that the political bankruptcys in the head of the State, President Yushchenko and all his orange war, are leading Ukraine to default. To the default economic, political and social. At the same time, the country's upheaval has led Globalist Yushchenko to the international level. In fact, he gave Ukraine a ransom to world financial speculators, and he put the country on the verge of a social explosion today. As a result, we have an almost insurmountable external debt, stagnation in the industrial and agricultural sectors, increased imports, degradation of our own production capacities and productive forces. We have the most severe inflation that has devastated the already dense pockets of Ukrainian citizens. The company has always frankly and openly warned the people of Ukraine of the inevitable negative consequences of criminality against our country and the people of nationalist policies. And now that the myth of the prosperity of the liberal economy has collapsed, when the system of global financial capitalism, to which we are so insistent, which the orange power is trying to draw, has collapsed, Ukraine is fully aware of the consequences of its collapse. The sources of external investment in Ukraine's economy have been blocked and domestic investment has not been created. In the days it became half of the metal industry, 17 out of 36 ovens stopped, and this is the basis of the budget, the basis of the economy, the jobs, these are social programmes and payments, these are pensions and salaries. The village's infrastructure has been destroyed, 18,000 tractor brigades have been destroyed, 13,000 machine yards have been destroyed, large livestock complexes have been destroyed, and 192 sugar plants have remained around 80. From 10 million to 12 million hectares of agricultural land are extracted. 50 per cent of villages have no schools, 60 per cent have no schools, 40 per cent have no clubs, no palaces of culture, no libraries, and 70 per cent of villages have no facilities. Since 1 January 2009, national lunatics have proposed that a moratorium on the sale of land should be lifted and that the country's home land should already be traded. Ukrainian commercial banks, enriching themselves with questionable financial transactions and engendering credit pyramids, are now balancing on the basis of bankruptcy. They thus paralyze the economy, and investors, including millions of pensioners, may soon lose all their savings. Through the consumer lending system, ninety billion dollars of foreign loans have been used to support foreign companies and importers. That is, they saved the West from the crisis, and it already takes 12 billion dollars a year to pay off debts and interest payments to Ukrainian banks. Where's that money coming from? They will naturally come from the pockets of our citizens. The World Trade Organization, contrary to the assurances of the President and the Government, has not only not opened the way for our goods to world markets, but the internal market has been monopolized by foreign companies and transnational corporations. One more question I would like to draw your attention to, distinguished voters. The global crisis, which has stalled over a period of twenty years through the destruction of the Soviet Union, that is, our blood and sweat, has been shattered and it is not excluded that in the near future five to seven million Ukrainians will be forced to return to Ukraine, simply expel them from Europe. Thus, Ukraine is on the threshold of a social explosion. Despite the obvious criminal activity of Yashchenko, he continues his dangerous foreign policy course. A course subject to the sole interests of the United States and joining NATO has become a manic idea for the President. As a result, Ukraine could be one of the first in the list whose economies, and with our people, would be sacrificed in the interests of the States of the gold billion and transnational corporations. Ukraine is already at the threshold. Today, Yushchenko and his leading nationalists are trying to divert people's attention from real economic and political problems. With the President's new agreement with the oligarchs, Ukraine is being interpreted into an extraordinary parliamentary election, with the result that simple labourers will suffer, new prices and tariffs will be consumed once again. However, by all means and means, Ukrainian citizens are trying to disorient and dissociate from the information blockade and political innuendo until major conflicts are provoked. It is for this purpose that the orange power, headed by Yushchenko, encourages the activities of radical nationalist groups in the Crimea and throughout Ukraine. It is for this purpose that Nacsovet on television and radio forces his representatives on a daily basis — listen to the distinguished MPs! - report every day as they're off.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-07-m0.u20	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-07-m0.u21	As Russian and Russian-speaking television channels are turned off from the air. They are implementing a plan today to destroy the information space. It is the nationalists who, by taking power, deliberately incite religious ethnic intolerance: xenophobia, Russophobia. Russia, the historic and strategic partner of our people, is declared “the empire of evil” by President Yushchenko. This is when, in the context of the global and internal economic crisis, cooperation with Russia offers significant prospects for overcoming this crisis. In concluding my statement, I would like to reiterate to you, fellow citizens, we are confident that it is you, the citizens of Ukraine, who will draw the right conclusions and do not allow the games of greedy patriots to destroy our history and culture, destroy the sovereignty and territorial integrity of our country. In addressing our constituents, do not forget all those who stood on Maidan and urged you to elect Yushchenko as President. We are confident that the crisis in Ukraine will be overcome and the basis for overcoming it can be the immediate removal of Yushchenko from power. To conclude, I am convinced that his crime does not have a statute of limitations, he will be condemned by the law of the people of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-07-m0.u22	Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-07-m0.u23	Oleg Zarubinsky, Block of Lithuania. Dear fellow citizens! Ukraine has now entered more than just another stage of political crisis, for the first time being involved in political warfare, a real political battle involving three main centres of influence and three institutions of power: the President, the Cabinet of Ministers, the Supreme Council. Local authorities are already involved. Concerned and negative estimates of events in Ukraine have emerged from international institutions. Regrettably, society has so far underestimated the danger of today’s situation, given that we have been in a constant crisis for almost two decades. There was a certain habit of her. Many people have come to view the crisis as a natural phenomenon for our country. Moreover, it is unlikely that this could be considered natural, but the fact that the political crises have so far been taking place even in the way and in the form of Ukraine’s existence as a state. Even this paradoxical resource, however, is also exhausted, requiring today’s social response to those challenges and the serious risks Ukraine faces in its construction. First. There is a decline in the momentum of the nation. The crisis of statehood and national identity, which in Ukrainian history has always set a time of ruin. It was as if after the provoked early elections there had not been another ruin. Or maybe someone's counting on it. The other one. Today’s Ukrainian leaders are actively seeking support from outside the country, not from their own people. Third. Selfishness of power in a ruined old economy and the lack of a full new economy. Four. The country's endurance and resource exhaustion in the previous period. And finally, the fifth. Forcing people to live in the past in the absence of a future. All of this has a cumulative effect because the leaders of the state instead of consolidating actions prefer to impose their own vision on the environment of the country and its foreign policy, which disentangles the Ukrainian society, which dispels people. There is no dialogue in Ukraine, both at the level of power and society. And what's more, they're used to it. As a result, government construction did not become an issue of the whole Ukrainian community, but was paid to the purchase of human beings, and often there were few intellectual, superficial, but sickly ambitions. Under such circumstances, the personal responsibility of Heads of State and politicians for political and economic events must be put to the test. Why in the United States, in a situation where financial and economic problems are exacerbated, the whole government is united, regardless of the political situation, seeking and finding a way out of the situation, introducing a well-founded plan of action to Congress, and Congress adopts it after professional discussions. Why are similar reconciliations made in Germany and elsewhere? I'll give you the answer: Because there is no disorder and chaos in power, but instead, it produces and guarantees order. If the authorities were responsible in Ukraine, the leadership of the State instead of stimulating and organising the early elections would have to put forward a plan of action for the Supreme Council to prevent Ukraine from sliding into the financial and economic divide, to bring about a monetary system, to halt the galloping rise in food prices and housing services, to solve land problems, to combat unemployment. There's nothing to do and nothing to do! People are looking forward to such initiatives, such proposals, and such actions. This calls for 10 million citizens of Ukraine, not chaos and disorder, which is generating power. People demand order. People will not or will not allow the destruction of Ukraine. People deserve it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-07-m0.u24	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-07-m0.u25	People eventually deserve normal power and normal life. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-07-m0.u26	Where would she take this normal authority? We're all representing her, by the way, dear colleagues! If you don't know that, I'll tell you the secret. No one will be able to separate themselves from power. Everyone here represents power. The government is called the “legislative”. And what I want to tell you about the doctor is that we're all sick here and that society is infected with irresponsibility and hopelessness, unfortunately. Dear colleagues! Why don't you calm down? What are you yelling at? Be normal! Dear colleagues, we have until 24 hours, on the one hand. On the other hand, I propose to follow the Rules. The morning session will be closed, and the evening will be opened as required by legislation. Please. I think the morning session is closed.
