ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u1	Invite the national deputies to the session room so that we can get started. Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:33]] There were 423 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the National Deputy of Ukraine Komara Mikoli Stepanović. Let's all say hello to our colleague together, wish him every success. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you of the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary on 17 December 2008. 18 issues were discussed, including 16 bills, one draft decree and a proposal by the President of Ukraine to Ukraine's law. As a result of the review, 12 laws have been adopted, 11 of which are the granting by the Supreme Council of the consent to be bound by international treaties, one decree adopted, two bills adopted on the basis of which one draft decree has been withdrawn. As a result of the proposals of the President of Ukraine, the law was passed taking into account the proposals made by the head of state. Ladies and gentlemen, we agreed on a weekly schedule of meetings, including the issues that we are to consider today, Thursday, December 18, 2008. At the same time, I have to say that our decision to consider four bills in the second reading today is not due to the fact that many proposals have been made to the committees, and they have not been able to process them in such a short time. These are Bills 3353, 3354, 3344, 3379, and there are appropriate referrals by committees, two committees asking to postpone the consideration of these bills. So I'd like to sign up right now so that we can discuss all the procedural points. Five minutes, please. Please record. National Deputy Arzvetin, faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, there is a request that you really support the proposal to transpose Bill 3354, because on the first reading, we adopted a bill that the Cabinet of Ministers passed, but in a few days, we received a whole new bill from the Cabinet of Ministers, a new edition. There have been many proposals from the national MPs, and in fact the basic bill is substantially changing. So there is a request to move it to the next week because our committee is unable to consider it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u3	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of Regions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u4	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! Well, that is because so far there is virtually no real political force or coalition of political forces in Parliament, which must be responsible for what is happening in the country and for what is happening in Parliament. The confusion, the ambiguity, the absence of 226 people leads to the chaotic work of Parliament. And the second. Once again, you'll see what kind of drafts. Two bills were passed by the Party of the Regions at the time: a bill to encourage the construction industry, recognized by Minister Kuibida, was best and should have been adopted as a basis. No, based on political relevance, the worst bill has been passed — a government bill, and now we reap fruit — we don't know how to end it. Yes, if we put political sensitivity at the forefront, we will play against our own people and against our own country! The chaos in Parliament must be stopped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u5	Vladimir Yavorowski, faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u6	Oleg Lazko wants to speak and I can't refuse him.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u7	Please, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u8	Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! We are today because the committees have not been able to prepare a very important bill, we will have to film it, but in order for today not to go in vain, I suggest that we immediately consider the National Bank's report on the situation on. with the exchange rate of the bracelets and the currency. Look what is done in exchangers! 9.60. Monday is already forecasting 11-12 bucks a dollar! What an enterprise. What company will pay for the loans? To whom will they pay their wages? And the Supreme Council continues to remain silent under these conditions. I suggest today that we immediately consider the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry to investigate the situation with the National Bank, the corresponding project registered, and literally the next Tuesday to hear a report from this commission of inquiry. In addition, the Organ Crime Committee has considered and supported the Supreme Council Decision on Liberation.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u9	Please finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u10	on the release from office of deputy head of the Security Service of Tiberius Durdins, for the political persecution of the “K” Office under his leadership. So today, we propose that we consider the same bill and vote on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u11	Thank you. Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u12	Dear colleagues, well, this hypocrisy, which we hear for a few days from some of our colleagues, has become a nuisance. Well, think about it: today we are told: "The chaos in Parliament must be stopped." What kind of chaos? The chaos was when you airballs were hanging here, and the month you wouldn't let the Supreme Council work. Chaos when a mortuary takes place. Chaos when you're blocking the rostrum. Well, the Supreme Council has begun to work -- stop being hypocritical, get to work! As far as the procedure is concerned. You know, Parliament works normally in plenary mode. I would very much like to see the heads of the committees responsible, well, also concerned about the fact that we are not working in a state-of-the-art mode. If a reduced procedure is used to prepare for second reading, this week should be used. Apparently, we need to hold committee meetings twice, three times, five times a week, so that we do not delay our second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u13	Mikola Kravchenko gives the right to speak to Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, a faction of Communists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u14	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, everything the Head of the Supreme Council said, that is, that he passed on the committee's request, is not true. Yes, the committees, unfortunately too, found something to justify, saying that they had not made it. But, Vladimir Mikhailovich, they're on Monday at the Conciliation Council, heads of committees, first of all, the chairman of the Terjohin Committee said they wouldn't submit these bills because they don't think they were necessary. I mean, it's not that they haven't been able to, that's why we've deliberately voted with you to cut the deadlines at their request, these committees. They're doing deliberate sabotage so that anti-crisis bills don't go through. And I think that this decision of the Supreme Council was, and the head of the committee, which he's not a genius, has no right not to comply with the Supreme Council's decision, because you and I voted that Thursday we are considering these anti-crisis bills. So we need to make a point to the heads of the committees.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u15	Thank you. The name Terhochina was mentioned, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u16	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! I am reminding a great expert in the Rules that we voted in favour of a reduced procedure on Thursday. Today, MPs still have the right to submit their proposals by 18 hours in accordance with the Rules. And you don't have to blame anyone here. Go to our committee and help with your work. Today, you will remember, with the first antichrist law against us. On the side of our committee that we didn't take any suggestions there. Take it to 6:00 today. We'll talk about it on Tuesday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u17	Thank you. Dear national MPs, regarding the proposals made by our colleagues: colleague Arzvetina, on the transfer of 3354, we will now be determined, I am convinced that we must make a decision by voting; regarding our colleague, who has been charged with chaos. I want to say again, my dear colleagues, when the Supreme Council didn't work, when you proposed and we haven't sat for weeks, we haven't said anything, it's the result that we didn't work. And I want to say to those who blame you, please look at the four bills that are committee heads. So you encourage them to work and implement the decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Finally, Deputies' proposals regarding the National Bank's report, the establishment of the Temporary Special Commission, the hearing of a report by the Temporary Special Commission. Maybe that's the way it is, it's a very difficult situation. We see what's happening to the course today. So if, your honorary colleagues, the Supreme Council supports this proposal: we have a few work to do on the establishment of a temporary special investigation commission, we will now assign the Committee on Finance and Banking to the 12th hour deadline to agree on a draft of an appropriate decision so that we can vote on it today. To have the Commission work with the National Bank to deal with all the problems, it has identified all the circumstances related to this area of key state activity, but it is clear that the draft decision would be useful to establish a commission from the National Bank’s Supreme Council to take urgent action to understand and clear policy on the matter. We need to be professionally formulated so that we do not become involved in making matters worse for the queen. And suppose, for example, that we consider this on Tuesday. It's not a simple situation, it's complicated. Obviously, four days would be enough, actually, for such a commission. If you don't mind, I'm asking the committee now. banks and banking activities, together with the Committee on Rules, MPs and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council, prepare a harmonized draft decision so that we can vote on it immediately today, let's say, after the first break. Is there no objection? Then we agreed. The second question. One minute. The second question. What a suggestion was made regarding the adoption of a decision to replace the head of the Security Service. Dear colleagues, we've agreed on a meeting schedule this week, so let's not ask any other questions. The next week, the Conciliation Council will take a decision, and we will take it up and vote. All the other proposals, including Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, for us to vote on this issue in the session room, for us to consider the relevant anti-crisis bills today, so now we need to make a decision, vote on moving them to the next week. From the committee, please, Jaroslav Suhi, then the national MP, Smithukh, and we will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u18	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, I would like to explain that there can be no talk of sabotage or any exorcism. Bill 3344, by the way, is the only bill designed to minimize the negative social consequences in a crisis that unfolds. In order for this bill to be real and effective, not just for a branch, we need a government conclusion, a government conclusion: how much this bill costs, how it will be implemented, where the stages in which we do not yet have it. Yes, we can today, we have a comparative table without government remarks, we can today put out, vote for it, get the veto and come back again. I'm again addressing government officials who are in the government's bed, please, we're waiting on our committee of government bills for social protection in the face of a crisis that's unfolding. Social protection for people with disabilities, social protection for unemployment, social protection for health workers, and so forth. There's a bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u19	Please, National MP Smithukh, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u20	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Smythuch, Party of Ukraine. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I would like to remind you that before your election to the Supreme Council, you were speaking from the rostrum, where the Supreme Council was asked to immediately invite the head of the National Bank of Ukraine, the President, the Prime Minister of Ukraine to the Hall, where to consider the financial and economic situation for today. Unfortunately, when you became Head of the Supreme Council, that question was somehow removed. Today, Lazko offers the right position to consider immediately the Supreme Council’s decision to set up an investigative special commission. Such a decree by the people’s representative of Azar was made to the Supreme Council, and it was handed down to the people’s deputies. And I think it needs to be voted on immediately to create a commission of this committee, to give it status and to work and to listen to its report. I think today's financial and economic situation is such that it's a priority issue, all the other issues are secondary. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u21	Thank you. We're done. Peter Cibenko and we will be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u22	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I believe that in the Supreme Council, we have no need to vote again for those documents that we have to postpone again. The Supreme Council reduced the deadline for preparation for the second reading, giving appropriate instructions to the committees. Let them do it. Why we have to make another decision. There is absolutely no need for that. There is a commission, let them do it, and then the Supreme Council will consider it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u23	Thank you. Dear colleagues, regarding the offer of a fellow Smith who spoke, well, I thank you for your support. But the thing is, we have a couple of bills, a couple of options for the commission of inquiry. We need to create one. That's why I have this suggestion, please note, that I have two committees before 12 o'clock to work on, including part of the commission's membership, not just the fact of the commission, to find out that it has been asked by Tuesday to deal with all the issues that should be dealt with by the commission and to bring them up to date with the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And we must now, to the extent that we are ready, confirm the composition of this committee. A logical question? It's perfectly logical. With regard to the proposals that have just been made regarding the postponement of the consideration of bills that are being processed for second reading on committees, it is unfortunate that these documents are not ready, that we will now discuss. That's why I have a proposal, I'd like you to pay attention, my fellow Members, to move the debate to the next week's drafts, please note, Nos. 3353, 3354, 3344, 3379 and Bill 3306. Please vote. [[10:20:25]] For - 224. Two hundred and twenty-four. I ask, fellow believers, four bills are not ready for consideration in connection with many proposals. So there is a request to postpone their consideration so that we can maintain the purity of our decisions. Please, Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u24	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, dear colleagues, we do not have to vote. We just, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, have to note that the committees have failed to comply with the decision of the Supreme Council. And to vote on what they're carrying, they're automatically being transferred, because today, unfortunately, we can't look at them without comparative tables. And so the next plenary week, without any vote, they're placed in the agenda. Because it turns out we're re-voting to look at them. They have no doubt and no vote to be taken next week, so I don't see the need for us to vote again. Unfortunately, we can't look at them because they're not physically ready. So you've read, we've dropped them, we've moved on, we're looking at the next bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u25	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, dear colleagues, I agree with you absolutely, but another part of the MPs insists that we either consider or postpone. But the logic is that if the committees have not been able to prepare in connection with a large number of suggestions, we need to postpone consideration of these issues. Is there a need to vote again or not? I would like to remind you, my fellow Members, that the involvement in the drafting of these bills is with representatives of the entire MPs' corps, so there's nothing to blame. Names to call, I don't think there's any need, you know them very well, and these are our key committees. So let's automatically make a decision by agreeing, more precisely, that they should be considered immediately at the beginning of the next week. I'd like the committees to take this into account and hold committee meetings and make the right decisions. We keep working. What? Please, Sergey Teryohin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, our committee has requested the Head of the Supreme Council to transpose another bill 3459 on Tuesday, because all these bills of logic are to go with one package. So what you called, plus 3459, and we're going to consider on Tuesday with one packet, all of these bills, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u27	The author of the bill. Yes, dear colleagues, I beg you, enough already. Peter Simonenko, this is a bill under his authority, please, Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u28	Dear colleagues, Simonenko, the Communist faction. Deliberately delaying its consideration of the bill, this is done on purpose in view of the fact that certain representatives of the banking mafia in the Ukrainian Parliament do not want us to protect those who have taken credit, who have been deceived on another occasion. Our proposals go back to the next one. First of all, to stop banks from taking the property that was in the mortgage, that is, a person bought a car for a loan, a person bought an apartment. Today, what the banking mafia is doing, it's taking away an apartment, it's depreciating it, it's selling it for nothing in the market, and the rest of the difference in the loan rate is, let's say, the difference that they're selling again is hanging on the neck of whoever took this, this loan to buy the apartment. So the apartments are being stripped and they're still, so let's say, on his neck this loan. Secondly, we suggest that the loan be returned to the rate that was at the time of the agreement, not as it is today. And the third.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u29	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u30	And the third. We, the Communist faction, are today proposing to force banks to work for the national economy and to set a credit rate of 3.5 percent per year and thus force them to give credit for the development or support of the real economy, and what they are doing today is the mafia and it's headed by what kind of person today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u31	Thank you. Honorable National MPs. As far as the last bill is concerned. We have already discussed the need for discussion in the session hall. When we approach, we will act accordingly, considering that there is no committee decision. Well, we're not taking it down, Peter Mikolaiovich, from the agenda of the session when we approach it, in turn, we'll be determined by the session hall. Dear colleagues, we have good reason to continue our work, but before that, I would like to ask again about the sensitive issue of the situation in our financial market. I ask the Committee on Finance and Banking to prepare proposals for the adoption of the relevant decision of the Supreme Council concerning the establishment of the Provisional Inquiry Commission, and I ask the First Deputy Chief of the Supreme Council to lead this work so that we can take the appropriate decision today. It is desirable that it be reconciled, but there are few options. It is announced for consideration in the second reading, pending consideration in the second reading of the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Protection against Unfair Competition. Registration number 0978. Reporter: Head of the Economic Policy Committee Committee, Alexei Alexiyyovich Kostuyev. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u32	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! The draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Protection against Unfair Competition, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers, was adopted as the basis for the Fifth Supreme Council to convene on 19 June last year. The bill proposes to improve the legal framework for protection against unfair competition and to harmonize a number of procedural provisions of the Law on Protection against Unfair Competition with the relevant provisions of other laws, such as the Protection of Economic Competition and the Law on the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine. In preparing the draft second reading bill, the Committee on Economic Policy carefully examined and took into account all comments made by the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Only one amendment had been made to the bill, which had been taken into account. On 12 March 2008, members of the Committee on Economic Policy discussed carefully and unanimously supported the final drafting of the bill at the committee meeting. The Cabinet of Ministers also supports the adoption of the project. The Supreme Council's Chief Legal Office of the Supreme Council provides a bill with no comments at all. The Committee on Economic Policy recommends to the Supreme Council the adoption of a draft law amending the Ukrainian law on protection against unfair competition on second reading and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u33	Dear colleagues, the proposals that came to the committee are taken into account. The Committee's conclusion is to accept it in second reading and generally as a law. Is there no objection? May I have your attention, fellow officers? Please prepare for the vote. A second-reading committee proposal is put to the vote as a bill of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Protection against Unfair Competition. [[Registration number 0978]] Please vote. [[10:29:51]] For 411 The law is passed. Thank you. The draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the National Council of Ukraine on Television and Radio is being announced for consideration. [[on the order in which members of the National Council are terminated]] Reporter: Head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information Committee, Helen Anatolyevna Bonaderenko I'd like to report to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u34	Dear colleagues, my bill 0953 is primarily intended to restore to Parliament the function of its constitutional right to appoint and resign its representatives on the National Television and Broadcasting Council. At the moment, unfortunately, Parliament lacks the right to dismiss its representatives from the National Council without regard to the President. Thus, there is no balance in the National Television and Broadcasting Council, no decentralization in decision-making, and there is a possibility that decisions can be reversed. However, in order for this law to be fully implemented, the parliamentary opposition must have guarantees as to whether there will be representatives in the parliamentary quarter who work in the national council. Regrettably, the parliamentary opposition has no such guarantees now, as the Opposition Act has not been adopted. The situation in this room is very difficult at present, so I ask the room, if possible, to vote in favour of the postponement of this law in order to find consensus in the room. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u35	Please, Mikola Tomenko, for this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u36	Dear colleagues, I also suggest that we take a careful look at the matter. To be honest, I'm a little concerned that it turns out that we have laws that depend on whether a faction is in power or in opposition. I believed that we had laws to bring order in the country. Today, under the current Nacradu Act, “On Television and Broadcasting”, this body is an organ of the President's Secretariat. We form a four, the Supreme Council, and we can't in any way influence the situation there. They're sitting there at the President's Secretariat, writing how one of our judges is known to us, who write out what to vote for and vote for. And what's interesting is that the Party of Regions has criticized Nacradu most actively. So I'm surprised by the change in position. How should we act as a parliament? We need to regain parliamentary control over the activities of this most important body. How can this be done? The Constitution gives us the authority to form half of the Nakrad. If we form half of the Nakrad, we have to control the Nakrad and influence these people. So the bill that we're looking at is absolutely right and literate, because that's what we've always done in Parliament. We have not listened to Nacrada’s report for four years. Why don't we listen? Because there's no point in listening. Even if we're not satisfied with the activities of the Nakrad, we have mistrust, it doesn't affect anything, because the President, for example, trusts her and we can't release anyone. That's why my offer is like that. I understand of course the concern of the Party of Regions, I, by the way, co-author of the Opposition Act, where we clearly stated that the opposition should necessarily be represented in Nacrad, and I am convinced that the session hall so when the Nacrad is formed, will respond. But for the fear of the Party of Regions that will not be its representative, to give up parliamentary control of the Nacradu, I think that's the wrong approach. My proposal is to vote in the second reading, the committee supported it, to return Parliamentary control to Nacradi, then to hear the Nacrada report and to accept organizational conclusions. Well, we can't go to the President's Secretariat and ask permission to consider a matter at Nacrad. So once again, I would like to state publicly that our faction as the initiator of the adoption of the Opposition Act guarantees that in forming the National Council, the opposition will be warned of its rights. But we need to return parliamentary control to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Therefore, my proposal is not to tolerate, but to vote in favour of the bill in the second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u37	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? In view of the fact that the committee has decided that a second reading should be made, and in general, we cannot remove it today, in accordance with the Rules, from consideration of the proposal of the head of the subcommittee. That is why we will act in this way. This is already an acquisition in preparation for the second reading of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So I'm going to put the committee's first proposal to the vote. If she doesn't get support, then we'll figure out what to do next. Please prepare for the vote. I would like to vote on the committee's proposal to adopt a second reading and as a whole a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on National Council for Television, Broadcasting. [[on the order in which members of the National Council are terminated]] Registration number 0953. Please vote. Please vote. [[10:36:00]] For 226 May I have your attention, please? For 226, the law was passed. The factions? Please. Region Party – 1, Yulia Timoshenko Block – 155, Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense – 24, Communist faction – 26, Lithuanian Block – 20. A draft Act amending article 4 of the Ukrainian Housing Minimum Act is being announced for consideration. [[concerning the approval of a subsistence minimum]] Registration number 1034. Reporter: Deputy Head of the Committee on Social Policy and Work, Jaroslav Mihajlovich Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u38	Dear colleagues, this bill was adopted in the first reading, and 344 votes were cast for it by Ukrainian national deputies. It's simple, it's made up of one sentence. One change has been made to the comparison table, which is counted. I want to remind you that he, this bill, returns to us the established residence minimum. We can't adjust every year. Adjust the costal minimum to the budget. Thus, the very authority of this main core indicator of the Law on Social Standards and State Social Guarantees is levelled and people's trust in minimum wage, minimum pension, minimum social benefits is lost. With you, our main task and the task of the government that has agreed to do so is to set a real and objective minimum of living, because some social benefits are still based on a minimum of living. Therefore, by restoring the trust of society to the reality of this important objective existing minimum of subsistence, we must ensure that the fundamental social norms of the State exist. Dear colleagues, I'll remind you. A year ago, I think Yuri Lucenko went to the market in Kiev and tried to buy something for a one - day living minimum. You remember what he put down at the time, like the cat cried. I guarantee you, if we go to this market today, remember some numbers. One day for one 106 grams of bread, half an egg, four grams of fat, 10 grams of pasta, 5 grams of Greek grain. I'm not talking about industrial goods anymore: some swimsuits for 10 years and two and a half years of costume and so on. We have to change this indicator by making it real. Therefore, the law that we have introduced and voted in the first reading provides for a clear point: the minimum of living per person, as well as for those, remember, in the various demographic categories that apply to different population groups, according to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, based on the methodology developed according to the subsistence minimum, is approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine by law before the beginning of the review of the draft Law on the State Budget of Ukraine and serves for the government and the developers of the State Budget with a social orientation, with a view to restoring the reality of the subsistence minimum. Thank you. Please support in the second reading. One suggestion, it's counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u39	Dear colleagues, one amendment was made to this law. It's counted. The committee's proposal is to accept it in second reading and generally as a law. Please, Vladimir Matwijczuk, representative of the Cabinet of Ministers, Deputy Minister of Finance, before the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u40	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Of course, you have a decision to make. I would just like to draw your attention to the next vote. According to article 95 of the Constitution, expenditures on social needs are determined only by the State Budget Act of Ukraine. The defined social standard is the main indicator that generates these costs. It depends on the social benefits, the minimum pension size, the minimum wage, and so on. So it's impossible to get this indicator out of the State Budget Act, because at the time the budget will not be defined by income as predicted here, and it can't be defined at all. So I ask you not to vote for these changes. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the honourable reporter reported for the standards that apply to the minimum of living. These changes do not provide for these changes in standards, they only predict that this indicator should be determined, not by the State Budget Act, but by another law. I beg you, honourable national MPs, not to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u41	Dear colleagues, the Cabinet of Ministers has been warned. At the same time, there is a proposal for a profile committee to adopt this project as a law. Then I put to the vote a motion for a committee to adopt in the second reading and as a whole as a bill of the draft Act amending article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on Living Minimum. [[concerning the approval of a subsistence minimum]] Please vote. [[10:41:59]] For 221 The decision is not taken. By factions, please, by factions. The Party of Regions - 165, "The Block of July Timoshenko" - 0, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" - 11, Communist faction - 26, "Block of Lithuania" - 19. [[B in m in s a l in]] What, what? Just a minute. Dear colleagues, one minute. Alexander Lavrinovich asks.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, I understand the logic of the Deputy Minister of Finance now. The point is that we may find ourselves in a situation where the budget for the following year will not be adopted in the country. These are the realities in which we are now living with you. And the desire, of course, not to make decisions about the minimum of living. Because in the conditions that are today, we understand how far away we are from the real cost of living and the figure that is set today. This is an open action against the entire Ukrainian people. I would like to be responsible for such decisions and to be aware of the responsibility that this is the approach we are now seeking to humiliate the entire Ukrainian people and to ensure their poverty in legislation. I'd like to think before I go back to voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u43	Please, Oleg Lazko. Dear colleagues, one minute. Oleg Lazko, Peter Cibenko, and we will be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u44	Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. I don't think there's any person in this room who, either word or deed, the vast majority, obviously in action, wouldn't be afraid for the Ukrainian people. But it's hardly going to be a pang for the Ukrainian people, if we adopt this law, we're going to have inflation at a thousand percent next year. Zimbabwe, and we're in second place since Zimbabwe. With regard to the draft budget, the government is working on a draft budget this week, and it is known to the leaders of the political factions that it will be introduced to the Supreme Council, and it will be considered by the Committee on Budget Affairs. And God will give, when will comes, including those who sore for the Ukrainian people, we will vote next week and the country will have a budget. The minimum of living is adopted by the Budget Act, and there is no need to change this norm and to make this policy, to pyrate, to show who is more hurtful for the Ukrainian people. It seems to me that the political forces that really care for this nation will not be parasitic at these moments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u45	Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, we will now determine. The factions are all coming out.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u46	Thank you. The Communist faction, Peter Cibenko, is the first deputy head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I think in the good sense of this word, we are destined to return to the vote on this document because when the Supreme Council of Ukraine approves the minimum of living, we understand that even at the minimum that is approved, we cannot live for a month. But that subsistence minimum that is installed, the so-called “guaranteed”, cannot be lived on for a week. And so on behalf of millions of pensioners, I insist that we go back to voting on this issue and make a positive decision. In the end, we will separately adopt the Law on the State Budget of Ukraine, work on the numbers that are, but the mechanism of how to approve the subsistence minimum we are obliged to approve here. I urge you to remove the shackles from the subsistence minimum, which are imposed by the so-called “guaranteed subsistence minimum”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u47	Oleg Zarubinski. Dear colleagues, we have exchanged thoughts from each faction, now we will determine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u48	Dear colleagues, I don't even want to talk about the content of this law. Everyone understands that the subsistence minimum is one that is not adequate for today’s needs, prices, and so on. I would just like to talk about the logic of the legislative procedure. In the first reading, more than 300 deputies voted in favour of the bill. If I'm not mistaken, 354. An amendment was made, as the Head of the Supreme Council said, on the part of the MP as the subject of the legislative initiative. It's counted, it's implemented. So today it's the same situation that it was when 354 people voted, national MPs. It seems to me that we should be consistent in our logic as legislators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u49	Head, deputy head of the committee. Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, look closely at me and listen to me, but you work with voters. In this case, there is a substitution of concepts. Rabbit, you don't have to work with voters. Whoever needs it, let him listen. There's a substitution. I didn't say the name. In this case, there is a substitution of concepts. The language in this bill, you know, Volodymyr Makarovich, is not about value. He's standing there, Oleg Borisovich, let him explain. It's not about value, it's not about content, it's not about money, it's about income, it's about acceptance. As far as the Supreme Council is concerned, that's the order. Recall when in 2005 or 2004, Ukraine’s national deputy, Viacheslav Kirilenko, and then Viktor Yushchenko, made changes to the minimum of living. There's no such thing now. The Cabinet of Ministers is a real value, and what thousands of people are there as a percentage of inflation. Don't make it up! $400 million in savings isn't inflation?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u51	Thank you. Jaroslav Mikhailovich, thank you. Once again, Vladimir Matviyczuk of the Cabinet of Ministers. And now we're going to be referring to the proposals that have come forward, making decisions, that is, determining by voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u52	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address the distinguished Peter Stépanovich Cibenk. Please note the text of the bill. There's only a change of procedure, there's no amount of living minimum. And the procedure changes only to accept a minimum of living without financial grounds. This would violate article 27 of the Budget Code and article 95 of the Constitution. Please consider this. It's not about protecting the population, it's completely different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u53	Thank you. Dear colleagues, well, please. Replica is Peter Cibenko and John the Rabbit, and we will vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u54	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Reverend Volodymyr Makarovich, indeed, and this was confirmed by colleague Suhi, that this is not about specific figures. I was really talking about approaches, too. But agree with me that even with the subsistence minimum approved in the State Budget Act, it is impossible to live for a month, and with the Cabinet of Ministers offering as the so-called guaranteed one, it is not possible to spend a week. People are good at what we're talking about! So I insist once again that we go back to voting on this document and support the draft law that the committee has submitted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u55	John the Rabbit. Please. John the Rabbit, you're the wrong microphone, maybe look at the card. Please, on the rostrum, it'll be quicker. Please, one minute to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u56	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party, faction of our Ukrainian People's Self-Defense, I have taken the floor to respond to Mr. Dryo's speech. Because Mr. Dry instead of saying specific things, he plays the clown all the time. And that's what we hear every day. It tells anecdotes that are very rude. Mr. Suhi, please don't interrupt. So if you want to blame me for not working with the voters, we're working with the voters. And your meetings, your roommates over there, you don't call your meetings, because you really don't have anything to go to the voters with today. Because you've destroyed the entire economy in your region today, and please answer now why your factories are standing, why people are unemployed today, and I ask you to choose arguments before going out on the rostrum, because you're speaking out of the committee, you have to speak seriously, not play clown here.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u57	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? The proposal came from a number of deputies, especially Petra Stepanovich Cibenka, to vote on the return to the project. Because we have this practice, I can't help but do it. So please note, I am voting for the return to draft Law 1034, please vote. [[10:52:21]] For 231 They've come back to the debate. I now put to the vote a motion for a committee to adopt in the second reading and as a whole as a bill of the draft Act amending article 4 of the Ukrainian Housing Minimum Act, registration number 1034, please vote. [[concerning the approval of a subsistence minimum]] Please vote. [[10:52:55]] For 231 The law has been passed, thank you. The factions, please. Region Party – 174, “Block of Timoshenko” – 0, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” – 29, Communists – 26, “Block of Lithuania” – 2. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on improving financial mechanisms for investment in housing]] I beg of you, my fellow Members, to pay attention so that we may be able to continue our work in a fruitful manner. The report invites the head of the Finance and Banking Committee, Alexander Ivanovich Klimenko. Please, Alexander Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u58	Thank you very much. Good afternoon. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Your opinion is proposed by a bill that has long become extremely urgent and relevant. The critical situation in the construction field today is well - known. It should be noted that it is obvious that the crisis in the area of construction is not ultimately caused by the critical state of the financial and credit mechanisms that are to provide a stable and continuous development of the construction sector. This project proposes a number of amendments to the Ukrainian Civil Code on Administrative Violations of the Ukrainian Law on Financial and Credit Mechanisms and Property Management in Housing and Real Estate Operations, on the planning and construction of territories and on certain other laws aimed at strengthening the protection of the interests of participants in the financial construction of real estate and at strengthening public oversight and market control. This bill was considered by our Committee on Finance and Banking and proposed adoption on October 1, 2008. It should be noted separately that this bill was actually developed by a working group that was created by a decision of the Committee on Finance, Banking, which was incorporated by almost all political forces, and we all resolved by consensus. And that's why I can stress that it has no political coloring today, but it's focused solely on meeting those requirements that are today in front of the building industry and protection, especially the consumers. In fact, the project proposed an attempt to unify all laws 1045, 1045-1 and 1418 of the Karacai People’s Deputies. After a long discussion, the working group found out on its previous questions, which and the differences between the bills that had been tabled, and we made our proposals, which were accepted in the first reading. Instead, you remember that on the first reading, the bill was passed by 378 national deputies. I also want to say that there's a reference to the scientific expertise, which has also been taken into account, but in part, in this bill. I would also like to point out that the working group has not only received representatives of the Ministry of the Interior, representatives of construction organizations, a commission of securities, and so I would like you to support this bill in the second reading that society is waiting for today. And about that bill 3354 that was taken off the table today. Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, the working group, and was sitting until six o'clock last night, but unfortunately, our committee was not able to meet yesterday and, therefore, for the next week, these are all introduced and will be considered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u59	Dear colleagues, let us now consider the amendments. Amendment of Yuri Carmagina number 5. Do you agree with her, which is considered editorially? Do you agree? Yes. Amendment No. 8 of the People's Deputies of the Blacksmith. Are you insisting on her? No, it's not. Amendment number nine, and I'm sorry, the 8th amendment of the microphone of the people's MP Blackwolf.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u60	I insist on this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u61	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u62	Well, I'd like you to report on this amendment, because you were in the task force, too, and we decided to take it into account. It's not about 5 million, it's about 1 million euros.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u63	No, it says 3 million euros.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u64	Instead, at the beginning there were 5 million and we agreed that it would be up to 1 million euros. Today we see that there was a whole building industry in stagnation, as well as a financial sector, and while we were looking at the bill, there was no such crisis and not only in the financial market, but in the currency market. And that's why I think it's going to narrow it down, it's going to narrow down the construction companies that could work in this market. And it just cements and monopolizes those companies that will just monopolize this market.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u65	My colleague's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u66	Dear Mr. Klimenko, so I also offered one million, and I don't understand what you put on the committee in my amendment. A million, of course. If you've counted a million, that's my amendment too.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u67	To be a million, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u68	A million, yes, that's fine. It's a readjustment. I'm asking you to write that it's counted, not counted. My amendment was a million. Because at first three were imported, instead of five; the second time a million were imported. They put the old one in, and they forgot the new one. A million is my number, too. This is counted. And it shoots, it shoots 3 million.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u69	Then that's how I want it. One minute, it is only the author of the amendment who has the right to make a warning. In this way, we find that in paragraph 3, paragraph 4, of Chapter 3, one word is replaced by the words “five million euro” by the words “one million euro”. And the committee agrees with this amendment?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u70	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u71	Is there no need to vote then? None. Then the 9th Amendment of Yuri Carmazin. Please. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u72	Yuri Carmazin. I would like to draw your attention to what we have to do to avoid new “elite centres”. That's the first one. The other one. I would like to point out that we are throwing away the notion of a “builder” who can be a builder, thus putting people at risk. I would ask you to. I know how much you've done for this law to be passed, it's going to be adopted today, so that we don't just reject the rules about 5 million, first. And secondly, here is the definition that I give: “a builder may be a person who, according to the law, has the right to perform the functions of a contractor for the construction of buildings and to enter into a contract with the manager. And the statutory fund of this person must be at least 5 million euros, which must be paid in full exclusively with money.” Since this is accepted in the first reading, if changes are made and deleted, I ask you to put it, Mr. Head, it is then for removal.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u73	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u74	And I would also like to say that now any measure that we're going to take during the stagnation period of the construction sector and increase their statutory funds will only lead to the monopoly of the companies that are now going to be mostly in Kiev. The situation has changed. And what we took from the national currency exchange rate, what I reported in my report, is that, at the national currency rate, prices have tripled. So I would ask you to clean up this amendment, because when we looked at the working group, we rejected it. Today, there is no more money to pay the wages. You know very well what the situation is today.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u75	Please, Yuri Carmine. The situation has changed, indeed, the committee here seems to have logic.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u76	Unfortunately, the situation has turned worse because the euro has become twice as expensive, but it has not become five times more expensive. I'm pointing out that we wrote 5 million euros in the first reading, right? Yes. So the situation has changed. Write 2.5 even if you write at 3 But I want people to be assured that there will be no "elite centres" and other fraud institutions that people are currently writing about. I have one goal. This allows us to build for those who concentrate on some of the costs. I'm not saying that there will be five or six builders. And we have to put some demands in front of the developer, not just the manager, because otherwise these firms are just going to burn. Well, let's see.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u77	We're going to adopt a bill that's going to relive the entire building industry, first of all. There's no such thing today. And Mr. Crnvolenko also agreed that a million euros would be a warning that would suffice. So our position is to reject it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, one minute. Since this position was based on the adoption of the law and was rejected by the committee, it is then necessary to vote on the deletion of the amendment. If the Supreme Council. What?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u79	I suggested this to the author of the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u80	Just a minute. Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, please give me your offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u81	Thank you. The point is, if the committee has changed any number, any position that we have adopted in the first reading, and the Supreme Council disagrees with the committee's proposal, then we need to put the committee's proposal to the vote to confirm their decision. If such a decision does not pass, then what we made in the first reading remains.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u82	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. We talked about the same thing. Therefore, either put to the vote the amendment of the committee, or the removal. So please pay attention, fellow Members of State! I am voting on the proposal to confirm the amendment proposed by the committee. Is that logical? And according to the Rules. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:04:33]] For 233 Committee position confirmed. Amendment 10 is removed accordingly. Yuri Anatolyevich. Please, Amendment 10.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u83	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, the 10th Amendment is also envisaged for the builder. The thing is, we don't even know what we're looking for in the building, we're just predicting to the manager. Well, that's wrong, that's completely wrong, that's a completely second legal category. Who's the prodigal? I say that these are persons whose statutory fund is at least five million. You say a million? Come on, let's make it a million, but there's got to be requirements for a developer. If we don't have them, we'll have them again. The time will come, you will see that these companies will fly. They are now fully self - centered, for free space laws can be negotiated in Kiev. Space laws also deal with cosmic figures. But there must be requirements for a builder. I just want them to be written. Who is in the way? I want to hear the committee's point of view, why is there no requirement for a developer? Please tell me.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u84	Dear Yuri Anatolyovich, we seem to be living on a completely different financial scale, so your proposals all apply to 5 million euros. I would like to emphasize to you once again that no company in these conditions will be able to work today and will not be able to provide these 5 million euros.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u85	I'll put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u86	This proposal was rejected by our committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u87	Thank you. I'm voting for Amendment 10 of Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin. Please determine for support. [[11:06:33]] For-34 The decision is not taken. 11th Amendment. Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin, do you insist?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u88	Yes. I want to sound it, Alexander Volodymyrovich. And that's where time will judge us. We wrote in article 8 that the manager cannot require the administrator to carry out all his obligations if the manager fails to comply with his obligations under a property management contract. That's a ridiculous norm! I suggest we shut her down! That's my point. I propose that everyone fulfill their obligations under the contract. Here's what I'm suggesting. That's why. And I don't understand why they rejected the amendment. Overruled? I'm sounding it. Please state your position why not.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u89	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, this amendment has indeed been rejected by the committee, since the rights of trustees are completely violated here, it cannot be taken into account today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u90	The position is clear. I'm voting on Amendment 11 of Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:08:02]] For-24 The decision is not taken. Amendment number 12 of Yuri Sergiyovich Serbin. Are you insisting? Yuri Sergiyovich, are you insisting on correction?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u91	What is the correction?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u92	The 12th! It's your repair.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u93	Page, please, me.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u94	Yuri Sergiyovich does not insist. Next amendment number 13. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, would you insist? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u95	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, I want to make a sound at the legal position, and then you'll see, life will show. In article 8, part one, I propose the deletion of paragraph six, namely: “The manager cannot establish the conditions required for the institution to manage the property that the latter did not have a real opportunity to know before the contract was concluded, except for the rules established by law. So the point is that if conditions have changed in some way and they have not been able to get acquainted with them, then the manager cannot set these conditions. Absolutely what fits civil law. I don't understand. If we do not want to follow legislation, say so, we are adopting a law in which some of the rules are written “according to understanding”. I'm against "understand," I'm against the law. So let's do it. I'm asking you to put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u96	Alexander Ivanovich, please, your point of view.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u97	The working group and the committee were also rejected. I want to remind you once again that this bill provides first for the protection of the rights of trustees and investors. So the committee's proposal was to reject it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u98	I'm voting on Amendment 13, Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin. Please vote. [[11:10:05]] For-179 The decision is not taken. Next amendment by Alexander Ivanovich Klimenko is included. [[No. 14]] There is no objection to taking this amendment into account? None. 15th Amendment, Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin. Are you insisting?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u99	I'll take the 15th.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u100	The 15th amendment is deleted. Amendment number 16, Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin. Are you insisting?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u101	I want to sound it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u102	Please, it's Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u103	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies! I want us to think about what standards we write down for insurance. This article refers to insurance in general, so that everyone understands who has no text. I propose in article 12, in part two, to delete the words: “the procedure for obtaining insurance compensation by a trustee in the event of the timely entry into service of a building, not the work envisaged by the contract between the manager and the developer, and the contract between the fund manager and the fund manager, or the improper performance of such works.” So I want us to get closer and closer to civil law, just for the sake of this amendment. I don't understand why almost all the proposals have been rejected, because the law is extremely serious. It can be very serious, then it can have consequences. We'll only see it later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u104	Please explain the reasons for the correction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u105	Well, first of all, Yuri Anatolyevich, we've always respected your amendments. That's why it doesn't matter what we rejected. But what I'm saying is, in article 10 of the insurance law, we've been looking at it. And we also had members of the working group and representatives of the insurance league. And according to both the working group and our committee, it was inappropriate to introduce property risk insurance under a financial construction contract, which is shown in the table in 117 of this table, this is the 10th article.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u106	In fact, there's no argument that's biased. I'm voting on Amendment 16 of Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin. [[11:12:39]] For 197 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 17. Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin, do you insist?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u107	Dear, distinguished Alexander Volodymyrovich. I thank those deputies who listen to us, almost 200 people vote, a little bit more – a decision will be made. I would like to say that insurance companies are pursuing their interests in adopting this law. Doesn't that make sense? It's got to be clear to everyone, bankers are chasing their own insurance companies, people's interests here are totally falling apart. Therefore, I ask in part one to delete paragraph 24: “Accommodating by a trustee the sums of insurance in the order and cases provided for by this law and by the rules of the FSB”. It won't change anything for the law, but I suggest we do it for legal clarity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u108	Dear Yuri Anatoliyovich, I do not wish to appeal to you, but once again, I would like to say that the representatives of the insurance companies, the League of Insurance Companies, were a member of the working group, and they, unfortunately, are not able to cover all these risks today and refuse insurance on their own. And that's why it's going to be accepted on voluntary terms. The committee rejected the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u109	I'm betting on the vote of amendment number 17 of the People's Deputies of Carmazin. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:14:26]] For-188. The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 18 of the Serbian People's Deputy. Yuri Sergiyovich insists?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u110	I agree.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u111	Don't insist. Next amendment number 19, Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin. Are you insisting?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u112	No, I don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u113	Amendment No. 20 of the Serbian People's Deputy. Please, Yuri Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u114	If you don't mind, I'll explain. Dear colleagues, what's going on now? There's a price drop on. square meters. If we do not accept my amendment, then it is forbidden to lower the price for objects that have already begun to be built. Well, that's nonsense. So I ask you very much to support my amendment. I think my colleague Klimenko will agree.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u115	Alexander Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u116	I would like to say that today there are significant changes. They've been in the building business. If we were then guided by the questions that needed to be driven only by the current price, that is, by market conditions, and despite what we've rejected, but in conditions where there is a construction sector today, I'd like to agree with and support the people's parliament of Serbia.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u117	I'm putting to the vote amendment number 20 of the Serbian People's Deputy. Please vote. [[11:16:10]] For 205 The decision is not taken. Next 21st amendment of the Serbian People's Deputy. Please, Yuri Sergiyovich. Yuri Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u118	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have a moment? I'm asking, let's think about what we're doing with you. If you don't mind, I'm asking for a faction of the Party of the Regions. You wrote it down in your law. So what's it gonna be? Now we're not accepting it, and tomorrow we'll be enacting an anti-crisis law. You have this position written in your version of the anti-crisis law filed by the Lisov MP. So now we're not taking it, and in two days we're adopting it, we're repealing it? Let's think about it. If you don't mind, let's go back. How is this possible now not to lower the cost of an object? It's not being sold, it's not being built, and we've banned it from lowering the price for the object.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u119	Please, microphone to the German People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u120	You know, honourable colleagues, that this bill that the Party of Regions proposed was a committee and everyone was recognized as very good. But because of party courtesy, you gave up a good bill, a bill that was considered the best, just because it wasn't proposed by BUT. Unfortunately, you gave up the good bill that we proposed and took up a weaker bill. And now you want the Party of Regions to support a weaker bill and your inadequacies. Don't count on us to do that. Take our program, take our bills, which the committees consider best, and we'll all vote together. And in a way that corrupts the Ukrainian perspective, don't push us to go.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u121	Let me actually answer that.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u122	Wait a minute. The twentieth amendment has another author, Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich. He also insists on arguments. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u123	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies, I now address both Mrs. Herman and you and the entire hall. Now you've ruled out a very necessary crisis in the case of the Serbian people's MP, when prices are falling that they can't become lower. Why can't they get any lower? What are we doing? Do you understand? Is that what we accept for people? So I'm asking and I'm asking the committee to accept this amendment. It's the right thing to do. There were 206 votes for it, but now that I'm arguing, I think there'll be more votes. Please, come back to this. Let's, or then there'll be no point in adopting the law at all. Well, we'll do the law then. Do you understand? Instead of helping, it's the law, today people in a crisis situation should be able to invest in construction so that people can get housing today and we don't let them down. There will continue to be adjustments that do not make payments in cash. There's just gonna be a lot more, but I'm still gonna be talking there, so you know what I mean.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u124	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Since the name of the German national deputy was mentioned again, please, Anna Mikolayevno.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u125	Dear colleagues, if you don't understand, dear colleagues from the vast majority, if you don't understand, I repeat. Let us give up party approaches in such an important matter as rebuilding the building industry. We've called and called for this, but you're rejecting the right and the right bills, and you're still using party courtesy. And when it comes to some of your private interests, you call on the Party of Regions to support you. That's not gonna happen. Either you come out of the national interests, not the interests of the people, and you take the bill into consideration regardless of who offers it, but depending on what good they give to the state, or you don't count on our support in your adventures.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u126	Please state your reasons for the Klimenka People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u127	Dear Hannah Mikhailovna, Hello, with all due respect to you as well as to the entire presence of this room, I would like to point out that this bill is the basis for the provisions of your faction, for which we are grateful, for what we are. It is the basis of this bill. That's the first one. Secondly, all the questions are primarily about the protection of trustees, it's about language. But today much has changed, and today prices cannot be sold and prices have fallen sharply in this market. And in order not to stop the building industry today and to be able to do 100 percent of our obligations under the F.F.B.I. and build them up to the full, otherwise we're just going to be in the next one, all year long we're going to have an out-of-built housing much more than we're building today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u128	Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u129	I'm asking you to come back.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u130	National MPs express their wish to speak on the grounds for voting on Amendment No. 20. I would like you to sign up, please, for the Ukrainian National Deputies, who would like to express their reasons for voting on Amendment No. 20. Please, Blackwolf Alexander Vilenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u131	Dear friends, first of all, I would like to say that this bill is really the work of the representatives of the three factions, the factions fully supported this decision. Secondly, I would like to say that this bill is agreed unanimously on the committee and again on a committee headed by a representative of the Party of the Regions that supports this bill. Thirdly, dear friends, obviously we have to take into account the propositions of builders under the current conditions, especially that it's for the benefit of investors, that is, citizens who invest money, that's in their interests, it's not a rise, it's a decrease. So I suggest you go back and fix Serbia, and support all of its corrections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u132	Cory Vitaly Terentiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u133	Please pass the word to Oleg Laszko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u134	People's deputy Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u135	Thank you. Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Clearly, in the face of a financial crisis, it is the same as banning the sun from rising or the moon from appearing in the sky. I mean, I don't think it's necessary to have laws that the Supreme Council adopts so strangely, so to speak, the position of this normative act. So, Reverend Alexander Valentinovich, come on, Alexander Volodymyrovich, colleagues of honor, let's go back to this amendment, vote again and support. And that's primarily for the benefit of the citizens, because when they stop the builders from lowering prices, it turns out that they can't build anything, people put in money, and people can't get their own apartments or their own housing on the other side. So please let's vote for this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u136	Thank you. Only I would ask during the presentation, if we are talking about something very obvious or something, something nonsense, should we remember that this is the standard adopted in the first reading. And this bill was introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers. Please respect the government. Please, Cranowil Taras Viacheslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u137	Dear colleagues, I have a feeling that there is no economic crisis, people are happy, there are no building affairs, and we are sitting, not in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, but in the kindergarten. Yes, unfortunately, there was a stupidity made out of a member of the MP's corps, when it wasn't supported, as for me, really a better project, which was from the Party of Regions, really it was a better one, accepted in the first reading by another. Now the amendments are actually those things that were invalid and wrong to some extent are reconciled and removed. Now that side then played in the sandbox, in the nursery, now that we have to play the same game. People are good, and let's be wise after all, the crisis in the yard, people are having problems with construction, they're forgetting, people are losing apartments that they've already paid for, and we're still playing in the sandbox. I propose to return to this amendment and it is really necessary for me and they agree on the committee. On the committee, we work wisely all together, come to the hall that we become idiots.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u138	The Zarubinsky People’s Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u139	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. What is the moment of this amendment, who is its final consumer -- people, people who are going to buy housing. The amendment allows them to buy their residents for less money, right, at lower prices because by making and implementing this amendment, we are wasting the cost of housing. What's the party value here? What is the political relevance here? There was someone here who said that someone was coming out of the party. I know who's coming. Those who asked us to vote in favour of the bill on the National Council and did not give themselves a vote. And everyone came and said, "Please vote for the National Council, because we have party discipline." So once again, I want to say, you don't have to be hypocritical. If a bill applies to human needs, discard party things, party apprehensions, party settings, dungeons, speakers, or others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u140	Dear colleagues, the offer has come to return to the consideration of Amendment 20. I am voting on the motion to return to the vote on Amendment 20. [[11:26:48]] For 233 Decision taken. We returned to the consideration of this amendment. As the debate took place and the people's deputies expressed their reasons for voting, I am voting on the amendment of Serbian and Karmazin's national deputies 20. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:27:19]] For 237 Decision taken. Next amendment number 21 of the Serbian People's Deputy. Yuri Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u141	Dear colleagues, I did support this amendment. Why? Well, it's not allowed to make money in cash right now. You know very well now that banks don't return dividends. You can't take cash off the same card. Well, you can translate it just to build housing. What, then, is the violation that if a person converts the funds into an F.F.B. account for housing construction? Well, I just don't get it. Well, we've got a real situation right now, too, that banks don't transfer when they're broke, and they don't issue cash. So what are we holding back, what's the principle? And two words to Mrs. Herman. Mrs. Herman, this amendment is both in government law and in Lisov's law, which we previously voted that price reduction is in both laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u142	Please explain to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u143	The committee was rejected. I want to stress what was adopted in the first reading. Trustees can contribute funds to the FFB in the national currency of Ukraine in cash or cashless form. So I think that's going to cause a lot of discomfort for the trustees and the limitation of their rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u144	I'm voting on Amendment 21. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:29:17]] For 213 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 22 of the Karmazin People's Deputy. Please, Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u145	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies! First of all, I went on a break and showed that this bill was taken as the basis of the national MP Karakaya, Clipenka, Kowala, Laszko, Pisarenko, Blackwolf. So let's make it clear that it's not a government bill, it's a parliamentary bill and the first one is a member of the Party of Regions. This isn't about that. Amendment 22 tells us to rule out the abuses that are currently taking place, and to rule out the basis for the shadow economy, to make it easier for people to live today, so that they can be accounted for, and to rule out cash in these things, because otherwise we can't control who, where they invest, can't do financial monitoring and then it turns out that everything is now in the case that the cash they have just contributed has not been taxed and so on. So I ask you to exclude the word “cash”, allowing people in a cash-free form to do it because banks have blocked it today.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u146	I put to the vote Amendment 22 Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:30:51]] For 216 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 23 of the Serbian People's Deputy. Do you insist, Yuri Sergiyovich? Please, the microphone of the Serbian People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u147	Dear colleagues, let's read the amendment that was rejected by the committee, that's the 23rd amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u148	Amendment number 23, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u149	Amendment 23, page 32, please. What's going on now? Inflation's coming. Money is invested in construction. They're already embedded in concrete, in metal, and after this amendment, they have to pay back the costs, taking into account this course that is now. So where is this developer going to take the money? What does he do now by law? He gets the money from another person and gives it back to the one who took it, and he gives it up in a new course. And you know what's going on with the course, that's what they're talking about today. And the house just doesn't build. Previously, for example, three months ago, there was simply speculation about this correction. People were waiting, some people were definitely waiting.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u150	Please, Alexander Ivanovich, your point of view.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u151	Our committee at the time had made such a decision, I would like to agree with the Serbian people's delegate that significant changes in the national currency today, and more precisely, without the short-lived activities of the National Bank of the State, it would be necessary to admit that today it would actually make it more difficult for the builders. But the hall needs to be defined.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u152	Thank you. I'm putting to the vote amendment number 23 of the Serbian People's Deputy. Please vote. [[11:32:55]] For 237 The decision is made. The 24th Amendment of the People's Deputy of Carmazin. Are you insisting?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u153	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u154	Carmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u155	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, this is about the 24th amendment, isn't it?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u156	Yeah, yeah, 24th.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u157	In my 24th amendment, I propose to add a new part: the amount of money to be returned to the trustee in connection with his exit from the F.F.B. is returned by the trustee within five days after the next full implementation of this investment facility or after the project has been put into service. In this regard, part four, fifth, is considered to be part five and sixth. Why is this necessary? That's what it takes to make sure that they don't depend on that money and return to the person if she asks these questions. That's it. That is, to guarantee human rights. Like the previous amendment, I thank my colleagues, because it was both an amendment to both Serbian and mine, and I would like to support this amendment. Thank you. We'll improve the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u158	Alexander Ivanovich, reasoning on the Committee's rejection.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u159	At that time, of course, we turned down. But what I want to point out is, also in the 3354 working group, and we're also putting in a moratorium to pay people back the money they have invested. Why? Because no object will be built and built at all. So it's for the definition of the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u160	I'm putting to the vote amendment number 24 of People's Deputies Karmazin. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:34:49]] For-67 The decision is not taken. The next amendment of the Serbian People's Deputy is taken into account. Is there no objection to the committee's taking into account amendment number 25 of the Serbian People's Deputy? There's no objection. Next amendment number 26 of the Karmazin People's Deputy, which is edited. Does Yuri Anatolyevich insist that his editorial be? Don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u161	Amendment 26 is actually taken into account editorially.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u162	Don't insist. The next is the 27th amendment of the Karmazina Chamber. Edited. Are you insisting on your writing or not? Carmazine's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u163	Yuri Carmazin. In fact, Alexander Volodymyrovich, she's an editorial and she's a normal editor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u164	Thank you. The next 28th amendment of the People's Deputy Karmazin, which was rejected. Are you insisting on her?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u165	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u166	Please give me an argument.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u167	Dear National Deputies! Yuri Carmazin. The 28th amendment foresees what it sounds like: “Article 19 of Part 10 excludes words from the second sentence. delete the words “at this point, local self-government shall not be entitled to require any other documents concerning the participation of a trustee in the FFB”. The point is that the local self - government authorities in the area where this object is located need to know what is being built, how it is being built, and so on. So I wanted to say that these rights should be, because then we're asking questions, we're asking questions to the Kyiv mayor that you're answering. We're asking a question to the Odessa mayor, in front of someone. And they don't even have anything at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u168	Please explain the deviation committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u169	First, it was rejected. And second of all, I want to say that in the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Violations, we have foreseen the standards that are today. Their responsibility to the builders and to those who ask for any documentation will be there. softly so, it's very strict to order. But what I'm saying is that we don't need to support the bureaucracy that is today. And by the way, if Law 3354 does, there will be a total cancellation of those issues and requirements, including the architectural authorities of the locals, according to requirements and some documentation. It will all be declared as being in the requirements of this law, so I don't think it's necessary to accept it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u170	I'm putting to the vote amendment number 28 of People's Deputies Karmazin. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:37:50]] For 217 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 29 of the Serbian People's Deputy. Are you insisting on Yuri Sergiyovich? Please, it's a Serbian microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u171	Dear colleagues, I am arguing with this amendment. What's going on now? You and I still voted in favour of lowering the price and now we're not dealing with the question of who sells apartments after the surrender of objects, or the F.B.I., we don't give up, the builders don't give up, because when he gives up, and people don't get an apartment, because when he gives up an object, and he can't sell an apartment that hasn't been sold yet. So we're going to suggest that we let either the developer or through the F.B.I. sell these apartments. Because of the F.B.I., we have no right to leave. Why? Because if this is one F.F.B. object, it has ceased to exist and is selling apartments to no one. So we allow the objects to give up the term specified in the contract rather than the introduction of the object into operation, and people would receive apartments.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u172	Arguments of the rejected committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u173	The position was to deflect, but how would he accept the hall?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u174	In general, I would like to point out that when you're working on the draft law, you probably have to work harder so that you don't change the view of the committee on a whole series of amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u175	I don't want to discuss these issues right now. Why? Because there's so much, Alexander Volodymyrovich, very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u176	Dear colleagues, I'm voting on Amendment 29 of the Serbian People's Deputies. Please specify. [[11:39:45]] For 234 Correction accepted. The next amendment is number 30, National Deputy Carmazin. Yuri Anatolyevich, do you agree with the editorial that is included?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u177	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, consider this amendment, but very carefully, you must all vote for it. In this edition, the second sentence is: “Unless the trustee has fulfilled his obligations to the manager to invest in order and under the terms of the FFB rules and to participate in the FFB contract, the management of the assets shall cease.” Well, he didn't, so that's when he stops. “The manager of the FSB is obliged to reimburse the costs of the trustee on terms and conditions defined by the FSB rules.” I mean, a civilized divorce: I didn't do it -- get out of here, give me the money back, dot. That's my line. I'm told it's considered essentially as an editorial, but it's not counted, read. Look at the left and the right column. So I ask you to vote for an editorial that protects people's rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u178	I'm voting on Amendment 30 of the People's Deputy Carmazin. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:41:11]] For 223 The decision is not taken. Next amendment is the 31st Serbian National MP. Do you insist, Yuri Sergiyovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u179	Yes, I insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u180	Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u181	Dear colleagues, we have already voted with you that the funds should be returned without inflation and after the end of the project. It's going to repeat this position. So we confirm what we voted before. So we can't pay back inflation costs. If a person wants to, he'll get his money just like he gave up on his apartment, that's the first. The second question is, there's no inflation right now in the sense that we understand that 99 percent of housing construction is done for our materials, there's nothing to do with dollars. And if we return the money, it's not clear where to take it from. Please support this amendment. When profits were high, they were twisted. And tomorrow, and now we're just burying the building, not finishing the house. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u182	So is the amendment to the Karmazin People's Deputy. Yuri Anatoliyovich, do you agree with Yuri Sergiyovich's argument? Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u183	Yuri Carmazin. I support the Serbian People's Deputy. I thank him for his fine corrections, and I offer this further argument. It's an extra. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, I am personally addressing Zvaric, who has not added three votes because of his group. So this is about inflation being huge right now. And we have now, we have to take that into account. The situation changed when the law was passed on to the first reading when it was considered on the committee that is now. It changes all the time, every day. This amendment should be voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u184	Replica of the National MP Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u185	Dear colleagues, I assure you that I am working very hard on this bill, which you can see for yourself, because I have a comparative table on the screen right in front of me. I deliberately make decisions, and I do not vote with three, five, ten, or more cards because I understand what the Constitutional Court’s decision is. I'm voting with my card. And I would advise Yuri Carmazin just to calm down for the first time.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u186	I put to the vote amendment number 31 of the national deputies of Serbia and Carmazin. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:44:01]] For 237 Decision taken. Next amendment number 42 of the Serbian People's Deputy. Are you insisting? Please give me an argument.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u187	Yes, I insist. I'll explain. Dear colleagues, this is the same argument, we have already voted, we have begun to vote. You have to end with this key to make it a thin system. What does that mean? That money must be returned if it has invested it, but it can really be returned only after the sale of the object and the entry into service. If we did for banks that they don't return deposits to people and now they're speculating on the currency market instead of investing in the real economy. So why do we now leave the people of others who have honestly invested without housing? Because those, they take away, they don't allow them to be remodeled. The money will be returned, but after the installation. I'm asking you to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u188	Arguments of the rejected committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u189	First of all, we turned it down. Once again, as a result of the fact that we did care for the rights of consumers and trustees. And since it's five days, it's five days. So it seems to me that the hall should be defined, even though I support Mr. Serbin in that, in fact, today the market situation has worsened, and it can only be implemented if it's built 100 percent.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u190	I'm putting to the vote amendment number 32 of the Serbian National MP. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:45:52]] For 239. Decision taken. Next amendment of the People's Deputy Karmazin. Don't you insist? Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u191	Yuri Carmazin. My amendment was just called to put in a different edition this article, which the national deputy Serbin asked questions to complete after part four. So this is already the fifth, this is actually the absolute thesis that had to be voted on. So I don't insist because it's counted in the previous amendment. Thank you. She's the one who made the decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u192	Next amendment to the 34th People's Deputies of Carmazin. Are you insisting or not? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u193	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, attention! I propose to exclude part six because I think it violates the constitutional rights of citizens. What does it say? It says, in other cases, the amount payable to the trustee is determined by the manager. See, he's making his own decisions, isn't he? The manager, based on the number of fastenings by the trustee of the investment object and the current price of the unit of measurement of the investment on a day of consolidation from the trustee of the investment object. I would like to exclude this part of the sixth in general, because it is settled earlier in those articles, parts fourth and now fifth, as proposed by the Serbian National MP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u194	I'm voting on Amendment 34 of the People's Deputy Carmazin. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:47:41]] For 218. The decision is not taken. The next amendment, number 35, of the Serbian people's representative is essentially taken into account. Do you agree with that? It's okay. 36th Amendment of the People's Deputies of Serbia and Carmazin. Yuri Sergiyovich, you agree with the rejection or not.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u195	I agree, I agree.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u196	National Deputy Carmazin, do you agree with the rejection? The Microphone to the People's Deputy Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u197	Dear Chairman Alexander Volodymyrovich, I agreed with the rejection. We need to look for consensus. I'm only addressing those deputies who didn't give six votes, please be more careful. And here I agree with 36. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u198	Thank you for not restricting the rights of trustees.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u199	Thirty-seventh amendment of the People's Deputies of Clement and Karacay is included. There is no objection to taking this amendment into account? None. Amendment No.38 of the People's Chamber of Climent-Acquiesque. Are you sure you don't mind? None. The thirty-ninth amendment of the People's Deputy is rejected. Do you insist, Alexander Vilenovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u200	No, I don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u201	I don't insist. Amendment No.40 of the People's Deputy of Clement and the People's Deputy of Karacaia is counted. Is there a miscalculation? There's no objection. The forty-first amendment of the People's Deputies of Clement and Caracas is also included. Is there a miscalculation? There's no objection. Amendment 42 of the people's deputies of Clement and Karacay is included. Is there any objection to taking into account the amendment? There's no objection. The forty-third amendment of the People's Deputies of Clement and Karacaia is included. Is there a denial? None. Amendment 44 of the Clemente People's Deputy is also included. Is there a denial? None. Amendment No.45 of the Karmazin People's Deputy is edited. Is it Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin? It doesn't work. A microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u202	I was just about to say that I was proposing not to add to paragraph 38 of article 7 of the Ukrainian Insurance Act, because this is a different subject of regulation than this law. And I'm grateful to the committee that they didn't change there and they didn't. That's why I'm doing this. I think you can continue to adopt this law as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u203	Amendment 46 of the Prussian People's Deputy – accounted for. Is there any objection to the amendment? None. Amendment No.47 of the People's Chamber of Clement is counted. Is there a miscalculation? There's no objection. Amendment No.48 of the Klimenko People's Deputy counts. Is there a miscalculation? None. Amendment No. 49 of the Klimenko People's Deputy counts. Is there a miscalculation? None. Amendment No. 50 of Klimenko and Karakayev’s national deputies are included. Is there a denial? None. So we've considered all of the proposed amendments to this draft law. Is it? I'm betting on the vote on the second reading of draft law, registration No. 1418, please identify yourself. [[11:51:34]] For 242 Decision taken. Dear Alexander Ivanovich, the question to you, has been adopted by a number of amendments to this draft law, is it necessary to prepare for a third reading to reconcile the rules of the law or is it not?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u204	No, there isn't.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u205	Can we now put together a whole, or will there be a third reading?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u206	There is a request to put it all together.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u207	Is there no objection to voting in general? I'm voting on draft Law No. 1418, please. [[11:52:24]] For 242 Decision taken. The law's been passed. Please, by the factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u208	Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u209	Dear colleagues, let's move on to the next issue of the agenda. There is a suggestion that we announce seven minutes early and seven minutes early to start work, because we are not going to be able to take a full look. At 12: 30 a.m., we have a discussion of the appointment and release of judges so that we do not have a big breakup. Do we agree? From the hall. Yes!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u210	A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 27 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u211	Dear colleagues, we continue our morning plenary session. We are considering the election and release of judges and the granting of consent to the arrest of judges. I invite the head of the committee, Sergio Vasilovich Kiwalov, to the rostrum. We're looking at the draft Order on the selection of judges on an untimely basis. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u212	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies. The Supreme Council of Ukraine Committee on Justice at its meeting on 17 December considered the appointment of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the head of the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine, the head of the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine, to elect judges on an open-ended basis. You are well aware of the procedure. The judges are in the guest bed and on the balcony. Draft Decision of the Supreme Council 3496. The committee recommends that judges be appointed on an indefinite basis: the Court of Appeal of Kyiv Kepakal Ludmila Ivanovna; Zubkov Tetjana Petrovna, a foreign appeal court; the local Old House District Court of Vinnice, Nechiporak Ludmila Fedorovna; the local Zedanów City Court of the Donetsk Region of Corovnichenko Olen Mikolayevna; the local Kalinin District Court of Gorlovka Donetsk Region of Vasilyev Irina Anatoliyevna; the local Central City District Court of Gorlovka Donetsk Region of Gricayuk Nina Mikolayevna; the local Kirov district court of Donetsk Gladishenko Irina Volodymyrna; The local Bologna District Court of Zitomir Shelepa Anatolia Anatoliyovich; the local Vasilkow District Court of Kyiv district of Svinceck Olen Petrovna; the local Yellow District Court of Lugansk Ryabuhu Yuri Volodymirovich; the local Poltava District Court of Poltava region of Nechvolod Viktor Vševodovic; the local Suvorov district court of Herson Ignatenko Polin Jakovna; the local Kozeletsky District Court of Chernigiv district of Solovy Volodymyr Volodymyrovich; the military local court of Lviv garrison Belen Albert Viktorovich, Stelmah Igor Orestovic; the local Herson District Administrative Court of Homiakov Victoria Valerievna; the local courts of the Zitomir district of Sikorsk Natalija Anatoliyevna; the local court of the Luhansk district of Zubanov Natalija Mikolaynowna; the local court of the Poltava district of Palamarczuk Valeri Vasilovich; The local court of the Hersonian region of Svetlana Viktorovna; the local commercial court of the Hmelni district of Savrija Viktor Anatoliyovich; the local court of the city of Kyiv Palamar Peter Ivanovich. Please support the draft decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u213	Dear colleagues, since none of the deputies have raised their hand, I understand that there are no deputies to these candidates. I'm voting on the draft Ordinance on the selection of judges on an untimely basis. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:33:27]] For 361 Decision taken. Next draft of Decree 3497.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u214	The committee recommends the selection of Mikolayovich, previously elected as judge of the local Zitomir District Administrative Court. Please support this project.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u215	Any questions? I'm voting on draft Decree 3497 on the election of Judge Seminko Mikolayovich to the judge on an untimely basis. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:34:15]] For-360 Decision taken. Next project Order 3498 on the release of the judge.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u216	Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Justice, at its meeting on 17 December, considered two issues and accordingly introduced two draft decrees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. First. On the dismissal of Zvarić Igor from the post of judge of the Lviv Administrative Court of Appeal for breach of oath. And the second. Judge Igor Zvarić also agreed to be detained and arrested. Zvarić Igor Stepanović was elected as Judge of the Lviv Administrative Court of Appeal indefinitely by order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 9 February 2006. On 17 December 2008, the Supreme Council of Justice of Ukraine received a submission to the Supreme Council of Justice on the dismissal of a judge in violation of an oath. Motivated by the fact that the authorities of the Procurator's Office and the Ukrainian Security Service have lawfully obtained irrefutable and sufficiently proven in the commission of the Igor Zvarić offence provided for in part three of article 368 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code, the taking of bribes on a particularly large scale. In particular, in October 2007, a judge, the President of the Lviv Administrative Court of Appeal, Zvaric, received a bribe of 100,000. The United States dollar from the Director of the Private Enterprise. Bribery transfer - pay attention! – met in a personal presence in the office of the President of the Lviv Regional Public Administration, Petr Mihajlović Olijnik, Vice-President of the Ukrainian President's Secretariat and Permanent Representative of the President in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. During the review, the Committee members were informed of dozens of cases of bribery involving high-level officials. For eight months, the video recorded how judges of the Lviv Administrative Court of Appeal regularly took Igor Zvarić into his office large amounts of money -- tens and hundreds of thousands in different currencies, which he immediately distributed. Most of it was given to the judges, and most of it was left to the judges. The Justice Committee considered the submission of the Supreme Council of Justice, recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine dismiss Igor Zvarić from the post of judge of the Lviv Administrative Court of Appeal for breach of oath. On 16 December, the Office of the Procurator-General of Ukraine initiated and the President of the Supreme Court supported and introduced to Parliament the idea of consenting to the detention and arrest of Judge Igor Zvarić, motivated by the fact that on 7 December, Judge Zvarić had chosen a measure of suppression in the form of a non-refoulement subscription. However, on the night of 12 December this year, he left the Lviv Railway Clinical Hospital, where he was treated. Since then, his whereabouts have not been known. Before his disappearance, Igor Zvarić left a note in which he called. Recognized the fact that they had been bribed and said good-bye to family members. On the same day Igor Zvarić was declared all-inclusive. In all Ukrainian, sorry, search. [[B in m in s a l in]] His detention and arrest were necessary in order to complete the investigation and to preserve his life as an important witness to the crime of high-ranking officials. The Committees on Justice have approved the conclusion which the Office of the Procurator-General of Ukraine has recognized as legitimate, well-founded, confirming the offence of Igor Zvarić under article 368, part 3, of the Criminal Code and the need for his detention and arrest, and recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine agree to the detention and arrest of Igor Zvarić. In connection with the unprecedented exercise of official judicial corruption in the Lviv region, the Committee requested the President of Ukraine to suspend the powers of the Vice-President of the Ukraine Secretariat, the Permanent Representative of the President of the Supreme Council, Peter Mihajlović, as one of the figures of the criminal case to complete the investigation. until the investigation is completed. Ladies and gentlemen of the people! In conclusion, you've been handed over. The text is on your hands. Please support the Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine 3498, 3499 and Decrees 3501. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u217	Please sign up for a question to the committee head. People's MP Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u218	Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. First of all, due to the authorities of the prosecutor’s office, which bring criminal responsibility irrespective of rank and position. I think it's time for the vice president of the President's Administration today, tomorrow and to the head. Now, let's talk about the materials we've been given. Of the materials provided by the Attorney General's Office, it is quite clear that Mr. Oliynik, the head of the Lviv District State Administration, is today representing the President here in the Supreme Council. We have a draft decision in the Supreme Council to refer the President to remove the duties of a representative of the President. This, Sergey Vasilovich, should be done not by a committee decision, but by a Supreme Council decision. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I now propose to include this order to remove Olijnik from the duties of the President's representative, and to consider it, and to remove it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u219	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u220	And so the Attorney General has the opportunity to attract this high-ranking man so he won't be able to escape, as Mr. Zvaric did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u221	National MP Pisarenko, faction of Yulia Timoshenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u222	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! You know, yesterday was an extremely interesting committee, and this case, I think, is going to build a whole society, because now we see that the representatives of the President's Secretariat are already bringing bribes to the judges, so these same representatives are sitting here in our beds, and then they're talking about some position of the President, some position that we're going to build a judiciary here. And what I'm saying is that the episodes that Peter Olynic lit up, that's one of the episodes that the prosecution is talking about, that's $100,000. I'd like to ask the President, what's your salary in the President's Department, that you've got enough bribes to give to the judges? That's the first one. The other one. This is about listing the requirements that apply to this judge, the Welder. Come on, Sergey Vasilovich, speak plainly. Yesterday, the Attorney General spoke of some other facts that also involved not only bribe issues but also questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u223	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u224	In addition, the issue of sexual harassment of the same court employees, which Mr. Zvaric also did, is also a fact. And in addition, there is a separate decree to refer to the President of Ukraine. She needs it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u225	Yes, thank you. Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u226	Dear colleagues, as a man who worked in Lviv from 1972 to 91st, it's pretty hard to talk about this situation. Because it's really a dirty, famous city. But think about it, your honorary colleagues, as we are told by the chairman of the committee on the results of the work of the Attorney General's Office, two, almost the highest officials in the area -- the head of the administration appointed by the President and the head of the administrative court, also appointed by the President, had a competition with each other, to whom and how much to give. This, of course, goes beyond anything, even though we know how hard the constitutional guarantor is to fight these phenomena. In practice, they showed how to fight. One more moment, I think we need to unify these issues, because if we release a judge, he's already agreed to be held accountable and his arrest disappears because he won't have indulgence. Come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u227	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u228	I propose that these issues be brought together, together to consider, including listening, the Attorney General’s Office, his information in order to solve the problem at the same time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u229	People's MP Landik, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u230	Landik, faction of Party regions. As a result, we heard that Zvaric had taken the money and handed it over to the judges. And the attitude towards these judges who have taken the money must be expressed as well. Why isn't there a pass on them? Of course, there is no desire for the judges to make a huge accusation in these cases, but the problem in the country is long overdue. Everyone knows that, you see, it's already come to the President's Administration. The Minister of Justice is speaking on a daily basis and tells us that he cannot be attracted only by a decision of the court. Wait. He may be in Poland by now, and perhaps no one in America will find him. That is, the Ministry and the President's Administration are covering all of this. The Supreme Council should therefore give its opinion to those judges who worked with Zvaric and to the Presidential Administration and.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u231	National MP of the Kings, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u232	Dear colleagues, indeed, yesterday on the committee we discussed this issue. But there was another issue that we had discussed on the committee. The thing is, Zvaric has a special title that the President has given him as the hero of the orange revolution -- he's Ukraine's Deserved Lawyer. Therefore, I propose that this request be included as a matter of concern to the committee for the release of it from this honorary title, the Deserved Lawyer of Ukraine, because he is now in the search and is not yet aware of the extent to which the "deserved lawyer of Ukraine" will cause misery.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u233	Nestor Schufrich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u234	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! Of course, we have to celebrate here the high quality of the work of the Attorney General's Office and those bodies that helped carry out this unprecedented operation. We hope that the appropriate actions will also be in the process of investigating the activities of the National Bank and those banks that are now harshly speculating at the national money exchange rate and are actually laundering money from our citizens in the face of a difficult financial crisis. Today we must make a clear decision to bring Judge Welder to justice's attention. And I ask today that the question be considered and that the President be asked to remove Peter Olijnik from the office of President in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The corresponding draft of the decree is registered, by Koleshnenko, Olijnik and Portnov. I would ask that we consider this issue immediately after the vote on the release of Judge Cook. We must also consider this question.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u235	Are you all right, Nestor Ivanovich? Strutovich, please. And we'll make decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u236	Stratovic, Party of the Christian-Democratic Union, Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense. Dear colleagues, you have just heard the terrible facts that the bribes of the head of the court have been brought before the judge of the Lviv District Administrative Court. Don't you think, Mr. Chairman of the Committee, that it deserves to be disbanded now by the Lviv District Administrative Court for the actions that have been taken? Because how they can continue to carry out their duties when they were bribes, according to our legislation they should also be subject, and here should be the name not only of the Welder, but of all the judges who were ordered in the mantle, which shows that the purity and awayness, the independence of justice, were justified by the sad judge. And the second question. Mr. Chairman of the Committee, don't you think it's urgent to clean up, in a good sense, all administrative jurisdiction, because the head of the Supreme Administrative Court and all the courts have developed terrible corruption in this system? And if we don't, we're just going to die because that's one of the important factors.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u237	Yes. Dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts. I'm asking the head of the committee, the position of the committee, to re-enact your acquaintance.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u238	Dear People's Deputies, we considered yesterday at the meeting of the Committee on Justice, and raised issues related to those judges who were allegedly involved in those crimes. But we, on our own initiative, have no right to introduce an idea of the dismissal of these judges. Therefore, as soon as the Office of the Attorney-General presents itself to the Supreme Council of Justice, and the Supreme Council of Justice is the only body in our State capable of presenting the dismissal of a judge. As soon as such a submission is made, we will immediately consider the Committee and make a presentation. I wish to inform those present that there was a meeting of the Supreme Council of Justice on 17 December. The meeting was held at 10 a.m. in the morning. There was a unanimous submission to the Supreme Justice Council Committee, and at three o'clock on the same day, we considered and today introduced a presentation to the Supreme Council that you have the opportunity to listen to.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u239	Now, one minute. Before the vote, then, honourable colleagues, the committee reported. Alexander Ivanovich Medvedzko, would you like to speak?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u240	Well, according to the Rules, Alexander Ivanovic must say at least a few words, article 220 of the Rules of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u241	Then I would like to invite you to agree, the Bear Alexander Ivanovich, the Attorney General of Ukraine, to the rostrum. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Who? Dear colleagues, let us follow the Rules and the suggestions proposed by the committee on the subject. We're not gonna be investigating here. Please. We still have work to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u242	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, Sergey Vasilovich Kiwalov, gave a very thorough account of the fact that the crime was committed by the Head of the Lviv Administrative Court of Appeal, Zvaric Igor Stepanovich, and therefore I have nothing to add to this statement. Therefore, I take advantage of the opportunity to be present in this Chamber and under article 126 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 13 of the Law on the Status of Judges and the relevant Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and I ask you to consider the application and to allow the detention and arrest of the judge of the Lviv Administrative Court of Appeal, Zvarič Igor Stepanović, on 16 June 1962. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u243	Dear colleagues, I ask you, Your Honor, the Attorney General has made a position, a question. [[th m in s a l i]] No, one minute, questions to the Attorney General, one minute, Your Honor, there are no questions under the Rules to the Attorney General. [[th m in s a l i]] [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, then please let me put it to the vote. Who is enough to step away from the Rules and give them the opportunity to ask questions within five minutes? Ten? Please, ten minutes, please vote. [[12:53:32]] For the 250. Decision taken. Ten minutes. Please sign up for a question. Please state the name of the national MPs on the board. Oleg Kingov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u244	Please give the floor to the former Attorney General, Saintess Piscoon, and he will give a very motivated answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u245	Dear Alexander Ivanovich, I just want to ask you, I know that a task force has been set up and how it happened that Zvaric escaped from the investigation and justice. Why members of the Security Service, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, did not protect him, why his movements were not monitored, and why he was not filed with the Supreme Council within 72 hours if his crimes were recorded. We could vote here in this room during the period when it could be held.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u246	Thank you, Sveslav Mikhailovich. The situation here was that when he was charged, he refused to show his health by referring to his condition and being hospitalized. According to current legislation, we cannot apply compulsory protection to him, so there is such a situation that he disappeared from the hospital. Now we're going to test it in an investigative way and we're going to give a proper legal assessment.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u247	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'm sorry, dear colleagues, I'd like to ask the people's deputies a very serious question. A party of regions has always stood guard over the rule of law. If there is no representative of the King, we cannot speak twice on his behalf to another MP, have a conscience, friends. Isn't there anyone else from the Party of Regions to speak?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u248	I'm asking you, your honor, to consider this observation and this proposal. People's Deputy Korge, Timoshenko Street.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u249	Please pass the word to Oleg Laszko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u250	Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u251	Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Dear Alexander Ivanovich, I said again and again that we give due consideration to the authorities of the Public Prosecutor's Office and to the special departments responsible for the task force. That's why. On documenting this crime. So your answer to the question of the previous MP, it's not convincing, I don't think any person in this room believes that if you didn't want to, he wouldn't disappear. So, please tell me, who gave you the command to release this Welder, to allow him to disappear, to whom did the Boiler carry the money into Kyiv? Why was he appointed to the position of judge the second time he did not come? Are you investigating the link between the Welder and the Pasenyuk, the head of the Supreme Administrative Court, because I don't think he would have taken such huge bribes if his superiors hadn't been "crossing" him? And one more thing. Do you intend to bring Peter Olinick’s criminal responsibility as an accomplice?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u252	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u253	Thank you for asking. I can honestly say that no one, as you say, from Kiev was letting him be released. And once again, I can only repeat that we're going to test the way, by questioning certain individuals, why it happened so much that he disappeared from the hospital. As far as Peter Olivenic is concerned. I'm not a politician, and I can't allow myself to speak like Sergey Vasilovich Kiwalov said that the Oilman Peter Mikhailovich was involved. The point is that I can only say that after we have done all the necessary follow-up actions, namely: the examination of the Oilynik and if they have a contradiction in the evidence and the person who gave the bribe, as he claims in the presence, after the eye rates, after carrying out a set of follow-up actions. If this is confirmed, then I can boldly say that it was. Well, I don't think he'll escape.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u254	Jaroslav Jojik, faction of "Our Ukraine People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u255	Please hand it over to the representative of Vyezovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u256	Please. Viennese. Turn on the microphone. So I asked you to turn on the Vizier microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u257	Mr. Prosecutor, Mr. Attorney General, I'm here. I have a question. Is it possible to file a document with the Supreme Council, as is now indicated, where you have previously confirmed that there was no conversation with Olinik in the prosecutor’s office, it may be a floor for documents or an incentive for certain objective things to light up against Olinik? First. The other one. To that end, it means that after the days that happened. As for the transfer of money to the office of the Oilynik, I don't know why in the office of the Oilynik, and not the Attorney General, I have to hand over the money, it's a question mark, but it's something that's been pointed out to someone. I don't understand. So I have a simple question: What day did this happen, and was it really in the presence of the Olive?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u258	So thank you for asking. I want to answer that. Exactly day after day, until now, we find that on one of the days of October. As to the fact that the data says that it was in the service room in the presence of the Oilynik, I want to make the following point. It was the principle of the position of the head of this task force to put it in such an order. I personally objected to it, but the application is signed by the head of this task force, and that's why I think it's a prior decision. I'm not protecting Olive. I'll say again that once all of the follow-up is done, you can finally make that statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u259	People's MP Mankovsky faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u260	Please give the floor to the Deputy Sukh.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u261	Jaroslav Suhi. microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u262	Thank you. Dear Alexander Ivanovich, I understand that you are a professional, your caution in saying, really, this is the national deputy of Ukraine who can say this to himself and then apologize. You have to follow the letter of the law and the procedural rules. But I have a specific question. Now, in the context of the exacerbation and deepening of social crises, the exacerbation of social disparities in society, such bribes among senior officials, who are certainly the judge, are of a particularly intolerable nature, and are very keenly perceived by society. Please tell me, how does the Attorney General of Ukraine, what trends do you now pursue in such crimes, exactly, in the higher echelons? Do you have anything else planned to do with taking someone else as a skin? [[Well, don't tell me if it's a secret.]]
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u263	Thank you for asking. We don't have any plans. And unfortunately, I find it very unpleasant to say that such a crime was committed by the head of the Lviv Court of Appeal, which is executing justice. I just want to point out that this year there's been a lot of activity in the detection of bribes. About 3,000 crimes have been detected at this time. And I've been working in the D.A.'s office for almost three decades, and I don't remember the amount of bribes that come out this year. On the Brovar's head of the Reich, there are 11 million bracelets. Moreover, the effort was almost $40 million. And that's why we see this trend, we track it down, and we'll take all the hard steps to warn, and if a crime is committed, we'll show and we'll bring it to justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u264	People's MP Philippeenko, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u265	Please pass the word to the Saints of Olives.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u266	Please, it's an oil mic.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u267	Dear colleagues, Your Honor Alexander Ivanovich! I want to pay attention to this. Administrative courts deal with disputes that arise between citizens and authorities. So, honorary, the point is that one million dollars and more, the amounts that have been removed, in fact, is not the price of corruption of one person who heads it, takes up a position or another, is the price of power today. And we can see, for good reason, that it's in those, even in this data, that the governor's office, the governor's office, his presence, the arrangement, and the rest of it. So here. And that's where we all have to think about it. Alexander Ivanovich, please tell me, really, thanks to all the work of the law enforcement agencies, but it would not be possible to carry out operational measures, to carry out a successful investigation, if the judicial system itself did not authorize appropriate action. And in this case, we also have to thank the positions of the judicial system, such as the one that took the course on its own.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u268	Let me finish, please. Ask questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u269	I mean, I want the role of the judicial system to be highlighted, which has given appropriate sanctions and information to the judicial system, which has become possible to effectively complete this activity.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u270	Thank you for asking. I want to say that the judges have really shown a principle of position, a legal position. And that's why we're very grateful that they gave permission to do the search and search. And in general, I'd like to say, yes, there's the corporateity of judges, there's criticism on the side of the judiciary, but I want to say that they're individual judges, and the vast majority of judges are decent, honest, principled people.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u271	Jaroslav Kenzier, last question.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u272	Jaroslav Kenzior. Alexander Ivanovich, of course, is that the briber, the corrupter, has neither nationality nor party, and therefore the law enforcement authorities have impartially, regardless of the party flags, the brothers at the hands of these heroes. So we can actually applaud the lawkeepers, who finally launched an action that was very late in Lviv. I am very sorry that this list of judges did not include such a famous Judge Ganich of the Railway City Court, who, for the justification of the former urban head of Samburo, took, as all operational figures suggest, $400,000. But I think this one is going to come to him, as it were. But when I talk about it. That partying and nationality doesn't matter, Gunsky Bogdan, as the main latifundist racketeer, will be attracted, the prosecution will handle this case or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u273	Thank you for asking. Thank you for asking. We have a criminal case currently under investigation in the Attorney General's Office. There are two arrested persons, and if evidence is collected regarding Hubsky or another official, another national MP, we will give a principle assessment and ask questions about consenting to criminal liability.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u274	Yes, thank you, Alexander Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, it's time to ask. I'm sorry, there's no way. Dear colleagues, many have been enrolled, but time is running out. Please! Thank you, Alexander Ivanovich. Let's move on to making a decision. But I'd like you, your honor, to pay attention to that. Him? No, we're not discussing this. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, we have agreed in this way, Your Honor, and there is an appropriate commission of the committee to prepare a consideration of this issue, which concerns generally the trials that are taking place in our judicial system, which are problems in the widest possible aspect of this problem, the approach. And when the committee is ready and the Supreme Court is ready, then we will bring the matter up. Dear colleagues, about the vote. Is there pressure? Please sign in. Five minutes out of the voting procedure. But before that, I would like to say, as long as the recording goes on, we obviously need to change the voting order. One minute! Wait a minute! Because we've got a draft ruling going on first about getting the judge released, and then, by releasing the judge, we're giving our consent to bring the judge to justice. We have to give our consent to bring the judge to justice and then release him from the judge's office. It is therefore necessary to change the order in which these draft regulations are to be considered. I'd like that. Dear colleagues, I beg of you, calm down! They signed up for the show. Strutovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u275	Vladimir Stretović, Party of the Christian-Democratic Union. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! This fact, which is now under consideration, should lead us to believe that. abnormally in our “kingdom” with judicial authority as a whole with the State mechanism. So we have to thank the Ukrainian Security Service and the Attorney General's Office, and the Ministry of Internal Affairs, their eyewitnesses, for taking on this heavy piece of work to be a precaution. If judges do not believe in God, let them fear at least the punishment of justice that will be executed upon them. So we can have no other decision than to now unanimously vote in favour of the decision first depriving the judge of his status, as you suggest, and then agreeing to bring him to criminal responsibility. I mean, Vladimir Mikhailovich, there's another verdict handed down for Judge Koval. We too need to consider it today because it requires a measure of operationality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u276	Taras Blackwall, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u277	Dear fellow national MPs! We really should vote today, not two, but three decrees. The first two are connected to the Welder in the proper order. The third, which is directly related to this problem, is the removal of Peter. Petruchio, I'm sorry, the Oilyman from performing his duties as the main mafia ring in the events that were taking place, on which welded. One more moment. The Lviv Administrative Court of Appeal. Anyone who has ever dealt with him or studied his papers knows that none of the cases for 100 percent of the cases were for money. [[None! Underlining]] All 100 percent. All the judges took bribes without exception in this court. And that's where under the pressure of the Welder, where we have to individually examine each judge of this court. Just as it should be checked, unfortunately, under Lviv's appeal general jurisdiction, because Lviv's justice is incredibly ill. So I ask that we give a protocol commission to the committee to go back to the study and ask the Supreme Court not to interfere, but to work with them on Lviv.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u278	National MP Alexeyev, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u279	Please give Peter Mikolaiovich Simonek.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u280	Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u281	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I propose that we discuss this issue in order not only to make political assessments of the situation but, above all, to exchange views on what we will do in the near future and on what changes to the Constitution will be made to the laws of Ukraine in order to exclude such. Because the President confirms the joke that always happens when we talk about what's going on: To fight the Mafia, we need to lead it. And in fact, it proves that all those whom he appoints, and this is not just in Lviv, are in Ukraine, and we know very well that bribes are paid for the appointment of a position. In order to pay off these bribes, they naturally do so. Or it's some paper, some other stuff. I therefore believe that we must discuss very seriously today the issue of order in the system of government. And I think that one more question is to remove the President from power through the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u282	National Deputy Korge, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u283	Please pass the word to Oleg Laszko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u284	Oleg Light, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u285	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. We agree with the position of Communist leader Peter Mikolaiovich Simonek that the issue that we are considering right now needs much more serious analysis and consideration. Because today we're going to release the cook, and tomorrow we're going to have tens, hundreds of new cooks. And what will we then do with them: consider the application each week? We've already had judge cases, we've released them, we've called them to account, and the system's still working. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, we urge you to consider hearing the head of the Pasenyuk High Administrative Court for at least 10 minutes so that you can ask him. And the second is the consideration of draft order 3501: discharge from the duties of the President's representative in the Supreme Council of Mr. Olijnik. And I'd like to point out to a colleague who said before that things weren't going well in the judiciary. It's not the kingdom, it's the swamp!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u286	National Deputy Vizevski, “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u287	Vladimir Vizevski, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. I'd like to draw a line between the two questions that are coming up today. On one question – about Zvarič – I am convinced that the whole faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" and the entire room will vote positively and support the opinion and submission of the Attorney General's Office. As for the ruling that appears to have been registered today, and as for 3501, concerning Peter Oliynik, who had just expressed himself to the Attorney General, Olijnik was not even in the Attorney General's Office to give evidence of any crime against Zvaric. And that's why I think it's purely politicized to compromise the representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Peter Oilynik. And it's because of that prism that we'd like to compromise somewhere and put a shadow on the President himself. I would like "Our Ukraine" to vote in favour of all the legal decisions that have been legally worked out and will not go to those forgeries and the political floor of the documents that our colleagues are proposing -- the MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u288	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u289	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I think we just need to finish this consideration, which we brought to the session hall and not interfere in the future. Both Olinick and other names in this room. We are discussing a specific issue. The consideration of this matter should be concluded by voting and not by allowing the Supreme Council to be involved in a variety of divisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u290	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. Once again, I would like to make a proposal with which the chairman of the committee agreed. What is it? We must, at first, adopt, by the logic of things, the draft Decree 3499 on the granting of arrest and arrest to the judge, I emphasize, to Judge Zvaric. And then take the Order: to release the cook from the post of judge. Because we're going to get him out of the judge's office first, and then the question is, which person is in what position do we give consent to be held accountable? Right? [[B in m in s a l in]] That's why I'm asking for weights. The draft Decree, registration number 3499, on the granting of arrest and arrest, is put to the vote and taken into custody by the judge of the Lviv Administrative Court of Appeal, Zvarič Igor Stepanović. Vote please, Your Honor. [[13:15:29]] For 435 Decision taken. The draft decree, registration number 3498 for the release of Judge Welder John, is now in the vote. Igor Stepanovich. [[13:16:06]] For 432 It's been decided. Dear colleagues, with regard to other suggestions, let us listen to what has been said in the Attorney General’s mouth. We'll take it. And I got the right one. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I've got a draft decision, I've sent it to the committee, let it ask for additional materials, they'll get it, then we'll put it to a vote, we'll make the decision that the Supreme Council will determine. As for the other suggestions that have been made. Dear colleagues, let us see how we can materialize our proposals through appropriate draft acts to be considered and adopted by the Supreme Council. Given the sensitivity of these issues, I would ask the committees accordingly to react expeditiously on the basis of a valid legislative basis. It is now under review the draft Order for Consent to Arrest the Judge of the Local Economic Court of the Mikolai district of Koval Jury Mihajlovich. [[Taken under guard]] Committee head Sergei Vasilovich Kiwalov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u291	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! Yesterday, the meeting of the Justice Committee also considered the submission of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, confirmed and submitted by the President of the Supreme Court of Ukraine to the Supreme Council for consent to the detention and arrest of the judge of the local economic court of Nikolaev district of Koval Jurija Mihajlović. The Committee concluded that the documents submitted were in accordance with the requirements of article 220, part one, of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The need for such a decision is due to the refusal of Koval Yury Mihajlović to comply with the order of the investigator adopted in the criminal proceedings brought against him. In violation of the investigator's ruling, Koval continues to serve as President of the Court and avoids appearances and ignores the investigator's demands, which ultimately makes it impossible to complete the pre-trial investigation. Please support the conclusion of the committee approved by the relevant decision - Draft Order of the Supreme Council 3500 on consent to detention, arrest of Judge Koval Jury Mihajlović. Please support the order.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u292	Dear colleagues, there are no warnings to put to the vote? You don't?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u293	There's a judge. And under the Rules, we must obey him.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u294	Yes, please, Koval Yuri Mikhailovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u295	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u296	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u297	Ladies and gentlemen, it is difficult for me to speak at this moment. But I would like to ask you to hear me anyway. Involvement in criminal responsibility presupposes a criminal case. And in view of the fact that criminal cases have been committed against me in connection with the fact that a bribe has been received, the abuse of a position of duty, namely, obtaining a cabinet for the court’s server. In the absence of funds and suitable facilities, this server cabinet should have been located somewhere and it was accepted in the courtroom. And that's why I had to solve this. I got a closet like that. And the failure to execute the court's decisions in the course of an unscheduled inspection by the authorities of the CDC for the investigation did not invent values. I want to say that all the rulings are against me to the Attorney General's Office and to the court. Of course, the Attorney General has refused me, but for over a year, I have appeared more than 40 times in court to hear my complaints about a criminal case. And there is no order for a criminal case to be dismissed by the court. As far as the crimes I've committed are concerned, I don't want to go into detail, but what I'm saying is that there's no evidence at the crime scene, except for the statements of people who seem to be passing on the money that I got, this money, as a bribe, even as a technical tool of fixation. I want you to hear that I have not avoided or followed the investigator's legal instructions. The point is that I appeared on every investigative challenge and only in 4/07.2008 did I write in my statement that I could not continue to appear. I offer you a visit. And I will only appear after the matter has been considered. I, I mean, I'm being told that I didn't go to the coroner's office, I didn't comply with the decision to remove me from the duties of the head of the court, and I failed to comply with the court's decision. So what I'm saying is that the orders to remove me from the duties of the judge, first of all, and the indiscretion of the investigator, and the failure to execute the court's decision, are in that criminal case, which was annulled on 18 November and denied in a criminal case by the local Caver district court of Kiev. It's all one thing at a time. After all, the investigator did not call me or question me or insist. And if the investigator couldn't do that, it could be the prosecutor who's taking it, and not one prosecutor who's taking part in my case, in the court of my criminal proceedings. I say there have been more than thirty such court hearings, and every time I attend these court hearings.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u298	Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u299	And every time there's a prosecutor, I've never been summoned to the D.A.'s office.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u300	Yes, dear colleagues, thank you, please sit down. On this point, the Attorney General of Ukraine, Medvedzko Alexander Ivanovich, gives the floor. Dear colleagues, we can't ask the judge questions, we don't have authority, we don't lead the investigation here.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u301	Honorary Volodymira Mihajlovich, distinguished national MPs, on January 20th, this year's Attorney General's Office of Ukraine has been charged with a criminal offence in relation to the head of the Economic Court of the Mikolai district of Koval for the fact that he received bribes from Rudnitsky and for the abuse of his office when he was received for the purpose of the court at the expense of the KP “Mikolayivlift” server cabinet on the basis of the signs of crimes provided for in part two of article 368, part one of article 364 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. On April 24, this year, the Attorney General’s Deputy Attorney General for Koval was charged with a criminal charge of bribes for carrying out actions in the interests of Gundarev, using the authority given to him and for signs of crime, provided for in article 368 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. On June 25, this year, Ukraine’s Attorney General’s Office has committed a criminal offence in relation to Kowala’s deliberate failure to execute the court’s decisions and to prevent their execution, which have caused significant damage to the public’s interests on the grounds of the crime, is provided for in part two of article 382 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code. Kobal committed these crimes under the following circumstances. On January 12, 2007, for adopting the Mariyovska company in the office of Kowala, a representative of the Marijovska company in the service office, he received a thousand dollars as a bribe. On January 20, Rudnicka asked Kowal to establish a peace treaty between the parties on the matter. The latter again, using his office position in his own office as a bribe from the Rudnickéké 1⁄2 thousand dollars for the approval of the peace agreement by a court decision. In addition, on April 17, last year, Rudnicka asked Koval to take the lead in the Mikolai District Economic Court and to make a positive decision on the claim of a private entrepreneur named Darienko for recognition of property rights in the jumbo pits. On the same day, Rudnicka handed over, and he received 500 dollars as bribes. On November 7, 2007, Koval issued a request to the representative of the company Žemčužina Gundareva for a bribe of US$ 5,000 for the approval by the Economic Court of the Mikolai region of the imposition of arrests on the entire and the property complex of the Recreational Base, Žemčužina. On November 13, last year, Judge Gundarev, acting as a criminal, handed over 12 thousand 400 dollars to Kowal as the first part of the bribe. The second part of the defined amount of 12,000,600 dollars he received from Gundarev on November 16 in Odessa. Thus, Kowal committed the crime foretold in part two of article 368 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code. Coval also made the final payment of 2,000 958 pennies to be used in a court-led court in April of last year, which he committed in part one of article 364 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code. In addition, Kowal on March 14 and May 12, 2008, he deliberately failed to execute judicial decisions that gave rise to the legal force for the conduct of an audit in a leading court committed the above - mentioned act, provided for in article 382 of the Criminal Code, section 2, of the Ukrainian Criminal Code. On the basis of evidence collected on February 4, 2008, Kowala was charged with committing the crime provided for in part 1 of article 364, part 2 of article 368, and on July 2, 2008, under part 2 of article 382 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code. By means of a precautionary action, the accused Kowala was chosen to sign a nondepartmental agreement. Kowal has not confessed his guilt for incriminating his crimes and has refused to give his testimony, citing this lack of confidence in the investigation. Despite Kowalim’s denial of his guilt for committing the crimes provided for in article 364, 368, 382 in the appropriate parts, his guilt is confirmed by the evidence gathered. Applications and interrogations as witnesses of persons who gave bribes to Kowala, findings of experts, search reports and extracts, removal of documentation in the course of the investigation, and properly legalized intelligence materials and other materials of the case. During the course of the investigation, the accused Coval repeatedly called on the investigator to investigate him. However, with the aim of avoiding criminal responsibility and obstruction, he has escaped from appearance to investigator, confirming this by messages sent to his place of residence. It is not possible to give evidence of the accused Kowal as a result of the requirements of the Law on the Status of Judges. This indicates that Koval’s abuse of the guarantee of integrity by law severely violates existing legislation. The facts and circumstances of the removal of the accused Koval from appearance to investigator make it impossible to complete the trial and indicate the need to change the accused Kowala’s precautionary action to a more severe one, that is, to subscribe to the failure to go into custody. On the basis of this, taking into account the serious crimes that Kowal is charged with and the legal penalties imposed in the form of depriving him of his will in order to prevent attempts. In accordance with article 126 of the Constitution, article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Judges and the rules of the Interim Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I ask that you consider the application and agree to the detention and arrest of the head of the Economic Court of the Mikolai district and the judge of this court, Koval Yuri Mihajlovich, on 6 January 1954. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u302	Thank you, Alexander Ivanovich. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we will now move on to making a decision. Please. Alexander Ivanovich, please sit down. Thank you. Before the vote, five minutes out of the voting procedure. Please sign up. Zabluk, please, the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u303	Dear colleagues, the urgency of the decision is quite evident. At the same time, for the Mikolai region, the issue of making a decision on Koval’s plan is particularly relevant. In spite of the consolidated efforts of law enforcement agencies, such as the heads of the district authorities of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Agency, the matter was ongoing for almost a year. On the other hand, the subject was repeatedly told of the futility of the power of the Henprocurator. And on the part of the President’s Secretariat, there were latent attempts to curb the issue. In addition, in previous times there have been many reports of problems in the work of this judge, which, by the way, were transmitted to the head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. So I'm proposing to support the committee's decision and replace the precautionary measure of subscription to detention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u304	Peter Simonenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u305	Simonenko, the Communist faction. We will vote in favour of the proposal, but once again, on behalf of the Company faction, I invite you to take a closer look at the problem. We are faced with the fact that, without voting for the evaluation of the Olympics and for the President to be removed from his post, we are giving the opportunity to the briber to be a representative of the President, where he is in Parliament. Thus, we agree that Parliament's authority is once again shattered today by the fact that the rogue represents the interests of the President in Parliament. Thus, the President is exactly the same if his representative remains in Parliament. Second. We must understand that this corruption and mafia permeate all the power. Only we have witnessed the shocks associated with the arrest of the Brovar Rajgosadam. $40 million in cash. But all you have to do is think about the level of corruption. And all of this is caused by the fact that all the verticals built on bribes, people suffer. In a crisis, we have to.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u306	Ruslan Knazević, “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u307	Dear colleagues, in fact, the skepsis that is now echoing something in the hall is linked to the fact that we are discussing these two issues today. If we'd probably divorced them in time, it would have been a lot easier to think about how to vote. And in the context of the first case, I think that the evidence gathered about the second judge deserves to be appointed as the head of the Court of Appeal of the Lviv Region. Because 500 dollars and a few million dollars is usually a big difference, although I have no doubt that the Attorney General's application is justified. But given that I understand that there are doubts about many deputies, perhaps even more so, as you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, correctly said, take a break to find out all the circumstances of the matter. Because maybe there's a reason, and now we won't make a decision. That's why it's to be accepted. A positive decision, I think we should take a break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u308	Valerius Bondik, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u309	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, you know the difference, the procedural difference, when the judge appeared, provides an explanation. I also voted on the committee yesterday in favour of bringing the judge to justice. But as a lawyer, as a processualist, I can say that this is an active position of the accused. So he can give up testimony and any other investigation. That's why he claimed to be the investigator. But in the case where we have considered Judge Zvaric, under the Act on Operational Search Activities, the actions of the DRC do not form and continue until the verdict of the court, they are followed up to the court, but Zvaric disappears. I'd like to ask, Alexander Ivanovich Medvedzka, what are you taking out of operational security? Why has Boiler disappeared from the state? And we need to assign Michael Mikhailovich Lithuania to cover the border, because he'll be gone. And with regard to this judge, I want to say that, despite what I voted yesterday, today I have doubts about this judge. Because, really, someone needs a job.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u310	Vladimir Stretović, faction "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u311	Dear colleagues, it has happened that I am in charge of the Hersonic, Mikolai district, according to the distribution of responsibilities within the faction. And often there, I hear dozens of complaints about the work of the House Court of Mikolayeva and the person standing in front of the microphone. Of course, the distribution of power allows us to intervene in the activities of the judiciary, the judicial system, but what they say about money being taken away from the pioneer camps -- giving away to other businesses, taking property -- giving it to the raiders, and in all these attacks, the Mikolai Farm Court is directly involved in the leadership of its leader, who was just in front of us, is it clear that he needs to be given the opportunity while he's in town to see if he was doing the right thing, and is it not a crime against the Ukrainian people? So we have to vote, as in the previous case, 435 votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u312	Bodnar, the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u313	I'm asking you to hand over your ass.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u314	Dear colleagues, let's make this happen: if there is no colleague, we won't hand it over, we agreed, we've already made a note here. No Bodnar? I'd like to ask you! Mankovsky, please, Party of Regions. You don't?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u315	Yes, there is! Please pass the word to the Deputy Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u316	Who?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u317	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we listened to the judge. You know, that's a funny thing: 500 bucks for a jumbo hole, for a sanatorium -- two kilos of sausage there, and you can make that impression, that kind of shame -- an innocent person, you know, you get some caramel for a kid at home. I'd like to look at page nine and page ten, page eight, page nine and page 10 -- the D.A.'s application, how he ran and on the way, he threw thousands of dollars out of his pocket, and then found prints in his pocket, just like he found traces of the headlights and stuff. It's cynical behavior, it's avoiding giving honest, just accusations, it's the most terrible sin a lawyer can commit before a society. That's why I think there's nothing to be sure about. We need to give permission to the Attorney General for all the actions she's inviting.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u318	Dear National Deputies! A draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the granting of arrests is being put to the vote, taking into custody of the judge of the local court of the Mikolaiiv district of Koval Jury Mihajlovich. Registration number of the draft regulation 3500. Please vote. [[13:38:22]] For 396 Decision taken. Decision taken. Please, Lavrinovich Alexander Volodymyrovich. To complete the consideration of this issue, which relates to the release and appointment of judges. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u319	Your Honor! After considering your life’s assignment, I deliberately took a break so that you could remain witnesses to the two following questions. I would like to welcome you to the pleasure of the judges of Ukraine, and I wish that you would never be part of the debates you have just seen. Good for you!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u320	Dear National Deputies! Oleg Lazko, please. About what?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u321	Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! The faction of the Yulia Tymoshenko calls on you to review the 3501 draft, registered for release. [[And let the hall decide.]] Addressing the President regarding the discharge of the duties of the President’s representative at the Supreme Council of Peter Oliynik. And let the hall decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u322	Dear colleagues! That's what I'm talking about. We're not discussing this, we've made a deal with you. Please. Only this decree came. I reviewed and signed this decision during the break, and I directed it to the relevant committees. I'd like the committees to formally make inquiries to law enforcement agencies, get information and make suggestions. When it is, let's put it to a vote. Well, good fellows, come on. We don't know all the nuances of the matter there. And we'll work. We'll work. It's being announced. Please sign in for five minutes. Please, Yuri Carmazin, the faction “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u323	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Your Honor Vladimir Mikhailovich! I am the first deputy head of the Justice Committee. And yesterday, when we were discussing these issues: drawing these two judges to account -- we've been looking at these issues for a long time. We see here the legislative problems, we see that they didn't work, because when we were removed from office, we didn't make the exclusion decrees that were authorized by the Attorney General's Office. At the same time, this question has been raised since the suspension of activity, let's say, the President's representative in Parliament. And the committee voted for it yesterday unanimously, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I want to make you known. Thus, the committee responsible for this decision has considered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u324	People's MP Philippeenko, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u325	Dear colleagues, I would like to emphasize once again that in this case this is the position of the committee. The committee unanimously decided that it was necessary to address the President accordingly. And we have no right not to make a decision right now. So I stress that this situation needs to be voted on right now, put it into the agenda and vote, because it is in the Office of the Attorney-General's report that it is clear where the office was handing over the bribe that was present during the commission of this crime. The crime scene is a holding facility. An intermediary was the head of the government, who now comes and sits in this guest bed every day and looks at us. And that's why we can't ignore the committee's decision. And I believe that it is necessary to confirm this decision by a decision of the Supreme Council, because the Attorney General has no doubt about it. What's more, if we vote for this, it's necessary to get the pass to cancel Mr. Oliynik so he doesn't have access to the Supreme Council's towers.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u326	National deputy Haydayav, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u327	Please pass the word Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u328	Peter Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u329	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I think that everyone today, knowing what issue we are considering, supports our proposal. As the Office of the Prosecutor-General clearly recorded and recorded this fact, it was Olijnik, as the head of the district administration, as the representative of the President in Parliament was a witness, who, in fact, was watching or guaranteeing that the bribe was taken. And it's obviously going to be a disgraceful spot for the Supreme Council. Just as it is obvious that we are not releasing him from his post. Why don't you let the President handle his chivalry or what else you can call them? That is why we are now entitled to address the President and let him decide on his release. I believe that the following should be done, Vladimir Mihajlovich, to put the matter to the vote on the agenda. And once Parliament has decided, we will vote in essence.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u330	National Deputy Bondik, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u331	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, I want to support our colleagues in the BUT faction, this may be a rare case. But yesterday, on the committee, we discussed this. And indeed, in the theory of criminal law, there is a whole concept and an institution, a regulatory institution -- complicity. The nature of the crime requires the event and the composition of the crime. So this was the event, the composition -- let the investigative authorities do it, there were proposals from the deputies. Therefore, I would like to vote in favour of this order, and I would like to add this order by adding a paragraph: depriving a worthy lawyer of Ukraine, for example, I am ashamed to receive it, Judge Zvarić. Because it is not possible for a judge to have a title in the search - a well-deserved lawyer of Ukraine if he has not left the country yet. We have heard that Medvedzko did not respond to Aleksandr Ivanovich, his operational security has been cancelled or not. It's probably been canceled, so he's not in the country, so he left a note. Perhaps, unfortunately, there is no one to judge him alive.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u332	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u333	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, respected colleagues, well, in principle, it is perfectly legitimate not to make a decision in a hurry for one person or another. But, I see, this is the situation in the Supreme Council, and I have four factions in front of me, and I represent the fifth faction of the faction, apparently the will of the people’s deputies to make the right decision today. Perhaps not that compromise, but the excuse for such a hasty, to some extent, decision could have been that, in fact, it was not happening and no one asked, let’s say, the removal of that position from a particular person. Perhaps the mere fact of temporary suspension for the period of investigation by the appropriate committee, the commission, perhaps a temporary investigator, could be quite appropriate. The very moment of exclusion for the period of study of the matter is, for the will of the Supreme Council is apparently already in place.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u334	Jaroslav Kenzior, faction of "Our Ukraine People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u335	Jaroslav Kenzior. Dear colleagues, I think today's debate in the plenary of this very sad case is both a lesson, and a cold soul for many more and many more judges who have not reached, so to speak, in a happy situation under this distribution. Because I'd like to do it today. Today in Lviv, you know, what has happened has been talked about for many years, and I have, among other things, raised public questions about the situation in the Lviv courts. And I don't want to specifically refer to many judges as worthy of adornment, as it were, this company led by Judge Zvaric. So today we can expect the Supreme Council and the Attorney General to continue this work. The only thing I'm surprised about is the Lviv District Attorney's Office.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u336	Dear colleagues, let's sum it up. Let us agree with what has been said today in the consideration of these issues. People have drawn conclusions for themselves. If we now assume the functions of the investigation, and you will have that will, we can accept it. But, dear colleagues, since you supported the idea that the Supreme Council of Ukraine would work and have me organize the work of the Supreme Council, let's be the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Why will we go down to all the questions that concern this problem? Politically, they said everything they thought needed to be said. But let's do it this way. The draft decision is, it's registered, it's sent to the committee to consider this document, because it's a committee. Dear colleagues, the committee, not justice, but the committee of legal policy, has to consider this bill. And so let's do it this way. If the committee were to determine and be free, the documents would be required, and you listened to the Attorney General's statement. I want the Supreme Council, and we all want it to act solidly and weightily. Let's not be part of it, because today there's an attempt, you understand how, and act on the Supreme Council of Ukraine, let's demonstrate that, despite all the political problems and our emotions, we have common sense. Believe me, you will agree with me in this regard. Tomorrow there will be emotional pressures and others on the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And then we're going to have to, we're going to make a serious decision on this. Please. It's being announced. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I haven't considered the committee, I beg of you. Please. Let's do it this way. He'll take a look at the committee. Please. May I have your attention, please? [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I propose, and we have agreed that we are dealing exclusively with issues that are agreed upon and approved by the meeting schedule. Let's reconfirm today, because only the draft decree came at 12 o'clock. The commission of the committee headed by our colleague Mishchenko, what he considered, asked the Attorney General's Office to provide the appropriate materials, as far as possible, within the limits that do not violate the secret of the investigation, so that we can respond accordingly. On the other hand, on a political scale, respected colleagues have said everything they need to say. And I am convinced that the President of Ukraine must make his own decision without waiting for the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Did I say that right? So I'd like to go over, well, I'm asking you, dear fellows, we can't deal with issues that we didn't have. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I would ask you not to give up saying that I'm covering something. I suggest that the Supreme Council work hard. There's something else they're going to bring to the Supreme Council, and we're going to scream again. I'm asking you, let's make a decision based on the decision of the committee headed by Mishchenko. He'll make that decision tomorrow, it'll be a decision tomorrow. Dear colleagues, I want to understand again. I'm asking you, let's get the committee to take the official documents. Well, we're on trial now. Well, you know what this is about. I ask you to consider the question of the appointment of out-of-court local elections. Please. As soon as the committee is ready, let's make a decision. To the extent that the committee is prepared, we are considering the matter. All of it. Please. Deputy of the People's Party, Upper Sergey Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u337	The honourable Presidium, the distinguished national deputies, the distinguished voters, the Committee on State Building and Local Self - Rule at its meetings discussed 71 draft regulations related to the appointment of out - of - turn local elections. Of these, 68 decisions are on the appointment of out-of-court elections for city, rural, village heads, 2 decrees on the appointment of local council deputies and one decree on the simultaneous appointment of city council members and city council deputies, namely: Newlywed rural head of the Malovski district of Kirovograd, at his own request in connection with the application; Lucikov village head of the Bilopil district of Suma, at his own request; Shevchenkov village head of the district of Poltava at his own request; The Red Army village head of the Biloukurakov district of Lugansk, at his own request; The Ploskov village head of the Ostróskie district of the Plains region, at his own request; Prilisnev village head of the Manevic district of Volin district at his own request; The Prilyman village head of the Odessa region of Odessa, at his own request; The Gertov village head of the district of Czerniakhiv at his own request; The village head of the district of Lviv, which is at the mercy of the court; Malov village head of the Brezneguvac district at your own request; An Murachiv village head of the Mikolai district, at his own request; The Zaliski village head of the Cerkas region, at his own request; Old-fashioned agriculture.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u338	Just a minute. Dear colleagues, I ask you to give us in such a way that we have to vote separately so that we don't read all the decrees and then discuss them. That's why it's the first to vote on Decree 2699, isn't it? Let's make a decision on Lightwater, shall we?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u339	There is such a determination.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u340	Yeah? Therefore, honourable colleagues, the draft Decree 2699 on the appointment of alternate members of the Lightwater City Council of the Kirovograd Region, is on the vote, please. [[13:55:04]] For-198 The decision is not taken. Next order. 3410, right? Dear colleagues, you may thus allow me to read the rulings and put them to a vote. If there are warnings on the committee, the committee representative will speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u341	What name? I call it the Rules Council, the area and the area. That's what I called it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-18-m0.u342	The draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the appointment of non-recurrent elections of the Newlywed Rural Head, the Newlywed Village Council of the Malovsky region of Kirovograd, registration number 3410, is put to the vote. Please vote. [[13:56:06]] For 369 Decision taken. A draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, registration number 3410-1, on the appointment of the alternate elections of the Luzik village head, the Luzik Village Council of the Bilopil district of the Suma region, is submitted to the vote. Please vote. [[13:56:39]] For 368 Decision taken. We continue the morning session 15 minutes before the question is concluded. The draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the appointment of the successive elections of the Shewchenkian village head, Shevchenkiv village council of the Rechetil district of Poltava region, is announced for the vote. Registration number of document 3410-2. Please vote. [[13:57:18]] For 261 I'll take the order. The draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the appointment of the Red Army Rural Head, the Red Army Rural Council of the region of Lugansk Region, is submitted to the vote. Registration number 3410-3. Please vote. [[13:57:50]] For 363 Decision taken. A draft decision on the appointment of consecutive elections of Ploskovsky Rural Head Ploskovska Rural Council of the Ostróz Region of the Plain region is put to the vote. [[Registration number 3410-4]] Please vote. [[13:58:21]] For 365 Decision taken. The draft decree on the appointment of the next election of the Prilisnian Rural Head of the Prilisn village council of the Manevic district of Volin Region is put to the vote. [[Registration number 3410-5]] Please vote. [[13:58:51]] For 361 Decision taken. A draft decision on the appointment of the election of the Prilymanian Rural Head of the Prilymanian Rural Council of the Ovidiopol region of the Odessa Region is put to the vote. Registration number 3410-6. Please vote. [[13:59:20]] For 365 Decision taken. A draft decree is put to the vote on the appointment of the draft decree for the election of the Styrtov Rural Head of the village council of the Chernyachiv district of the Zitomir region. Registration number 3410-7. Please vote. [[13:59:51]] For 362 Decision taken. The draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the appointment of the successive elections of Podgorica's head, Podgorica's Rural Council of the Brdovian Region of Lviv Region is put to the vote. [[Registration number 3410-8]] Please vote. [[14:00:20]] For 366 Decision taken. A bill is put to the vote. The Order on the Assignment of Subsequent Elections of the Małiów Rural Head. [[Malii Rural Council of the Berezneguwat district of Mikolai region]] Registration number 3410-9. Please vote. [[14:00:49]] For 365 Decision taken. A draft decree on the appointment of the election of Murachov village head is put to the vote. [[Murachiv village council of the Mikolai district of Brezneguwat]] Registration number 3410-10. Please vote. [[14:01:19]] For 373 Decision taken. A draft decree on the appointment of the Zaliski Rural Head in turn is put to the vote. [[Zaliska Rural Council of the Cerkas region of Tallinn]] Registration number 3410-11. Please vote. [[14:01:47]] For 368 Decision taken. The draft Ordinance on the Assignment of Elections of the Ancient Agricultural Head is put to the vote. [[An old-fashioned village council in the Ternopil region]] Registration number 3410-12. Please vote. [[14:02:19]] For 370. Decision taken. A draft Order on the Assignment of Elections of the Eugène Rural Head (Eugène Village Council of the Donetsk Region of Velionovosilki Region, registration number 3410-13) is submitted to the vote. Please vote. [[14:02:53]] For 378 Decision taken. The draft Decision on the appointment of the next election of the princely village head, the Prince's Village Council of Kamenets-Podil County of Hmeljna Region, registration number 3410-14. Vote. [[14:03:21]] For 376 Decision taken. The draft Order on the Assignment of Elections for Pediatric Rural Head, the Pediatric Rural Council of the District of Colomia, the district of Johno-Frankow, registration number 3410-15. Vote. [[14:03:49]] For 372 Decision taken. This is the draft Order on the Assignment of Non-Serial Elections of the Nicphorian Rural Head, Nikifori Rural Council of the Artemian Region, Donetsk Region, registration number 3410-16. Vote. [[14:04:18]] For 373 Decision taken. It's the vote on the draft Decree, registration number 3410-17, on the appointment of the election of the nouvelles village head, the nouvelles village council, the Vradiov district of Mikolai district. Vote. [[14:04:47]] For 378 Decision taken. The draft Decree, registration number 3410-18 on the appointment of the successive elections of the Bobin Rural Head, the Bobin Rural Council, the Putil district of the Sumu district. Please vote. [[14:05:14]] For 372 Decision taken. Draft Decision on Assignment of Subsequent Elections of Tamarin Rural Head [[Registration number 3410-19]] Tamarin Rural Council, Snigurovsky District, Mikolayivsk Region Please vote. [[2:05:44]] For 368 Decision taken. The draft Decree 3410-20 on the appointment of consecutive elections for the head of the country is put to the vote. Tilav village council of the Shum district, Ternopil district Please vote. [[14:06:12]] For 374 Decision taken. A bill is put to the vote. A decree on the appointment of consecutive elections of the village head. Wydert village council of Kamen Kashir district of Volin district, registration number 3410-21. [[14:06:43]] For 373 Decision taken. A draft decree on the appointment of successive elections of the Yosipian village head is put to the vote. Josephian Rural Council of the Novomirgorod Region of Kirovograd, registration number 3410-22. [[14:07:10]] For 376 Decision taken. A draft Supreme Council Decision on the appointment of the Siovogian head in turn is put to the vote. Siovorogov village council, Danube district Hmelnicka district, registration number 3410-23. [[14:07:39]] For 379 Decision taken. A draft decree on the appointment of the successive elections of the Semenian village head, the Semenian Rural Council, the Arbusin district of Mikolai district, is being put to the vote. Registration number 3410-24. [[14:08:06]] For 374 Decision taken. A bill is put to the vote. A decree on the appointment of the successive elections of the hotel’s head, the Hottin Rural Council of the Radiville District of the Plain region. 3410-25. Please vote. [[14:08:33]] For 386 Decision taken. Draft Order on the Assignment of Elections of Markov's Rural Head, Markov's Village Council of the Cologne District of Johno-Frankiv. 3410-26. [[14:08:58]] For 384 Decision taken. Draft Decision on the appointment of the successive election of the omelnian village head, Omelnick village council of the Kremenchuck district of Poltav. 3410-27. [[14:09:25]] For 390 Decision taken. Draft Decision on the Assignment of Extraordinary Elections of the Presadavian Rural Head, Presadavian Rural Council of the Yellow Area of the Mikolai region. 3410-28. [[14:09:49]] For 390 Decision taken. Draft Order on the Assignment of Elections of the Lego Rural Head, Ljgovska Rural Council of the Kirov Region of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, 3410-29. [[14:10:16]] For 384 Decision taken. Draft Decision on the appointment of successive elections of the Husakiv village head, Husakiv village council of the Zvenigrad district of Cherkas region, 3410-30. [[14:10:41]] For 379 Decision taken. Draft Decision on the appointment of the successive elections of the Gordiev village head, the Council of the Trostian region of the Winnitz region, 3410-31. [[14:11:05]] For 384 Decision taken. On the appointment of the old-majdan village head election, the Old-Majdan Village Council of the Red Army District of the Žitomir region, 3410-32. [[14:11:32]] For 381 Decision taken. On the appointment of the consecutive election of the cultural head of the village, Kulczynkow village council of Krasiliv district of Hmelnick district, 3410-33. [[14:12:00]] For 379 A decision has been made. On the appointment of the successive elections of the Federkian village head, the Federkow Village Council of the Voloci district of Hmelnicki district, 3410-34. [[14:12:27]] For 375 Decision taken. On the appointment of the successive elections of the Zvanov Rural Head, Zvanov Rural Council of the Artemov Region of the Donetsk Region, 3410-35. [[14:12:50]] For 373 Decision taken. On the appointment of the consecutive elections of the Krivokolin Rural Head, Krivokolin Rural Council of the Talin district of Cherkas region, 3410-36. [[14:13:18]] For 362 Decision taken. On the next election of the Onykyev Rural Head, Onykiev Rural Council of the Malovsky district of Kirovograd, 3410-37. [[14:13:42]] For 367 Decision taken. On the appointment of the successive elections of the Buddhist head, Budištevska Rural Council of the Koropsky district of Chernigiv region, 3410-38. [[14:14:08]] For 363 Decision taken. On the appointment of the next election of the village's genius head, the Genius Village Council of the Kharkiv district of the Kharkiv region, 3410-39. [[14:14:32]] For 363 Decision taken. On the appointment of the successive elections of the Russian village head, the Russian Rural Council of the Yampil district of the Winnitsky region, 3410-40. Please vote. [[14:14:55]] For 369 Decision taken. On the appointment of the successive elections of the Croatian village head, the Chorlov village council of the Kalanchi district of the Hersonian region. 3410-41. [[14:15:19]] For 361 Decision taken. Honorable fellow workers! I'll be there in a minute. Dear colleagues! We still have 27 decrees to consider. So since I've announced a recess and I have the right to continue my work for only 15 minutes, morning meeting, only if you agree. Therefore, my dear colleagues, the morning meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed. Break till 4:00. We'll start to consider this issue with. We will begin our work by continuing our consideration of the question of the appointment of out-of-order elections to local self-government bodies.
