ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-05-m0.u1	Comrades, I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, check in. And I'm asking the Supreme Council apparatus to let me know if there is a physical presence of Ukrainian national deputies in the hall. Not cards, but Ukrainian national deputies. I'm asking the camera to give me the registration table. As long as there's no information on the registration table, we're not opening the meetings. Now, fellows! I ask for a few more minutes to provide information on the registration of national deputies at the registration desks first so that we can see the real presence of Ukrainian national deputies. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear Ukrainian national deputies, I have just been handed over lists of national deputies who have not registered. In order to comply with Ukraine's constitutional rule on the personal presence of the National MP in the Parliament Chamber and on personal voting, I would like to see if there are any national MPs in the Hall right now. Ahmet's Renat Leonidovich? None. Richter Raisa Vasilivna? None. Bondarenko Viktor Viktorovich? None. Bondik Valeriy Anatoliyovich? Is there a Bondick Valery Anatolyovich? Where? None. Borodin the All-Volude Volodymyrovich? None. Burjak Sergey Vasilovich. Where's Burjak? None. Verevsky Andrew Mikhailovich? None. Gacko Valery Petrovich? None. Larin Sergey Mikolaiovich? Where's Larin Sergey Mikolaiovich? Good afternoon, Sergey Mikolayovich. Lebedev Pavlov Valentinovich? None. Lysztensky Alexander Olegovich? None. Lisov Igor Volodymyrovich? None. Livinsky Mikhailo Alexandrovich? None. Sergey Volodymyrovich? None. Maltsev Vladimir Aleksandrovich? None. Melnik Stanislav Anatoliyovich? None. Peaceable Ivan Mikolaiovich? None. Momot Sergey Vasilovich? None. Mihitaryan Nvier Mnazakanovic? Is there a Mihitarian MP? None. The final Vladimir Leontievitch? None. Sandman Svetoslav Mikhailovich? Sandman Svetoslav Mikhailovich? None. Bad Igor Ivanovich? Where's Bad? None. Pop Pops Alexander Pavlovich? None. Adventure? — 2 Timothy Where's Popov? You don't? None. Adventure Anton Vicentiovich. None. Prutnik Edward Anatolyevich? None. Ribakov Igor Alexanderovich? Ribakov Igor Alexanderovich? None. Savichuk Alexander Volodymyrovich? None. Safiulin Ravil Safovich? None. Holy Dmitry Volodymyrovich? Holy!? None. Mr. Ivan Vasilovich? None. Stoyan Alexander Mikolaiovich? Yes! It's two pluss. Alexander Mikolaiovich, I ask you to sign up, sign up, or your salary will not be paid. The third man, Alexander Yuriovich? None. Tulub Sergey Borisovich? None. Harlim Valeriy Mikhailovich? None. Hometicist Vitaly Yuriovich? None. Bloody Yuri Dmitrovich? None. Black Willy Alexander Vilenovich? None. Shentz Dmitry Alexiyovich? There's a Shentz. Nice to meet you. Skin Igor Mikolaiovich? None. Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, sign up, please, because we can't stand it if you don't get paid and you've been included as something that doesn't exist. Please register at the table. Is it Artem Volodymyrovich? Janukovic Viktor Fedorovich is. I'm also asking you to register. Yatsuba Vladimir Grigorovich? I saw Vladimir Grigorovich. Yes! Helen Yurievna's shustik? None. Gerasimov Ivan Alexanderovich? None. Sergey Petrovich? None. Chief Igor Borisovich? None. Grivkovsky Vadim Alexanderovich? None. Davemuk Stepan Antonovich? None. Demiscan Vladimir Fedorovich? None. Demyanchuk Victoria Alexandrovna? None. Andrew Leonidovich the Ripper? None. Long Stanislaw Alexiyovich? Long Stanislaw Alexiyovich? None. One Alexander Josephovich? None. Efraemov Alexander Sergiyovich? Yes. Zwania David Vajaevich? David Vazievich? None. Zhivago Constantine Valentinovich? None. Zločevsky Mikola Vladislavovich? None. Ivanichenko Yuri Volodymyrovich? None. Slippery Vitaly Anatolyovich? None. Calchenko Valeriy Mihajlovich? None. Kaskov Vladislav Volodymyrovich? None. Who's Sergei Viktorovich? None. Klimec Pavel Anatolyevich? It's air conditioning. Please register as well. Klimov Leonid Mikhailovich? I've seen him somewhere. Yes. He's always been a clown, Andrew Petrovich. Did Sergey Petrovich swear? I didn't see. Sergey Petrovich Klovev? None. Kovzel Mikola Olegovich? Yes. Kolnik's Boris Viktorovich? Yes. Mikola Stepanov's mosquito? None. Anatoly Leonidovich? None. Kostenko Yuri Ivanovich? Kostenko? None. Kostuyev Alexei Alexiyovich? None. The tailor, Andrew Vitaliovich? None. Kuzmenko Pavlov. Peter Pavlovich? Yes. And Darda Alexander Panasovich? Darda? None. Ladies and gentlemen, the list is read. All national deputies who are not present today at the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine have been deprived of their salaries for today. Now for the agenda. Dear colleagues, we are in an extremely difficult situation with you. Let me start the talk. You and I are in an extremely difficult situation. Officially, the Head of the Supreme Council has not announced the closure of the first session of the Supreme Council and accordingly cannot announce the opening of the next session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in accordance with article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine. In view of this, I announce the closing of the first session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And I announce and announce the opening of the second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call. I'm asking all the national deputies to come up and sing the State Hymn. Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, we are meeting on the day of the Conciliation Council. And unfortunately, the name of the Conciliation Board does not match the point, so we have not come to any agreement to this day. I'd like to present to you the agenda for today. In view of the fact that the agenda of the day session has so far been given to you as a real project, this issue will be considered next week, depending on how we announce the calendar of meetings. The next thing that was proposed today was a speech by the President of Ukraine in Parliament. But in view of the fact that you and I are very organized in creating a parliamentary crisis in Ukraine, it is unlikely that a statement by the President of Ukraine in parliament is possible today. However, there are a number of suggestions in the agenda that are compromising in the position of all sides, but we need to come to an agreement. If we don't agree, we'll turn Parliament not even into a circus, but into a boxing ring. Which I don't want, because it's going to be one round at most. There are several orders for your consideration. First. That's what NATO is all about. The Committee considered three decrees, unfortunately none of them had a final consensus. It's a decree on total support for the letter, it's a decree on total non-support of the letter, and it's my decision to hold both the referendum and the actual postponement of this issue until Ukraine joins NATO, because Ukraine does not join NATO today or in a year or after five NATOs. Sadly, however, no agreement on the text of this decree has been received to this day. The second, which was brought to your attention and what the committees had done, which, by the way, was an insistence including opposition. I mean, I want to go back again. The opposition insisted on addressing the NATO issue, and the opposition insisted that a referendum be held. These things are written in three decrees, in different texts, but each of them reflects the position that is indicated in the letter sent to the alliance, namely the need for a referendum. But now every position continues to be in a deeper and more conflicted situation. The other one. With regard to the three orders for temporary investigation committees. They passed the relevant regulatory committee, the interim commission of inquiry for the city of Kharkiv, the interim commission of inquiry for the city of Kiev, and this is the interim commission of inquiry for the Minister of Interior, Yuri Lucenka. Next. These are a few draft laws that have an incredible resonance in society, and that should still be finally adopted in the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine is proposed for your consideration, namely, the lifting of parliamentary immunity. The next draft law is the social law on subsistence minimum, the law was passed by the President. The point is that all the figures for the minimum cost of living should be public and thus de facto is the basis for increasing the minimum cost of living and new approaches to its calculation. The third question is the Bachevo Committee, the amendment to Article 77 of the Health Law Framework, which is an additional vacation for family medicine workers. As for the President's letter. It's filming today, I understand, does the Supreme Council guarantee that we can invite the President and listen to the message? I think I'm going to vote on that question now. If there is no President, there can be no taking an oath by the judges of the Constitutional Court, there can be no taking an oath by the members of the High Council of Justice. A number of human resources regulations and responsibilities for the Ukrainian people’s deputies are proposed. To begin my work, I propose to exclude paragraphs on the message and on the oath of both the Constitutional Court and the members of the High Council of Justice, although I would vote in favour of today's schedule. I beg of you, fellow national MPs. Do you want to go through with it? One word at a time. Please sign up for the procedure. Three minutes. Vasil Alexiyovich, let's not violate the Rules. There's a statement out of the place. The first Taran. Please come out of the place. Taran Viktor Vasilovich. Please, Victor Vasilovich, by procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-05-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, I propose not to do circuses, not to block the rostrums, I propose that we really accept the agenda proposed by the Chief of the Supreme Council, that is clear. If we're going to adopt the laws that we're talking about right now, which was said by the Head of the Supreme Council, at least we're going to label ourselves in society as an active formation, as an active formation, not just some kind of, you know, coincidence. The only one. Let's really put aside some kind of disagreement, some kind of contradiction, and we'll accept what's been said today. And for starters, it's a day's work. Thank you very much. This is the position of our faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-05-m0.u3	Poor Mikhailo Dmitrovic, “Block Lithuania”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-05-m0.u4	Dear colleagues! Dear Arsenia Petrovich! The “Lithuania Block” welcomes the start of the second session and we hope that it will be fruitful. We're willing to take the basis of this agenda, but we can't vote in this way, because it doesn't have a lot of basic bills for us to supplement, starting with public procurement, what we need today to develop the budget, and a whole bunch of other bills. So we are ready to support ourselves on the basis, but we need to include the really important documents that our society is waiting for today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-05-m0.u5	Thank you, Michael Dmitrovich. Tarasjuk Boris Ivanovich, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-05-m0.u6	Please pass the word to Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-05-m0.u7	Kirilenko Viacheslav Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-05-m0.u8	Viacheslav Kirilenko, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear colleagues! Dear voters! Parliament now has every opportunity to start a full-fledged job. All the issues that seem to bother the opposition, in order of the day, are three drafts of the NATO Ordinance in order of the day. Let's define by voting. But after this question, which, by the way, is not the biggest concern of the MPs, but of the common people, is the abuse of the city of Kiev and the city of Kharkiv, the issue under number 1284 about the abolition of parliamentary immunity. Dear voters, the question is ready and standing in order today. If the opposition does not block the rostrum, today the MPs will lose their touch. We call for 400 votes to vote in favour of this bill, not to seek NATO's excuse, which is not there.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-05-m0.u9	Sorry, Smittuh, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-05-m0.u10	Garbage, Party, faction of regions. Your Honor, I'm drawing your attention. Arseny Petrovich! Arsenius Petrovich, I address you as Chairman of the Supreme.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-05-m0.u11	I'm not Caesar, I'm not really Julius Caesar, but I'm capable of listening to Smudge and talking to Kolesnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-05-m0.u12	I urge you, you have read the list of national MPs who are not in the hall today. Please give the appropriate secretarial command to remove cards so that other MPs do not use these cards do not vote in favour of those who are not. Otherwise, if you don't ask this question about removing the card, we call on our deputies not to vote or register on a daily basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-05-m0.u13	Kostenko Pavel Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-05-m0.u14	Please pass the word to Tomenko Mikola.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-05-m0.u15	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-05-m0.u16	Dear colleagues, we feel that today is a good opportunity to start implementing those commitments that have been made by all political forces. We support the position of the Head of the Supreme Council, and we believe it is extremely important today to stop a meaningless discussion about where Ukraine will be in 20 and 30 years' time. And we need to start solving those urgent socio-economic problems that people are demanding of us today. Therefore, it is crucial today to resolve the issue of parliamentary integrity, in principle, it is important today to resolve the issue of subsistence minimums and the range of socio-economic issues that are in order today. It is equally important today to move this out of place and to resolve the human resources issues that today impede the work of the government and the programme presented by the Prime Minister. That's why we're in the middle of the day.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-05-m0.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I would like to make a proposal. The time has come. It's about what we're taking as the basis for today's schedule. There are some other things that we're going to ask people to include, we're going to go straight to the next round of negotiations with the factions' heads, because we need to start a normal job. As far as the State Procurement Act is concerned, we cannot include it because we do not have a committee decision. Then we break the Rules. But once again, let's take today's agenda. We start with an extremely topical question that one percent of Ukrainians are interested in: “NATO”. Then we go after the investigators, then we go to the law. So there's the agenda you have in front of your eyes. We rule out questions about the President's message, the oaths of the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Council of Justice, including questions about the calendar plan. We need to adopt a calendar plan today. Please vote for the base and we're going to the faction leaders back to my office. I'm, I'm asking you to put a question to the vote. [[11:45:19]] For 243 Thus, we accepted that we would be considering today. I beg you, colleagues, be quiet! Everyone saw who was in the hall, who was not in the hall. So I'm asking the heads of factions in the Cabinet of the Supreme Council to begin the consideration of the matter. What happened? What do we vote for? [[B in m in s a l in]] What do we vote for?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-05-m0.u18	You want out of the procedure? Please, five minutes out of the procedure. [[B in m in s a l in]] We're going, I'm asking the heads of factions. I'm asking Jojik Jaroslav Ivanovich, "Our Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-05-m0.u19	I'm asking you to pass the word to Chef Roman.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-05-m0.u20	Welder Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-05-m0.u21	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, you have just put to the vote and we have approved as a basis the draft agenda that has been passed to you. Instead, I didn't hear any suggestions, nothing at all, no criticism of this draft agenda. So our faction suggests that, since no one, at all, has made any comment, put this draft agenda to the vote as a whole. I think the session room will support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-05-m0.u22	Špak Vasil Fedorovic, “Block of Lithuania”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-05-m0.u23	I'd like to give Vaszczuk to Catherine Timothy.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-05-m0.u24	Vaszczuk Katerina Timofievna
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-05-m0.u25	Dear Arsenija Petrovich and all fellow members of the national deputies who returned from the districts and spoke to the people knew the urgent question today to stop the state racket in the individual procurement law. They can't work hospitals, they can't work schools, they can't work other social institutions. They can't make minimum purchases of bread, oil and fuel materials, etc. That's why we don't have another law. And to stop this criminal act, we are simply obliged to do so. The faction insists that this law, the cessation of today’s law, be incorporated into the order of the day. This will determine our voting day by day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-05-m0.u26	Kostenko Paul Ivanovich, Block of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-05-m0.u27	Thank you. Please pass the word to John Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-05-m0.u28	Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-05-m0.u29	Dear colleagues, we support the proposal of our coalition partners to vote in general and start working for Parliament. For if each one were to give a word today to a member of parliament, urgent questions as to how much he has accumulated, they are in the order of the day, the order of the day that we discussed yesterday on the conciliatory council. We need to get to work now. Arsenija Petrovich may now proceed to vote on responsible laws that are extremely urgent. We realize that today the abolition of parliamentary immunity is a concern of many, and we must do so! And the social issues that stand in the order of the day, and we have to do it! Arsenija Petrovich, the faction proposes to proceed immediately!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-05-m0.u30	Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-05-m0.u31	Simonenko, Communist faction. Dear Arsenija Petrovich, I would like to warn you not to violate the Rules, because you did not register in the House of National Deputies, but you have already announced the vote. That is to say, the previous vote is not real yet because you announced a list of national deputies who are not in the hall, and that is a hundred of the deputies you have announced there. The vast majority of them are members of the coalition. And the cards you were supposed to give to the secretariat were working for their benefit. So once again, I'd like to ask you not to violate the Rules. And in this case, honourable colleagues, those who are very much talking today about the organization of the work of the Supreme Council, what you thought nine months ago when you raped all Ukraine, paralyzed the work of the Supreme Council, and did not act on the laws that were enacted in 2006 in the name and interests of the people of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-05-m0.u32	Koval Viacheslav Stanislavovich, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-05-m0.u33	Please give the floor to the People's Deputy Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-05-m0.u34	Viacheslav Kirilenko, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense". Dear voters! Now, the Party of Regions and Communists are breaking up another plenary session, trying to fight against the Supreme Council. This suggests that neither the removal of parliamentary immunity nor the cancellation of the Party of the Regions' parliamentary benefits. The Plenary Hall today has a quorum to vote on all matters of the agenda. The order of the day is based on 243 votes. So right now, through the free will of the deputies, each of us can vote in favour of a certain decision on NATO, and by making a decision, we can come up with the sinister issues: create commissions on Kiev and on Kharkiv, and adopt social bills, and cancel the parliamentary integrity. Our faction urges the Head of the Supreme Council to approach.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-05-m0.u35	Poor Mikhailo Dmitrovic, Block Lithuania.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-05-m0.u36	Dear colleagues! I suggest that the Lithuanian Block proposes to go to the vote. We propose to include in the order of the day a matter related to the law on the solicitation chambers. Repeal this law, but it needs to be included in the agenda. Arsenius Petrovich! I think, despite the possibility of a mortuary that is anticipated in the Supreme Council, let's still put to the vote the proposal to include issues in the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-05-m0.u37	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The time for the performance is over. Indeed, it would be logical to include in the agenda today the amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Procurement. Now I'm going to raise the registration number for this bill because we have to end this public procurement story. We put the whole country at risk, and I think it's the right decision. We're registered there with 20 bill hooks, we're legally required to put them all in order of the day. So I ask you to bring into the agenda all issues concerning the amendment of the Ukrainian State Procurement Act. Please vote. [[11:52:57]] For 215 The decision is not taken. Colleagues! Well, comrades, how come they didn't make it? Come on. It's an important law that the MPs say they haven't made it. Colleagues, once again, in connection with national MPs. I am putting to the vote the question of the return to the vote on the inclusion in the agenda of Ukraine's daily laws on amendments to Ukraine's laws on public procurement. It's a critical question for the state. Please vote. Comrades, it's a purchase, it's not NATO. It's a purchase. [[11:53:41]] For 242 Colleagues, so we're still going to be looking at all the bills today, eventually, about making changes. I'm asking you to show me the factions. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I can't hear you. I've included the factions. I am now putting to the vote the question of inclusion in the agenda. We put it back, now we're talking about inclusion. I can't hear you. Let's put it in the agenda, comrades, please. Vladimir Mikhailovich! I'm asking you to stop voting because something is wrong with Vladimir Mikhailovich. Vladimir Mikhailovich, do you have any suggestions? With motive? Please write it down for reasons. So I don't hear that far, the megaphones need to be taken. Spok Vasil Fedorovich. It's a block of Lithuania.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-05-m0.u38	I give the word to Volodymyr Mikhailovich Litvin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-05-m0.u39	Litvin Volodymyr Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-05-m0.u40	Dear colleagues! I'd like to ask that our faction's proposal be clearly fixed. We're putting the laws on changes in public procurement aside, but we're asking questions about the suspension of the law. And if you include this question, this is going to define the faction's position. I want to say again, it's all locked up today and we need to make a fundamental decision on this issue. [[Applause]] And that should be the first question. Under this condition, we will then vote in favour of the approval of the meeting schedule. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-05-m0.u41	Aleksandrovna, Alexandrovska Alla, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-05-m0.u42	Arseny Petrovich! I'm sorry, but I have to make a personal comment as a national MP. Several times you have been asked to give the floor in explanation of vote, several times you have been asked to give the floor by procedure, and you ignore the full Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council. You announced today a list of MPs who didn't register on the tables, and they weren't in the hall. However, their cards have been voted on and you believe they should be. Why are you making the Supreme Council of the Circus, why are you also deceiving Ukrainian citizens? You just said that the law that deals with public procurement didn't seem to have passed through the committee. Alexander Nikolaevich Tkachenko, Chairman of the Committee, said that those bills had passed through the Committee and could be considered. But you are afraid to admit that the “orange coalition” has no real majority, there are no more than one and a half dozen people in the room, and they are unable to work and vote. And you're covering it up, and you're putting the Supreme Council in really crisis.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-05-m0.u43	Kirilenko Viacheslav Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-05-m0.u44	Please pass the word to Kseniya Lapiniya.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-05-m0.u45	Xenia Liapina.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-05-m0.u46	Leap of Xenius. "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense." Our faction supports Lithuania's position to vote for a return to the State Procurement Act in effect in early 2005. We believe that this is the path that is most up-to-date and optimal to unlock the work on public procurement. I think today, as on lacquer paper, we're going to find out who's going to make the arrangements in the country and who isn't. We are convinced that we need to bring about an order in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-05-m0.u47	Thank you. Hellhound Alexander Mikolaiovich, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-05-m0.u48	Respectable colleagues, distinguished voters. Our country, our Parliament, has witnessed many shameful things, including that we are now standing on the threshold. I address you, President of the Supreme Council. You're a young man, you've just started your career, you're acting like an experienced provoker! Can't you see that Parliament is on the verge of a split?Oh, my God! You're provoking the fight! So if you have the rest of your conscience, if you have the rest of your responsibility, call a break, don't embarrass yourself, don't embarrass Parliament!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-05-m0.u49	Terjehohin Sergey Anatoliyovich, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-05-m0.u50	Thank you. Regarding the previous reporter. If you do not want to work, take a break and leave the hall, let us work. And about the proposal of the Lithuanian faction. Let's be clear about what you want, dear friends! If you want to cancel the changes that have taken place since 2005 before the "Procurement" Act, this is the right position. But please don't say that the law is repealed as such. Because in two days, we're gonna have the whole budget drawn up. So if the surface to that normal situation that was before the 2005 change, our faction supports and will vote in favour of including this issue in the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-05-m0.u51	Dear Igor Fedorovich, “Block of Lithuania”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-05-m0.u52	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, please pass the word to Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-05-m0.u53	Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-05-m0.u54	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, distinguished colleagues. We can see that the proposal of the “Lithuania Block” has given rise to a very good perception, right, some people understand that the act of a criminal law that gives rise to corruption must be stopped, and others have started running around the session room and have even become reddish, obviously realizing that today could be the end of their criminal corruption schemes. They run to faction leaders, demand a vote or not. That is why we are convinced of the correctness of our position as “Block of Lithuania”, which should be the first in the agenda to put an end to the act of the law in force, the criminal law “On State Procurement”. Thank you very much. This will determine our position.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-05-m0.u55	Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-05-m0.u56	I repeat to you, Arsenija Petrovich, that in this case you, as chairman, should stop today's meeting, we must meet again to discuss the situation that has arisen as a result of the fact that the higher positions of persons in the state -- the President, the Head of the Supreme Council and the Prime Minister -- understand that in society the negative attitude towards Ukraine's accession to NATO you have provoked conflict today in the Supreme Council, tomorrow you will provoke it in society, you will split Ukraine, the state, the state of Ukraine. So we are witnessing that today you are exacerbating this situation in the state on purpose and thus provoking society to further division. I'm underlining that the faction of Communists insists on bringing Yuschenk's responsibility, who for over a year no longer announces a referendum at the national initiative, is ignoring the will of more than 4 million citizens who have asked him to issue a decree to hold a referendum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-05-m0.u57	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to refer to article 26 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, almost for the first time in the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the names of the national deputies who are not in the room, and the registrations on the tables are key, and I am addressing the Communist Party. So for the first time today, we've shown who's in the hall, who's not in the hall. Those who do not have the votes of those national deputies of Ukraine will not be included in the results of the vote. The second question. As far as the order of the day is concerned. The first point of the agenda is NATO's inconvenient issue. What are some comments in opposition? What's wrong? The second item in the agenda is Lucenko and two temporary commissions. What's wrong? What did not satisfy the opposition? And then there's the social laws. The removal is a key – parliamentary immunity. And finally, the infamous State Procurement Act, if we are to vote now. What's the problem? Why did they come to the rostrum, comrades? Try to sit down and work from work. Now that we've spoken, I've just spoken to the Legal Authority about the State Procurement Act. What I'm suggesting is that we form the next paragraph. Let us put in order the daily Act of Ukraine amending the Ukrainian Law on State Procurement in part of the annulment and re-establishment of the 2005 law. Do you understand? That editorial that worked. We're preparing a bill right now. So we satisfy all the local councils, we satisfy all of Ukraine, all the state companies, and we will continue to work on this law. I'm asking you to put this phrase into the agenda. Please vote. I am asking the “regions” to vote. Colleagues, vote, it's important. [[12:03:55]] For 215 I don’t understand why you refuse. Comrades, now. That's it. I've been back twice. "Block of Lithuania" did not vote, well. Dear colleagues! The faction heads, there are two options for events. Option one, let's look at the issue of order of the day. And I don't think it's gonna be okay here right now. I mean, we're gonna fight again. Option two is the last attempt to reach an agreement on the drafting of the NATO regulation. There are statements of two factions. Come to my office for the last 30 minutes. If these 30 minutes are never going to happen, then they will never be. So we're going to work in 226 for everyone else. I ask the heads of factions to my office.
