ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, please register. [[16:01:56]] There are 375 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. I declare the evening plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. The next issue of the agenda is Bill No. 1317 – draft of the Ukrainian National Guard Act. First. I propose to take a procedural decision on the draft bill and the bills provided for in the relevant schedule are 1362, 61, 1245, 1363, 1364, 1365 and 1366, on a simplified basis. My colleagues, once again, I appeal to everyone to vote on the draft legislation for a reduced procedure. We have wasted a great deal of time discussing the matter under the Rules today. Please, we'll wait another 10 seconds. Let the national MPs come in. We need to set up a notice system so that the Ukrainian national MPs will be there at 4:00. I have both a wooden hammer and not a wooden hammer. Please, if anyone wants out of the procedure, please, five minutes until the MPs come in. Please sign up. Laško, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u2	Please give me your word. I want to say this about this bill, because there are no wanters, I'll say it. Of course, the bill is very much noticeable, but since the bill is part of the list of those in the coalition agreement. I think the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko will vote in favour of this bill. And for the second reading, I think we're going to work on it, the questions that we have, we're going to remove, and there's going to be a bill that fits both the Constitution of Ukraine, and we're not going to have a new dictator. Thank you for your attention. And according to Kharkiv, we insist that we still consider this question -- Bill 2228.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u3	Ribuk Sergey Mikolaiovich, Party of Regions
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u4	Thank you. Rybub, Party of Regions, Zitomirsk. Dear Arsenius Petrovich, bills 1363 and 1364 cannot be considered. I want to say right now that these are proposals from those who are behind corruption schemes and lobbying private interests. This is because these bills propose to eliminate any state control over quality and, above all, agricultural production and food. We have to be thorough, scrupulous, but what's behind the President's motion? The president is being asked directly from these questions. And we're being served under the SOTA sauce. A hundred does not have anything to do with this. So I propose, and the faction of the Party of Regions, to consider these two bills in full measure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u5	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u6	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! We're looking at serious bills today -- and the National Guard. I don't think this bill can be considered in a simplified way, you can't look at the bill that Comrade Rybubu just talked about -- 1363 -- you can't look at the simplified procedure of Bill 1365, which I wrote to you that it was included in the agenda without consideration on other committees. So we're going to lose less time, and most of all, we're going to do less damage to the state if we look at these bills according to the usual procedure, Arseni Petrovich, and it's going to be okay, and we're going to be completely on the list of what we have today. Thank you. I'd like to take a full-time look at it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u7	Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u8	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear Arsenija Petrovich, I am indeed in solidarity with my colleagues who say that there are some rather serious bills that we offer in vain to consider in a simplified procedure. Including that bill, which stands first in this list, on the National Guard. That's one thing. The other one. I don't know how colleagues feel about this position, but I'm a little bit alert when we're bills introduced by the head of state, when we're bills that we've been talking about for maybe six months, because they're in the list of the so-called 12 that are defined by the treaty-reconciliation and so on, and so on, and so on, we want to look at a fairly simple, fast procedure of two -- in, two -- versus two minutes. I think they're too serious bills. The solution, of course, is not going to change whether we're short or full, but anyway, I think we're a society.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u9	Kamchatny, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u10	Kamchatny, “Block of Timoshenko”, Kharkiv region. Unlike my colleagues, I don't think that the question of what procedure to consider -- whether shortened or not -- does not determine the importance of a bill. When everything is clear with positions, and we, our faction, under these bills, a rather sharp discussion was on a faction, a serious discussion, a position we have made, and I think we can take into account what really a lot of time has been spent on fruitless consultations today, move on and consider it all by means of a reduced procedure. I support the speaker in this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u11	Thank you for your support. Dear colleagues! I would like to appeal to the National Deputies once again with the following request. We've foreseen in the draft a short-term consideration of these bills. At the same time, I would like to point out that none of these bills are adopted in the second reading as a whole. You remember that we've already passed a complicated story on very resonant drafts when we were trying to get through in the first and second readings. But if there is a denial of Ukrainian national MPs, I will not put to the vote in the second reading. So I ask you to support the proposal made at the Conciliation Council regarding the consideration of the reduced procedure. Then we'll work on it, study it. And even at the second reading, the discussion will be much more professional and much more effective than it is today. So, honourable national MPs, I put to the vote for a reduced procedure the consideration of bills: 1317, 13.62, 1361, 1245, 1363, 1364, 1365, 1366. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[16:10:04]] For 206 It's an incredible efficiency. Dear colleagues, the bill is being considered under full procedure number 1317. Oh, the decision's made, I'm sorry. Yeah. The bill is being considered under the reduced procedure of 1317: the draft Ukrainian National Guard Act. Reported Chief of Administration, Commander of Internal Affairs of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, Kichtenko Alexander Timfiyovich. Alexander Timothyovich, please. Short-term, short-term, short-term procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u12	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! For your consideration, the draft Ukrainian National Guard Act, prepared by the Secretary of the President of Ukraine, is proposed. The bill envisages a new formation of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the National Guard of Ukraine, at the same time as its withdrawal from the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, which will allow more targeted measures to ensure Ukraine's national security, protection of public order, protection of health, protection of rights, legitimate interests of citizens and others living in Ukraine. Bring the military leadership system into line with the Constitution of Ukraine. To prevent the use of the National Guard of Ukraine in the interests of certain political forces, which could pose a threat to Ukraine's national security. That is, Ukraine will have a government body that will be able to address the issue of public security, which is fully in line with the universally accepted world standards, goals and national security objectives of Ukraine. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in its conclusion confirms and considers it possible to create such a formation, both from the organizational point of view and from the point of view of the appropriateness of such a decision to the constitutional and legal provisions. The need for this bill is confirmed by the fact that the internal forces are currently carrying out military tasks in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on Internal Forces of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 26 March 1992. Since then, there have been significant legislative changes in Ukraine, including the adoption of the Basic Law - Constitution of Ukraine. Definition of to-dos that have been laid.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u13	Please finish the dates.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u14	and the changes in the structure of the military, including the transfer of the functions of the task force and the supervision of the convicted, the acceptance of the troops of parts of Ukraine's established National Guard. During the drafting of the bill, a world experience was studied and taken into account of the similar formations of the leading states of the world -- France, Turkey, Romania, Italy, Spain, Russia and others -- which are military formations with law enforcement functions. When defining the name of formation, the National Guard took into account the historical aspects and characteristics and adaptability of it to national legislation. Yeah, the Italian translation guard is security, surveillance, it's worth it; the French guard. The granting of national status will provide for the performance of tasks of a state rather than a public character. So the proposed name will fully correspond to the status of this formation, its purpose and its task. In doing so, it should be noted that the actions and creation of individual formations are not reanimation.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u15	You have 10 seconds left.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u16	former military formation as the National Guard of Ukraine, which has performed its historic role, and after the creation of its own Armed Forces in Ukraine, its functions have become duplicated. In this case, it's just a loan of a name. The tasks that rely on the Ukrainian National Guard are codified by the bill according to the defined tasks that are currently being assigned to the internal forces by the Ukrainian legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u17	Thank you, Alexander Timothy, please sit down. The head of the National Security and Defence Committee, Gricenko Anatoly Stepanovich, will report.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u18	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues! Our committee has considered this issue twice. No vote was given “for” at any of the meetings. None of the members of the committee, and all the factions represented, voted in favour. The committee's decision is to recommend that the Supreme Council reject this project. The reason for the first is that this document is contrary to the Constitution, article 17, because there is a military formation that, according to the article in question, does not have the right to restrict human rights and freedoms. This is actually about the creation of a separate army, in fact, another military force, a number that is now approved by over 33,000 people, which, according to the bill, will be military, aviation, parts of the specialnasium, motorized parts with heavy armory. This military formation will, in fact, be subordinated exclusively to the President. Not the government, not the Minister of Internal Affairs, but the President alone. It will follow the statutes of the Armed Forces. They're all going to have military, only in addition they get the right to block any neighborhood, stop, search anyone, at any time at the suspicion of committing a crime, stop any traffic, including through the use of weapons. What role does the Supreme Council play? Once a year, get a written report on the commander’s signature. Period. Nothing more. This is contrary to European practice, in which any power structures are subordinated to the minister -- whether it's internal affairs or defence or justice or even finance. There's no such thing. We believe that this document cannot be accepted even in the first reading. Because two written reports per year or name can be added to the second reading, as Puckshin suggested, to the military police, but the point remains undemocratic. And last of all, I mean. If this were the year 2002, Victor Yushchenko, Julia Timoshenko, Anatoly Lucenko, Yuri would sit in this room.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u19	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u20	So I know for a fact that they would have blocked this rostrum and wouldn't have allowed a bill that would have brought Kuchma. [[Applause]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u21	Presentations by representatives of two factions, two "for", two "against". Let's sign up. Kirilenko Viacheslav Anatoliyovich, Block "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u22	Viacheslav Kirilenko, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense". Whatever the opposition may be, the faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" supports the adoption of this bill in the first reading. Because reforming the internal forces and building them on a modern-day structure to guarantee the security of citizens is long overdue. In many parts of the world, there are forms that carry out similar tasks. On the one hand, these tasks can't be placed on the Armed Forces, on the other hand, they can't be placed on the units, the usual units of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. For example, in Italy, these functions are performed by the Carabinaires, in Spain, by the Civil Guard, and we will have the National Guard when this law is passed. It is worth recalling that since the first years of independence in Ukraine there has been a National Guard, and this has been one of the most impeccable and prepared to carry out its tasks in the national security system. To my conviction that the extermination of the Nachwarts in Kuchma times did not only do anything good, but it did damage the national interests of Ukraine and the security of our country. There must be a replication of military formation that will be beyond politics and beyond any clan or group influence. That's why the head of the National Guard will be the President of Ukraine. And then no one over any force will execute a political execution. Because I'll remind our colleague, Anatoly Grycenk, that when he was working in the government of Yanukovich, he was, as Minister of Defense, the Party of the Regions wanted to make a political execution, because you were an honest minister, and now you're voting with them. In the first reading, we support this bill and ask all the deputies -- from both the coalition and the opposition -- to vote in favour of this bill in the first reading. In the second reading, please make all the changes that everyone considers to be principled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u23	Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u24	Dear Arseny Petrovich! Dear National Deputies! The bill proposes that the Ukrainian Act “On the Interior of the Ministry of Internal Affairs” be established and reformed into the National Guard of Ukraine, which will form part of the state's military organisation. According to the Ukrainian Act on the Fundamentals of National Security of Ukraine, the state's military organization is a group of state authorities, military formations established in accordance with Ukraine's laws, which are under democratic, civil control by society, and directly aimed at protecting Ukraine's national interests against external and internal threats. Of course, the National Guard is an organ. Of course, the National Guard is not an authority of state but a military formation. Thus, according to the Constitution of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers should control this body. [[Article 116]] At the same time, article 4 of the project, which defines the legal basis for the activities of the National Guard of Ukraine, does not even mention the actions of the Cabinet of Ministers, but only other legal acts. Furthermore, article 7 stipulates that the commander of the National Guard of Ukraine shall be appointed and shall be dismissed from office as President of Ukraine, which shall go beyond the powers of the President laid down in article 106 of the Constitution. On the basis of the above, the faction of the Party of the Regions proposes to reject the bill as harmful to the national interests of the State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u25	The only thing you've signed up for is the bill, and you're against it. Matthew Vladimir Josephovich, a faction of Communists You signed up against it. I understand. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u26	Thank you. Valentina Matviev, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, you and I see that the bill proposed by the President is set out, first of all, as urgent for his consideration. Without him, it must be hard for him to live today. So there's a logical question, and what's the most acute socio-economic problems, the problems that relate to the everyday life of our citizens, every Ukrainian family, we've already solved. No, not at all, but the President is very eager to have a separate military formation under him alone. I mean, dear colleagues, today we're talking about another attempt to further usurp power. Therefore, the proposed bill cannot be supported and, above all, why? The bill proposes to give the National Guard military status. What, then, about the provisions of article 17 of the Constitution of Ukraine? The other one. The author of the legislative initiative, i.e. the President, stresses that the reform of the internal military of the IMF should be carried out in accordance with European standards, but there is no reference to the experience of any specific European countries. By the way, in the practice of such formations, such as Spain, Italy, Portugal, France, there is not even a hint of subordination to their presidents or respective prime ministers. And there are still a number of serious comments. That's why the Communist faction won't happen.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u27	Honorary colleagues, in accordance with the Rules, are entitled to two factions who have not participated in the discussion, this is the “Litvina Block” and “Timoshenko Yulia Block” to comment on the bill under discussion for reasons. Is there a desire to make a statement on the basis of the vote? There is a desire to make a statement. Please have three minutes of recording. Please sign up. No, no, it's three minutes, and in a minute, colleagues, it's fine. Crnowil Taras Vjačeslavovich, “Party of the Regions” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u28	Dear colleagues, I just urge people to think about who, by virtue of some political arrangement, are willing to vote in favour of this bill. I'm sorry, but this is actually the introduction of the political police and the real junta in Ukraine. So I urge everyone not to vote in favour of this bill, but I give the rest of the time to Jaroslav Sukhoma, my colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u29	Please, Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u30	Thank you. Dear Alexander Timothyovich, former officer of the internal forces, Special Forces of the Soviet Union. You know very well what was included in the enrollment of internal forces. So please tell me by this bill what is increasing the funding of internal forces? I'm both hands behind. Is there any improvement in the housing conditions of a military officer or an internal army officer? Nothing like that. One machine gun, one sniper, and a grenade launcher are listed in the logs of an inner - military platoon. Who do you want to put all this machine inside? Dear colleagues, the introduction of this bill is a testimony to the agony of the regime!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u31	Gordijenko Sergey Volodymyrovich, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u32	I give the word to Valery Bealez.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u33	Please, Bezu's word.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u34	Dear Arseny Petrovich! Honorable colleagues! Our speaker very often uses the word from a formal legal point of view. What I would like to say is, Arsenij Petrovich, in the Police Act of 20 December 1990, one of the functions of internal affairs bodies is to protect public order and security. The question is that we are creating another parallel body that is supposed to protect public order and security, no. Since that is the case, we need to support the position of the head of the Committee of Grizzenk Anatoly Stepanovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u35	Mikhailo Kossov, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u36	Kosov Mikhailo, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, Party “Reforms and Orders”. I don't want to agree with that thought that I heard from an ex-Minister of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, Anatoly Grizzenka. Well, in 1992, neither Yushchenko nor Yulia Tymoshenko was in this room when we adopted the National Guard Act, but I was actually in it at the time, and I believe that this law, which was the basis for which we created the Ukrainian National Guard at the time, is also part of my dignity and my pride. The National Guard of Ukraine was indeed the pride of Ukraine. At least six inches [180 cm] tall, they received boys who had appropriate education in the Ukrainian language. It was indeed pride for Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u37	Thank you. Dear colleagues, it is suggested that the matter be considered in accordance with the rules. I am voting on the first reading of the Ukrainian National Guard Bill, the registration number of Project 1317. Please vote. [[16:29:39]] For 208 The decision is not taken. Please show by factions. Dear colleagues, in accordance with Rule 109 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I propose and ask you to support such a proposal -- to re-read the bill. Please vote for the re-reading. [[16:30:17]] For 215 The decision is not taken. In view of this, according to the second paragraph of article 109 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, the bill is considered to be rejected. Period. That's what I'm talking about. Bill No. 1362, 1361 and 1245 reports on the bill of First Deputy Head of the Ukrainian President's Secretariat, Representative of the President of Ukraine to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine Šlapak Alexander Vitaliyovich. Please, Alexander Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u38	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished national deputies! To be honest, it is unfortunate that such an important package of bills that I have the honour to report in this high hall is being considered by a reduced procedure, as I think a serious discussion has long come to light about the situation in which Ukrainian entrepreneurship is currently taking place today.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u39	Dear Alexander Vitaliyovich, I'm sorry to interrupt. If you insist that this bill be considered in full procedure, we can make a decision and vote if you have that position and you think you need to consider it in full procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u40	I would be very grateful if you would support this decision to talk a little bit more about the situation in the enterprise and to listen to these bills in full procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u41	I'm voting on Bills 1362 and 1361, and 1245 on full procedure. Please vote. [[16:32:16]] For 385 We went back to the full procedure for reviewing the bill. Alexander Vitaliovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u42	Thank you, gentlemen, the distinguished national MPs. The time that I have will allow me to brief you on the situation that today lies in the development of entrepreneurship in our country, to talk a little bit about small and medium-sized business, and its development in our state. Despite the fact that all of us, all of us presidents, all of the Cabinets of Ministers always define the development of entrepreneurship as one of their main priorities, we have today actually stagnating this very important sector of the economy. We don't have things like creating banal jobs in a small business in the amount that we need. We have very high inflation rates, but unfortunately, there's such an important factor in the resistance to inflation as the development of small and medium-sized enterprises that we can't fully engage. And then there's the results. Today, only 12 percent of small businesses in the production of domestic gross products in Ukraine are made up of small businesses. Let me remind you that in European societies this figure is three to four times higher, almost 60 percent of the gross product in Europe is created by small and medium-sized enterprises. In the next year, we see job cuts in small businesses. In 2006, we had a cut of almost 4.5 percent, and in 2007 we had more than 3 percent. There is a decline in the number of real-life enterprises. But maybe 3 percent over the same period we lost these companies. After all, Ukraine is lagging behind European countries with a population of 10,000 small businesses. There's an indicator that's being followed up by the European community. So we have this indicator three times lower than, let's say, the EU average. And if you compare us to Estonia and Hungary, which are developing fairly dynamically and quickly, this indicator is seven times worse. Business development is also hampered by inefficient and unpredictable regulatory policies. The estimates of independent business climate experts in Ukraine are extremely disconcerting. You're obviously familiar with the research of an international financial corporation that was done to order the World Bank on the situation in our country. Thus, Ukraine, on an equal footing, takes the last one -- 177 out of 178 places at tax pressure -- 141 places at the level of investment protection of 178, 140 places at the time of opening and closing the business, 138 places at the property registration system. The Head of State then issued a decree to establish a special working group to which we invited the best, most leading professionals to develop the business. We worked with them for six months to strengthen our institutional capacity, primarily in the legislative field for the development of entrepreneurship. We have identified the main challenges in developing an entrepreneurial environment today. According to experts, the working group's main obstacles to business development are the failure of the authorities, both central and local, to implement the legislation on business that has been adopted recently. The areas of risk involved in business are taxation, licensing and licensing, control and surveillance, and unwarranted technical barriers. In this regard, the working group has drawn up a list of drafts, only six of which I would like to report to you today from this rostrum. Now, with your permission, I'm going to go to the first bill I'd like to report to you. This is about making changes and additions to the Ukrainian Law on the List of Permitted Documents in the Field of Economic Activities. I want to say from the outset that obtaining permits remains unwarrantedly difficult and takes a lot of time and money from entrepreneurs. The survey we conducted suggests that on average, an entrepreneur spends about 40 days per year getting the right licenses and licences. Almost every enterprise, 56 percent, once or several times a year, has to go through this complex and often demeaning process and spends substantial costs on such a procedure. I would like to remind you that as early as the end of 2005, the Ukrainian Law “On the Free System of Economic Activities” was adopted. The main thesis was that the law was to prohibit the issuance of documents of a permissive nature that were not provided for by law. Sadly, this did not happen. So today, we have this situation: at the time of the adoption of the law, we had 140 kinds of documents of a permissive nature, and so far, the authorities continue to require entrepreneurs to obtain 250 different permits. Thus, more than a hundred of us were acquired after the law was passed. There was an urgent need to draft a bill that would set out a comprehensive list of documents of a permissive nature and of the authorities authorized to issue them in accordance with this law. The bill also stipulates that other types of documents of a permissive nature in the field of farming can only be made by making appropriate changes to the law. The proposed mechanism, to our conviction, will allow us to stop the arbitrary abuse of organs. In such circumstances, I would like to stress this, except the Supreme Council of Ukraine will decide whether to make or not to introduce new permits, and to make it more difficult or less difficult for entrepreneurs. I'd like to say that we've received support from the profile committee and the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration of the Supreme Council. We're counting on the honorary national MPs and your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u43	Thank you. Please register, colleagues: five minutes, questions — answers. Evening, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u44	Alexander Vladimirovich! Evening, Party of Regions. I'd like to ask you one question: Please tell me you've been reporting this bill today. How can small and medium-sized businesses be freed from the racket of government structures? The same tax police, tax inspection, railways, which exacerbate the development of small and medium-sized businesses in our country. To allow a small child to develop, we must create all the wonderful conditions. There is no such thing in our country today. It is therefore necessary to focus first on local governments, on the bodies of the forces and not to interfere with the development of small and medium-sized businesses, because we have not heard this in your report. So, please, pay attention to that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u45	Well, first of all, I want to support all the sensations that have been expressed to you. I agree that all the problems you've called are for small and medium-sized businesses. And in my speech, I was talking about that only together can we stop the aberration of the organs. You certainly put the problem far wider. I'm reporting a specific bill now, 1361, and I'm saying that one of those who seriously inhibits the development of a small and medium-sized enterprise is our executive authorities, including the local authorities, who grant licenses and licences. Let's solve this little problem -- let's establish a comprehensive list by law. So we're subtracting about 110 licenses and licenses today. Excuse me, just permission granted. Which is outlawed by our entrepreneurs. And that's what's important. If we want to make the licensing procedure more conservative, more important, we think we should consider it in Parliament. Let the parliamentary committee pass, let the official in the hall lead to what it is necessary to implement this permit today. And that's the only way we're going to make decisions about introducing legislation before.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u46	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u47	To this day it is a parish solely of the Ministry, the department or the local authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u48	Alexandrovska.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u49	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Alexander Vitalievich, you can agree with him, actually. But it does not seem to you that the problem posed in your report is very closely related to the topic of corruption. That's the first question. Second. In the United States of America, where small businesses are very popular, small businesses are known to have a very high share of bankruptcys each year. That is why we need to think about this problem, that is, there must be some stability in the work of these enterprises. And third. Small enterprises around the world exist, are established and operate in the fairway of large enterprises. In fact, in many cases they complement large industrial enterprises. So, don't you think it's in this direction that you need to stimulate the activities and governments to create these conditions for small businesses? And the subject of corruption, please, how you treat it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u50	Well, all I can do is agree with everything you've said. And the first is that the licensing system today, unfortunately, gives rise to rather serious corruption within the executive branch. The bill that I'm going to report today, and there's going to be three of them that apply to licenses, licences, and, including permits for small architectural forms, will seriously hit our corrupt people's hands because it settles and dominates very many of the issues that are now being paid to the local authorities or authorities as such. Of course, you're right about small business being the most successful business in the case that it's a complement to big business. But this is the subject of a little wider conversation. God willing, we will work out such suggestions along with you. And yet again, I would like to urge you to support this bill, which I think is going to develop the ideas that I have reported, which you are now talking about and which I have spoken of, Mr. Evening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u51	Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u52	I would like to give the floor to the People's Deputy Paklesenko Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u53	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u54	Paklusenko, the Party of the Regions. I believe that there is no one in this room who is indifferent to this problem, because today Ukraine is largely on the economic tracks because of this. There are three issues in this global problem: the simplicity of opening up, but not the immobility and uncontrolledness, the control, but not the racket, and the very important issue is the assistance of the State. Small business today needs a clear, concrete aid, namely, minimum interest on credit, that's what they need, a consultation. Today, when a person opens a business, he cannot obtain a basic consultation on equipment. Such laws are therefore necessary, but they require the understanding and solidarity of all branches of government, especially local authorities, and especially the integration of entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u55	Alexander Mikolayovich, I can't disagree with you again. We're all talking about the same thing. I'm asking you to take another look at this law. It's as simple as a door as the simplicity you're talking about. Here's the name of the permit, there's the organ that gives it. Today, it is 2.5 times less than the permits issued in our country. Moreover, individual permits appear to be three, four structures. So I'm confident that this document will be welcomed by the entrepreneurial environment as the first step in determining the order in the arbitrary system. As for the other things, the advisory order, the consultation with the enterprise, the assistance to him, that's what I'm going to talk about when I report on Law 1362. There are also fairly strong, I think, and systemic proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u56	Thank you, Alexander Vitaliovich. I'm inviting you to Xenia Lapin's rostrum. Xenia Mikhailvna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u57	Honorary colleagues, the Committee on Industrial Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, have carefully considered all three bills: 1361, 1362 and 1245. We believe that they are complementary. With regard to Bill 1361, which contains a list of appropriate permits and appropriate permits, this list is in fact the result of working on the errors that have taken place during these two years of the introduction of the law on the permit system. Two years ago, when this law began to be implemented, we all expected that this list would be approved by the Cabinet, that the relevant authorities would be governed by it. I want to point out that the political will was changing, there was a Prime Minister, another Prime Minister came, but it turned out that the official interest was higher than the political will. During this time, the executive authorities were unable to handle the task, neither one nor the other. We believe that in this case it is a sacred function of the Supreme Council to deal with this task. We have to bring the state into order. A clear list of the permits and lists of the authorities issuing these permits must be set up. What is happening today? Today, legislation is being treated at its own risk and at its own risk. Local self - government discusses whether it is provided for by law that they simply want to issue. Why would you want to? Because license is often a short one. Yeah, you know, a little business trip-- I want to give it to you, I don't want to give it to you. Regrettably, in fact, no changes have been made to laws that would clearly provide for, and what reasons are there for not granting permission? No such changes have been made. Appropriately, the body does not give, does not give, regardless of the objective reasons. I am convinced that the adoption of these three bills will certainly greatly improve what the entire public of Ukraine wants us to do, that is, increase transparency and clarity. And what's more, I'm convinced that it corresponds to the political will of all the factions present in the Supreme Council. And our task is simply to overcome the official interest and to put the will of citizens and the political will above any official interest. With regard to the committee's decision, I would like to point out that since all the bills are complementary, the decision of our committee was as follows: Bill 1362 as the most complex to take as a basis, and Bill 1361, 1245 as the second to read, by working on Bill 1362 to implement this law, and on the way out to the second reading to have one law. That's the committee's decision, I'll let you know. Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u58	Three minutes, we'll sign up for the speech, more specifically, for the question. Jaroslav Suhi, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u59	Thank you. Dear Xenia Mikhailno, I have three short questions. What do you think is why this bill is not being tabled by the government, because in principle this is not a presidential problem, this is a government problem, this is the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine? Did I get you right? The second question. Financing. It's yours, 1245. Funding for the activities of the State Budget and the local budget, that is, for both state and local budgets. Question three. Creation is envisaged for the creation of a new structural unit in local self - control organizations. You realize that they will certainly grow up in the states and will certainly grow up with the normative documents that bureaucrats have to produce and produce according to the iron law. And that's a general question. However, please argue the need, i.e. give an update on why it is necessary to go this way rather than fill existing structures with legislative content? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u60	Thank you. The first question is, why is this being introduced by the President? I'm sure that's because it's become a national problem. Unfortunately, neither the government of Yanukovic nor the government of Tymoshenko have yet been able to overcome this civil resistance. That's why it's a national problem, and it's natural for the President to do so and it's up to the Supreme Council, because these are our functions. The second question is about funding. I'll report to you, Your Honor, that for the past two years, the law on the system of permits has created so-called liberation centers. And they're funded by the local budget and the state budget, if that's with government administrations. But it's all budgeted. But in fact today the work of these centers is being simulated. In reality, out of 100 percent of the educated centers, about five percent work. We can literally name the units of the examples when the only window and the only arbitrary center works. It's an exception. And the rule is, it's all mimicking. It was made on paper, halfway to someone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u61	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u62	This function was given to someone on a pedestal. Entrepreneurs don't know anything about it, the place isn't defined, nobody goes there, and everyone's happy that the only window doesn't work. It's a bill designed to make the only window work. And it doesn't need any additional, actually, structures, these structures already exist. It needs to be filled with the content of these structures. And this is actually the subject of both my bill and the Presidential bill. So I am convinced that their adoption will be a step towards the real implementation of this principle that is so long awaited. More than that.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u63	Xenia Mikhailna, please, you've spoken in three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u64	All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u65	Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u66	Thank you very much. Dear Xenia Mikhailevna! I'd like to ask you how you really are protecting the enterprise, and that's where the only window for entrepreneurs who've been talked about so much has been promised either a year or two or three years. Why is he still gone? First question. And the second. I'll make it up and say, please, don't you think that the proportion of documents and in general things of a permissive and explicit nature in our country clearly doesn't correspond to what is democracy, including in the economy. Because the less an official is able to allow and the more he has to accept documents and help with document-making, that is, the more a democratic country. And it also seems to me that you need to clarify the term that there is a document of a permissive nature, you have a document that precedes the issuance of a document of a permissive nature, which seems to me to be an editorial error. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u67	Thank you. The first question is, is that I was answering Jaroslav Sukhoma, the fact that on paper the liberation centers, the only window created, it doesn't work in reality. In order for this bill to work, it's going to be a direct act, but it doesn't provide for abstractions. The second question. The proportions, indeed, are not modern at all, we have very few permits, very few declarative principles, by Law 1362 of the Bill we are just introducing the possibility of a wide-ranging declaration principle, that is, a clear, documented, declared – you are working. Well, at last the third, for editorial work, will certainly be made for second reading on our committee, which will work professionally on it. We will be very grateful for your suggestions, and we will take them into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u68	Thank you. I'm asking you to sign up for the factions and national MPs. Thank you, Kseniya Mikhailna. Three minutes. Evening Volodymyr Mikolajovich. Vladimir Mikhailovich, performance in the hall. Do you want out of the rostrum? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u69	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Respectable voters! Today we have addressed and touched on an important topic, helping small and medium-sized businesses, and today we are hearing a bill on how to help small and medium-sized businesses. But today we haven't heard how to shield small and medium-sized businesses from government rackets, really, because we're trying to help. But we do not see in a list of these facts how we can help small and medium-sized businesses to pay back value added tax so that small and medium-sized businesses do not pay off, do not pay for these permits, licenses, this unfortunately we have not heard. Therefore, I would like to point out to Xenia Mikhailovna that these issues should be included in the bill and he will be pleased to pass. Because today the country really has to stick to medium and small businesses, not just industry giants. I would therefore like to see this law conform to European standards. And for today, this bill is not ready for us to accept it as a whole, so it needs to be finalized, incorporated and heard again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u70	Thank you. Alexander Blackwolf.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u71	Dear friends, I think we have to adopt this law, and I would like to deny the previous speaker, this is the first step to stop the legality of our officials, this is the opportunity for the Supreme Council to take into its own hand the problem of developing our economy, it can protect entrepreneurs, it can protect employees who are hired, who are also suffering from civil servants, it can protect consumers who are also suffering from economic interference, and in the end, it will protect even the caste of officials who are also consumers and are suffering from their own colleagues, but in other areas. We can really accept that only we can accept such restrictions, such proposals for introducing extra pressure on our economy, so we can only enter and output ourselves. So this is going to be an effective control of local and governmental creativity. Why didn't the government do it, why did the President do it? It is because he is a guarantor of the rights and freedoms of citizens. Why should this support the MPs? Because only MPs can really protect citizens by supporting the real market development of the economy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u72	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. Final word to the reporter and to the co-rapporteur. Do you insist, Alexander Vitaliovich? Xenia Mikhailvna, do you insist on the closing word? Don't insist. Colleagues, on the procedure for reviewing the bill. First of all, I would like to draw our attention to the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship's draft decision that the Committee has made. Regrettably, the draft decision does not in any way come into contact with the Supreme Council of Ukraine. You can't make a decision where it's written. Well, you can, but it doesn't fit the law in any way, but rather the Rules. Take the base and then count 1361 and 1245. I mean, it's a certain abracadabra. We have to look at each bill separately, put every bill to the vote, first reading as proposed, if all three of them go through, that's what's going to happen. So I'm just letting you know that the decision of the committee and the draft decision that is proposed is completely and completely inconsistent with the Rules. That's why I'm going to follow the Rules. Bill 1361 was currently under consideration under the Rules, underlining, for the time being, 1361. This is a bill introduced by the President of Ukraine and called the list of documents of a permissive nature in the field of economic activity. So I'm voting on Bill 1361 in the first reading. Please vote. [[17:00:01]] For-198 The decision is not taken. Please show by factions. We must now, given that these bills are not alternatives to a full-examination procedure of 1362 and 1245, if not, then we should vote that we are not considering the matter in due course. But I suggest this: by full procedure, Alexander Vitaliyovich, do you have anything to say for 1362? So in your statement, you expressed your position at 1,362? Please come to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u73	Dear Arseny Petrovich! Dear National Deputies! Bill 1362 is proposed for your consideration. In it, the President proposes to amend the Law on the Free System of Economic Activities. In fact, I've already defined the free system myself, so just two words about the substance of the bill. Three novels are proposed to be introduced today. The first one and the main one is to introduce the principle of silent consent. What is it? Despite the fact that the legal deadlines for issuing permits are fairly clear today, there is a widespread practice of violating these laws. This is evidenced by a large number of references both to the President of Ukraine and to the government. Convinced that entrepreneurs are also addressing you as honourable national deputies. Thus, the principle of silent consent is to acquire the right of an entrepreneur to carry out an economic activity on the basis of documents submitted by the applicant for not refusing to issue such documents. The second novel refers to the liberation centers that we had the opportunity to talk about today. The point is that our analysis shows that 40 percent of the documents appear at the district level. That is why it is proposed to establish free centres at the district level, in the cities of Kiev and Sevastopol. The introduction of a government administrator will greatly reduce the time and costs of entrepreneurs who will be able to obtain similar permits in a single window. And finally, the third novel. It is proposed to establish clear requirements for the issuance of documents of a permissive nature, their transformation, the issuance of duplicates, and the annulment of such acts. It seems to be a small problem, but we better regulate it in the law, in order to reduce self-reliance in the positions of an official. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u74	Thank you, Alexander Vitaliovich. Is there a question for Alexander Vitaliovich? None. Thank you, Alexander Vitaliovich. Xenia Mikhailna, will you? You won't. Kseniya Mikhailna has already spoken. Is there a desire for factions and national MPs to sign up for the talk? None. In view of this, colleagues, I would like to return to the committee’s decision. The committee proposes to adopt Bill 1362 as a basis. So I'm asking you to support the Ukrainian Parliament with the committee's decision. We accept Bill 1362 as the basis. The full title of the bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Free Economic Activities. I'm voting on the basis of Bill 1362. Please vote. [[17:04:08]] For 226 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Now let's move on, please show by factions. Now we go to Bill 1245. This is a bill introduced by the People's MP, Kseniya Mikhailna. Xenia Mikhailovna, you can't take it off because if it's already included in the agenda, it's already property of the Ukrainian Parliament, not just yours. That's why there's an offer like that. Colleagues, Kseniya Mikhailna is offering a lift. But we can't take it off, but by voting, we may not support her bill, and so he'll be expelled from the agenda. Adam Ivanovich, well, Martinyuk, give me your word. Turn the Martiniku on.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u75	Thank you. Arsenius Petrovich. You say you can do what you want, but it's going to be a blow to the author. It won't be convenient for the author's bill to be supported. So there's a rule of the Rules, if the author insists, we just vote, not take it down, and the session room takes it off the table.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u76	Dear Adam Ivanovich, that's exactly what I just said. That we will thus support the position of Kseniya Mikhailovna and not vote in favour of the bill. I'm voting on Bill 1245 to exclude him from the agenda of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We have to vote here, comrades, to help Kseniya Mikhailna. [[17:05:55]] For 412 votes. Decision taken. Dear National Deputies, we have accepted as a basis, I ask the committee to elaborate and, in the second reading, to submit 1,362 to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Let's go to the next bill, Bill 1363. I'd like to remind you that we accepted it as a reduced procedure. Alexandre Vitaliovich, do you insist on the full procedure for considering the bill?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u77	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, honourable deputies, the bill is essentially quite complex and revolutionary. So I wanted to ask you for a full procedure to consider this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u78	Ladies and gentlemen, there is a proposal to support the President of Ukraine and the First Deputy Head of the Ukrainian Secretaryate and to return to the draft law for full procedure. Please vote in favour of this decision. [[17:07:06]] For 234 Decision taken. Alexander Vitaliovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u79	Thank you. Dear Arsenija Petrovich, honourable national deputies, the President of Ukraine proposes a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on standardization and compulsory certification. I would like to highlight the essence of this law immediately. The bill proposes to waive mandatory standardization and certification of products and services that do not pose a threat to the safety of people or control their safety at the expense of other mechanisms. In favor of this, I want to bring some evidence. First. Ukraine remains one of the few cranes left with mandatory product certification. Ukraine’s technical regulation system provides for the mandatory certification of 34 product groups, over 400 product appointments, and the actual compliance of all products with certain regulations, standards, or technical requirements. The standards that have been in force since Soviet times have long since met the realities of the present, and the requirement to comply with them does not allow entrepreneurs, does not allow them to produce modern products that are competitive in the market. I would like to remind you that the domestic standards for compulsory certification of all products and the obligations of standards do not meet international rules and principles. The other one. The experience of other countries, in particular the member countries of the European Union, shows that it is not necessary to ensure product safety and consumer rights. There is no mandatory certification of food products in EU countries, but this does not mean that all 450 million citizens of the European Union are using inadequacies or dangerous products. On the contrary, the technical regulation mechanisms that operate there enable control of the manufacturer’s compliance and the seller’s safety requirements, while allowing innovations to improve the quality of consumer goods. And another very important fact is that according to the National Committee on Technical Control of Consumer Policy, about 80 percent of the goods sold do not meet the requirements in Ukraine. What's more, if we take this quantity of goods, let me remind you, 80 percent of them, 90 of them, nine tenths of them not because of low-quality products or because of their safety for people's lives, because they don't meet technical standards. Third. As a result of negotiations with the World Trade Organization, Ukraine has assumed a commitment to the recommended nature of standards and to withdraw certification of food products from the State Food Organization. The relevant decisions should be taken in conjunction with the ratification of the Protocol on Ukraine’s Entry into WTO. By the way, the government has already developed and will introduce a draft law for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to amend the Professional Food Safety and Quality Act as part of the definition of a standard that will not be mandatory, but as a recommendation. In addition, I would like to point out that if compulsory certification is cancelled, there is still a large number of other types of controls that are significantly higher than those applied in developed countries, in particular the countries of the European Union. I will give you the following figures: To date, at least 10 checks have been carried out by the Ministry of Health’s health health service, including at least 16 types of veterinary control, by the authorities of the Ministry of Health, at least 20, so that 46 types of food alone are controlled. The adoption of our law and accordingly. It doesn't take away all these forms of control, it reduces them to just 40. Six. Instead of spending inefficient mandatory certification, it is more appropriate to use other control methods. For almost 10 years, Ukraine has been taking steps to move from mandatory certification to the application of the conformity assessment procedure, the development and implementation of technical regulations based on European directives to accelerate the harmonization of national standards with international and European standards. The other thing that we're moving in this sense is very slowly. Yes, 25 percent of the standards are harmonised today, and at least 80 are needed. That is why the draft law in the Final Situations provides for a transitional rule, according to which, until technical regulations are established for six months, temporary rules will be established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u80	Please sign up for the question. Please, order five minutes. Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u81	Yuri Carmazin. I'd like to make a point, Your Honor. You said that country standards don't meet the requirements that exist in the world today. Do you know that there are no such comments when you enter the SAT? More than that. What's more, today this law that you're talking about opens the way to the Ukrainian market and it's uncontrollable to import environmentally harmful things: and those modified plants that are genetically modified, and substances, and other materials, and transgenic plants -- everything. So I think we need to make a clear statement here that our system today has inherited very good qualities from the Soviet Union today.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u82	Thank you, Your Honor, Yuri Anatolyovich. Since your question consists of two questions, I will try two answers. I emphasize that in Ukraine there is a system of standards that has been available to us since the time of the Soviet Union and that is an internal matter. Indeed, the European Union and the WTO organization to which we entered had no claim that we had standards of our own production in 1977 and a little bit more. They're not interested, they're interested in having their products right here. And for example, if we keep the standard, well, of the funniest: the toilet seat standard is just plastic that meets certain chemical requirements. There is no such absurd standard anywhere in the world, but we have it preserved. I could have brought in a large list of similar standards that we have so far. I would like to emphasize once again that Europeans do not have to do anything before we try to force our manufacturers into a similar kind of standard. Consider another example: a beer bottle. So no beer bottle that we have today in Ukraine meets the standard. But people have learned to go around. And it's very simple: they produce so-called specific technical ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u83	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u84	Thank you, Arsenia Petrovich. Special technical requirements are produced. With these technical requirements, people go to the State Food Standard, they approve it for money, and then it's specifically considered a substandard. We've created such substandards enough for several European states together. And as far as food is concerned. Don't worry, we have the basics, I emphasize, the types of controls, there are laws on the sanitary and epidemiological well-being of the population, every food that enters Ukraine has to have a sanitary or appropriate other epidemiological standard, which conducts appropriate research and so on. We simply eliminate duplication when the same work is done by the State standard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u85	Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u86	Thank you. Dear Alexander Vitaliyovich, please tell us what to do in a situation where in Ukraine, unlike European countries, the labelling of genomically modified products has even been abolished? This is true even of child - feeding. In European countries, genomic products are sold on separate shelves in stores, and people know it is much cheaper. In this case, there will be no danger that even worse things will happen. The quality of food will worsen. We understand very well that exporters and lobbyists of exporters, who may be looking at our discussions today, are very interested in no certification and no standardization, because their goods will come here very quickly. And in this regard, do you not think that perhaps there is a need to speak about improving the certification system, improving the standardization system, not cancelling it and making it different? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u87	Since you also had two questions, I will try to answer both. Well, the first thing about modified production is that it's not the subject of this law. Let's go back to this discussion and talk separately about branding and stuff. As for standardization and certification, I want to emphasize that it's not just about imported goods, it's about all the goods, including those produced in Ukraine. And because of this humiliating procedure, our producers are going through it. How does this happen? An appropriate service comes to the oil plant, takes a kilo of butter, and links it to the laboratory. Well, I'm not going to talk about how the communication process is going with this, that's another thing. But then to say that all the butter that's made on the same day, on the next day and the next day, will meet the appropriate standard, or this certificate, sorry, it's funny to talk about. Instead, the veterinary service, or in this case the sanepidemiological, at each stage of this production, from prescription to final product, also conducts a similar kind of study. And that's why, once again, we're just throwing out what's duplicated and what's not accepted in the European Union, but we're not giving up on that stand. the procedures used in the European Union. Convinced that neither our manufacturer nor our consumer will suffer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u88	Ribuk Sergey, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u89	Thank you. Rybub, Party of Regions, Zitomirsk. Dear Alexander Vitaliyovich, I, knowing you and business and our work together, believe that what you're saying is not your opinion. All the arguments you've given, they don't stand any criticism. Certification does not limit competition. On the contrary, it develops healthy competition, and the unhealthy one holds back. And you have to say, you say, as an argument, eliminate standards, certification, because everything is equal to 80 percent of the production we don't have meets standards. And thirdly, you're saying that the country's certification standards don't fit international principles, so what, they just need to be eliminated with one chamomile? And instead of a toilet, I'll give you another example: if this law is passed, God forbid, there's going to be a phosphorus one ampoule -- one bracelet -- to sell freely for sale. And this phosphate is a thousand times more toxic than the gas cartridge of a gas gun that is controlled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u90	Thank you. Dear Sergey Mikolaiovich, well, above all, everything that is said is my personal conviction, you can be sure of that. Yet the questions you have asked are certainly extremely serious. And I want to emphasize this thing. Of course, standardisation and certification are so-called "non-tariff barriers" that hinder entrepreneurship. The estimates we made with the experts say that 15 percent of the price of any product, including food, is today a variety of arbitrary procedures, both direct and indirect. Here's the inflation we're talking about today. We're not suggesting that we exclude certification as such. I am more supportive of Mr. Zarubinski's opinion. It is proposed that this system be modernised, all of which should meet the so-called 'technical regulations', but no certification and standardisation procedure is in place. As for the chemical product that you're talking about, once again, I would like to emphasize that we have all the bills, including pesticides, agrochemicals, chemical products, that are certified accordingly with certification. And the example that you've given, the failure, in this case, will be under strict control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u91	Thank you, Alexander Vitaliyovich, please sit down. Xenia Leapina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u92	Honorary colleagues, the Committee on Industrial Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, have carefully considered the bill. And I want to point out a few points why the committee supported him. First, this bill does not in any way invalidate compulsory certification, defending God. It raises the level of decision-making on the list of products that are certified from the single order of the Head of the State to the collegiate decision of the Cabinet of Ministers. That's the difference. First. The other one. This bill does not reduce the safety requirements of the product. Because such requirements are established by acts that are appropriate for health and veterinary safety requirements when it comes to food. Thus, security for citizens does not go down in any way. By the way, to confirm this, I can give the opinion of the Chief Medical Officer, who supported the reform. There is no example of our health or veterinary failure. Moreover, when there is a threat, it is they who are responsible for health care. It is only proposed to remove the excess chain – no more. Finally, the third point that I particularly want to highlight. We are invited with you, the Supreme Council, to accept safety requirements for foods that are not relevant to the food sector. We're with you. In other words, the level of approval of Ukraine's laws is rising again, the level of decision-making that there are security requirements is increasing. Please, it's in our hands. This in no way reduces the security requirement. Actually, I want to emphasize that this was the way other countries with the so-called transition economy went. This is what happened in Bulgaria. They have ruled that laws approve appropriate security requirements, and standards as technical arrangements are only a voluntary decision of a profile market. So they've divided security requirements, technical regulations by laws, standards as technical arrangements at market level. So we came to a conclusion. First. This bill does not reduce the safety of citizens. The other one. The bill removes unnecessary barriers, but it does not remove the necessary barriers. That's his second advantage. And finally, his third advantage. It meets the requirements of the World Trade Organization. Now I'm saying that on Thursday we're going to be looking at a similar bill tabled by the government that complements the rules of this bill, it applies to the same things, i.e. the repeal of the old decree of the Cabinet of Ministers and then becomes fully effective, think about it, adopted in 2002. The Standardization Act was approved in 2002 and is not fully operational. And the law on the confirmation of conformity was adopted in 2002, and many standards of modern, European. It's not fully implemented, why? Because, unfortunately, it is just as it was with the previous law, when the legitimate interest, unfortunately, exceeded the political interest of civil society. So what we're actually proposing is that we just put everything back in place, the interests of civil society, the interests of the Ukrainian community, put it above the interests of intelligence and officials. That's why we support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u93	Please sign up for the question. Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u94	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Mrs. Kseniya! You said in your report that it's not in any way, you said, it doesn't make anything worse, and I'm saying it violates article 42 of the Constitution, which states that the State controls the quality and safety of the product. You said it didn't make things worse, and in article 18, it was written down to rule out such things as the implementation of food products made from the use of imported food and related materials recognized in Ukraine on the basis of declarations and so on, only for the presence of a certificate. So you can import anything you want. But as you propose to rule out, you just cynically tricked the Ukrainian people into contradicting the WTO, not contradicting the WTO. You can't do that. I definitely want you to take the project, look at each item of the project, and say whether the uncontrolled import of pesticides and everything else, the interests of Ukrainian society, and what this has to do with it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u95	Thank you, Your Honor. Well, I know, Mr. Yuri is the deputy to his party, appointed Head of State, so we have here, unfortunately, the advantage of administrative interest over public interest. And now essentially the answer. Dear colleagues, no free entry is allowed in the country because the law is in force, you are approved, about the quality and safety of food. This law clearly provides the basis for the prohibitions, and the services that approve the decision. So once again, in this case, the state standard is just an extra line, I'm very sorry, but it is. There is a veterinary service, there is a health service, and they provide appropriate barriers to the import of dangerous products. It is, and today, it just becomes a normal norm. Therefore, I do not deceive the people of Ukraine; rather, I bring to them objective information that is not marred by official interests.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u96	Vaszczuk Katerina Timofievna, “Block of Lithuania”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u97	Katerina Vashuk, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear Mrs. Xenu, this is not the case, it's the mass of products that don't provide for certification and standardization. Out of two hundred and forty of the excess products that were required for certification, everything is going down to about 60 today, and the water will be certified. Unfortunately, the truth is that Carmazin, pesticides and herbicides, and I want to tell you that recently at the university lab, they did a test on these herbicides that are being imported into Ukraine. So they have fillers, these are wastes of old strawberrys that are not convenient to be destroyed, because they are very expensive and put like ballast into those herbicides and pesticides that are imported.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u98	Thank you. I'm answering. Dear colleagues, yes, but not so, Catherine Timofievna. Because, in fact, the safety of this product is guaranteed by the health service. And today's certification system unfortunately does not prohibit the import of such products. And they're imported, and you know how many times they're in the market. So what is being proposed is actually being suggested to improve the system. Now, for what you say, compulsory certification is cancelled. It is clearly indicated that the list of products subject to mandatory certification is approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. This just closes the questions that you're focusing on right now. Please contact Kabmin, make a request, and this will be listed in the required certification. This is what the bill proposes.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u99	Tereshuk, “Litwin’s Block” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u100	Sergei Tereshuk, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear Mrs. Kseniya, dear colleagues, remember the problems with which we have adopted the law on milk and dairy products, the law on fish, drinking water, pesticides, alcohol, and alcoholic beverages. This bill eliminates, completely nullifies standardization and certification. If you have noticed, this week we will be considering a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on quality assurance of imported agricultural products, which decided on the obligation to certify all products imported into Ukraine. The president vetoed the bill. With these two bills, we want to fully open the market for. European non-use. Recall how much alcohol, alcohol, and drinking water are being poisoned today, do we not take such steps too early? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u101	Thank you. Today, I report that the vast majority of alcohol poisoning from domestic production is more likely to be counterproductive. And this is a question, unfortunately, that there is no control in the consumer market, not the issue of standardization. But I'll tell you, in exchange for the standards, the technical regulations and requirements for product safety are introduced by law. That's six months for this approval, you think that's not enough? Let's give it a year, let's make it a second reading. But there's no uncontrolledness left, it's just replaced where it needs to be replaced by a legislative decision on the security requirement, no alcohol uncontrolledness, exactly, because there's a special law that actually regulates the circulation of alcohol and tobacco products. There is also a need to determine the requirements for their safety. It's all in our hands.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u102	Thank you. Please sit down, Kseniya Mikhailna. Please sign up for the performance. Mt. Uljana Mikolayevna, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko”. Tomenko Mikola Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u103	Dear colleagues, I would like to prove, first of all, to our family, youth, sports and tourism committee, because the discussion was mainly about food products and did not touch on another serious enough problem regarding the modernization of the construction and certification of residential infrastructure, water parks, and the entire entertainment system. What are you talking about? In fact, the bill eliminates the certification system of all in-house infrastructure, hotel services, and entertainment. What does that mean? That today, if we adopt this bill, let's say a new hotel in a district center can actually determine its own level, its starryness and its status. Imagine that we're going this way and we're going to meet the guests on Euro-2012 and they're going to see that we have these seven-star hotels, I think they will. Some five - star hotels, mostly seven - star hotels. And if they eat there, if they eat, we'll get so many complaints and suggestions that no one else will go there. So, you know, tourism experts are saying that there are two certification systems. It's corporate. It could be stateless. But this requires that all public institutions, trade unions, the whole tourism sector create a single system of corporate or professional responsibility. Then they can control the certification. Since we have dozens of such structures in Ukraine, it is clear that we are unable to make a single hotel service certification system. Do we want to make Moscow water parks for ourselves, or what? Are we going to open the water park without permission, without certificates, and run it? So once again, I'm saying, it's a proposal from our committee that is unanimously accepted, that our committee thinks it's premature today to record a single state system of certification and licensing of the entire hotel services and entertainment system. This system should be kept. Yeah, it needs to be modernised. Yes, we need to bring it into line with European standards. It's perfect to make a non-state system. But it takes all the institutions of society to form a single system, and they knew, if, God forbid, someone opens a hotel and sets up five stars, and there three of them close the hotel immediately. So, dear colleagues, there is a problem. But in this law, we're further exacerbating the problem. So the position of the committee, it's not going to support this bill, it's going to support thinking about how to do a really well-designed system of certification of hotel services and entertainment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u104	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u105	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies, the Constitution of Ukraine, about which we so cherish, obliges us to ensure in the State the quality of production and all kinds of work and services, and to promote the activities of public consumer organizations. [[Article 42, part 3]] I learned American experience before today. Interesting. They write clearly that it is not possible to enter the customs territory of the United States in the case of any product that is not accompanied by a certificate. That's why the case can't be imported. The countries of Europe, which are quite close to us in Poland, make the following laws: “For the general safety of products”, “For the protection of consumer competition”, “For consumer protection and liability for damage caused by dangerous products”. Ukraine has only one law to protect it. And those laws and decrees, and this law that is being proposed, are being proposed to be repealed. Thus it is proposed to amend the Decree of the Cabinet of Ministers on Standardisation of Certification, which practically eliminates it. This is the only decree that made it possible to stop all of this from happening in the Ukraine market in 1993 — a single decree. It is even proposed to amend the Law on Pesticides and Agrochemicals and to completely increase the risks of the use of inequitable and dangerous pesticides and agrochemicals. Even water and water, along with the milk and dairy laws, fish and other forms of water, and food. Each of these laws is amended without a profile committee. Absolutely. Ladies and gentlemen, I have been familiarizing myself with, of course, not with the motives mentioned here in the previous speech of this law. I'm familiar with all the laws. And I'm just getting to know each other selectively and I'm writing a diversion. Yes, I was marked by this law. [[Applause]] Because of what? Because at the point where the table is comparable, what was proposed is all of the implementation of all products, and that the customs authorities, all the others do everything in order, the central executive authorities exercise control, just one word is proposed to “exclusion” and everything. Now it's about whether or not it's affecting Satan. For you to know and not to embarrass Ukraine that Ukraine is honouring all its commitments, and we have a deadline to do everything by 2012. Now let's not just use terms they don't understand. A technical standard is a thing that's being developed for nine months as a child.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u106	Mr. Bondick, if you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u107	Dear colleagues, I agree with the previous speaker. In fact, as for Kseniya Mikhailuna, I would like to make a comment to the woman, unfortunately it does not give me the honour, but it does not have to be personal. No party has anything to do with certification. It's a very specific law. Remember, at one time we were also forced to vote in favour of the insistence of Kseniya Mikhailuna, who lobbies the grantors from across the ocean when we missed the difference of certification in the Health Medicine Act." And a chicken came to us, and I don't want to call it, but I want to call it from other countries. Therefore, respectable colleagues are not needed. This is the death of our domestic producer, there is no need to vote in favour of this law, which removes the system that has been created over the years, certification and standardization. As a lawyer, I want to remind you that, in fact, any expertise: criminal, court-accounting, and others always go back to standards before they come to their conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u108	Thank you. Paul Silent. Out of place, please turn on Silence.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u109	Please pass the word to Sergey Shevchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u110	Sergey Shevchuk, please. And this is from the deputies. We have a record of the factions, Reverend Nestor Ivanovich, and the MPs are the rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u111	Thank you. Sergey Shevchuk, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. Dear listeners, radio listeners, I would like to quote the words of the co-rapporteur who said: “There is no case when the health and veterinary services have failed.” Well, that's a unique quote, because both officials and residents know that, unfortunately, that's not the case. The law offers to eliminate very many standards, but I am particularly concerned about the elimination of drinking water, drinking water, pesticides, and agrochemicals. Each of the national deputies working in the district knows how many references are made by Ukrainian citizens to this product — a product that is now at risk in Ukrainian warehouses, fields, products, and toxic chemicals found in drinking water, wells. And the health service itself says that about 90 percent of wells have water that does not meet the standards. We propose to eliminate today, and the drafters propose after that within, as we have heard, six months or more to propose other normative acts that seem to improve the situation. What's the point? The very sad thing is that there is already a bad practice in the Ukrainian Parliament: when a questionable proposal is made, the WTO is mentioned, and under the brand, it seems that everything can be accepted. I think it's important to take a very responsible approach to this bill, to really take care of the health of the nation, not the interests of the producers, because in this case you all act as consumers, who as national MPs protect the rights of other consumers. In this case, these rights can be substantially violated. So I propose not to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u112	Sergey Ribuk, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u113	Thank you. I'll briefly say that the Party of the Regions, the faction will by no means allow the voting and passing of this bill. Why? Because it's a lobbyist project and it's clearly removing the state in general from standards and quality control. And the concept of “standards” and the article is eliminated. It's, if it's popular, children are, and there's no sex. Do you understand? And the next. This law, which is in force, states: “Confirmation of the conformity of food products with food raw materials, related materials imported into the customs territory of Ukraine shall be carried out in accordance with the rules laid down in the law.” And he's offering Xenius Lapin to rule out. So what's changing? By now, 20 percent of meat in sausages, anchovies, and famous “Doctor’s ” sausage. So you want there to be just emulsifiers, skin-skinned Polish origins, wrinkles, stains, bones, and so forth?Oh, my God! Dog, the cat doesn't eat. Is that what you want, coalition? And in the coalition, get rid of it. Listen to Karmazin, he's talking so loudly. At least one of them isn't a corrupter! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u114	He's not alone. I was reminded of the Soviet anecdote when it was said that there was no paper or macular shortage in the Soviet Union. The answer was, “So fewer should be put in sausage.” So there's the next proposal. Alexander Vitaliyovich, do you insist? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u115	Dear National Deputies! I have four brief explanations that might help me make the right decision. A basic law on food safety is the relevant Act on the Safety and Quality of Food. The 60 articles of this Act control every stage in the production of food imports and establish the procedures by which the veterinary and sanitary services carry out the work. And even the example given by the respectable Catherine Mikhailovna applies directly to the veterinary service and neither to the State standard. To emphasize, it's only about removing duplicates. duplicates that are acceptable. That is what the European Union does not allow. Please conduct health, veterinary control as you consider necessary by your standards, but why do this by duplicating? This is a question that there is no answer to. For pesticides and agrochemicals. Specially, article 17 of the law says that without the appropriate certificate issued by these services, no chemicals will cross the border of Ukraine. And this rule remains. But why the duplication that we're going to be doing through the State standard? As far as American experience is concerned, that is certainly the case. In the U.S., a certificate is required at the border. So the point is that we're not later. re-certificate this thing. It looks like this: a Mercedes comes in with a certificate from the appropriate Stuttgart factory, but it's not accepted at our place. We open up some screws in there, take it somewhere to process it, and then we certification it by our own, Ukrainian, rules, laws. It's a laugh for all of Europe. That's what this is about. And finally, about the hotels. Dear Mikola Volodymyrovich, our hotels are the standard of the late 1980s. And you have to have a radiograpic and a grupin with water. To date, the standard is completely outdated and unnecessary. We don't throw hotel demands today. It's being suggested to the government within six months of these very strict requirements, which are, let's say, radiocopy, throw graphin out with water, but leave the things that are needed. This will be called “technical regulations”. This is the work of a government that he should forgive in six months. I'm sure in that case we'll create a good and complete system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u116	Thank you, Alexander Vitaliovich. Please, Kseniya Mikhailna.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u117	Thank you, Your Honor. What I'm saying is that you've just given dozens of examples now, when, on the one hand, the santation points to the inadequacy when there's a bunch of inequities in the market. All of this is mandatory in the presence of certification. This is about the fact that the existing system is very imperfect. But in fact, what Parliament has to do with this is direct, because now you want to give up your part in reforming the imperfect system. You want to give it to officials, irresponsible, unelected people. The president is offering to take this into your hands, and you refuse. You just don't want to worry about the safety and life of our citizens. Yes, because you refuse to support the President's proposal to put this in your hands, MPs, to set the right requirements. Mr. Carmazin rightly said that technical regulations need work that hasn't been done in years. And we're ready to continue implementing this law from six months a year, but until the second reading, it's just the amendment that can be counted. At the same time, if we reject this bill now, well, no question, we'll be back on Thursday to the same thing, because the government has already passed a similar bill, that's what the WTO, the WTO deal requires. So in fact, you just want to get away from this problem, you don't want to get in the way, you don't want to get out of the way, and you don't want to take responsibility for the Ukrainian people. And I want to say separately, you don't trust your government because you don't want to let the government approve a list of products that are subject to mandatory certification. It's very strange for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u118	The replica of Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u119	Dear National Deputies, dear Mr. Head, I took a replica for one reason only, and I took a line to ensure that ignorance never dominates this hall and that it does not sound from this rostrum. Because there are 4 thousand 156 national standards in Ukraine today. I want Mr. Schlapak, you and Mrs. Xenius Lupina to record that they are harmonized with international Europeans, these are the standards. I want you to know that there's already been tremendous damage to those proposals that you've made in your previous call. Look. I want you to analyze it, and I need you to come back. How can we test bad people when we warn them in ten days of testing? How can you be checked if you have not put any money into the budget? Why do you mistreat that government? Why are these things? Let's just throw it away and leave just one to make it better for the Ukrainian, so that's why you're so blasphemous right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u120	Dear colleagues, time for discussion is over. Give me a replica of Lapinius.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u121	Dear colleagues, I would also like this hall not to be hailed by ignorance, so that we read laws that were previously approved by our Parliament. For example, the Standardization Act, which long ago envisions the non-binding standards, such as the Law on Confirmation of Conformity, which has long foreseen a new system, but is not implemented because of the huge costs going through certification centres. And it pains me very much that today Parliament is interested in preserving these flows instead of caring for the health of the nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u122	Dear colleagues, here's a proposal: we have a draft Supreme Council decree on adoption on the basis of Bill 1363. The bill is good, but I have doubts that it will pass. So I'm going to suggest it this way. As Head, I use paragraph 28 of the 10th Supreme Council Rules and raise the issue of Bill 1363 with a signal vote. Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[17:52:20]] For 67, respectable colleagues. This vote has no impact on the results of the vote, it's a signal, but it shows how to proceed with the bill. So there's a compromise proposal, as always, so that we don't reject it in general right now, I would very much ask the national MPs to re-read it first. How do you look? You don't want to. You do not want the Mercedes not to be certified. The Mercedes have long since been certified by national deputies. We were the first ones in Europe to ride on them. What, then, do I view it as it is for the committee? Well, then. I stand by the committee. 1363-B to accept as a basis the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine, registration number 1363. Please vote. [[17:53:25]] For-63 No decision is taken on this decision. So it's a bill. Please show by factions. I suggest we re-read it now, fellows. 109th, think, it'll be wise. Rereading the first reading. Let's work. This will be wise. And we'll get to the right approach. I'm asking you to read again. Colleagues in the region, that's a very wise decision. Because there won't be a break. [[17:54:06]] For 217 What can we return to the results of the vote? You don't want to. The faction of the Party of the Regions in the first hour asked, now requires a break of 30 minutes to announce the application. Half a minute, one second. Are you going to break up or are you even ready? I mean, you broke up. According to this ten-second break, the Party of the Regions wants to make a statement. Alexander Lavrinovich. Only one person can act according to the Provisional Rules. Please, Alexander Lavrinovich with a statement. Chevchuk. Please, Shevchuk. It says 30 minutes in the Rules. They made a decision that took them 10 seconds. This is their position. Please, according to the provisional Rules, they have the right to make such a statement. Who's speaking from the Party of Regions? No one wants to speak? Have you changed your mind? The question is off the order of the day. Lavrinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u123	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! This morning we pointed out in this room that we have a serious problem with Ukrainian Basic Law. Accordingly, in accordance with all the requirements of the Rules and the provisional Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a draft decree has been introduced to establish a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the preparation and drafting of a bill amending the Constitution of Ukraine. The project envisions the establishment of a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to prepare and draft a bill amending the Constitution of Ukraine. The temporary special commission should prepare a preliminary proposal to amend the Constitution of Ukraine, draft a harmonized bill to amend the Constitution of Ukraine with a view to bringing it mainly to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and draft a bill to amend the Constitution, taking into account the findings of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, proposing the legislative initiative and introducing an amended bill for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Select by co-chairs of the Temporary Special Commission of National Deputies of Ukraine Kazmejakin Andrija Anatoliyovich and Lavrinovich Alexander Volodymyrovich. To determine that the number of members of the Temporary Special Commission is 27 of Ukraine’s national deputies. Choose to be part of the Temporary Special Commission of People’s Deputies according to the contributions made by the factions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. 11 members of the factions of the region, 10 members of the Timoshenko Yulia Block, three members of the Ukrainian People's Self-Defense Unit, one faction of Communists. To determine the duration of the work of the Temporary Special Commission one year from the date of its adoption, the report of the Temporary Special Commission on the work accomplished to be heard at the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine no later than October 1, 2008. There's a proposal to support the specified draft of the decree, because we need to make sure that we have the perfect Basic Law. And so that we can decide in this room what kind of changes the Ukrainian Constitution needs. At the same time, I would like to say that a draft ruling has been introduced today, which is proposed to the President of Ukraine in connection with the unconstitutional issuance of an order for the release of the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Please also support this proposal by the Ukrainian national deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u124	Did you finish your application, Alexander Volodymyrovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u125	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-08-m1.u126	Thank you. Please sit down. I don't think that's in any way relevant to the approved order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It's a very good decision, it's a great decision, it's just a meeting of the Conciliation Council. At the meeting of the Conciliation Board, faction leaders will make the right decision, and today we have a confirmed agenda and no one can change it, dear colleagues. That's the first one. Secondly, if we have such an approach, I think we should move on, let's immediately vote on the Constitution. Why, we're such talented people's advocates, we're about to adopt the Constitution and we're going to go in full procedure, by the way, without an election, let's appoint senior officials. Dear colleagues, your application is good, but don't force me to violate the regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And no one's going to break it. There is a voted decision on the order of the day of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. 17.59. Thank you all. There's only a few seconds left. Good-bye, until tomorrow morning's plenary meeting. I declare the evening plenary session closed.
