ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u1	Good morning, dear colleagues. Let's register, please. [[10:02:35]] There were 446 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The morning plenary session of the Ukrainian Parliament is open. Dear friends, let's welcome our colleagues: Logwinenka Alexija Stepanovitch with her birthday and Pavelka Sergio Grigorovovich also with her birthday. Dear colleagues, according to the Rules, we have 30 minutes for the national deputies of Ukraine. I'm asking you, colleagues, to sign up for the speech. Alexander Stoyan, Party of Regions. Akimova, national deputy. Akimova, please from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u2	Akimova, Party of Regions. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we do not see serious anti-inflation laws on the agenda for today and for all of this week. To date, the situation in the country has been catastrophic. We already have more than 30 per cent annual inflation in April. Ukraine has urged not only all Western European countries, but our eastern neighbours and the CIS. To date, the Government and the coalition continue to feed the people with promises of an anti-inflation programme. The five months requested by the Government have practically passed. There are no attempts to fight today. Today, there are signs of galloping inflation that have negative effects not only on production but on the shoulders of the population. Instead of a systematic fight against inflation today, the Government is looking for people. Yesterday it was the opposition, today it is the regional governors who refuse to engage in administrative intervention in prices. The main culprit is the National Bank. The Government places political responsibility on other shoulders. We want to state today with full responsibility that, to date, it is the wrong fiscal policy of the coalition and the Government that is the main cause of inflation. Not the monetary policy of the National Bank, but, I stress, the budgetary policy of the Government. To date, budget spending has continued to grow much faster than real GDP. This policy leads to disaster. Already today, the investment climate of Ukraine, international agencies such as FIC have lowered our ratings, and this means that our resources will become more expensive, our productions, our banks will find it more difficult to occupy external markets. Above all, inflation is suffered by a Ukrainian citizen. Every month, the pensioner loses up to 60 bracelets, and the Government has not yet submitted the main anti-inflation document — a budget, a supplement to the budget with adjusted inflation rates that would allow us to review the subsistence minimum. To date, we demand that the coalition submit supplements to Parliament to the 2008 budget, where real inflation indicators will be adjusted. We call for a new hearing by the Government and Nitzbank of what concerted efforts will be made to combat inflation. And we demand a social protection programme that could cover the new costs of the population for rising prices for natural gas.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u3	Aunt Bachelor.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u4	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished members of the people! All last week, we followed with concern the information received from various regions of Ukraine on the numerous cases of the side-effect of the measles and redness of Indian production and the tragic death of an 11-year-old Cramatory Anton Tishchenko. The Party of the Regions expresses its deep condolences to Anton's parents and shares their pain. Each family can be confident of the support and assistance of the Party of the Regions. We also guarantee that this tragic case will be fully and objectively investigated. Currently, there are 31 people in the treatment facilities of Donetsk, 28 of them children; 47 children in Kramatorsk; 3 children in Mariupola; 2 in Schachtersk; 3 in Selidov; 3 in Mariinsk district; 3 in Pervomaj region; and one child in Pervomaj region. They were all inoculated with a vaccine from the Indian Institute of Sulphurs. It was not previously used in our country against measles and rubella. This vaccine is certified by the World Health Organization. However, the World Health Organization is not responsible for the health of our citizens, but is responsible for the State, including us, the people's deputies. I, as Chairman of the Health Committee, have prepared a draft decree by the Supreme Council on the establishment of an interim investigation commission to investigate the causes of the death of the child. The Society must hear the answer to the question: why and on what basis a decision was taken to immunize a vaccine not registered in Ukraine, in grave violation of the provisions of article 13 of the Ukrainian Act on Protection of the Population against Infectious Diseases, which makes use of preventive vaccines for domestic and foreign products registered in Ukraine in accordance with the established legislation. All these questions must be answered shortly by an investigative commission to investigate the causes of the tragedy. The Party of Regions calls for the immediate cessation of vaccination by this drug before obtaining an opinion from specialists of Ukraine and international organizations, and for arbitration tests of the quality of the vaccine, involving international experts, with a view to obtaining objective results. To halt the action of paragraph 6 of Cabinet Regulation No. 348 of 27 February this year on immunization of the entire population aged 16 to 29. Timely consideration at the meeting of the Supreme Council on the second reading of the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u5	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u6	Thank you very much. To consider on second reading the Act on Protection of the Population against Infectious Diseases, for which the use of vaccines is possible only after full clinical-epidemiological studies have been carried out in Ukraine. At the same time, we understand that immunoprophylaxis of infectious diseases through vaccination is one of the most effective ways to combat diseases. Given that, as a result of the tragedy, the level of confidence in the safety of such vaccinations has dropped significantly, the Party of the Regions insists on the publicity of all the actions of the Cabinet of Ministers and the Ministry of Health in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u7	Thank you. Olga Gerasimük
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u8	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, the history of Ukrainian independent information space has a lot of shame and hypocrisy. But it seems to be endless. More specifically, it has a completely predictable end because we do not make serious conclusions. More specifically, someone wants Ukraine to be defeated today, defeated in a major mental information intervention by Russia, which we will witness this year. Someone understands, more specifically in the Kremlin, that I will speak frankly, that what we do not recognize is that we are absolutely not ready to resist this war, that it makes our nation completely unprepared for the great bloodless war in which Ukraine sleeps. Now it's a very vivid example, which confirms my words, it's a scandalous show that just ended on the "Inter" channel -- "The Great Ukrainians." This is described as a project to unite the country, rather than to unite it, it seems to everyone that it was the first series in the scenario of the absorption of Russian Malorussian territories by the “great brother”. In Russia, it will literally begin a show called "The Name of Russia". And Prince Jaroslav Wise of Kiev, the winner of our show, who would probably be very surprised by his victory, and also by seeing the only one of all the Ukrainian films in Russian, will be even more surprised when he sees it on the list of 500 great Russians and himself and his father and Yaroslavna and the Kyiv designer of Sikorsky, and, I'm sorry, Bogdan Hmelnick as great Russians. In Russian television, it's not like television is just a show. There they did not play with the viewers, and a list of 500 large Russians was sent down to them, and it is strictly stated that on Russia’s day the name of the great Russian will be called. And I think it's going to be a second series for us, where we're going to have to understand that Ukraine is gone and never will be. Hundreds of thousands of viewers have made a profit from the Big Ukraine project, paying their pensions and wages in inflation for their precious copies of the vote. The results of the vote shocked the audience. On the Internet, journalists wrote that society had swallowed the image, and analysts said that it had become clear to them how dangerous such a banal show was to the national security of the country. We can assure you that society has not swallowed anything.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u9	Xenia Leapina refuses to speak for you. Please continue for three more minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u10	It just doesn't have access to the air to express its resentment, because the content on our commercial, largest channels in the country is determined by foreigners who make it look like it's just entertainment. Society, a huge number of viewers, resented how Ukrainian elites were used in their eyes to participate in the show, how they “walked” in their opinion of politics, how they earned money from television, which completely does not recognize that, in making money in this state, he is responsible to the people he earns and is putting their lives at risk. Because information security, as it's said, -- I'll repeat -- is a state of protection for people's vital interests from the negative consequences of the use of information technology. And our Constitution, in article 17, says that information security is primarily a matter for the entire nation. Thus, what we have seen is a great threat, a great danger to the lives of every citizen of our society. Finally, there is article 47 of the Information Law, and so is the Television and Radio Act, which we have a very serious suspicion of having been violated in this project. In addition, the project that was designed to unite the country was actually an open political blackmail. It's not the sympathy of another great Ukrainian, it's the fact that you can't fake voices so openly in front of people. It is not possible for the people to make their choice of television, nor can they put up huge sums of money for the oligarchs, who determine the outcome of what seems to be an honest expression of thought. It is not possible to turn Ukraine's elite into a puppet on air, but rather to throw their opinion into a political “meatcombination”. It is not possible for project managers and journalists who are suspected of counterfeiting to take advantage of the opportunity not to mention this on - air suspicion. Because it is not possible for commercial channels to control the consciousness of the people in the same way and it is not possible to turn the “kwalovščina” into television. To investigate all these obvious violations that we've all seen and what society is talking about, millions of televised television viewers, to investigate and make Ukraine and society responsible for the biggest commercial channels, the most successful ones, and more importantly, those who need to understand their responsibility to this society are Parliament's tasks. And the block “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” requires the creation of a temporary commission of inquiry. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u11	Mikola Haritonovich Shershun.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u12	Mikola Shershun, “Block Lithuania”. Dear Mr. Golovo, distinguished colleagues, impressed by the recent meetings with voters in the regions, particularly in the Ternopil region, have forced me to address the issue more pressingly, this is a question of unemployment. However, the endless political battalions have again put the problem to the backseat. Meanwhile, this common problem for all regions of Ukraine continues to get worse, and in certain areas it has become very dangerous. This is particularly true of the Ternopil region, where the unemployment rate is the highest in our country. This problem is particularly acute in the rural area of Ternopil, where the unemployment rate is 60 percent. Hundreds of thousands of rural workers are forced to seek employment in other lands. This not only undermines the labour potential of the rural population but also leads to serious social problems. As a result of the forced breakup of families, we lose young generations, children who are unemployed, without parental care. As a result, social diseases, high levels of unemployment, low activity in life, lack of perspective, alcoholism, drug addiction, crime among rural youths, and thus the collapse of the village are widespread in the countryside. It's time to change the way the government feels about the socio-economic problems of the village. We need to get to development and validation immediately, I stress, the government's programme to overcome rural unemployment, to create a new system of rural employment, to ensure the integrated development of rural areas. It should be based on such an organisational and economic mechanism to regulate the employment of the rural population that it would organically combine market mechanisms and its self-regulation and a set of appropriate measures to promote employment. The latter have to include legislative, regulatory and information security employment policies, as well as economic, socio-political and organisational aspects of their implementation. Addressing the problem of lowering population migration and improving the overall situation in the labour market can be an active investment activity aimed at creating new jobs. Today, the state can also help many rural entrepreneurs and farmers who work effectively. Their products could be placed in stock or used to be supplied to social institutions in the first place. The ‘Lithuania Block’ believes that only through consistent systemic measures will the envisaged state-wide programme be able to create an active rural employment system, to ensure integrated rural development, and we will not only be able to provide jobs for ourselves.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u13	Let me finish. Everything? Thank you. Volodymyr Stretovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u14	Good morning. Dear Mr. Head! Dear fellow national MPs! In recent times, Ukraine has seen a great deal of action in its last days to combat corruption. Thus, the committee is taking appropriate action on organized crime and corruption. The following day, the Institute of Strategic Research will meet to investigate such a social phenomenon as corruption. I want to draw your attention, your Arsenius Petrovich, to what is being created in the Supreme Council. On March 20, this year, the Supreme Council had an unprecedented case, the head of the Justice Committee, Sergio Kiwalov, had been accused of putting to the vote the judges who had not passed the procedure. After that, on March 20, a group of national deputies: Labunska, Sobolev, Stratovic and others, wrote to the Head of the Supreme Council to investigate and establish motives, reasons and reasons for this. Moreover, on the same day, I addressed the Janukovich faction with a personal letter of request, since it is the quota of the Party of the Regions to remove this figure from the performance of my duties for discrediting parliamentaryism. It's been two months. The Head of the Supreme Council is silent. The head of the faction of the regions is silent. So I'm asking you, we're going to fight corruption and start with ourselves, are we just going to declare words in slogans, and it's actually going to multiply from here? Because the theory is that fish rot from their heads. Dear Arsenius Petrovich, please consider my statement an official request to you as Head of the Supreme Council. Dear Victor Fedorovich, please consider my speech an official statement to you as the head of the most powerful faction of Parliament. Please clean up and you'll get better, it's in your best interests. Ukraine needs change. And let's start with these changes, as the classics said, let the world die, but here's justice, that's justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u15	Jaroslav Kenzior.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u16	Jaroslav Kenzior, National Movement of Ukraine, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear Head, dear fellow national MPs! Despite repeated appeals by the Lviv City Council to the relevant public authorities to stop the resonant raids and to bring responsibility to those responsible who, through falsification of documents, tried to seize and try to acquire 20 hectares of the resort area of the forest park, the forests of the first group of the Drislisfond of the Health, Recreational, Recreational, within the framework of the Lviv City Council under the construction of the cottages; 328 hectares of the forest park zone of the first group of the Drislisfond Recreational, Healing, under the so-called housing-related construction; 15 land plots within the city of Lviv under the construction of the AZS. These cases have been dealt with in courts at different levels for three years. These are the same scams involving several private companies, such as "Novobuddesign", "Buddesign", "Remont", "Galic dishes", registered at one address – Lviv, etc. Blackbeard, 63. However, all appeals about the establishment of an independent investigation commission to investigate the facts of the theft of state property in a particularly large way, the analysis of the openly illegal decisions of some judges, the personal control of this resonant corruption case, unfortunately, came back the same way – through the Attorney General's Office in Lviv, the District Attorney's Office. The Public Prosecutor's Office of the Lviv Region, the Public Prosecutor's Office of the city of Lviv, members of the Lviv City Council, representatives of the Lviv Region, the Office of the Environment of the Lviv Region, the Lvivlis Forest Administration of the Lvivlis District Council of Lviv are trying to prove fraud, falsification of documents in the courts of all institutions with undisputable evidence, conducted by experts, numerous documents and arguments, pointing to individuals. So far, this shameful anti-government process has failed to be stopped by the judicial branches of power. The arguments, the paws, the swindlers, we know that's the argument. Moreover, as the ship’s gravity continues, the companies mentioned above have started construction on their own. In Lviv on Zamarstinska Street, a self-constructive construction of a self-contained station in the Lviv City Council Forest Park area was carried out without permission, and in the forests of the first group of recreational and health assignments, a large-scale voluntary building of cottages began. The Lviv City Council no longer has the means to combat this insolent banditry, and it therefore calls for the establishment of a temporary parliamentary commission to investigate violations of current legislation, as well as the falsification of state documents aimed at looting state property in a particularly large amount, worth several billion dollars, or to entrust the investigation of this affair with the relevant committee of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u17	Oleg Novikov. Mikhailo Kosov gives the word Semerak. Is it? The word actually from Lily Grigorovich? Please, the word of Lilia Grigorovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u18	Lilia Grigorovich, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense." Dear Arsenia Petrovich! Dear National Deputies! I would like to begin my appeal to the democratic coalition. How do you live, the democratic coalition? Do you and each of us realize that for the first time in the history of Ukraine in 16 and a half years, there has been a new quality that is to spread throughout Ukraine and give new quality of life? I ask this question because during numerous meetings during the long May weekends, I saw people in the eyes of disappointment and confusion and many questions in the eyes of our adherents. People asked me, especially the medicine of Blackbayish and Drabisht. Please tell me how it happened that in 2004 we all stood with “Falsification — no!” posters, “Machinations — no!” posters. Many of us are reprimanded as not being punished. But how did it happen that on our side under the slogan “Justice Is! For her it is worth fighting for!” have there been three terrible, hellish phenomena: tendering, raiding and “land kill”? These phenomena are licensed and accredited by both the Ukrainian people and the law enforcement authorities and the temporary commission of inquiry. Dear friends! The authorship of these new inventions is linked to the people sitting in this room. That is why I would like to ask my Prime Minister, for whom I voted twice, not to recommend people who are involved in raiding, tendering and "landing" for executive positions; and all the more so is the moral decision of your assemblies. Traveling is associated with the name Portnova. The tender, one of the co-authors, is Jacenko. "Earthquake", the author, from the word "Hubski land" is headed by the election headquarters of Turkinova. Dear friends, after Olly Gerasimük's ardent speech, which has turned to those moral springs that mount the goodwill of each of us, I say this for one reason: we must manifest a new quality, we must become stronger and cleaner. What do people expect from us, the democratic coalition? Not a few kilograms of frozen meat, and a thousand bracelets, and temporary elections in September -- people expect us to be able to say, after a few years, on the criteria of life, on wages, on quality domestic meat, accessible, not commercials, and our compatriots could say, “And yet they have done something.” The political force that hears its people is capable of change. Today, there are no “loving friends” in the benches of “Our Ukraine” but “your dears” because this was the way they addressed voters, Julia Volodymyrna, they treated Ukraine dearly. I am therefore convinced that the new quality must be born in order for the democratic coalition to manifest its true substance and true meaning to Ukraine. Time's up. Give us God.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u19	Mikhailo Kossov gives the word of Ostap Semerak.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u20	Ostap Semerak, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. This week, the city elections in Kiev are ending, and Yulia Tymoshenko's Block is forced to say that in the city elections in Kiev against the “Julia Tymoshenko Block” are using illegal methods in the fight, namely: we mean “dirty” technologies, voter bribes, administrative resources. Yes, on May 8th, in Kiev, in the Obolon district, the National Deputies of the “Timoshenko Block of July” were exposed to a typography, a underground typography, which was with an armored door and three underground exits, printed a series of newspapers that were provocative against the “Timoshenko Block of Yulia”, against the Prime Minister and our candidate in the City of Alexander Turchinov. It should be noted that not only the newspaper against us but also the newspapers against our colleagues was printed in this printing. And that's where they were removed, too. Already installed customers of this market, detained by their performers. But we are surprised by the position of the prosecutor’s office, which has not yet opened a criminal case. We appeal to the prosecutor’s office to take all necessary steps to expose this crime. Many politicians, including the President of Ukraine, claim a mass electoral bribe in Kiev. We confirm that voter bribery is taking place in Kiev. But notice that in the city budget of Kiev, Mr. Chernewicki, 1 billion 800 million dollars of various taxes collected by city authorities through excessive tariffs are planned. We point out that, on the basis of salary payments in the budget area, the fourth quarter costs are being diverted and the budget is being announced, which will make it impossible for teachers and doctors to pay their salaries at the end of this year. We point out that the city of Kiev is hampered by the work of our agitators working with voters. Yes, last week there was an attack on Ukrainian and Odarchenk national deputies in Sofia Square. Mr. Odarchenk was attacked, resulting in bodily harm. Surprisingly, so far no criminal cases have been opened and there has been no investigation into the assault and health of the National MP. The same is true of simple agitators who work in tents, attack people with knives, cut materials, cut tents, and attack them. This happened last week in the Obolonian region, a criminal case is open, but it's being investigated pretty well. Note that the prosecutor’s office does improper work and is idle in this regard. That is why we turn to law enforcement agencies.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u21	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u22	We appeal to law enforcement agencies to respond immediately to the violation of electoral legislation by the KMDA and its political power. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u23	Ruslan Knyazevich, out of the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, the truth is, you've heard our representative's speech today, Mrs. Olga Gerasimük. Each of us watched the fake show that the TV “Inter” showed every Friday for eight months on live television. Unfortunately, this is a particularly painful subject for me because I have once again learned that the transit server has not disappeared. And those people who in 2004 ruined the choice of the Ukrainian people were once again involved in falsifying those millions of votes of Ukrainians who were sincerely devoted to their heroes, whom they had the right to admit on direct air, and for whom they paid the last money, and for whom they had even borrowed the last penny in order not to give it to their children, but to vote in favour of what they really did in earnest and forcefully vote. In view of these circumstances, our faction has no objection to the recognition of the great Ukrainians of Jaroslav the Wise or Doctor Amos, which is indeed enormous, and Ukrainian history has given them a proper assessment. But on the other hand, no one was allowed to distort the voices of people who for eight months believed that a project had finally emerged on Ukrainian television that was truly capable of reproducing their real choice. But after all, we found that nothing like this had happened. Instead, 560,000 votes were cast on one computer on the last day in favor of the so - called winner, despite the fact that he received only 60,000 for eight months. In view of these circumstances, in addition to the fact that we are initiating the establishment of an interim commission of inquiry in Parliament from this unfortunate incident, we are addressing all the national deputies who really want to bring the system into play on Ukrainian television, to sign immediately a letter of appeal to the British Air Force Corporation, which has the rights and license to do so, to review the results, taking into account the unusual circumstances that have been set out, including in the interview of the chief editor of this transmission, Wakhtang Kipiani, and to prevent the fact that a temporary commission of inquiry is being set up in the Ukrainian Parliament on this point. I realize that someone didn't even think at the beginning of the project that Ukrainians could determine for the benefit of being a great Ukrainian is Stephen Bandera. I realize that someone abroad did not even think that there are millions of people in Ukraine who consider Stephen Bander a great Ukrainian, a real hero, and who are capable of paying for his last money. And now, once again, I want to get involved in the fact that most of this room supports our initiative, and the temporary special commission will be created, and its results will be objectively brought to Ukrainian society. And that's a shame.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u25	Thank you, Your Honor. At the request of the national deputy Volodymyr Stretovic, who, unfortunately, is no longer in the hall, I report. The ruling of the Regulatory Committee has been rejected in the adoption, and more specifically, in support of the decision to release Kiwalov Sergio Vasilovic from office as head of the committee, as requested by a number of Ukrainian national deputies. That's what I've informed the national deputies, including Mr. Stretovich, who's not in the hall. If an appropriate draft decree for the liberation of Kiwalov is passed, we shall vote in accordance with the order established by law. Dear colleagues, we are moving on to the order of the day. It is likely that we are working peacefully today, which is unlikely to happen tomorrow. But I'm announcing the first issue of the agenda -- 0040, the issue of ratification. Draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Kingdom of Denmark. Please, Constantine Petrovich, to the rostrum of Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u26	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, distinguished national MPs, is submitting to your consideration the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Kingdom of Denmark on the readmission of persons. The bill has been drafted in accordance with the requirements of the current legislation of Ukraine, in particular the provisions of the Constitution of Ukraine and the Law of Ukraine on International Contracts. In the event of its adoption, an internal procedure will be carried out involving the entry into force of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Kingdom of Denmark on the readmission of persons signed on March 16, 2007, in Copenhagen. The implementation of the agreement will allow for the identification of procedures for the reception and transfer of persons who are in the territory of the contracting parties. The reciprocity agreement also sets out quick and effective procedures for the identification and safe and orderly return of persons who do not meet the conditions for entry and residence in Ukraine or the Kingdom of Denmark, as well as for the transit of such persons to their countries of origin. It is very important that the agreement provides for a two-year grace period for the transfer of third-party citizens and stateless persons. Ukraine's draft law, which we are currently considering, has been agreed without notice by all relevant ministries and departments: the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Mineconomy, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Justice. Ratification of the agreement will create legal preconditions for simplifying visa regime with Denmark for Ukrainian citizens, as the acquisition of validity The agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Kingdom of Denmark on visa facilitation takes place in a package, i.e. only after the agreement becomes effective. In our view, the implementation of the agreements will contribute to intensifying Ukraine's relations with the European Union, as well as Denmark as a member of the European Union in the political, economic and humanitarian spheres and other fields. The implementation of the agreement will be ensured by the Ukrainian State Border Service Administration, the Ukrainian Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ukrainian Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u27	Colleagues, please, five minutes of question-answer if you wish. Yuri Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u28	Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. First of all, I think that all the international commitments that Ukraine is making must be met. And in this context, of course, I urge our colleagues to support the ratification of this document. But at the same time, I would like to get more specific information, would Ukraine have a negative impact on the introduction of this legal act? And how does the ministry propose to ensure that the possible negative effects are met? Thank you. Both in the short term and in the long run.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u29	I thank you for asking. It's very, very relevant. I would like to pay attention to such aspects. First, this agreement provides for a so-called transitional period, i.e. two years in which, two years in order to return illegal citizens from third countries and stateless persons. So over this period, we have to create appropriate capacities from the point of view of readmission management. Secondly, 35 million euros are available for the achievement of the target, aid from the European Union is being provided for this year. Thirdly, you know that Denmark is what we call a deep country, a country with which we don't have a common border. Thus, in fact, serious threats from the point of view of the flow of illegal migrants from third countries and stateless persons are quite low. And fourthly, I would like to point out that the readmission agreement with Denmark is actually part of an appropriate readmission agreement with the EU, which was ratified at the outset.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u30	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u31	This is Ukraine's gradual integration into the EU's overall readmission space, which is in line with the national interests of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u32	Valeriy Ananiyevich Beaz.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u33	Thank you. Beales, the Communist faction. Dear Constantine Petrovich! On January 15, 2008, the Supreme Council of Ukraine ratified the simplified visa regime and readmission agreement. It's been three months. What the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has done in these three months about the implementation of ratified treaty data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u34	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u35	I thank you for that question. I answer it. Indeed, these covenants have already begun to work. It is known that the readmission agreement with the EU only works in part. The first two years of our citizens' return. It's being implemented effectively. And there are no claims on the part of the European Union. With regard to the simplified procedure agreement for the issuance of visas. I agree with you absolutely, there are problems here so far, because it has only just begun to work and we are now working together with the European side to ensure that this agreement is implemented as effectively as possible. On 9 April, a meeting of the Joint Committee on Visas “Ukraine-EU” took place, at which the Ukrainian side drew attention to the improper implementation by individual EU member states of the Agreement on the simplified procedure for the issuance of visas. I'll be honest with you, the position of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is pretty tough and there's no question of compromise where 46 million of our citizens are concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u36	Sergei Gordienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u37	Sergei Gordienko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Honorable Reporter and Honorable Citizens of Ukraine! You may remember how this room sparked a discussion about the ratification of those treaties that opened the very path of readmission to Ukraine, which is actually the “resistance” of Ukraine. I point out to the electorate himself that it is the ratification of the Soviets and these treaties that is the real task of Ukraine's national interests on many issues. Please tell me, Your Honor, whether today the threats that have been expressed here in this room, and even this coalition that voted for it, are there any grounds under them, or not, based on what you just answered the previous MP who asked you a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u38	I thank you for that question. I also tell you that there is absolutely no threat or threat of Ukraine becoming a “resistance”; they are groundless, especially with regard to this particular agreement, the Agreement with the Kingdom of Denmark. I'm telling you again, we have a transition period of two years. Secondly, there is substantial assistance from the European Union. In the meantime, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is preparing joint projects from the point of view of the infrastructure of our border, from the point of view of the readmission management and then the readmission agreement, these are normal civilised requirements of European society. For us, countries are more dangerous, so - called Asia and the Pacific. In particular, countries such as Vietnam. In this connection, I'm telling you that it's literally now being considered and there's an interdisciplinary agreement, a bilateral readmission agreement with Vietnam, which will soon be ratified. So we're trying to take your fears and concerns into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u39	Thank you, Constantine Petrovich. Time's up. Boris Ivanovich, please. Tarasjuk Boris Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u40	With respect to the ratification of the readmission agreement with the Kingdom of Denmark, the Supreme Council continues the process that it launched on January 15 by ratifying the agreement with the European Union on the readmission of persons. So we are continuing with you the process of making readmission agreements with all the countries of the European Union. As we know earlier last year, on March 16, the government entered into a visa facilitation agreement with the Kingdom of Denmark and approved its decree on September 19th last year. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council, the Secretariat of the Supreme Council, supports the issue of ratification. The Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on the Law Enforcement of Law Enforcement, reviewed the project in the same way and approved the decision to support the bill. At its April 9th meeting, the European Integration Committee considered the bill and recommended it to the Supreme Council as a whole. I would like to point out that there are questions in this room about the implementation of agreements concluded with the European Union on visa facilitation and readmission. I would like to inform my fellow Members of the People's Deputies that, yesterday, at my meeting of the Committee on European Integration, I have considered this issue and decided to hold a hearing on the committee with the invitation of all relevant government officials and heads of State administrations of the border areas in order to verify compliance by the European Union with these commitments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u41	Question to Boris Ivanovich. Colleagues, report, three minutes. Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u42	Yuri Carmazin, “Our Ukraine - People’s Self - Defense, ” Party of Fatherland’s Defenders Dear Boris Ivanovich, I have two questions. First. How many illegal citizens are there, that is, so that we know what numbers are usually spoken of annually with this country? That's the first question. And the second. The Chinese, the Vietnamese today, you know, they just flooded our markets, because they don't see themselves anywhere else, nowhere in the building, they don't work anywhere. But whole neighborhoods now, children are born here, they become Ukrainian citizens, it's within a certain range of threats to Ukraine's national interests. And we're saying that then we're going to take third-country citizens or how we're going to work in this way to reduce and take those countries and not just take them because they're through us, they've crossed the border. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u43	Thank you. My fellow Members, I believe that the issue of such a specific nature should be asked by representatives of the government, not by us fellow members of the national parliament. So I can't tell you how many citizens of the Kingdom of Denmark have been or have visited Ukraine. As for third - country nationals, the agreement provides for a two - year extension after the ratification of this agreement, the formula for third - country nationals who have gone illegally have either left Ukraine or through Ukraine will be applied in two years. The problem is serious and can be understood by the countries of the European Union, which have third - country nationals in their territories, using Ukraine’s territory, because of the failure of our borders in the east and in the north, which is a serious problem of responsibility and commitment to the Ukrainian government. So we have no choice but to agree to this standard.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u44	Yuri Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u45	Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear Boris Ivanovich, I have a question for you. In fact, following up on the previous questions that have now been asked. Please tell us that the main danger for potential people who will return to Ukraine comes from citizens of countries such as Vietnam, Pakistan, Afghanistan, China, and others. First question. Do we have such readmission agreements with them? If not, have we taken a somewhat hasty step by signing a treaty with both the European Union and the European Union? And coming out of Ukraine's national interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u46	Thank you. Once again, I would like to say that a representative of executive authority was here to address these issues. But what I'm saying is that you're absolutely right, that the vast majority of illegal migrants are using our eastern and northern borders, using Russia, to get to Ukraine and through Ukraine to the countries of the European Union. And, of course, the state has to be responsible. As far as negotiations with these countries are concerned, I know that the Ukrainian government, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, has initiated negotiations with these countries at its own time. But the truth is, unfortunately, the governments of these countries do not show constructiveness in response to the Ukrainian side’s proposal. This is a serious problem, but this problem does not remove responsibility from the Ukrainian government.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u47	Thank you, Boris Ivanovich. Please sit down. We're recording, colleagues, statements from factions and national MPs. Alla Alexandrovska, a speech by the Communist faction. You'll be out of town? Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u48	Respectable colleagues, respected voters, citizens of Ukraine! The faction of the Company will not vote in favour of ratifying the law, nor have we voted in favour of a general ratification of the law that is relevant to the readmission, nor will we do so today. We believe that this is always limited to treason of national interests. Why? Because Europe is turning Ukraine into a sanitation border and practically makes Ukraine a loathsome country. It's obvious. And once Europe has sent citizens out of Europe who have illegally arrived there in search of a piece of bread and work as a result of the fact that the same Europe is both a NATO, so to speak, a structure, both the structure of the developed States, is severely exploiting the average development of the State, territory and peoples. Of course, it will send them to Ukraine. Here, in Ukraine, those who voted in favour of this law have in fact decided to establish concentration camps for those who will be deported from Europe. However, Ukraine has no such treaties and, so to speak, Russia has not ratified the same Readmission Act with the European Union. Thus, there will be increased tensions in Ukraine in terms of organized crime, in terms of transit and drug use in general, in terms of additional diseases and much more. And in this situation, this burden of responsibility will again be placed on a mere labourer, i.e. Ukraine's budget, and there is no doubt about it. Initially, Europe will pay for the construction of these concentration camps, and then the people of Ukraine will feed, drink, and so forth, and make sure that they live here as they are. At the same time, once again, I wish to emphasize that the rights and freedoms of our citizens are not protected by the new threats that this ratification poses. I am not saying that we must not live by the laws of the world European community. I speak of Ukraine as being constantly subject to its freedoms and the rights of its citizens for the benefit of the European or in the present case of the United States. American interests or the European community. The Company's faction once again calls upon all people's deputies to give serious thought to the consequences of these decisions and to take into account that, in three months of implementation of the previously ratified readmission law, the European community has not even met its promises to the kopeck, so even from this, I would consider it necessary to ask you not to vote in favour of the ratification of this treaty by the law and thus to force the European community to fulfil the obligations they have undertaken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u49	Mikhailo Chechetov. The faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u50	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear Arsenia Petrovich! Dear National Deputies! This agreement defines the rapid and effective procedures for the identification and safe and orderly return of persons who do not meet the conditions for entry and residence in Ukraine or the Kingdom of Denmark, as well as the procedures for the transit of such persons to their countries of origin. The agreement provides for a two - year extension, reception, transfer of third - country nationals and stateless persons. But the Ukrainian law on the ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the European Community on the readmission of persons to whom the issue has been resolved has already been adopted. Furthermore, according to the spirit of the agreement of Ukraine, I emphasize that Ukraine will act as a requesting State in 90 percent, because it is a transit State in relation to the European Union, which in turn will, I would stress, will provide 90 percent of the financing of the measures under the budget of Ukraine, which will result in considerable spending of the State budget. None of the rapporteurs referred to the cost of the public treasury. The faction of the Party of the Regions proposes not to ratify this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u51	Sergei Greenewecki. Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u52	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, respected colleagues, not Denmark at all, frankly. For example, we have nothing against Denmark -- this is a very civilized country that is concerned, unlike our Ukrainian authorities, about its citizens, and for which the interests of its citizens come first, and then everything else. That's why we're talking about something else. I remember, literally not so long ago in this room, I asked Minister Ogryzka a question when two questions were being considered in one, almost one packet. One is the ratification of the readmission agreement, and the other is the ratification of the simplified visa regime agreement. I asked: if the hall, in principle, does not support the readmission, let's vote on the simplified regime, all will be “in favour”, 400 votes. Mr Ogrizko said: “They are very interconnected, and they will only give us the possibility of a simplified visa regime if we vote for readmission.” That's right, sir. Minister? So, now I'm asking you a question: now that one of these agreements is actually not being implemented, when one of the four or five letters -- this proportion -- I personally get from our voters every day, where they talk about Ham's, disrespectful treatment of our citizens in the form of visas, and this applies to those countries with which we're now going to sign bilateral readmission agreements, maybe this format should be introduced here, maybe at the same time. And by the way, I would like to have a meeting with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on how the Agreement on a simplified, simplified visa regime is being implemented with Denmark, with other countries, and so forth. That makes sense. And yet, we're saying a lot of general phrases, and I want you to read one of the articles in this agreement that we are now trying to ratify quickly: “Participation of the first article 3 of the treaty determines that the requested State accepts, without any formality, third-country nationals or stateless persons” and beyond. Under what conditions? “who illegally entered Denmark directly from Ukraine”. And you know that in order to determine that a person has left Ukraine, enough to get a receipt in a dry cleaner, is that true, in Ukraine? So a person can be on a tour of Ukraine, there's something to do, there's something to be done, there's some evidence that he was in Ukraine, and then he can emigrate to Denmark, other countries from Belarus, Russia and other countries. And here's the key moment, dear friends, well, you can't sign. ‘ unilateral agreements cannot be ratified. We don't have a readmission agreement with Belarus or Russia, which is why 90 percent of illegal migrants come. We're substituting ourselves, the state, our citizens. Therefore, there will be no voting for this faction of the “Block of Lithuania”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u53	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u54	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense", the Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear friends, the question is: Ratify or ratify? I want to thank the government, and I rarely hear the government thanking me that on March 17 the treaty was signed, and now they've given us a ratification. This is the first time we've ever had this kind of operationality. That's why we have, and that's the reaction, including to our criticism, when some agreements haven't been ratified in years and they haven't shown us at all what they are.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u55	Yuri Anatoliyevich, March 17, 2007, not 2008.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u56	Just for a second, half a second, 2007 I see, I see. I called you in 2007, Arseny Petrovich. But this government is still in operation, and you remember how long it's been going on. And those innuendos of yours, you see, said to you “Hands off! ” [[B in m in s a l in]] So the honorable Arsenius Petrovich, in fact, is a very serious question. I'd like to name just two numbers, dear friends. That's what I'm talking about. If there were 26 million and 16 tenths of Ukraine crossing borders in 2007, 25.04 left for Ukraine. Thus, 1 million people remain in Ukraine. 1 million 12,000 people! Who are these people, the people they're after? This tells us that at all the meetings with the European Union, with the delegations of the Russian Federation, those commissions that were – Putin or others, other presidents – they have to end up talking about establishing a state border. And it doesn't matter what flag stands here today, what party. We all have to be in one thing: in the interests of the state. And that is why Denmark is certainly not the country that borders us, and it is certainly necessary to ratify the treaty with it, even though it does. terminal, receiving transmission. The term of two years, which is, third-country nationals, certainly scares me, too, because we're just going to turn into some lowlife we're already in. We are constantly transformed by Europe. I would like those thoughts that today have been voiced by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, including the MPs at the level of inter-deputy relations, to bring them to the countries of the European Union, and I would like them to lead them to the Russian Federation, and to understand that the Chinese are coming from there, that's where the Vietnamese, Pakistani, Afghans, Iranians are coming from, that's where they're coming from, that's where they're from -- the territory of the Russian Federation. Let's set up a border, then we won't have to worry about the third ones. Third - country nationals. I'm for ratification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u57	Leonid Graz.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u58	The specific bill under consideration just gave rise to the idea that I had at least one idea from previous speakers that the national-state parliament in Ukraine had appeared for at least one minute. In this way, everyone would take a position on all the destructive legislation that has been adopted here, with regard to the entry into the WTO, in relation to the destruction of all the Statehood of Ukraine. It would be an example, and it would be an example. And the second. The fact that every time an exit from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine to this rostrum makes it clear that it represents foreign interests, not the Ukrainian State. He is completely concerned about other interests of another State. And that's something you need to talk about aloud and seriously. And third. It seems to me that soon to all of us, those who have so ruthlessly destroyed, especially through the entry of the WTO, the economy, the social sphere, yes, if you will, and the sovereignty of the State of Ukraine, will have to answer the question. Because those rascals that have already been launched, no one can stop them and they will crush the remnants and sovereignty and the statehood of Ukraine. Therefore, those who have voted are prepared to report to the people. I think it's right that all those who today reject this bill do. And I support that.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u59	Oleg Zarubinski. Aren't you going to perform? You've been written down. Peter Cibenko, the last speaker.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u60	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! Peter Cibenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Recently, the Ukrainian Parliament ratified the Readmission Agreement. I have the impression that in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and to be precise, part of the MPs for three months was not enough to realize what was actually voted on. We do not have enough of Ukraine’s commitment to adopting nuclear waste from other countries as part of the leadership of the nation. We do not have enough in connection with the entry into Ukraine of the U.S.S.A., to bring about all European want and all kinds of mess. It turns out that we need to gather in our territory and all illegal migrants from Europe. And the paradox is that the person who illegally entered Europe and returned on the basis of the ratification of the readmission agreement to Ukraine, in Ukraine, will be on perfectly legal, legal grounds, and the problems of these migrants will be at the back of the country's budget. The problems of these people will be borne by the taxpayers of Ukraine, with all the consequences resulting from this. You know, dear colleagues, you can talk a lot about this document in a different way, but I have a strong belief that the higher leadership of the state in this way wants to disguise and hide a sharp decline in the population of Ukraine. Because the population of Ukraine declined from 52 and a half million, as it was during the last census of Soviet times to 46 million today. And for the orange leadership of Ukraine, that's far from the limit. In addition to the well - known golden billion, there is still quite a distance to go, and so I understand that similar documents are being submitted for ratification. I am absolutely convinced that every human being, every MP with a mind, cannot vote for this document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u61	It's good to have a mind. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the voting procedure. The reporter and the co-reporter insist on the presentation? Don't insist. Are they insisting? Please, Constantine Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u62	Dear Arseny Petrovich! Dear National Deputies! I am truly grateful for your comments, for your indifference to the question. First, it's about ratifying the Agreement with the Kingdom of Denmark. This agreement is part of the prospect of a visa-free regime for our citizens to travel to EU Member States. This year we are starting a dialogue with the European Union on the introduction of a visa-free regime and this is a requirement. If we don't do that, then we ignore the normal rights of our citizens to move freely across the borders of the European Union. This is the first time. Secondly, the important component of this agreement is the normal civilian return of Ukrainian citizens, this treaty foresees without demeaning the dignity of our citizens. So, in principle, it's also very important from this point of view. And finally, I thank you very much, we've taken this into account, let me have one emotion, believe me, I'm even feared in the name of the Elishas in Brussels on the committee. Because when I go, they know that I always defend the interests of Ukrainian citizens. And that is why we will never betray their interests here. I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u63	Boris Ivanovich, will you? You won't. Colleagues! The proposal to support the bill as a whole. Why I said 2007 and stressed again for 2007 because the decision that agreed to sign this agreement was then taken by the government of Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic, so it would be logical for the bill to be supported by the faction of the Party of the Regions. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! I'm betting on a vote on acceptance as a basis and the whole of Bill 0040. Draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Kingdom of Denmark on the readmission of persons. Attention! Vote, fellows of honor! [[11:14:06]] For 225 The decision is not taken. Then I put to the vote the issue of adoption in the first reading of the bill. Dear colleagues, pay attention! I'm betting on the vote on the adoption of Bill 0040 in the first. Why are you yelling, Peter Mikolaiovich? You're an older man. Why are you yelling like that? If you have something to say, say what you want to say, read the Rules, it's all written there. Don't tear down the hall, Peter Mikolaiovich! Morning, it's so hard, and you're yelling. Do you want to go back? I'll be right back before the first and second readings, no problem. I'm asking a question about getting back to the vote, about getting back to the subject. Attention! On the return to the consideration of the question of voting on the adoption of Bill 0040. Did you hear that, colleagues? What are you waving? Wait, something happened to him. A lost card? Who pulled the card? Is there a deputy? Did you get Suskewicz's card? Take the duplicate card, come on, colleagues. He's a living MP, Suskevich! We've already reached the point where we're pulling each other's cards. Colleagues, let's take a minute to get Deputy Suszkewich to bring him his card, he can't do the will to reveal himself. He can't vote with his hand, it's not a rally on the field. We have two options for events. Colleagues, our colleague Suškević doesn't have a card. If you wait for this card, you have to spend about 15 minutes. Formally and legally, I am not entitled to interrupt the consideration of the bill under the Rules. So we have to wait for the results of the vote. I can only do it on one condition if you allow me to go to the next bill, and then we'll make two votes after it, if you don't deny that we're just going to do it. No objections? May I? Yes, you do. You don't want to work, then we stand, wait for the card to come. Do we want to talk? No problem. We write down, colleagues, five minutes of voting. Ruslan Knazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u64	Dear colleagues, I think this is a disgraceful phenomenon when the cards have already been lost in the session hall and it's no wonder that if this practice is to spread, the Supreme Council will not be able to vote in any way, then all questions will have to be decided by hand. But given the exceptionality of this situation, it might be wise to meet the deputy and simply count his voice in favor of the decision to be taken. That would be correct and understandable. Let us enter into the position of the person who has come and, sadly, has not shown her credit card in her workplace. Or he could just hand over the card and continue his work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u65	Valérie Konovaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u66	Please give the floor to the People's Deputy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u67	Vasil Kiselov. Vassil Alexiyovich wants us out of the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u68	Dear Mr. Head, you have spoken on a number of occasions in this room about how you will comply with the regulations of the laws and the Constitution of Ukraine. According to the Constitution of Ukraine, the MP votes in person. I have in my hand data on the presence of MPs in the Supreme Council, 18 members of the coalition in the Hall are missing, and I can count you. That's it! That's it! [[B in m in s a l in]] Belowsova, Fedorchuk, Malych, Schmelova.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u69	Deputy Fedorchuk, come on up. Previous MP, come on up.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u70	It's your data! It's your data! [[B in m in s a l in]] Bogdan. Bogdan, are you in the hall? [[B in m in s a l in]] Bondarenko, are you in the hall? Bondarev, is he in the hall? [[B in m in s a l in]] Where is he? There isn't! Bondarev, is he in the hall?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u71	Mikola Kravchenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u72	Please pass the word Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u73	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues! Respectable voters! Obviously, the coalition is not in a position to exercise its powers, has insufficient votes and tries to translate all responsibility into the Supreme Council. That's a first. Secondly, we are witnessing the horror within the coalition and especially the elections in the city of Kiev, so the strongest confirmation, that the coalition will disgrace us today, the people of Ukraine, because it openly declares who pays whom they pay, what bribes they pay, so let's say how they try to conquer the city of Kiev in order to continue fighting for power. I therefore believe that the question of voting on the readmission is the strongest confirmation of the surrender of national interests. The Communist faction confirms that.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u74	Yuri Prokopchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u75	Dear colleagues, Yuri Prokopchuk, Timoshenko Street. You know, when you look at things like this: first you lose cards, then you start with an audit of who is, who isn't. I'd like to call in a colleague from the opposition. Let us work more productively, not making the audit available or not available. And, you know, we don't need seniors in Parliament. And if Kiselov wills, MP, we will vote for him by his title as flag. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u76	Mikhailo Orota.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u77	Dear Arsenia Petrovich, fellows of honor! Three such remarks. We have considered this issue in practice, and we have not had a positive outcome. If we wait now for the card to be revoked, we will set a precedent when, before each vote, they can draw cards and provoke us. So let's think about one more thing. There can be no vote in the first reading of the ratification documents. So we can't change the ratification agreement. This is the first time. And let's either go back to that vote, or consider the next question, not set up a political show. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u78	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u79	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. Dear National Deputies! I'm talking to the people who just blew up the hall. On March 16, 2007, your government signed this agreement, yours! Your coalition! Who are you laughing at?Oh, my God! You're making fun of yourself, fellows! That's the first one. And now, just so you know, this government that he brought in was May 13th, and right now we're looking at this government with you. But the government, the government of the region, the communists, the socialists -- this government signed. That's when it all worked out for you. And now you want to do worse to make Ukraine's image worse in the world. It won't happen! You won't make it, ladies and gentlemen! You don't have to, it's not on your conscience, do you understand? So let's calm down, let's vote and you vote because it's your government. I call on your former prime minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u80	Basil Kiselov, the replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u81	Ladies and gentlemen, I will not be answering the questions of my colleague. I'm informing you: first of all, my title is a military-deserved lieutenant colonel today, not a senior, not a flag boy, once. Second, I quote you. There are absolutely no specifics in the room today: Upstairs, Kamchatny, Trinduk, Spodarenko, Omelchenko, Kurilo, none of them will get up, none of them are gone. So you have no right to vote, they're not in the room.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u82	Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. A brief comment from Lieutenant Yatsenuk on two things. The first is about personal voting. I appealed to the Regulatory Committee and to the National Deputies of Ukraine with the request of the Head of the Supreme Council to amend the Provisional Rules, which would not allow the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to sign acts that were not personally accepted by the National Deputies. It's been six months, and for some reason, no one's filed the act. If you don't want to submit this act, I can assure you that from September 1st, when we come to the session, there will be a completely different voting system -- with the finger, that is, with the personal identification of the deputy. You don't want to take the act, there will be a technical decision. I signed the proper order as Head of the Supreme Council, and then all the problems will be removed. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, pay attention! I'll bet on the vote. Attention! – on the return to the voting procedure for Bill 0040 – draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Kingdom of Denmark on the readmission of persons. Attention, colleagues, voting. [[11:26:19]] For 227 Please show by factions. We now vote on the adoption as a basis and as a whole of the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Kingdom of Denmark on the readmission of persons. Bill 0040. Please vote. [[11:26:57]] For 227 Decision taken. As for the procedure for reviewing the ratification law -- there was a colleague of the Orphan of the Note -- as is the law, any law provides for both first and second readings. There's no specifics here. So I put the committee's proposal to the vote. 1468. I'm announcing a bill to amend some of Ukraine's laws on radioactive waste management. Vladimir Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u83	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! Ukraine's draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on radioactive waste management has been developed to implement article 4 of the Ukrainian Act on the Treatment of Radioactive Wastes and Article 52 of the Ukrainian Law on the Use of Nuclear Energy and Radiation Security. These laws stipulate that funding for the treatment of radioactive wastes after they have moved into state ownership is made at the expense of the radioactive waste management fund. The bill proposed for consideration sets out the principle of forming a fund by amending the Ukrainian Environmental Protection Act. Meanwhile, in Ukraine, the environmental pollution assembly is being managed for waste disposal, but the designated congregation is not in charge of creating and deploying radioactive wastes, since the scope of the Ukrainian Waste Act does not extend to radioactive waste. The project implements one fundamental principle that is applied in international practice in waste management in general and radioactive waste in particular. It's a principle: the polluter pays. So those institutions, organizations and businesses that generate radioactive waste in the operation of radioactive technologies are paying for further treatment of radioactive waste. You know that radioactive waste still exists, and for the time being, in Ukraine, they're financed by the State Budget and by taxpayers, that is, each of us is paying for the further treatment of radioactive waste. The same bill provides and provides the necessary legislative guidelines to extend the tax cycle to those who pollute, or form, waste. This is entirely in line with the basic principles of the conceptual reform of the tax system. The proposed bill establishes only the principle of fund-building, and a specific mechanism and rules of assembly will be established once drafts of relevant legislation on the establishment of the rules of the congregation for environmental pollution and for the assembly to be brought together. He received a positive conclusion from the Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council, which was considered on the profiling committee and supported. Please also support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u84	Thank you. Let's sign up for the question. Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u85	I have a question, as it were, of a general nature or conceptual nature, because it is a government law and it concerns the Environmental Protection Act. You may know that the Ukrainian national deputies, especially those from the ecologically polluted regions, have tried for years to amend and supplement this basic law in part of the distribution of funds from the congregation for environmental pollution. The system that exists in the state today is abnormal and unfair because the regions where these environmentally harmful enterprises are located, including those that operate both waste and radioactive, are unable to allocate funds to the need for environmental protection because the funds go to Kiev. From Kiev they're sort of distributed, redistributed, cashed, and we don't even have the ability to do environmentalally dirty businesses, old metallurgical equipment to install the necessary cleaners. Like a domain.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u86	Let me finish. Does your minute pass? Okay. Please give me one more minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u87	And we can't get the money to somehow improve the environmental situation. Did you know that the health situation in Zaporozhye, Nicopoli, Marganza, Bloody Rose today is catastrophic? The number of cancers among children, I'm not talking about adults, 1,000 children in Ukraine are above the European norm, not even Guinea Bissau. So we would, I'd like to get an answer from you, as from an official. How government, oh this new government is now going to be, whether you support, or will you support such legislative initiatives to. Please, we're creating a fund, so we're creating a fund. In order to allocate the funds that industrial giants pay for pollution of the environment to the maximum amount left there, in places. By the way, this is an order from the Zaporez City Council deputies who asked me to ask the officials: Is it possible to make any changes to existing legislation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u88	Thank you for asking. I want to say three things about that. First. So it happened that this bill was supported by both the previous government and approved by that government. So this is actually the consolidated position of the last two governments. The other one. Your question is fair about the distribution of contributions, because in this case decentralization is not envisaged. It's radioactive waste, it's specialized enterprises. But this standard can be clarified on second reading. I don't see much of a problem here, but the discussion on this subject on the committee has been, but it's been put off. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u89	Alla Alexandrovska.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u90	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Vladimir Ivanovich, I understand, is now a tax so-called environmental tax on this environment. i.e. that enterprises had previously paid for pollution, the same category of payments would also be paid for the storage of radioactive waste. Do I understand that correctly? That is to say, it was previously the idea that a single fund was being created and that the money was being paid specifically from the disposal of radioactive wastes, and now the funds from the disposal of radioactive waste, i.e., the tax for this, would also be paid to the same funds as for protection. For pollution. Answer this question: Will this really be the case?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u91	The thing is. Thank you for the clarifying question. So this is where the principle is realized: whoever creates the waste, creates the foundation, so that we can then bury this waste at the expense of this fund. Because at the moment we're all paying you, the waste still exists, and we're all paying for it, we're building objects and stuff. So the bill provides that it will simply expand, in fact, the base of these payers of the congregation, and the polluters. Well, for example, nuclear power plants that make up radioactive waste, like an example that was never paid for any further treatment of them, now this congregation is going to be gathering from them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u92	Sergey Gordienka, will you perform? Oh, no? Sergei Gordienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u93	Dear Vladimir Ivanovich, please tell us how many polluted objects we have, roughly or precisely in the quantity of the expression, and what amounts are being collected for the year? And will this affect the growth of tariffs? Including, in enterprises like nuclear power plants, when counted, will the tariff grow?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u94	Thank you for asking. I want to say that today in Ukraine, about 5,000 companies use radiation technologies. Besides, it's medicine, industry and all. In addition, there are a number of nuclear power plants, nuclear power plants, four of them in Ukraine today, plus the Chernobyl nuclear power plant, plus a number of enterprises. So, of course, it's a very relevant question. As for today’s situation, this congregation is not being paid, I have already reported it. And we actually finance these expenditures from the budget, and discreetly, we give money -- we finance it, we don't give it -- we don't finance it, we don't finance it. It's quite a continuous process. If a fund is formed, it will allow them to approach more purposefully those enterprises that produce less waste. And that, of course, will give us its stimulating character. With regard to other issues that are being raised. Yes, it could be an extra burden.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u95	Thank you. Please sit down. Skoubenko Volodymyr Petrovich, on the rostrum, please head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Use and Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, distinguished members of the government, are invited! For your consideration, there is a bill amending some Ukrainian laws on the treatment of radioactive wastes introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. As already noted by the reporter, the drafting and adoption of the law are based on the provisions of the United Convention on the Safety of Spent Fuel Management and on the Safety of Radioactive Waste Management. Despite the fact that article 52 of the Ukrainian Law of 8 February 1995 on the use of nuclear energy and radiation security states that financing for radioactive waste management should be carried out by the Radioactive Waste Management Fund, such a fund has not yet been created. [[Next – Fund]] At this time in Ukraine, the environmental pollution congregation is responsible for the production and disposal of waste. However, the designated congregation is not in charge of creating and deploying radioactive wastes, since the scope of the Ukrainian Waste Act does not extend to radioactive waste. The proposed bill envisions the establishment of a Radioactive Waste Management Fund under the National Budget of Ukraine. It identifies the sources of its formation and allocation of funds from the fund to implement the state-wide targeted environmental waste management program that we adopted with you yesterday on our first reading. The bill changes Ukraine's Environmental Protection Act to part of the fact that the environmental pollution congregation also manages the creation and temporary storage of radioactive waste. Amendments to the Ukrainian Act on the Treatment of Radioactive Wastes create the Radioactive Waste Management Fund. The fund is set up by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. There's a positive conclusion from the Chief Research Administration. The Committee supports the bill on amending certain Ukrainian laws on the management of radioactive wastes and proposes to be adopted on the basis of further work by the Committee. I would like to point out that this is exactly the bill that we didn't get yesterday when we approved a general programme on radioactive waste management. So I propose today that I vote in the first reading, and in the first reading, to work out the comments that were made in the course of the discussion. Thank you for your support, and I remind you that 14 deputies voted for him yesterday. Therefore, it is logical to vote for him today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u97	Comrades, do you have a question for our colleague? No questions asked. Vladimir Petrovich, please sit down. Let's register from factions and from the national MPs to the speech and move on to the voting procedure. Mikola Haritonovich Shershun. Please. Out of the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u98	Mikola Shershun, “Block Lithuania”. Dear fellow MPs, I would like to go back a little bit to history and say that in due course article 52 of the Ukrainian Law of 8 February 1995 on the use of nuclear energy and radiation safety was determined that financing for radioactive waste management should be carried out by the Radioactive Waste Management Fund. But today, unfortunately, I have to say that such a fund has not been created, and so far in Ukraine, the environmental pollution congregation is managing for waste generation and disposal, but the designated congregation is not managing for the formation and disposal of radioactive waste. Since the Waste Act does not extend to radioactive waste in its spheres. So I would very much ask my colleagues today that we accept it as a basis for further work on the committee today. The comments were, of course, made today. They may not apply to today’s bill, but there are observations that matter and we will certainly consider them when we work on the bill on the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u99	Thank you. Alla Alexandrovska, will you be there? Out of the way, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u100	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Dear colleagues! For eight years, I worked as a member of the Committee on the Fuel and Energy Complex, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security. And here's the problem that sounds in the bill today, I understand. But it seems to me that I am addressing Vladimir Ivanovich Hološa, who does not clearly write down the law and the MPs, is therefore incomprehensible in the end, even if it is proposed. Why? So far, it has been suggested that everything related to the dumping of radioactive waste requires public funding. And in the relevant law, we prescribed in due course that we needed the Radioactive Waste Management Fund. And it stated that funding was being targeted, only the question of how funds were being collected really arose. Now I see that these financial flows in the new draft of this bill are being mixed. Two funds are mixed, including the environmental fund. I want to say that the funds allocated to environmental protection are distributed between different budgets. And this year, we have tried more money from this common fund to send to local budgets, because every time in the Budget Act, we are redistributing these funds. However, the funds to be used for the treatment of radioactive waste should in no way be shared between the budgets. That is, they must be stockpiled and those funds must be monitored by the State and used for public programmes that guarantee safe disposal of radioactive wastes. Now, I think that in the statement you offered today to the Supreme Council, you don't have these things clearly inscribed, you're confusing the notions. Therefore, I think it is better for you to finalize a more serious Act on the Treatment of Radioactive Wastes, to clearly write out how the Radioactive Waste Management Fund is filled, by what means, because there is a danger. First, or the funds collected from environmental damage in general will be channelled to radioactive graves. Or on the contrary, there will be no money at all for radioactive burials and will be a heavy burden, as you say, on manufacturers, that is, nuclear power plants. Today, the cost of electricity, kilowatt/hour produced at the nuclear power plant, is practically the cheapest. We'll travel it. The inevitable increase in tariffs is, in fact, in the concept that you are proposing, that the population will pay for the establishment of these funds and that is completely wrong. The State should fund, among other things. That is why I feel that this law should be returned to finalization and returned to it on first reading. The question needs to be addressed, a new one, as he proposes, I think it would be wrong if we supported it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u101	Ivan Alexander the Hare, from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u102	Dear National Deputies! What is involved in the need to adopt the law? A difficult situation over the years in the area of radioactive waste management. Yesterday we said that in Ukraine there was a build-up of AES, industrial activities, medical and scientific research institutions, accidents at CHAES, millions of tons of radioactive waste. Not all of them are kept in proper conditions despite their dangers to the environment and to human health. So there's a real need for us to finally get in and out of this area. The biggest problem in solving this problem has always been the lack of funding for radioactive waste management. Therefore, there is a real need to create a secure financial source for dealing with radioactive waste. We don't need to invent any special mechanisms. The world has long answered that challenge. The answer is to create a special fund to deal with radioactive waste that is formed by companies using radioactive materials. Costs that come from such enterprises and institutions are used only for direct treatment of radioactive waste. By adopting this law, we demonstrate not only the political will to take on a solution to the very complex environmental problem created by the use of radioactive materials, but we are finally starting to implement management models that come out of the ideas of continuous development. The fact is that the democratic world is moving from an era where human capital, created by man, was a limited development factor to an era in which the natural capital left behind becomes such a deficient factor. The use of radioactive substances ultimately has to do with the negative impact on human nature and health. To neutralize this influence, it takes a lot of money, long-term radioactive waste management programs, and financial resources under them have been generated over the years from the current activities for the purpose of using the funds. Clearly, the bill that we have today provides for targeted use of funds. It's going into the environmental management program that we adopted yesterday. Therefore, responsibility may need to be increased, and we can do so in our second reading, but it must be adopted today in the first reading. That's the first one. The other one. As far as the distribution of these funds is concerned, we're going to talk, national and regional. Absolutely unacceptable proposals, because we're dealing with state-owned enterprises, with a single system, and these costs cannot be dissipated as they are scattered with the other part of the Environmental Protection Fund. So I urge you to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u103	Let me finish. Thank you. Jaroslav Mikhailovich, please Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u104	Dear colleagues, I have signed up for a speech to address the representatives of the Zaporez City Council of all factions and the walled request of the head of the Commission of the Zaporozhye City Council on Environmental Issues by the People of the People for the Garden with a view to drawing attention already to the open injustice that is taking place in Ukraine today on the distribution of funds that the state will receive for environmental pollution. I want to remind you that the problem is seemingly simple, it is necessary to force authority to enforce the law, it is clearly stipulated that 70 percent of the congregation stays in the regions and is used for recovery, including the population, and 30 percent of the budget. Today, with changes to Ukraine’s government budget for 2008, the situation is different, 65 percent remain at the centre and only 35 percent come to the regions. Why am I raising this question, and I asked the deputy minister, and I want to support the distinguished colleague of deputy John the Rabbit of the former minister of the environment, because he knows this problem perfectly. Surely we should vote in favour of this bill in the first reading, because harmful radioactive waste is the future of the Ukrainian nation, it is health. And I want to emphasize and emphasize again, let's remember, please look, especially the people's deputies of Ukraine, from the Kyrovograd region, Zaporzik, Dnipropetrovsk, Donetsk, Lugansk region, look at the Kyiv region -- Chernobyl, look what we have now, we have the extinction of the nation as a result of our polluted environment. So why don't we listen to the local council members, because this is a call from the Zaporozhye City Council deputies, of course, that would be signed by all the MPs of the city councils of the ecologically overcrowded, technologically overcrowded territories. We should heed that thought. And so don't be surprised that we're asking the government to make immediate changes to the 2008 Ukrainian State Budget Act. You remember, here, in this session room, the Minister of Finance of Ukraine agreed on what is needed in the amended State Budget Act to predict, 70 percent to leave payments for pollution in the regions and 30 percent to the center, to the state. In order to be able to demand from those leaders of industries that pollute the environment on site, we can apply those measures that will allow, even though in my native Preservation, to reduce child mortality from ecology and reduce mortality from respiratory diseases. The situation can't go on like this. If we don't adopt this law here, these amendments, people will correct us in places. This bill should be adopted in the first reading. And work.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u105	Zinov Skutak. Zinov's paw. None. Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u106	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I'm talking to government officials. Dear government officials! I would like to ask you to respect the opinion of the Supreme Council, at least, by valid rulings. In particular, in the Supreme Council Resolution on the adoption in the first reading of the draft Ukrainian State Budget Act 2008 and amending certain legislative acts, it was directed that when preparing the draft amendments to the 2008 State Budget increase to 70 per cent of the local budget. Thus, this decree conflicts with what is now being proposed. One. The other one. Look, please, starting with the name of the bill that needs to be amended. The name says: “To amend certain laws on the treatment of radioactive waste”. And what we're talking about is that we're making changes to the environment, we're introducing this law, and we're introducing it into the second law. So let's make sure it's adequate. I ask you, Minist, you're there, somehow help the MCS with the name of the legislative acts, too, because it also depends very much on the name. I'm convinced and I'm paying attention in this case to the ministry and the government, and I'm going to put everything in the comparative tables that's being submitted. You let this happen by one bill yesterday, it's not fixed, of course, and in this project. So this is already going to be a system. I'm just taking a look at the system. That's not good. Of course, we're doing the analysis ourselves, but you have to isolate it, so it's technical. Dear friends, I note that yesterday I was paying attention to the adoption of the program, the National Environmental Target Program for the Treatment of Radioactive Wastes, that this law should be adopted in the first reading, but it needs to be clearly determined from the date on which this law became effective. I think it needs to be adopted and implemented from the moment of publication, and because of the budgetary law, I understand what my colleague shows about money, so budget legislation says when we make changes to the budget here. And I'm pointing out that we're just abusing city councils, village councils, district councils, because now the ratio of what was in the law is changing, we're reducing it. It's not better for the development of areas, it's not better. So only in the first reading, and these numbers have to be left to it, they were better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u107	Alexander Slobodan, out of the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u108	Please hand over the Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u109	Ivan Alexandrovich Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u110	Ladies and gentlemen, I would not have gone back to this rostrum if I had not heard a few speeches where language was not the subject of this bill. It's not about the environmental protection fund that's formed for pollution there -- emissions and so on -- and it's not only being used at the national level, it's also being used at the regional level. Today we are talking about the formation of a special fund to deal with radioactive waste. And yesterday we adopted a radioactive waste management program, yesterday we discussed the situation very carefully in this area, and yesterday we classified it as very difficult, because so many radioactive wastes are not properly isolated from the natural environment and pose a great danger to both the environment and human health. And today it's just one thing to start creating a fund to deal with radioactive waste. And here it seems to me that in the second reading we should really increase the purpose of using this fund because we know the habit of the Ministry of Finance, we know the habit of our Cabinet of Ministers of any one who always wants all these congregations to accumulate in the fund, then we use this fund not by destination at all for what, and then we distribute with our hands that go big, and environmental problems are not solved. And most importantly, what I want to draw your attention to. Let's finally figure out that we're living in a different world today than we were living in, like, 10 or 15 years ago. Then we considered the natural factor as not a limiting factor. At the time, the price of natural resources was very low, essentially zero. And then the cost of producing the very use of natural resources was put at low cost. Now the limiting factor is natural. Today, the earth is scarce, the earth is scarce, and today the 21st century will be a century of food and a century of clean water. And Ukraine today should take advantage of such opportunities. We finally have to introduce a new ideology that says that if we have a limiting factor in the natural environment, we have to invest in this very limited resource. It's the logic of economic behaviour of any person, or it's 50 years ago, or it's 100 years ago. It's that limited resource that inhibits society's development that it invests money, and it's that resource that has to be used as cheaply as possible. So by adopting this bill, we're opening up, I would say, the way to this new thinking, the thinking based on the ideas of sustainable development. Vote in the first reading, and let us work it out properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u111	The reporter, the co-reporter, doesn't want to? Please give your word to both the reporter and the co-reporter. You'll be out of town? Will you be from the rostrum? Please, the reporter, from the scene and the co-reporter, from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u112	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues, two lines for Alla Alexandrovna. Article four of the bill states: “The cost of the fund is used only to carry out the actions envisaged by the National Environmental Action Programme on Radioactive Waste”. It's for that blending line, so to speak, funds. The second is that, as far as we have legislation, the obligation of the State is to dispose of radioactive waste regardless of where it was formed. So this fund is being built centrally, and it doesn't predict the distribution into local and state resources so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u113	Thank you. Please, Vladimir Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u114	Dear colleagues, in order to be perfectly clear in the adoption of this bill, I will say just a few, two such aspects. Today we have all those who produce, produce anything in Ukraine, pay the Waste Management Fund. Not only one specific group of enterprises pays: those that work with radioactive waste, those that produce these radioactive wastes. At the same time, in 1995, we set this problem apart and said that we would make such a fund. And now, from 1995 to 10 years, we haven't created that background. We today, even enterprises that produce, there, tabloids or packages of some kind, it pays for environmental pollution, and businesses that use both nuclear fuel and radioisotopes today, so much of the other substances that lead to pollution, not at the level of the polyethylene package, but at the level of those substances that have been half-lived for decades and centuries. So if we don't take this law with you today on first reading, if we don't start building this fund, I'll tell you that we're still going to protect our Ukraine. We're not going to protect the economy, we're going to protect the people. That is why we need to adopt this law on first reading today. With regard to the distribution of 60 per cent to 70 per cent, we are all adjusted on second reading. But today we have to take this step, and when we do it, then we will achieve some results. Therefore, I ask today, as we voted in favour of the programme yesterday, also to vote in favour of the establishment of this fund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, 12:01. I took my right up to 15 minutes to continue the sessions until the results of the vote were completed, so that under the transcript there was that legitimate result of the vote. Colleagues, I am voting for adoption on the basis of Bill No. 1468, the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the treatment of radioactive waste. Comrades, attention, so on a base, first reading. Attention, colleagues! Vote! [[12:02:17]] For 400. Decision taken. I'm calling it a break. At 12:32, we meet again in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u116	We begin the consideration of Bill 1424, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian State Secret Act. Another Ivanovna Jemelyanova, please on the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u117	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! You have before you a draft Act amending the State Secret Act. Its development was prompted by the need to carry out a valid edition of the State Secret Act in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine in part of granting permission and access to State secrets to members of the government, as well as to the heads of other central executive bodies. The current edition of part 4 of article 22 of the Law on State Secret provides that permission to state secret is granted to the head of the public authority, as well as to the head of the local self-government or enterprise body, the institution, the organization, by order or by order of the official who assigned him to office. In view of the fact that under the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council has been appointed to serve as members of the government, and to the powers of the Cabinet of Ministers to serve as other heads of the central executive branch, there is therefore a specific official who would be able to admit the designated category of persons to a state secret, taking into account that the decision to appoint them to office is taken by the College of the Supreme Council or the Cabinet of Ministers. In this context, it is proposed to amend two articles – articles 22 and 27 of the State Secret Act and, in particular, to provide that the heads of the central executive authorities, who are not members of the government, are granted access to State secrets by the Cabinet of Ministers. As far as government members are concerned, the admission to state secrecy is offered by analogy, as has been settled today in relation to the Prime Minister, the President, in relation to the Head of the Supreme Council, the Attorney General and the Security Service, in connection with the appointment of the respective posts, is automatically granted permission to the State Secret. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to support this bill and to support it on both the basis and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u118	Please, question-answer us. You don't? Let's see. Yes. Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u119	Thank you. Another Ivanovna, I have a short question. The point is that the broadcast is going to Ukraine, and people are listening, and it may seem that today's government officials who have come to power have been deprived of their rights because they have been opposed to touching the state secret. Maybe they're out there, maybe they're in trouble, maybe they're in tongues, maybe they're out there somewhere, maybe they're out of interest. I don't think we have these government officials, they're all normal, everyone on the field, all orange as one, and they all swore on the Bible. Would you please tell me what will make this change for the Ukrainian State? Of course, if they are two short ones, they can also be voted on as a whole. What does it do? What happened, in fact, what was the reason for these changes?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u120	Thank you for asking. The reason for these changes is that a valid law should be brought into conformity with the Constitution of Ukraine, in connection with the amendments made to the 2004 Act. When the appointment of members of the government changed, this is no longer a matter of the President’s authority, but is already the mandate of the Supreme Council. And also in view of the fact that the heads of other central executive bodies are now appointed the Cabinet of Ministers. Both the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers are collegiate bodies, making decisions collectively. Today, the current edition of the Law on State Secret says that for all categories of heads of state authorities, without exception, the admission to state secrecy is granted to an official who has appointed these persons to positions. Given that an official does not exist today, because it is no longer the competence of the President, but the competence of the Supreme Council or the Cabinet, so it is proposed to make appropriate changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u121	Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u122	In other words, we, our faction, will support this bill. I think it's about the normative nature of the proposals and it would be right and proper to vote both in the first and in general. But I would like to ask you whether the Ministry of Justice and the government is initiating more serious warnings about the State Secret Act, because in the 21st century we have three degrees of secrecy, you know, secretly, completely secretively, particularly important. And sometimes, as recently as last year, I found that the salaries of the customs officers were a secret document to pay. The structure of the units, where the Secretary of the President's office was recently a secret document. Maybe we should think about the principle of reviewing this system of classified documents and maximizing it not for members of the government, but for Ukrainian society?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u123	Thank you for asking. Indeed, the government is now working, and the Ministry of Justice is also working on these issues. And you know, recently, the secrecy graph was removed from a series of documents, including those documents that were accepted by the Cabinet of Ministers. And society will now be able to get to know them, as they will be published in appropriate official publications. And I would like to say that, first of all, it's not as much about changes to the law as it is about the procedure in which the secret griff is given in one way or another. Because the law is not an instruction. All questions cannot be settled here, and what documents should be provided with the corresponding graph, but for which they should not be given. You just have to do the law now in force, not cover up the issue of salary or any allowance when we had it, you've mentioned it in customs now, and when we've had secretions, for example, presidential decrees for the establishment of allowances for the judiciary and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u124	Mikola Kravchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u125	Cowchenko, the Communist faction. Inna Ivanovna, well, first question. Tell us, though, what is the true secret of the State to this day? That's the first one. Today, any non-governmental representation, today, the Ambassador of the United States of America knows everything, literally perfectly, what we do not know. Today any representative, any foreign firm knows everything: where they're stored, how much rocket fuel we have left, and so on. So answer me that question. There was a law, and there it is, you're making changes. Please tell me, did one of the government officials bequeath that during his visits, during his contact with foreigners, he betrayed the secret of the state?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u126	Thank you for asking. This is already a question of the proper application of the Criminal Code. The criminal code contains an article that provides responsibility for the disclosure of information that contains a public secret. The criminal procedure determines the corresponding subordination of the identified category of cases to the relevant law enforcement authorities, this is referred to as the competence of the Security Service. And this is not about the scope of the State Secret Act, but it is about investigating specific criminal cases and it is about dealing with these criminal cases with the judiciary. As for the state secret, the State Secret Act clearly defines what documents refer to the state secret and, on the basis of the criteria, they are given different flues of secrecy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u127	Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u128	Thank you. Dear Inna Ivanovna! You know, on the background of someone who is sometimes becoming ministers in Ukraine, and given that there are often, often, dense political people, not professional people, and very little in the work of their revenge, I don't think that's the technological issue anymore. There's actually different degrees of access to state secrets, right? According to this bill, the people who are party performers, and the interests of the party are not always aligned with the interests of the whole state, and they are political persons, they report to their parties, in front of their leadership. And they become just like the President, like the Head of the Supreme Council, like the Prime Minister in the scope of access to state secrets. Don't you think there should be some doubt as to the relevance of this status to ministers who have exclusive political colour? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u129	Thank you for asking. This is not to say that the bill will somehow expand or reduce access to state secrets for the heads of central executives who are members of the government, or ministers. The language is that the bill proposes to change the approach to the procedure for admitting to state secrecy, and the volume of it will not change. And we're talking about these people, when they're given the consent of the Supreme Council to appoint them as ministers, of course, that if the Supreme Council doesn't give them that consent, if the Supreme Council trusts them, if they can lead the ministries, then, as a result, the apiori has to draw behind them, and the admission to the full amount of information related to the activity of this minister in his office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u130	Thank you. Another Ivanovna, one question. If the Cabinet of Ministers has been instructed to admit to the State's secret, which form is given: the first, the second, the third. that is, is immediately given special importance, or what mechanism will be applied?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u131	Thank you, Arsenia Petrovich. The Cabinet of Ministers' orders will apply, not to members of the government, but to the heads of other central executive bodies, and it will depend on what position this person is in, if it is the first person, or manager, such as the State Committee. But at the same time, Kabin has the authority to appoint also, we know both at the level of deputy ministers, and at the level of deputy state committees, and this is going to spread to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u132	Thank you. Please sit down, Inna Ivanovna. Anatoly Stepanovich, please, Grecenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u133	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues! This document was considered in our committee and was unanimously supported, the committee proposes to accept it in the first reading, and if there is the agreement of the national deputies, I would like to put it to the vote as a whole. Two moments I would like to take into account the questions that have been raised. First. Indeed, when the President was appointed to office before 2004, he granted permission to admit to a state secret. Since the Constitution has changed this order after the changes have been made, the government is perfectly right to introduce the draft law in order to allow the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers to be allowed to enter the State Secret. The second point is the volume and depth of the tolerance. This depends on other factors, positions, and categories of documents. As an example, I can give you an example. As Secretary of Defense, there is a document called “Strategic Plan for the Deployment of the Armed Forces”. This document was seen only by the Chief of Genstab, the Minister of Defence, the Prime Minister, and the President. Other ministers who have the same form of admission, other officials at the Ministry of Defence, the General Staff, who have the same first form of admission, have not seen it because it is defined by other documents and there is reliable cooperation with the Ukrainian Security Service, which controls it in a permanent manner including through counter-intelligence authorities. I ask you to vote in the first reading and if there are no additions to the national MPs, put to the vote in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u134	Comrades, the question to Anatolia Stepanovich is recorded. Mikola Kravchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u135	Thank you. Cowchenko, the Communist faction. Please tell me whether it is possible that the admission of the State secret of the security services will be used as political persecution in the future or without authorization. So you understand that there is a precedent in Ukraine today. They've left the official to admit to a state secret, and he has to leave his post automatically. Do you believe that the BSS can use the rules of this law for political purposes?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u136	Thank you for asking. I'll give you the honest answer: Unfortunately, it does. Because I've seen the same trend as those present in this room, the politicization of our law enforcement agencies. But in this case, there's a fuse, an SBU can file, report to the Prime Minister, the First Vice Prime Minister on the government that someone who's been granted permission by the government's decisions should be deprived of such a right. But then, just as it was given, just as collegiately in a government with a hearing and a representative of the service, and the person concerned, his explanation would be equally collegiate. And I think in this situation it's already going to be made public, and that's to ensure that the security services don't use that kind of subterranean to make these decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u137	Peter Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u138	Please pass the word to Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u139	Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u140	Thank you, Peter Stepanovich. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Anatoly Stepanovich, I'm developing a particular example of my colleague Kravchenk's thesis that, in fact, how they can use it, I don't really remember if it's the Cabinet of Ministers, most likely only the U.S.A. made decisions. But, you know, a well-known case with our former colleague and now Mayor Harkow Dobkin. The Security Service of the Kharkiv mayor, the Security Service, more loyally, head, yes, and the mayor, has decided to deprive him of his right to state secrecy on only one basis that he has left the city of the Russian Federation without consent to the leadership. And on this basis, he started to get shut down by the HlV specialty and so on and so forth. So that's not to say that it was actually using purely political motives.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u141	Thank you for asking. Dear Adam Ivanovich, let's put off, as they say, the flies separately, the chops separately. This bill in that play that you're making doesn't have anything to do with what you're putting in it. But what you put on the agenda is of utmost importance. And I think we need to use other forms of parliamentary work here to not, in particular, be able to report, last Wednesday we listened to the head of the Security Service on these issues, today will be the outgoing meeting of the External Intelligence Service committee on similar issues, which are related to the possibilities of inability to listen illegally and so on. So this is where the committee works, but this has nothing to do with this document that I would like to support.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u142	Sergey Kilincarov. Spiridon Pavlovich, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u143	Anatoly Stepanovich, I have a question for you. Well, you know, we don't usually live there for a long time, up to 7-9 months. Therefore, the entire army of officials has access to this secret information. I'm interested in the next one. After the resignation, let's say, members of the Cabinet of Ministers, are there any restrictions on these people in the right to change their place of residence or change of nationality, or how, let's say, people carrying this secret information, let's say, or how do we protect the interests of our State after they leave?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u144	Thank you for asking. I understand that we are already in need of a broader discussion here. But it's in terms of interest, absolutely right. I think that in the process of democratization and its associated, perhaps the lowering of the demands has gone further than we have understood and accepted since Soviet times, there are actually no such restrictions. I, the secretary of defense, certainly as the bearer of the mystery, travel without restriction as do others present in this room, and the minister of defense, and other structures. Obviously, this is about personal responsibility, since I was warned under the law. I knew I was secret, that I wasn't secret. And I know, by law, as I have to answer in case I betray the secrets of my state to another state. So here's the scope of the work of the law enforcement agencies and plus the internal ethic of the human being, which is eventually elected by Parliament as the minister. Let us discuss more seriously the positions, the candidatures of those who take up positions of responsibility and become the bearers of classified information. There are no other influences here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u145	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u146	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Anatoly Stepanovich, I will vote in favour of this bill and agree with you that it should be accepted in two readings, nothing to do with it. But I would like to go to this law so that the committee will consider how much Ukraine will keep the secrets of another state, the USSR? That's an extraordinary question. Why? Recently, it was the Day of Remembrance of the Victims of Political Repression. There's only 27,000 bulls in one bull. Of those who were shot there, they've already been rehabilitated. Who shot them? The names of those people, they're secret, including the IMF Security Service, because they were in different departments, and so on. Oh, right. And these people still receive pensions for special merit before Ukraine! I would ask you, Anatoly Stepanovich, perhaps the memory of those who have been wronged in this way calls for changes in this law to be made in order for the truth to prevail. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u147	Thank you for asking. I would like to emphasize two points again. First, in the government under the leadership of the Deputy Prime Minister and according to all the ministries where the secret information is kept, there is a constant report program, and I can make a mistake every six months, or every quarter about reviewing those documents that have different crypts of secrecy for the purpose of lowering it. And this work, I can tell you, on the line of the Ministry of Defense, there were thousands of documents that, gradually, as time went on, were translated into a lower level of secrecy. The same is true of other structures. The only other aspect I would like to stress is that I would not want us to demean the role of the state and the people who did the task in the interests of the state. And it's very sad when we notice in the media, including in the Internet, when documents are thrown that had a corresponding graph over the appropriate period, and it's used to charm a particular person, including the national MPs. That's not what I'm taking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u148	Please sit down, Anatoly Stepanovich, thank you. Colleagues, we are recorded by factions and national deputies. Two performances: from the faction "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense", Yuri Karmazin and MP Mikola Kravchenko. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich. Will you be of the place, Yuri Anatolyovich? From the place of Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u149	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill submitted by the government is absolutely right. After the changes to the Constitution of Ukraine that were accepted. In fact, he regulates the things that needed to be changed in connection with the Constitution in connection with the transition of certain powers to the Ukrainian government by the President of Ukraine. So obviously for this reason and for the reason that it was developed by the coalition government, our faction will support this bill with certainty. I would like to point out that in view of the fact that only article 22 has been amended and article 27, and in one sentence and in the other part of the sentence, so this bill is not difficult to understand, it does not affect the budget, the income part of the budget, it can be considered both in the first and in the second reading directly. In addition, our faction is concerned that the State is still protecting the secrets of another totally state. I understand the feelings of many who would not like to hear the names of those who have been a member of this Ukrainian people, and in principle, you understand how justice needs this. I'll tell you what, all the post-totalitarian countries have been through this. They went through it and cleaned up. And thank God that they have passed. So obviously there will be no other way, we have to do it, we have to keep these lists of people who have destroyed the patriots of Ukraine, especially the ones where rehabilitation is today the decisions of the courts. And it's obvious that secrecy in another state's documents is a little different. So, with this in mind, I'm going to encourage the government to speak, and I'm going to encourage the members of the Defence Committee, national security to make changes to this legislation, and the Security Service, in particular, to make public and initiate questions about the presence of the agency, the agencies -- I stress, those organizations that worked or worked against Ukraine's independence, so that we don't have to search for a witch, but a civilized process of learning our own history in the name of becoming a stronger state than we are today, so that we can get rid of that colonial influence. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u150	Mikola Kravchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u151	Cowchenko, the Communist faction. Of course, this law is necessary. And I think the Communist faction would be in favour of strengthening this law for a number of reasons. Well, first of all, why doesn't my colleague, who just spoke to me, resent the next moment? How do you know that the graduates of special educational establishments abroad, and the people sitting in this room, too, are granted access to State secrets? Why is it not stipulated in the law? The fact that a person has completed, if not a special unit, a questionable educational establishment abroad has no right to have access to State secrecy. And that doesn't make any of the oranges worry, it doesn't make them think that it's the same security of the country. Second. I am surprised why the speaker in front said that the NCWDs were not lit up. So far, not all the bandits are still lit. To date, no lists of those who have contributed, provoked under the auspices of the NCCD have been revealed, and let's also list them. And let's see if they have the right to have access to state secrets. Next question. And let's see, the environment of those top public officials, are they going to date according to the parameters of public information providers? These are women close to us, and so on, so far we don't have here in this room, well, let's say, the status of some of the people's deputies that the press is writing about today. Therefore, when it comes to the observance of public discipline, the return, of the mystery, it is necessary to write the law in such a way that there is no such passage. We will support this on first reading, but if the second reading does not take this into account, it is understandable that we will not vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u152	Dear colleagues, the time for the speech is over. Is there a wish for a reporter and a coconspirator to make a statement? Another Ivanovna? You don't? Please turn on Anatoly Stepanovich Gritsenko's microphone from the spot.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u153	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, distinguished colleagues, I would like to draw attention to this, but this is not exactly what this bill is about. I propose that this document be accepted, because both the communists and all the other speakers understand that the President has lost the authority to appoint members of the government, and also after the adoption of this bill, he must lose the authority to grant permission. And the government will be allowed, and all the other questions that have been asked are already the subject of another bill, and we need to work on it. Let's work together. I ask for his support today and in the first reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u154	Dear colleagues, there is a further proposal, a warning was made about improving legislation on state secrecy, but, in fact, they are not subject to regulation of the bill tabled by the Government of Ukraine. In order to bring about a series of issues that have been raised, including giving, and depriving the relevant admission to state secrecy, it would be logical to support Anatolia Stepanovich and ask him to improve this legislation along with the government and to introduce, in a new phase, legislation that needs to be adopted. So I think let's divide this question into two parts. First, under the transcript, we'll make a request, and more specifically, an assignment to Anatoly Stepanovich for the next session, because we're not physically going to make it, to prepare a suitable package that improves the procedure for granting and disenfranchising admission to state secrets and sequences. control on this issue, and the bill is voted on as a basis and as a whole. So we're going to vote on the law, and there's going to be an appropriate decision, and there's going to be an appropriate decision for the committee to make. And whoever works for Anatoly Stepanovich's committee will be able to work actively on these bills. I think it makes sense, so. Stenogram, there's an assignment. That's why I support the committee's position, I put the vote on the ground and the bill as a whole number. [[B in m in s a l in]] What's the basis, Petr Nikolaevich? [[B in m in s a l in]] Oh, my God! [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm betting on the vote on Bill 1424. Peter Mikolaiovich, everything is a measure. You can go through this measure. I put to the vote Bill 1424 – draft Act amending the Ukrainian State Secret Act as a basis, and then we will vote in general. [[13:06:06]] For 411 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I'm putting Bill 1424 to the vote for adoption as a whole. Please vote. [[13:06:31]] For 377 In doing so, under the transcript, the commission of the committee to take into account those proposals that were made, including the faction of Communists, when preparing appropriate bills to regulate the issue of admission and disenfranchise the state secret. Sure. For reasons of vote, please write down for five minutes. Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u155	Dear colleagues, I believe that the session hall did the right thing and wisely when it supported this bill as a foundation and as a whole. The fact that other issues relating to construction, the development of civil society in Ukraine were raised during the discussion of this bill shows that the issue of state secrets, the issue of the construction of the state in general, is now extremely acute. We heard about it in the session room. I want to point out that the indifference to this bill, which seems to be technical at first, has changed time, changed circumstances and need to harmonize legislation. But it actually says that among the political elite of Ukrainian society there is a great interest in the issues, the deep issues that we have today, and the opportunity to observe. So I think the Party of Regions did the right thing and wisely when they supported this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u156	Thank you. Sas Sergey Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u157	Thank you. Dear Arsenia Petrovich! Vassil Alexiyovich, I want to address the Head of the Supreme Council. Dear Arsenia Petrovich, I would like to draw your attention to the following situation. That one minute of plenary time in the Supreme Council costs over 20,000 dollars. With regard to statements on the grounds of the vote, this is reflected in only two articles: 31 articles, where the envisaged short-circuit procedure for those factions that have not been able to express their views, and 34 when the faction should declare in favour of, or abstain from, the vote. So we think it's just a deliberate delay in considering other important bills. I would like to ask you to pay attention in the future and avoid such violations of the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u158	Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u159	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I would also like to remind you that in the six months of blocking the work of the Supreme Council just by your faction, you have thrown tens of millions into the air of the money that our taxpayers, the people, have spent. Secondly, what is relevant to this draft law. I would like all of us to understand today the faction of communists, which I represent, exactly as I insist, today must adopt laws and prohibit the President of Ukraine from being advisers to foreign citizens who are relevant to all practical secrets today. Counsellors in the Cabinet of Ministers sit with each minister and they all know that. Next. Advisers to various entities, the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and much more. We must therefore understand today that the improvement of the Ukrainian legislative framework should be aimed at protecting national interests and the issue of national security. I am no longer saying that today, virtually everyone has direct access to scientific research and what he does.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u160	Let's keep going, because one more minute, Matthew Valentine passed on Simone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u161	Dear colleagues, I was only last week at the Luce of the Artem factory. This is a unique achievement of the Soviet period, including that of Ukrainian scientists, which we can still realize today. And sorry, top officials dictated by these so-called advisers, whose national secrets are discussed, are forced by the destruction of those enterprises, in fact, to sell and transfer national interests. In fact, in Ukraine, the policy of treason has been implemented over the past 16 years. Therefore, the faction of Communists did not accidentally insist that today we should adopt a law that would stand firm in the protection of our national interests and security. And I believe that we were right and have every reason to demand that this law be applied to the second reading, to which we would each make proposals to increase the accountability of officials for what they create. Most importantly, today we will never keep the secrecy regime because billionaires sit in power that benefits from the use of temporary power.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u162	Let me finish. Everything? Mikola Kravchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u163	Cowchenko, the Communist faction. I just want to say the following to my distinguished colleague Sergei Vladimirovich. You know, Sergey Vladimirovich, we have to teach our speaker, whom we have chosen. The point is, only by way of explanations of vote can we tell him that we can't ignore the Supreme Council Hall, we can't insert our lines, we can't smile, we can't show our fingers from the rostrum. You can't laugh at hearing when the expression of thought is completely different and so forth.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u164	Is that your expression of thought? Got it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u165	These are elements of a human culture and more of a speaker. You understand that this is the face of our Parliament. That is, therefore, what I wanted to say in my explanations of vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u166	I can talk this time. But what about the factions? You want the factions? Please, who wants to speak out of factions, although the Rules are not provided. Okay, let's do factions, write down factions who want to talk with motive. Please, Vasil Georgievich Hara.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u167	Dear Arsenius Petrovich! I would like to say a little bit on another subject, if we take the agenda that we actually approved with you for a week and I look forward to it, you will see almost 85 per cent of our committee's bills, social bills, living minimums, wages and so on. We are taking up today's agenda, we are considering only the fourth issue, and all other very important issues, and I particularly wish to stress the relative minimum of living. If we don't change it as an objective indicator to raise it, we're going to have a low and minimum wage, and a minimum pension, so all wages, all benefits in the 2008 budget, if we are, and at all, whenever we consider and change. And already the 2009 parameters. Therefore, I would like us to take a more dynamic view of the issue and not waste our time on empty conversations. Yet they put social issues first and considered them. Because once again, on the weekly schedule they are ahead, and in fact they are in such a place that they will not be considered today.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u168	Thank you. Yuri Sergiyovich Serbin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u169	Please pass the word to Ivan Grigorovitch Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u170	Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u171	Dear colleagues, dear Arsenia Petrovich! There are adults sitting in the hall, and see how we're doing today. There were 45 minutes left to work, three questions that required that the most, a maximum of half an hour, be recorded on these three questions for an hour and a half, along with the parliamentary statements, have been over for almost three and a half hours. Why are we sitting here, 450 people, delaying our own work? One reason, perhaps, is that there are still serious bills that concern everyone, concern the MP’s benefits, concern the imperative mandate, so - called, and so forth. There is a delay in time under your favorite pretexts. The Timoshenko Block claims that this is not a constructive job, we demand constructive work! In the short term, we've already been "repeated" on this issue, as far as we can, let's take up these very important issues, and we're still looking at the social ones that are in the order of the day.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u172	Samolikka Katherina Semenovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u173	Please pass on the word of Cibenko to Petra Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u174	Peter Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u175	Thank you, Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, I've been hearing a lot of calls to work with my coalition colleagues, but such a little thing to myself, not one of them, has even given up that moment of time, has taken full advantage of it, calling everyone to work. That's the first one. Secondly, once again, I would like to remind you that the mentality of our coalition colleagues has changed radically today. Last year, they were more interested in shielding, traveling in different regions, and somehow their time was not peaked. As I go back to the problem that has become a stumbling block today, I would like to point out once again that there is really no part of the work of the Supreme Council. It seems that technical law has been passed, but it turns out that this kind of technical law is a very important problem that needs to be solved.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u176	Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u177	Dear colleagues, here once again came the very right words, and my distinguished colleague from the coalition, on the basis of what needs to be done constructively. Dear colleague, from a legally existing Supreme Council coalition, there are now 83 deputies in the session room. 83! Physically. So let's stop the noise or the voices or something. If a person wants to work constructively, he needs to come to the session room and when he votes with a two - fat vote of twenty - six, he has to vote to have 226 people vote, not 83, and someone else is being disciplined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u178	Olga Gerasimük Kirilenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u179	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. Dear colleagues, honourable voters, on the second day Parliament is working peacefully and in keeping with the whole procedure, and we all see some colleagues from the opposition mostly getting uncomfortable with it. And I'm particularly funny when the party representatives who put their hand to the destruction of tens of millions of compatriots of all nations in the 20th century are now making remarks to the speaker who said he was smiling in the hall. I think we need to take care of the apology in front of all the peoples of the former country and the present one, and work in the session room for our country, not for the foreign one. In this regard, it was noted that some counselors were foreign. Let's give an MMS commission to see how the check is done, for example, after the visit of Mayor Luzkova, who called for virtually territorial strife in the country and where there is evidence that there is a business involved. This also sows mistrust in the MP’s corps.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u180	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The first is the 34th Rules, in fact, which requires the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to give the floor as much as possible to the Ukrainian National Deputies. Well, that's the structure of Parliament, so Parliament is meeting so that the people's MP can speak. The regulation is in many ways imperfect, but I try to keep it, and so when I raise my hand, I usually give my hand to the national MP from the reference to the Law on the Status of the National MP of Ukraine and to the corresponding rule of the Provisional Rules. That's why I'm asking. Well, notice these things, because today we won't give one word to another, tomorrow we won't give the others a word. Yesterday, Yuri Sergiyovich refused to do so, and he was offended, so he had to apologize. So this is the first one. The other one. Well, the Parliament has started to work. But, you know, this job doesn't reduce the level of inhibition. Well, we could be more tolerant and more calm with each other, without these lessons, without these, you know, lectures, let's work more calmly. If someone doesn't, well, that's the MP's personal position. But the minimum level of minimal consideration should exist, or we should destroy what's almost barely formed here. I don't want to cross over on the staff right now, but it's already, I'm saying, well, everything has a limit, you don't have to cross the line, colleagues. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. 1455 is a draft law amending article 18 of the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Justice. [[on the subjective jurisdiction of administrative matters to local general courts as administrative courts]] I invite Shustik Helen Yuriovna, Ukrainian national deputy, to the rostrum. I'll tell you what, I've already announced this question, and we'll be back by 2224.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u181	Dear Arsenia Petrovich! Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! Your opinion is proposed by the draft Act amending article 18 of the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Judiciality on the subjective jurisdiction of administrative matters to the local general courts as administrative. We propose to amend part of article 18 of the Code of Administrative Justice of Ukraine and to establish that local general courts, as administrative courts, consider all disputes of natural persons with competent powers in the field of assignment, calculation, recalculation, execution, granting, receiving pension payments to non-working citizens, payments of general government social insurance and other social benefits, social services, assistance, protection, benefits, benefits, supplies, rations or financial compensation for them, and so on. Such disputes are now being dealt with by district administrative courts, which are usually located in district centres. Retired, disabled, and sick people have to travel hundreds of miles to court to protect their rights. I will note that at present, the district administrative courts are only 11 of the 27 necessary. And for example, last year, every district administrative court received about four thousand administrative lawsuits in just six months, proposing changes to the law. It is in order to ensure that the least protected categories of citizens have unhindered access to justice that we propose to make these changes in legislation. If you vote positively, millions of citizens will be eternally grateful. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u182	Please sign up for a question-answer. Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u183	Helen Yuriovna, I really just wanted to ask a beautiful woman who is so rarely in this parliamentary rostrum. And the question is. Ukraine’s fourth vocation remembers how difficult it was in this session hall to create an administrative judiciary. Now we've got some kind of stop. Administrative courts aren't built around here. Administrative courts have been reloaded. Administrative courts can't handle it. That's the problem. If we are now amending article 18 of the Code of Administrative Justice regarding subjective jurisdiction, are you suggesting that we do so forever or will we cancel? Then why did you create these administrative courts, it's here in Kiev, and they're all so big. And they all feel fine here in Kiev, they all have great things, except that we have a person on the spot who complains about retirement payments coming to us, to the Ukrainian national deputies. They have nowhere to stand.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u184	Let me finish. Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u185	Thank you, Jaroslav Mikhailovich. You asked a very interesting and urgent question. The fact is, the legislator may have actually rushed into the 18th article to bring such matters before the district courts. So that's how we propose to transfer forever to the districts to facilitate access to justice for our citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u186	Colleagues, no more questions? None. Please, Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin will report.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u187	Dear National Deputies, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Justice considered at its meeting on February 13, introduced by the national deputies Shustik and Sweden, a bill amending article 18 of the Code of Administrative Justice. The bill proposes to complement the list of cases that are subject to the local courts as administrative courts in matters relating to the administrative disputes of natural persons by persons having authority over the purpose, calculation, recalculation, execution, award, receipt of pension payments, social benefits to disabled citizens, payments of general government social insurance and other social benefits, social services, assistance, protection, benefits, goods, rations or financial compensation for them. The need to adopt the provisions of the bill is based on the fact that, in accordance with part one of the second article of the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Justice, the administrative judiciary is responsible for the protection of the rights and interests of natural persons, the rights and interests of legal persons in the field of public and legal relations in respect of violations by public authorities, local authorities, their officials and officials, other entities in carrying out their administrative functions on the basis of legislation, including the exercise of delegated powers. The current legislation of Ukraine provides for the establishment of 27 district courts, which are extended to an appropriate area. Today, in Ukraine, 7 out of 27 district courts were formed at a time when 666 local general courts were established and functioning in Ukraine, which could treat cases as administrative courts in cases determined by law. I want to tell you that there are certain areas, like Dnipropetrovska, where they can't yet find a normal place for the administrative court to work. Healthy areas where 6,000 cases are already in place. And these are also colossal problems. But this. This project is aimed at providing accessible and fair justice for the least socially disadvantaged rural citizens – pensioners, elderly people, disabled people, the sick - and optimizing the distribution of the competence of the various judicial systems for administrative review was exactly what this bill was proposed. The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of the bill as a basis and as a law in general, taking into account the committee’s next proposals. Proposed by the bill to amend new article 18, part 1, paragraph 3, of the Code of Administrative Justice, replace the words “things of property, rations or financial compensation” with the words “and other disputes relating to social protection”. The other one. Taking into account the proposed amendments to article 18, part 1, of the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Justice, it is necessary to make appropriate changes to part 2 of this article. Part 2 of Article 18 of the Code of Administrative Justice after the words “except for their decisions, actions or omissions in matters of administrative misconduct” shall be supplemented by the words “and also by cases which are brought before local general courts as administrative courts”. I should tell you that the Supreme Court of Ukraine and the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine hold their letters of acceptance of these changes as a law, that is, in general. It's very important. The Ministry of Justice of Ukraine supports the adoption of this law with one right: in the last line, delete the words “in the order established by the Code of Administrative Judiciality of Ukraine” to exclude those words. And you can agree with that. So in view of this, I ask you, honourable national MPs, this absolutely social law, because it draws people closer to justice, to vote today, to support both in the first and second readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u188	Thank you. I'm asking you to sign up for a question-answer. Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u189	Thank you. Dear Yuri Anatoliyovich, you're one of those people's deputies who, on the party list, don't break ties with your district, and you have a big mail, you have a huge mail, because I know people who told me they complained to you about pension payments, social benefits, what you said, spiders and the like. Look, they have a specific connection to the area, for a person complains from a specific area. How do you think, as a lawyer, as a lawyer, maybe we'd be better off, well, we've already started, we've gone through this process of administrative courts, maybe it'd be better to leave it the way it was, and in the local courts, the district courts, there, the territorial courts to create the administrative courts? Well, we'll never do that! I think we have a court system, not much corrupt, but another hypertrophy: for 10 Ukrainians, one judge and 10 jurors. We no longer know how to get out of this position.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u190	I sincerely thank you for asking. In fact, you know that the committee has a bill on the status of judges, a bill on the judiciary, two bills that were adopted by the previous Supreme Council and were proposed to be merged into one. They're on the committee now, I'll let you know. That's the first one. Where exactly are the different questions, including the radical ones that you're talking about right now. In fact, now that there's a specialization, when the higher courts are created, it's likely to be followed by the continuation of this specialization. I just want to give you an example of how in the vast United States, in the Supreme Court of these states, who replaces them, serves as both the Constitutional Court and 9 judges. For comparison, we have 18 in the Constitutional Court and in the state, about 100 in the Supreme Court of Ukraine. Just so you can imagine. So that's not what we're doing if we're looking at it. But as for the possibility of creation, we can't do it right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u191	Sergei Gordienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u192	Sergei Gordienko, Communist Party of Ukraine Your Honor, this is a reference to social laws. That's what you said, I didn't make them up. In fact, you know that today, you're going to get some just decision in court for a simple Ukrainian citizen, for a simple laborer, it's practically impossible. I can call it many and many examples. Give an example, as you said, of accessible and fair justice in Ukraine. And let's spread this example as an experience throughout the territory of our nation.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u193	Thank you, colleague, for asking. I actually said, this is my own opinion, not the committee, that this law really refers to social ones, because it brings people closer. At what? What are we talking about? Calculation of the calculation, the execution, the granting, the receiving of pension payments, or the social benefits that are not working, the disabled, that's who they're talking about. I mean, you and I probably understand what we're talking about here. Unfortunately, there are not many of them as far as those exemplary courts are concerned. You understand that well, and the guilty system, which is to blame for each and every one of us with you, is how we choose judges. The last time we listened to the Cabinet of Ministers Act and here we announced a break, the 131st judge we called, we had 131 people standing here, we turned back without voting for them. And so the cost goes back and forth on the tickets, on everything else, the lack of justice, the re-increasing of complaints to us and to them. I mean, the system's booked up, including because of us. Let's do what we do.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u194	Mikola Kravchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u195	Thank you. Commie faction, Cravchenko. Yuri Anatolevich, well, it is known that there is a war within the judicial system itself: some advocate that there be administrative courts, others oppose them. We've already done this, and the administrative courts are already working today. I am confident that the faction will support this bill on first reading. But he's also going to give some kind of impression on the kind of people we want to help, because they already know they need to take the documents there, and now we're going to have to get them out of there and not go to another court. But what is it? Don't you think anyone is interested in the judicial system being blocked by this war?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u196	Thank you so much for asking me this question. Thus, for you to know, we wrote in the Transitional Regulations: “After this law has become effective, the District Administrative Courts have concluded the administrative proceedings provided for in part three of the first part of article 18 of the Code of Administration, on which the conduct which has not been dealt with is open.” And those lawsuits were filed before the District Courts. Administrations, in the disputes provided for in this paragraph and for which they are not openly introduced, are transferred there. So there's not going to be any fiber, there's not going to be any thrust: those that are open have to be looked at where they were. This is what we predict in the Transitional Situations to make it better for the people. And with regard to the existence or non-existence of administrative justice: it already exists, it positively recommends itself, including the Supreme Administrative Court, are positive decisions. But there are problems, very serious. You know, somehow we don't count state funds. That is why I am addressing judges and the Supreme Court, including. We're also transferring to Kiev, and we need to put a million dollars into the apartment right now, even one and a half million. So there are many, very many problems that we have in the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u197	Yuri Prokopchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u198	Yuri Prokopchuk, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko”, Ravenshina. Dear colleagues, once again, I wanted to call on what we've been talking about. We're talking about problems. This law has already been passed on both committees and everywhere. He does not call anyone into question. Why are we delaying the process? Today in Kiev, food is twice as expensive as in the district centers of others. And we're not talking about that. The Kyiv authorities don't do anything, and we're taking time. There is a proposal to withdraw the discussion and go to a vote, to a particular one. We still have a lot of social laws. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u199	Peter Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u200	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleague, first of all, I would like to confirm the social significance of this document. For a long time in charge of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons, I want to confirm that about one in three appeals is related to the inability of a citizen to exercise his right to defend himself in court. But that was not always the case. At some point in time, the district court had the right to examine these documents. Today they are deprived of that right. I want to ask you as the person who works closely with the judicial branch of power. Tell me, which body did initiate those changes in the transfer to the District Courts, because I understand that this was done or, let's say, at the direct offer of a judicial branch of power, or because of certain hints. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u201	Thank you. Do you want to find the one responsible for creating the system that didn't work? There are many of these guilty ones. They are also in the Supreme Court, and they are in this room. Why? Because they proposed, and we voted. I'll tell you that the bill on the system, I stood here screaming, from the hospital came, John Stepanovich Plush screaming, "Don't put to the vote." It was repositioned when it was not possible, and it was put to the vote. And that's why today we're turning around and boiling. Because no one had considered it, the rules had been broken, and everyone was satisfied. This was just when the Millionaire was to make, remember, a national deputy. That's exactly the kind of pressure it was. Then they did damage. But let's just forget about it right now and we'll take it as normal, we'll start adopting normal laws, including social ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u202	Valerius Beales.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u203	Thank you, Arsenia Petrovich. In principle, I heard everything I wanted to hear. And on a large scale, I was only interested in one thing: the attitude of the honorable Yuri Anatoliovich towards the specialization of our courts. But I heard the answer, so thank you. There is an offer to go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u204	Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u205	Who have desires, factions, national MPs? If you have one, write it down. If we don't, we'll vote. People's deputies now. Of course, it would be better if we looked at the bill more quickly. Well. Peter Cibenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u206	Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters, I would like to look at this problem that we are discussing today, which we are trying to resolve legislatively, from the position of the least protected part of our society, namely, the pensioner, the veteran, the person most often suffering from it. Indeed, today is a paradoxical situation when we speak, we try to draw power closer to man. And this situation, which is now in the consideration of these issues, the most important social issues only by the District Courts, shows that the judicial branch of power, like others, is sadly far from human beings today and deprives a person of the possibility of resolving this issue as quickly, as effectively and without undue delay as they say, of the train. I didn't happen to ask questions today about who was actually initiating this kind of decision to refer this issue to the district courts alone. I realize there's no blame today, but maybe there's no need for that, we really need to fix the situation today. You know, I want to emphasize and confirm once again that, let's say last year in 2007, the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, and for the number of appeals, this was the second committee among the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, over 5,000 appeals were made. And once again, I want to confirm that, at the very least, every third appeal involved the inability to defend its rights in the judiciary. But I want to think about another subject. You know, it's whether or not it's a misunderstanding, or whether it's a targeted action to take away this least protected part of our citizens from the possibility of defending their rights in court. Obviously you can think about it, make different conclusions, and I don't think it's a random action. Because, sadly, life proves that the least protected person today is really far away from power. And so on behalf of the faction, I want to confirm that today is really this bill in time. This issue really needs to be addressed, and this document needs to be voted on at least in the first reading. I hear my colleagues' comments and I see that there is a willingness to make some changes, suggestions for improving this document. I think it's appropriate if we look at this document in the first reading and without delay prepare it for second reading and accept it in the final edition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u207	Mikhailo Chechetov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u208	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear Arseny Petrovich! Dear National Deputies! Today, 666 local general courts with administrative courts are operating in the system of the state. It is to these courts that the project proposes to transfer all administrative disputes of natural persons with powers of appointment, number, calculation, execution, award, receipt of pension payments, social benefits to disabled citizens, payments of general government social insurance and other social benefits, social services, assistance, protection, benefits, property, rations, or financial compensation in place of them, which, according to the principle of territorial jurisdiction, are to be decided at the place of residence of the applicant. On the one hand, it is also possible to dismantle the district administrative courts, where there are some 30,000 suitable cases. But on the other hand, local courts are still overloaded with cases involving 300 cases per year for one judge. In fact, in Soviet times, the standard was 50 cases per judge to implement the principle of objective consideration. The faction of the Party of the Regions supports this bill, but as a member of the Jaroslav Suhi faction rightly said, the fundamental adoption of this bill does not solve the problem in the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u209	Yuri Bogdanovich Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u210	Highly worthy Mr. Head, dear fellows! I would like to support the concern expressed in this rostrum that people today are very often confronted with the injustice of power over the collection and payment of pensions. In fact, there are so many of these problems, and I can understand that the administrative courts are overloaded with so many cases. However, I know that it is not only essential to solve this problem, perhaps not only by bringing more cases to other courts than by resolving issues in the activities of bodies that include and list pensions to citizens. Perhaps this number of cases indicates that in this field of executive power, everything is not in order and that more attention should be given and more order should be given. As to whether this would be better for citizens, if this type of case, I would like to emphasise, by law, that everyone, without exception in the first instance, would be transferred from the administrative district courts to the local courts. I would like to remind those who may not remember that the introduction of administrative justice in Ukraine was a decisive step in protecting the rights of a citizen in his opposition to an official, with authority on the ground. And in vain, the system of administrative courts is separated from the courts of general jurisdiction, which today deals mainly with civil and criminal matters only in order to break the link that has been established over many years of Soviet tradition between the local authorities, and before that, with parties and courts, so that the judges, where one side is in power, are more impartial and less responsive to the arguments of authority, and more heeded to the people and their needs. So when it's passed, as the bill suggests, something is going to win, it's going to get closer to the court, but the quality of the case is going to get worse, and it's going to increase the need for people to appeal, and that's already going to another area in most cases. So it seems to me that such a simple way of dealing with this issue can hardly be allowed. I would like to propose to vote on this bill in the first reading and see how we can improve the division of the categories of cases that should be left in the district courts and which should be passed on to the locals, and especially to look at transitional positions as to how to complete the consideration of those cases on which implementation is open today. Hence, these questions need to be addressed in preparation for the second reading. That is why I would like to propose this bill as a whole today.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u211	Mikola Kravchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u212	Thank you. Cowchenko, the Communist faction. Today's consideration of the issue has shown us that the importance of this instruction in order in the judiciary, the importance of how people will think of us as a whole, is too high. You will see, it would seem that we are today considering a very narrow range of issues, part of the cases to refer to a court of other jurisdiction, but it affects the global problem that, unfortunately, exists in the judiciary, particularly in the education system of these courts. You know what kind of war you and I have here with regard to the administration of the courts, now the other side is using these courts not to work by not providing the premises, namely, by not providing the money or by allocating the money later on, and so on. And so within the judicial system itself, chaos is created, and ultimately our citizen, a man who walks around like a bribe between these courts, does not know, first, he will find it, then he will surrender, and then he will know that there is money to pay. Therefore, when the Communists went to the elections, we talked about that the judiciary required serious reform, that we should go back, and we said, that the judges should be elected in some way and that it would have a significant impact, and I think it would have an impact on less corruption being in the judicial system, that would have an opportunity to ask judges about the quality of their work and so on. Therefore, if the law is under review today, the Communists will vote in favour of the bill. But that we must seriously consider with you how to reform the judiciary so that it does not go away from the President or other bodies, which unfortunately today have the telephone right to influence the courts. We will vote in favour of the bill that is proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u213	Thank you. Reporter, co-reporter? Don't you insist? Thank God. Dear colleagues, and yes, we have the next decision. Listen carefully to what I have been offered by the committee. The committee suggests that we take this as a whole. But at the time of adoption, the entire committee proposes that two amendments be made to the relevant articles of the bill. So let's do it this way. Now I'm going to put this bill on the ground. And then we're going to decide whether we're voting on this bill as a whole or whether we're voting on it, whether we're voting on it or not. Because it's a complicated dilemma. It may be that the committee is not a subject of the legislative initiative. The subject is a national MP. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the adoption of the bill to amend article 18 of the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Justice. [[Registration number 1455]] Colleagues, we're voting for acceptance as a basis. [[13:52:56]] For 413 Colleagues, decision taken. Now we have two options. First. I'll read it to you carefully. So that's what the committee's offering. The committee proposes the proposed draft legislation for the new paragraph 3 of part one of article 18. [[I ask you to take the bill into your hands so we can understand what I'm voting for.]] After, to be precise, the words: “things, rations or financial compensation instead”, should be replaced by the words: “and other disputes relating to social protection”. Position. Yuri Bogdanovich Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u214	Dear colleagues" Klukkowski, "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense". You know, if you could say that everything that the committee has decided is accepted, you don't need a session, then the committee would adopt the law. This is the first time I've heard of it, I've had some, uh, misunderstandings. I don't understand, for example, how it's going to be determined that all the issues of social affairs are. And if the government's inaction were to be accused, would it be social issues or not social issues? There will be many evaluation categories that will allow people to run around instead of making it easier to solve their problems. So I think that these things need to be seriously discussed and not just on one committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u215	Mikhailo Chechetov. Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u216	Thank you, Arsenius Petrovich. Dear colleagues, dear Arsenia Petrovich! Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin had some interesting suggestions, let him re-substantiate them, and we may, in fact, vote and in general take these proposals into account, let him make an argument and, I think, we will support it as a whole. Yuri Anatoliyovich, please repeat your suggestions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u217	Comrades, why? Because the more we put bills on second reading, we're going to be 100 papers, it's not going to change the underlying goals. Now, as we've already taken it as a basis, there are some adjustments, let's talk quickly, vote it out in general, and send it out for signature. Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk and then Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u218	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, you and I are passing laws that then determine the fate of the people, especially the law that directly and primarily relates to the problems of the individual. If we hurry with you now, John, Sidorov, or Petrov will say, and we will not hesitate to adopt these laws, then tomorrow these laws will be effective for millions of people. I am absolutely in solidarity with my colleague Klukkowski: what is “other social issues”? On social issues, our unbiased most democratic judges can question any question, because anything in society, it can be said that it is a social issue. The same will apply now to the wise suggestions of colleague Karmazin. He's talking to us in a voice right now. It's all right, the court system and so we're below the plentuse, we're still here.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u219	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u220	Even now, we want to add our legislative acts to society's headache. That's why I'm proposing. On the one hand, I support what it would be worth to have fewer drafts for second reading, but it's not just a bill, it's a bill that affects people's fate. Let's not rush. If the committee so insistently asks, let it work and in the next plenary week, we will be able to adopt this bill in a balanced manner.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u221	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich. From the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u222	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I am addressing those who have tried and made their remarks. You're absolutely right. You'd be in one case. It is a matter of fatigue that this bill was introduced to Parliament in February. And I want to tell you that on the committee of 24 people's deputies from completely different factions, and when we saw what was written here. listed “things belonging to goods, rations, monetary compensation”, then written “portionaires, cords, boots”. To avoid doing that, we generalized and said. Mr. Klukkowski, please. Okay? You don't have to. We wrote it after we wrote it all: social services, aid, social benefits. Retirement benefits were recorded for disabled citizens. We wrote “the other social issues”. All of it. This generalized the supplement so as not to reach the cords and doornails. And we did the actual second reading on the committee, because different people suggested it. So we just wanted to help the people who are addressing each and every one of you more quickly. I'm asking you to accept and accept this as the second reading that we've already done, because it's done with the help of both the Supreme Court, and the Supreme Administrative, and the Ministry of Justice, and the Supreme Council Law Institute, and the Committee on Budget Affairs, and everyone else. [[Here's his letter.]] So we've taken it all into account, and we've summed it up here in a few words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u223	Yuri Anatolyevich, can I ask you these letters?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u224	Can I help you?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u225	And the ones you showed, the Supreme Court. Come on, fellows, let's redefine. Two options: either we leave the results of the vote in the first reading, or we make the appropriate amendments to the vote. If it is, indeed, as he says, well, there is little doubt that Yuri Anatoliyevich is telling a lie in part of what has really been handled both with the Supreme Court and with the Ministry of Justice, and with the Institute of Legislation, that is, the agreed texts, well, it's unlikely that the committee will bring something new, if it has already been considered. Why don't we put it to a vote? Like you, comrades, say so. Alexander Volodymyrovich Lavrinovich, as he says, will do. Turn on Lavrinovich's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u226	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues! I can say that the issues that concern millions of people really need to be addressed thoughtfully. I fully share the approach that we need to make a decision that will help us to deal with cases more expeditiously and more qualitatively. And I support what we're going to do with the law, but I'm against making a mistake if we leave some sort of assessment concept that can be used against people in court. So my suggestion is that we adopt this law first on Tuesday when we start voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u227	A wise offer. Dear colleagues, let's meet, as always, opposition.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u228	But there are no judgements here, Arseny Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-21-m0.u229	We accepted the first reading with you. I declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed.
