ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-17-m0.u1	Good morning to all, the country's distinguished deputies. Please register. [[10:01:14]] There were 427 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is publicized. Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, we have an extremely complex agenda today. First of all, it's a bunch of social bills. The other one. This needs to be completed by the Cabinet of Ministers Act. Third. This needs to be addressed with regard to minimum living standards for wages. So I'm asking everyone to adjust to work. Let's welcome Kuzmuk Alexander Ivanovich on his birthday. Alexander Ivanovich. And Trinduk Yuri Grigorovich, let's also welcome our birthday. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, where is Yuri Bogdanovich? Isn't Yuri Bogdanovich here for the report? Now we'll find Yuri Bogdanovich. Article 27 of the Rules has already come up, 30 minutes calls for the break of the “Julia Timoshenko Block” and “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. We start with a break, as always.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-17-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, before giving the floor to Mikola Volodymyrovich Tomenka, the Head of the Supreme Council, will consult parliamentarians on how to live. Please, the statement by the two factions was about a break, which is why Mikola Tomenko. Dear colleagues, I am primarily addressing parliamentarians, friends, the left and right parts of the room: don't get involved in any political intrigues, don't get involved in any clean-up, HCHRs and any other absolutely unnecessary thing. Well, if there's any idea that they, since they haven't found a language with the Head of the Supreme Council, because he has problems: first, he knows the Constitution, and secondly, he's implementing the Rules, he's choosing the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, and then he's changing the calendar plan, and until Parliament heads are in Parliament, he's going to make changes to the Constitution, before any history, then I want to warn you that the fate of all travel agents and HCHRs is the same. [[Applause]] Mikola Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-17-m0.u3	Arsenius Petrovich, I want to reassure you. Don't be afraid, BUT will always support you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-17-m0.u4	Thank you, Mikola Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-17-m0.u5	So on behalf of our two factions, I want to make the following statement. I understand that the sweet and expensive word “city power” is for very many officials, but it is not worth the chaos in our cities and, God forbid, human sacrifices. What happened yesterday in Kharkiv cannot help but disturb us, and the Wakhanalia in the Barabasov market must be adequately assessed by the law enforcement authorities. I want to remind you that in its own time in Dnipropetrovsk it started with market breakdowns and then people died there. Therefore, Arsenija Petrovich, we ask you to immediately intervene in the situation in Kharkiv in general and around the Barabasov market and inform the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I read with interest yesterday that one of the leaders of the Harkow City Council said that there was a fire in the market. In fact, in a few minutes the fire started. So I'd like the D.A.'s office to take this into account when they're going to report, and we're going to immediately consider the issue of the early elections in Kharkiv. Also on behalf of the BUT faction, I would like to state the need to address the issue of Kiev, because there is a paradoxical situation, we're in Kiev in a few months, because most of the people here are going to be out of budget. Yes, the Chernobyl team actively took up the work that is now giving prizes to teachers, doctors a year ahead. I have some material from the district leaders that says that if we're 10 million people now, we're out of money. So I would like to remind Kiev's leaders that 80 percent of the Kiev budget is what we pay, both natural and legal, the Chinese pay. Therefore, we do not need to play with our electoral company and endanger the lives of the capital of Ukraine. So our second requirement today is: First, to publish information about the commission of inquiry led by the President, because a paradoxical situation has arisen, journalists are already saying that in these materials of the commission of inquiry, information is so interesting about Leonid Czernovecki's unique experience that it seems that the President's Secretariat has made a decision to keep it secret so that the measures of the non-friendly European capitals are used to us. So I'd like this commission of inquiry to read the materials so that the dignitaries can see what they were investigating and what they found on this commission of inquiry. And we have to decide on two rounds of voting in Kiev so that not 7 percent of the Chinese choose mayors, but the Chinese vote in their capital for the city’s leader. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-17-m0.u6	Dear Mikola Volodymyrovich, if possible, from the point where I can finally find out again and give a clear message to our fellow Parliamentarians that the demands of today are two or one faction. Please turn on Mikola's microphone, Volodymyrovich Tomenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-17-m0.u7	Dear colleagues, we agreed at a coalition council meeting that the position of the two factions is to give a mandate or request the law enforcement authorities to prepare information on what happened yesterday in Kharkiv and to listen to it as soon as possible, and now on behalf of the two factions, we ask questions about the presidential elections in Kharkiv, and on behalf of the BUT faction, I will make an urgent proposal today to consider two rounds of elections in Kiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-17-m0.u8	Dear colleagues, I'm very sorry that we're starting a working day, not with the draft legislation on Ukraine's accession to the World Trade Organization, not with the bills on living minimums and social standards, but with the politicized stuff again. In fact, it is about putting to the vote now Bill 2228 on the elections in Kharkiv. You want out of the procedure? Come on, please. Not yet. Turn on the microphones, log in with the procedure, five minutes. Grandmother, Timoshenko's Yulia Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-17-m0.u9	Grandmother, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. I share the speaker's words that SOT is very important. But what should we expect from Harkov? Until people die and then we'll be dealing with Hark and the market, and these questions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-17-m0.u10	Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-17-m0.u11	Kirilenko Viacheslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-17-m0.u12	Viachelav Kirilenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-17-m0.u13	Viacheslav Kirilenko, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense". Dear colleagues, we have been asking Parliament for a month to consider and vote on the question of harka. Because the successive elections of the Kharkiv city head and the Kharkiv city council must take place. And the commission was reporting, and the MPs were given materials that clearly indicate the abuses that took place in Kharkiv City. And Kharkiv got caught waiting for the city to be upgraded. Yesterday’s events in Kharkiv only add to the fact that the Harks must resolve all the contradictions that have accumulated in Kharkiv and overcome all abuses there. That's why we have to vote now, but then we have to finish the discussion on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. And I invite my colleagues from BET to a consolidated vote on this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-17-m0.u14	Peter Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-17-m0.u15	Please hand over Simone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-17-m0.u16	Peter Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-17-m0.u17	Respectable voters! Simonenko, the Communist faction. I want to draw your attention to the fact that the struggle of the clans for taking over power in Ukraine has moved to the final stage. It is clear that one of the leaders of such policies is in the President's chair, and what his policy stands for is well known to all. But it is this occupation of power that continues to take place in the division of power through ownership. In the city of Kiev, this hundreds of millions of dollars will already be spent on electoral campaigns, it will not only be the capital of Ukraine, because in the capital of Ukraine there will be price and tariffs, it will necessarily affect Ukraine as a whole. All citizens will suffer. In Harikov, yesterday's events show that the price of human life is kopecks. Tomorrow they will not only burn the market – anything in the battle of the clans to take power in the city. Thus, this shows that Ukraine is in real danger of both independence and political sovereignty.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-17-m0.u18	Sulkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-17-m0.u19	I ask the word of Lavrinovich to pass.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-17-m0.u20	Alexander Lavrinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-17-m0.u21	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues! Arseny Petrovich, you said yesterday that you saved the coalition by not putting to the vote the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers. I would like you to act today solely within the framework of the provisional Rules, so that we can complete the discussion of the Cabinet of Ministers by voting effectively with the result that we will have on board and then working on a day-to-day basis. If there is a desire to put 2228, it should be noted that in accordance with the Law on Local Self-Government, we do not today have any judicial decision to give evidence of a violation of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine by the authorities and officials of the local self-government of the city of Kharkiv. If it's a political wish or a greater desire just to stop Parliament's work so that the de jure doesn't have a record.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-17-m0.u22	Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-17-m0.u23	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! I think we need to make some changes to the provisional rules. For many days at 10 a.m., it is not the beginning of a discussion, but it is the beginning of a break. I would like to advise and ask my colleagues: Please hold your meetings starting at six in the morning, starting at five in the morning, and do not interfere with the Supreme Council’s work on legislative acts, on draft laws at ten o’clock, as envisaged. And one more moment. Arsenija Petrovich, I think we should stop the practice when our Parliament, the only legislative body, becomes a hostage of internal and internal corporate divisives. This will be every day: new political things, political regulations, political laws will be introduced, and the laws that have been standing for a month will be rejected. [[Social problems, economic and social]] And there's more. If anything is included in the agenda, it should be considered at the end of the day and that.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-17-m0.u24	He's stoned.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-17-m0.u25	Please pass the word to Lashko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-17-m0.u26	Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-17-m0.u27	Dear Arsenia Petrovich, fellows of honor! I support what Mikola Tomenko said. As the author of the 2228 bill, I insist that we start looking at it. As Ukraine's national deputy, I have the right, just as all the other deputies present in this room, to express their position on the bill from the Supreme Council's rostrum, and no one can forbid it, like it or not. So I'm asking you not to set up a policy on this issue, but let's take a look at it and figure it out. When the Supreme Council supports this bill, most will be the will of Parliament. But minorities have no right to prevent the majority of parliament from voting on bills that are defined and supported by the coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-17-m0.u28	Thank you, Your Honor. Question completed. The issue of early elections is in the order of the Ukrainian Parliament, the mayor of Kharkiv and the Kharkiv City Council. Is it? Yes. Thus, there is no need to vote on this issue. In view of the fact that there are requirements for two factions, we can easily put the matter first. At the same time, as Head of Parliament, I strongly deny the excessive politicization of the Ukrainian Parliament. We could have considered this after lunch if we had passed a number of social and economic bills. But unfortunately, I have to submit to the will of the majority, represented today by the coalition, which, in accordance with the Rules, actually has a decisive right to form the agenda. As to the comments of individual national deputies, I would like to point out once again that the share of the coalition is saved according to the requirements of the Rules. And, Your Honor Alexander Volodymyrovich, I think you know that if you don't consider it, you can't put it to a vote. That's right, in a word. A brief legal aid. Colleagues, I suggest we come to the hearing of the question of the early election of Mayor Kharkiv. The hearings began, comrades. [[B in m in s a l in]] Comrades! [[B in m in s a l in]] A statement was made for the break of two factions -- the faction of the Party of the Regions and the faction of the Communist Party -- and my colleague came to the presidency, so we're calling a recess.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-17-m0.u29	Dear colleagues, I ask you to take your seats. I give the word of Shufrich Nestor Ivanovich for the declaration. Already, two deputies showed up without an election. Please, Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-17-m0.u30	Thank you. Dear Arsenija Petrovich, my fellow Members, I would like to draw the attention of all of us and certainly of the people of Ukraine to the fact that yesterday's meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine ended with a discussion of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. As the chairman, the Head of the Supreme Council, told us, there are still a number of amendments that need to be considered and voted, today we will continue to work on the issue of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. From the information provided by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we have learned that there is no record of this law. This has never been the case in the case of the Supreme Council. I think -- we want Mr. Keykovsky's health -- but still, I don't think there are any substitutes in the Supreme Council. If no one can report this law from the coalition, the Party of Regions is ready to delegate to represent this law to our representative on the relevant committee of profile. So, let's speak honestly to ourselves and to the people of Ukraine, you don't want to consider the Cabinet of Ministers Act of Ukraine, as well as a number of laws that you don't have a single decision on, this also applies to the 1408 benefit law that you've been yelling about, but you can't solve that question. And we want to say the following, we will not let you break the Rules and we will insist that you finish your question on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and then we will see what happens next. Next. It's about Harkov's question. We can already see what happened to Kiev. Although we considered Kiev's issues to be your internal question, because Mr. Czernovecki was a member of the “Our Ukraine” faction and in 2006 he was listed as the Supreme Council from the “Our Ukraine” list, and for eight months he held this mandate in his pocket. We have stressed that such elections in Kiev are a grave violation of the Constitution, because there is no court ruling that would serve as a basis for early elections, but given that this is your internal question, we have not interfered with you. But we are now defending the principles of self-government, the principles that are approved by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. And we're not going to allow the use of the saviour, we're not going to let your economic and social problems get you out of the flanks to light up and provoke constant elections in Ukraine. You're no longer able to announce elections in this country, so you're moving to separate regions. I want to tell you, we will protect the Constitution, there will be no additional election of local authorities without a court decision. And I want to say to you in a clear language: “We will not give up and do not think. ” Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-17-m0.u31	Matvienko is a speaker in the hall. So what do you say, you're defined by a reporter? Comrades, I'm so looking that we want to work as hard as I want to get married the second time. Let's say we work or chase here. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-17-m0.u32	So, colleagues, please report that I'm ready to consider the Kabmen Act, as you define by the report, we'll set up the Kabmin Act. Now, about Kharkiv. I am addressing the faction of the Party of the Regions: “Are you giving the opportunity to start the process of dealing with the issue of Kharkiv?”
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-17-m0.u33	The faction leaders, they went to my office.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-17-m0.u34	The faction leaders have come to an end, and I would rephrase it and say that it's only the beginning of the faction leaders meeting. We went back into the stage of political turbulence, and I would call it that, and in other words, maybe a political farce. But in order to restore the work of Parliament, someone needs to take a step back. The point is that: either remove the requirement for a vote in the city of Kharkiv, but the coalition expressly refuses this requirement, or the opposition to go to the coalition and let the issue be heard, and in accordance with the law and the Constitution vote it. However, the opposition also categorically refuses to do so. Thus, the art of compromise has not yet been achieved, and the next decision is made: faction leaders gather to form a package. A package that will allow both coalitions and opposition to agree on a part of the vote or non-vote on a particular issue of the agenda. In view of this, I propose that we proceed as follows: let the faction leaders go to counsel -- this is paragraph one. The second paragraph, including this situation, has not passed away any political affairs in the parliamentary room, and this is also a positive one. I'm the one who's handing it all over to the CDCs. Paragraph three, concerning tomorrow's agenda meeting. It's 9:30. Today, we're going to finish working with faction leaders by tonight, tomorrow at 9:30 p.m., I have to start again, and more precisely, to finish Parliament, because we have a calendar plan for the next three weeks, which is committee work and the corresponding holidays. I think if tomorrow's memory doesn't come, in the next three weeks, I hope that there will be a chance to start work and do again what we've done with you not once. We have experience getting out of a crisis, so let's get out of this crisis. All I can do is apologize to the judges.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-17-m0.u35	Judge. What's wrong with that?? They're 90, let's take it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-17-m0.u36	Well, how do we take it? Well, how do we take it? [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm asking you again. All of it. [[B in m in s a l in]] Your Honor, everything happens. I'm sorry. That's what we do. I hope you're working just as well as we are. I'm just apologizing on behalf of the entire Parliament to you. But we'll do it next time. Thank you. The meeting of the Supreme Council is closed. The faction leaders are at the consultation. I have another 9:30 tomorrow. At 10 a.m., we're starting a plenary session.
