ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:04:47]] Yes, there were 382 national deputies registered in the session room. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the Ukrainian national deputy Lemza Vladimir Dmitrovic. We welcome our colleague and wish him good health and success. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, let me give you an overview of the plenary work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from 16 to 19 December 2008. Five plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine took place. Fifty issues of the agenda have been considered. Twenty laws were passed, ninety - seven were passed, nine bills were adopted on a basis, four bills were rejected, one bill and one draft decree were withdrawn, and seven bills were passed. As a result of a review of the President of Ukraine's proposals, one law has been passed taking into account the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. Fifty - eight parliamentary inquiries were also sent to the State authorities. Dear colleagues, on December 22, 2008, the Central Election Commission registered the National Deputy of Ukraine, elected on September 30, 2007, in the multi-mandatory national constituency of Kralkov Eyghen Igorvic, who was included in the Communist Party of Ukraine’s electoral list. In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution, Ukraine’s national deputies take an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. To make an oath to the rostrum, the national deputy of Ukraine, Eugene Igorovich Kzarkov, is invited. Please. Please read it. May I have your attention, Your Honor?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u2	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, let us all join in welcoming Eugene Igorovich and wishing us all a joint fruitful work. [[Applause]] Honorable national deputies, in accordance with article 35 of the Rules, are given 30 minutes on Tuesday for statements by authorized factions with proposals, statements, proposals, and reports. Heads of factions, please sign up for the speech. Yes, on board, please, the name of the national MPs who are registered. Oleg Laszko faction “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko”. Ivan Kirilenko faction of BUT, the next will be by Oleg Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u4	Dear Head, colleagues, our constituencies! The end is not easy for 2008’s fate. At the New Year’s table in a week, we praise our wonderful people, who have celebrated her with a record of harvesting, a major achievement in science, in the industry on the Olympic arenas of distant Beijing. And nowhere is the truth children -- we're going to be happy with you politicians, because in a year that's gone by, they've barely drowned the country in over-politicized life, as fashionable as we speak now, took place completely before the potential for a political crisis has come to an end, beyond which they can move everyone. Two or three weeks ago, political leaders of the state, now time and people on the streets, were the main actors. Let us not be naive; the last two factors work against all, and this is a warning to those who are still playing with fire. So what to do. To the profound conviction of our faction, as we have repeatedly stressed, first of all in politics, we need a taboo today to be an infertile political demagogue, enough that we have already turned the entire country into a solid political psoriasis, every channel from night to late at night goes the continuous dog fights of politicians of various calibres, ambitions, political psoriasis and cynical psarism, at least let go of the work and authority of zero. Secondly, to forget for at least six months about any election and, don't worry, don't let it go, the only thing we can do is organize and conduct elections, unfortunately. A miserable country in which there was no peace seems to have been for no year, some elections have ended, others have begun, a reality to which war, a harvest to which to have a family. As long as you can make fun of people from all over the country. Thirdly, we need to decisively throw out of this hall destructively, with incredible efforts the Supreme Council has begun to work, destructively opposed, created by the majority, elected the Head of Parliament -- destructively opposed, adopted laws, saved people's country -- destructively opposed! There's been an absurdity! There is a vote in this hall of law where we save pensioners and miners, even here notoriously against! How long will it take, colleagues? The next thing that obviously and urgently needs to be done is the area of finance and banking. First. Stop the bank’s fraud as far as the investor is concerned. Gentlemen, bankers, don't annoy people, don't look at credit agreements to hurt people, don't be afraid of confiscation. The lost trust in such dragonlike activities will never be restored, is that not understandable? The other one. Do not look for the guilty daughter - in - law in the affair that shocked all Europe last week when the bracelet fell on the world one moment, and in a few days it almost reborn like a phoenix from ashes. The task of our Temporary Special Commission is to find this fabulous phoenix, who has rapidly enriched the nation's misery and immediately return the insolently stolen goods. Third. Everyone screams about saving the banks at the expense of the state, that is, at the expense of the people. You certainly should. But let us look again at the richest people in Ukraine. 70 percent of them are bank owners. First of all, gentlemen, look not at the state execution but at the return of your personal equity from offshore. In other words, if you need an iron fist today, it's in banks and finance. And it is we who need to intervene and keep order if others do not want to. What the faction offers in the economic sphere. First, adopt the real budget and anti-crisis laws. It's absolutely clear that this is not a budget for violent development, it's a budget for real social protection. And as for particular sectors, spheres, enterprises, you don't need speculation. Eight years of economic growth, especially in export-oriented areas, have made their owners fabulously rich. Why didn't any of them think in these years about technological refurbishment, modernization, and new technology? And today, again, the guilty daughter - in - law. Come on, gentlemen, let's go. But they say the crisis is also a way to heal and cleanse. So what you've been missing for almost 10 years, you have to make up for today because of reconstruction and retraining and innovation. Every government or credit card here has to go through the chain, right up to the worker behind the presses, producing the product, not the way it is, on the currency speculation. In short, the better policy for us today, as the classic said, is a specific economy. And believe me, it doesn't take that much. Already in the far 95thest public rally in Kiev, the President of the United States was speaking. The great crowd looked forward to financial assistance, and he spoke three times to the people, saying to our immortal prophet: “Fight and fight.” As further developments have shown, we do not need foreign money; we need to be patriots of the Fatherland. Love for the home earth increases strength, overcomes any difficulties. I hope so. Thank you for your attention, and we hope for a better one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u5	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania” faction. Peter Simonenko will follow him. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u6	Respectable citizens of Ukraine, respected colleagues and representatives of the media! The hysteria in the higher echelons of the Ukrainian politics, which unfolds against the background of total disappointment and disillusionment of most of the common people in those whom, apparently recently mistakenly, the leaders of the nation and the people have forced the "Block of Lithuania" to address you. We believe that the driving force behind the actions of politicians, statesmen must be not insults, mutual mistrust, unfulfilled hopes, and unfulfilled ambitions, but exclusively the interests of the state. Against the backdrop of the whole civilized world’s crisis, the collective effort of everyone and everyone in every normal country, to make Ukraine’s situation worse by its own political folly immorally and unconscionably with regard to its citizens. Because this is a war where there will be no winners, but more than all, the people will lose. What is this absurd situation when everyone is in opposition? The Prime Minister in opposition to the President, the President, along with the Party of Regions in opposition to the Prime Minister, is that 50 percent of the government and 100 percent of the heads of district administration are the people of the President. And the real power in the east and the south is in the Party of Regions, and as much as 80 percent of the country's economy is in the hands of the same team. So who are you all in opposition to? To yourself, or rather to your own people? Who's going to work? You keep blaming each other, keep blaming each other, but please do so on your own time. For four years, the president has not been tired of talking about political corruption. Where has the head of state been for so many years? And who was, an expert, an observer removed from all processes? Moralization and mentoring must be practiced by the clergy, and senior officials must act and act again and finally take responsibility for themselves and bear this responsibility. Why are so many cholers today poured out on the Supreme Council, which finally worked as a legislative body? Only one and a half weeks ago, the Ukrainian Parliament is operating in a normal stable regime. Tell me, please, what's wrong with the Supreme Council working? Why did the president and the Party of Regions agree on this? Why do we now see a triple desire to destroy, destabilize, her work? Well, somebody has to work after all! Trying to shake the government body that took the job is what, a state-owned approach? No, it's not. It's a display of all kinds of personal and corporate complexes. The country has grown weary of destructive and destructive people. Today, more than ever, it should be about those people, the forces that are inherently constructive, which are builders. Give them a chance to work. Our faction of the Block of Lithuania wants and can work. We're ready to do anything. So that the country does not fall, but rises. Let us work together, let us put away savage strife, political jealousy, and primitive malice. Analyzing for a long time the actions of some true opponents, if more precisely, words, because actions are not visible, such as by analyzing the words of true opponents, comes to mention the satire of Saltikov-Shedrin: “Something wanted, not the Constitution, not the nuns with the turd, not the encouragement of someone.” It's literally written today. There's no problem as far as the North with the shit. As far as the Constitution is concerned, it hasn't happened yet. And here's the thing about picking on someone, there's going to be a little bit more rocking of the state boat and political aggression, and there's not going to be anyone left. However, the spiraling of chaos according to the principle of “the worse, the better” is harmful not only to ordinary citizens, but also, according to large estimates, in terms of harmfulness and politics, whatever color flags they hang in their offices. So I'm going back to the words "give me a chance to work." Real, beneficial work for the benefit of the people and our country is enough for all. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u7	Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, Communist faction. Next is Mironenko from the Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u8	Dear colleagues, we have no right with you to hide the real state of things in the state and tell people stories about a good Pacific uncle coming in as some IMF, some NATO, some WTO, reaching out for help, and running through Ukraine's milk rivers with acid banks. We've already seen how IMF money is virtually destroying Ukraine's gold reserve, and we're seeing a U.S. producer being destroyed, high-tech industries being destroyed, the country being filled with import surpluses. We see how, through NATO, Ukraine is being drawn into military conflicts and transformed into a sanitary border with Russia. There is no doubt that neither President Yushchenko nor his immediate surroundings, along with the politically diverse oligaric capital, are able or unwilling to bring Ukraine out of the gap that they have driven her into. They are not going to match their assets and their assets that they have received by “accepting” national ownership and by stealing national resources. Moreover, they are doing all they can to get even more out of the crisis, to live up to the hardships and sufferings of those who are making a living working hard. The entire burden of the President's crisis, the "orange" and the oligarchs -- these political and economic nuvarians -- are cynically translated into the shoulders of a simple person. At the same time, they hide their money in offshors; they don't give people their bank deposits by profiting from financial speculation. Dear voters! Those who have brought the country into crisis will never get it out of this situation, so the Company has offered a whole program aimed at overcoming the crisis. The cornerstone of our antichrist program is that it must be carried out at the expense of those who gave birth to it, that is, at the expense of the oligarchs. The first task of the State is to pay off the debt of wages, to fill the pension fund, and to the Social Insurance Fund. We demand that privatization be stopped immediately and that public and public controls over fiscal enterprises be ensured, that their owners be banned from sending workers on unpaid vacations, and that they be released without justification. The money the oligarchs have spent abroad has only recently been about 20 billion. We have to get them back to work for Ukraine, for our economy, to pay people's wages and pensions. We believe that raising excises and congregations to tobacco and vodka is half. State policy should be pursued on a monopoly in these areas. Profits should go to government execution, not to be placed in the pockets of individual businesses. Today, it is necessary to protect people from bank saviour and to introduce a moratorium on the removal and sale of property in a loan bond. This is especially true of young families and families with children who lost their jobs and were able to pay interest on loans at the right time. We propose, first of all, to oblige banks to review the terms of these loans, including lower interest rates on loans for young families. And if there are underage children, where there's one child, there's a total cancellation of the loan interest, and there's a 20 percent reduction in the loan amount, if two children -- 50 percent, three percent -- get rid of the loan in general. With regard to the support of pensioners, disabled persons, and those in need of permanent medical care, it is necessary to guarantee them the free supply of prescription drugs, to establish strict price control over essential medicines, and to support the domestic pharmaceutical industry. That is why, with the aim of overcoming administrative chaos, we propose that changes be made to the Cabinet of Ministers and that government administrations be subject to all levels of government. We need to create an executive vertical and stop the presidential sabotage in Ukraine, because the President has already done everything to make it impossible for the authorities to solve any problems. But I would like to give you some examples. The Dnipropetrov State Department employs 1,300 people, Zitomirski – more than 800, similar to other areas. The president is capable of doing just that, along with Nazbank, he rapes the bracelet and destroys the savings of millions of our citizens. And one more thing. On December 19th, Washington signed the so-called "Strategic Partnership Paper between the United States and Ukraine". Indeed, according to this document, the plan of action for control by the United States and NATO of all foreign and domestic policies of Ukraine, the financial and industrial sectors and the banking sectors, energy and the CAP, state institutions and authorities, the army and the BSS are in fact approved. This charter includes the so - called U.S. assistance in support of Kiev in opposition to Moscow. So comments Hartya's representative of the United States Department of State. What's not a state crime? This is another confirmation of the need to be permanently removed from the power of Yashchenk, and I appeal to you once again, dear fellows, I must.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u9	Give me 30 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u10	I'm addressing you once again, Your Honor, we need to get the impeachment procedure started immediately, and we need to get Yushchenk out of power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u11	Alexander Lavrinovich has the word from the faction of the Party of the Regions. He will be followed by Boris Tarasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u12	Dear colleagues, today we have begun our plenary week of performances, and we can hear what kind of paphos sounds like in some of us before we work hard and get in the way; others want to find a way to set up, assign someone responsible for their personal position in support of the rule of law. I understand that we now have a stage of rapid deterioration in the situation in the country, and we usually have to make a thorough search for the culprits, because everyone who is present in this room, everyone who is sitting in Gruszewski across the street, and in Banks, they're not involved. Clearly, the task is very difficult, but work is needed. And it includes a guilt-seeking mechanism. And we can watch a big series on this, we've seen that there was already a second opposition Cabinet of Ministers in Ukraine, and he wants to compete with the opposition Cabinet of Ministers, which was formed after the elections, because one of the largest parliamentary factions in the opposition to the Ukrainian government, and he's formed an opposition government that's working to show which positive directions could be implemented if it was possible to influence or approve a decision made by the opposition Cabinet of Ministers. We see how there is an effort to transfer the responsibility of the government to the President, to the government, to the government, to the National Bank, to the National Bank, to the government. So everybody's looking for someone to make an extreme. But let's think about who signed a memorandum with the International Monetary Fund, which is essentially in its own text directed against the national interests of Ukraine. Have you forgotten whose signatures are there? I can remind you that this is the Prime Minister's signature, which today accuses the financial system of implementing this memorandum. I don't want to expect our country's high-ranking politicians to adhere to all the principles of ethics and morality, but I hope that common sense will be present. What we have seen since 2005 is: contempt of rights in Ukraine, disregard of all laws, the Constitution of Ukraine is the main cause of the permanent crisis in which the Ukrainian state has been in the fourth year. Conflict - causing, ongoing home invasions are causing troubles and a general deterioration in the country as a whole. We can see a very vivid confirmation of this today. Today, there will be another series of ways to make decisions that need to be made and that need not be blamed. We will begin our work, one of the first questions will be the consideration of the draft Decree on the Procedure for the Adoption of Laws and the State Budget of Ukraine. We have forgotten that there is a budget code in Ukraine that establishes this procedure. We need to adopt in three days a total of 17 laws and draft Ukrainian State Budget Act, which is not yet in Parliament. I suggest: maybe we do a know-how like we do right now -- we don't wait for this draft of the State Budget Act to be signed up for it as a whole? It would be logical to take the approach that is being demonstrated today in the legislative work and the attitude toward the country. I think we should look at how this transfer of responsibility from one state authority to another, trying to give our personal responsibility to another would further aggravate the situation. We saw, in July-month, the Party of Regions asked a question about the mistrust of the Cabinet of Ministers. The President of Ukraine, along with this orange-and-white-hearted part of the hall, stood to defend the mountain and prevented the resolution from being adopted. Well, together, of course, with the support of the Company faction. We didn't get that decision, we knew where it would go. Today I want to say that the country of Ukraine, which is in captivity, in the hostages of the orange-hearted team of the fourth year, has to finally get rid of those invaders who took it, because without being able to make decisions in a normal, legal way, we cannot expect any better. I'm addressing you, distinguished orange-hearted politicians, please release Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u13	The word is Boris Tarasyuk of the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u14	Boris Tarasyuk, National Movement of Ukraine, faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear colleagues! Today, the financial and economic crisis has hit most of the world. The most vulnerable are countries with a weakly developed internal market and political instability. Our young nation belongs to such countries, and the consequences of financial and socio-political instability threaten the very foundations of our statehood. In times of severe crisis, some political forces are trying to stabilize the situation, others continue to rock the common boat, acting on principle: the worse the better. An example of the implementation of the second approach is the action of the Party of Regions. Formed by the oligaric clans that grew into the embrace of the 1990s, buying up pricelessly and monopolizing export-oriented industries, speculating on the painful problems caused by the colonial past and disengaging Ukrainian society, this party continues to understress social tensions. The situation is particularly cynical when members of large businesses and banks resort to mass layoffs, and a regional leader blinded by presidential ambitions threatens the government with massive nationwide protests. Exporters' oligarchs are artificially increasing the dollar's rate while it is falling worldwide, and their party colleague, the head of the faction of Ukrainian trade unions, Vasil Hara, is organizing protests in Ukraine's regions, in violation of the Constitution of Ukraine without forming the mandate of a national deputy. The crisis is further deepening the continuation of the conflict between the President and the Prime Minister of Ukraine, which has led to the destruction of all branches of power and the system of power in general. We urge the President and Prime Minister of Ukraine to seek mutual understanding. We need to put an end to political opposition, demagogism, populism, the mutual accusation in the media, and party pear action on the streets. Only the consolidation of the authorities ’ elites to meet the challenges facing the country today can prevent such a catastrophic finale. The first steps are already taken. With the election of the Head of the Supreme Council and the formation of a coalition of national development, stability and order in the midst of the BUT, NU-NS and the Litwin Block, Parliament worked to overcome the crisis. The next step is the immediate development of a system-wide anti-crisis programme based on constructive political proposals and the appropriate strengthening of the executive structures for its implementation. Specific measures should be aimed at restoring economic activity by increasing domestic demand for domestic production, curbing inflation, stimulating domestic production, reforming government monetary and monetary policy, ensuring continuous monitoring of the activities of the National Bank of Ukraine through the refinancing of commercial banks and the use of International Monetary Fund loans, employment and social protection of citizens. Ukraine has already demonstrated to the world its ability to advance democratically and overcome political crises. The faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" is confident that we will be able to cope with the economic difficulties and return to the path of sustainable economic development, the path to a stable, prosperous Europe. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u15	Dear colleagues, the factions are finished. I ask the apparatus to analyse the proposals made in the applications and, if necessary, to prepare appropriate referrals, commission to those who are concerned with the need to execute applications that have been made. Dear colleagues, on the Conciliation Council, we agreed on the schedule of meetings for this plenary week as well as for today. It mainly includes bills that are expected to be adopted in order to review and approve Ukraine's budget for the following year. So let's move on to the issues identified.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u16	For reasons of what?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u17	Please sign up, five minutes. Yes, please, on the sign-up table is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Ivan Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u18	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, the faction proposes, given the vast amounts of our debt to the electorate, in front of the branches, in front of the regions, especially in the part of the adoption of the State Budget, that we work every day so that we do not exhaust the agenda. And to plan such a job that by the new year, we can adopt both the State Budget and the laws that ensure that the income part of the budget is filled so that we do not in any way cancel the next year's pension payments in full, neither in the budget sphere nor in the development of the sector. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I ask that we vote at the very beginning to work every day until the agenda is exhausted. Dear colleagues, I urge everyone to work in this way. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u19	National Deputy Skubashewski, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u20	Please pass the Smith.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u21	National MP Smytheuch, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u22	Dear colleagues, Mr. Vladimir Mikhailovich, please tell me, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I am addressing you, please explain to me as the National Deputy of Ukraine how the agenda is formed if a full list of the bills that have only come before the Supreme Council has been passed today. No one could or could have come to know them even if he wanted to. Please tell me why a number of bills, including mine, our party and other national MPs, have been in place for years, which have not been brought into the Hall for consideration, in honor of one of the bills that I proposed to ban the game business, and the bills that only came to the Supreme Council yesterday have only arrived yesterday! - the committees weren't discussed, the MPs didn't get to know each other, and today they're looking at the Supreme Council. Why do you violate the rules of procedure of the Supreme Council? Why are you violating my rights as a national MP? Please give me a specific answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u23	Peter Simonenko is a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u24	Simonenko is a faction of Communists. Dear colleagues, I would like to ask all of us, all of us, to remove the disgrace that the Supreme Council is still having today in connection with the fact that the President's representative in the Supreme Council is the Oilyman in whose office the bribes were being bribed by hundreds of thousands of dollars. The President sent him as a representative to us. What did he present to the observer of the thief and the bandit here in the Supreme Council? Are we so calmly observing how the bandit controls the Supreme Council's activities on behalf of the President? The committees considered these proposals, Vladimir Mikhailovich, one committee and another. The decision is appropriate. Therefore, I propose that we begin our agenda on the grounds that the Supreme Council will send an appeal to the President to temporarily release him from office, so that he is not here as a criminal overseer on behalf of the President of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u25	Thank you. Jaroslav Kenzior faction “Our Ukraine”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u26	Jaroslav Kenzior. Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich and his distinguished colleagues, just before Peter Simonenko, spoke with a representative of BUTU in the People’s Russia of Ukraine, Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk. He was worried about serious economic problems, worried about the crisis, and did not say a word that at the 18th summit, the National Movement of Ukraine had adopted a very large - scale program of Ukraine’s exit from the economic crisis. I'd like to remind Boris Ivanovich that when he makes decisions that, if, by the way, he's just saying, he's just making jokes and anecdotes, then Boris Ivanovich has to worry about all the things he's doing at the assemblies and then completely forgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u27	Vladimir Bondarenko, faction of the Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u28	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear friends! I want to confirm once again that we are on a faction today, addressing the issues that have been raised today, which we will have to consider, should somehow review our schedule of work. And I'm asking you today to vote that if these questions that are put into the agenda today, even though many of them have been considered, until then we should not go home until we do, there would be a few days before the holiday, and we should still finish that part of our work that we missed through the political processes that went on, including in this room. Let's support, today we're going to work longer than ever, and every day of this week we're going to work to make up for the lost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u29	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u30	Thank you. Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, Party of Regions Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to support the opinion of those Ukrainian national deputies who called for us to remember and look at the bills passed by the Government of Timoshenko. First of all, what didn't happen on the committee might even fix it, get together in a timely order. But, look, Bill 3519 is completely destroying the entire system of social protection for military personnel, staff, the police, the prosecutor's office, and so forth. Law 3489 completely destroys the entire system of compulsory state social insurance completely, introduces new indicators, new terms, and new approaches. If you, who is now calling us to work day and night, think that these bills will fix or correct, bring the country out of the crisis, I tell you, we will bring society into a new crisis, into a new non-payment and into a new social confrontation.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u31	Dear National Deputies! We exchanged thoughts about today’s work, on the suggestions we made. As far as we're concerned, before the completion of the day-to-day agenda, we can't vote for a week -- we have to do it every day, depending on the support of the national MPs. So I'm going to put this proposal to the vote right now. Regarding the offer made by a colleague of Smith. I'd like to ask you, my dear colleagues, to look into it, because you're filming all the bills that come from your faction and then you're presenting me with claims. Once again, I would like to say that the meeting schedule is in agreement. The questions that were included in the schedule of meetings, which are absolutely necessary of the national deputies who are members of your faction, are, on appropriate occasions, removed from the schedule of meetings. So I would ask that we have the right position here. And one more point is regarding the declaration of violation of the Rules. I have not yet been able to break the Rules, my honourable colleagues, everything will be put to the vote and determined by the will of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Regarding Peter Mikolaiovich's proposal for a draft ruling concerning the President's representative in the Supreme Council. We discussed the matter, sent it to the committee, Peter Mikolaiovich, and when the committees are ready, let us put it on Friday. [[All those staff proposals they insist on]] I'm not ready for the committee yet. I'm talking to my colleague Mishchenko. And that's all the suggestions that have been made. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u32	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! You're turning everyone upside down. Smith was asking you a very direct question: Why are there bills in the agenda that have not been passed by committees? It is my understanding that two more weeks ago, you were the brightest advocate of compliance with the Rules. Today, you stand in the position that this Regulation can be violated everywhere. I'm not talking about that bill you're trying to introduce today that doesn't make sense, about the state budget vote. And he didn't go through the committees either. Now, with regard to the issue of the withdrawal of laws or bills that have been submitted on behalf of the Party of the Regions. We passed our bills for the first week, and then we saw in your coalition agreement that you would only vote for the bills passed by the majority and the communists. We're not there. So to mix people up by participating in your affair here, we're just not going to be. And you don't have to look at what people say here.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u33	I would like to advise and advise the head of the Committee on Rules, MPs and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council to choose the words. You're not in the square, you're in the Supreme Council and forget about the word "adventura". And when we look at the relevant issues, I'll read to you how the budget is being reviewed and changed by one vote without any consideration -- a hundred. And I'll remind you of that. So I'd like, my dear colleague, to take some of my enthusiasm and start working. Regarding the schedule of meetings. All questions on the schedule of meetings. One minute, one minute, there'll be a line. All questions are discussed at the Conciliation Council, and the decision of the Conciliation Board is included in the consideration, and there are no other issues. Please, Alexander Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u34	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, you have now reiterated your statement that you are in grave violation of the Rules. If you comment after each statement by the deputies, you will turn the meeting of the Supreme Council into a ballad, not an official body. Therefore, I remind you once again that under the Rules you have no right to comment on the statement made by the people's deputies. That's their point of view. And hold yours at the moment when you are given the word or when you give it to yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u35	Dear colleagues! You have already spoken, please take your seat. I take the point, but I would like, my dear colleague, to understand that when a proposal is made to put it to a vote, it has to be justified. So please, I already said it. Adam Martinyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u36	Thank you, Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I'm not comfortable teaching the head of my committee, but, Alexander Sergiyovich, I'm sure you haven't read the agreement signed by the three factions. There's absolutely nothing about communists in the treaty. And let's just do this because you have to say something, mention things, and the communists are your right. We thank you for your advertising, we thank you for your advertising, but nowhere in any document is there a decision that the coalition has made: to support the bills that the communists make. We hope that the bills that we are introducing will be supported by the entire session hall, at least by our recent allies – the Party of Regions will necessarily vote for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u37	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the subject. Prior to that, a proposal was made for the Supreme Council to continue its work in plenary mode pending the conclusion of the discussions on Tuesday - December 23. So I'm drafting a proposal that the Supreme Council of Ukraine agree to consider short-term bills, taking into account their huge number, and that the work of the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine continue until the completion of the Tuesday schedule. Please vote. [[10:44:00]] For 215 The decision is not taken. I'm voting on the proposal to look at the bills in a simplified way, obviously, except for those in the second reading. Please vote. [[10:44:26]] For 219 The decision is not taken. [[B in m in s a l in]] Oh, the decision is made, it's a procedural question, I forgot, okay. Yes, honourable colleagues, a draft decree on a change in the composition of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on education and science is under consideration. Please, Gerasimczuk. Turn on the microphone. A replica? When your last name is called. Please. Take your seats. Please, please. Microphone, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u38	Honorary Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, is proposed for your consideration by the Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine “On changes in the composition of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Science and Education”. In connection with the election of Ukrainian national deputy Litvina Vladimir Mikhailovich as Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decrees: “To recall from 9 December 2008 Lithuania Vladimir Mikhailovich as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Science and Education”. The Regulatory Committee considered this decision at its December 17th meeting and decided to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u39	Yes. Please. Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u40	Honourable People's Deputies, the Committee of December 17th, reviewed the draft Supreme Council Regulation on Change in the Composition of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Science and Education, introduced by the National Deputy of Ukraine Gerasimchuk. In connection with the fact that the National Deputy of Ukraine, Litvin Vladimir Mikhajlovich, elected Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, is proposed to withdraw him from office as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Science and Education since, according to part six of article 6 of the Ukrainian Law, “The Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine” cannot be elected Head of the Supreme Council, First Deputy and Deputy Head of the Supreme Council. The committee decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine consider the draft decree and support it. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u41	Thank you. Dear colleagues, what are the questions, warnings? I am voting on the adoption of the Supreme Council Decision on a change in the composition of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Science and Education. [[Registration No.3484]] Please vote. [[10:47:21]] For 375 Decision taken. The draft Order on Amendments to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the Election of Heads, First Deputys, Deputy Heads, Secretaries, Members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Sixth Call and Election of Heads, First Deputy, Deputy Heads, Secretary and Members of the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Privatisation is announced for consideration. Reporter: Ukrainian National Deputy Yuri Litwin The co-narrator will be the chairman of the committee, Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov. Please, the microphone. Or on the rostrum?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u42	No, it's right there.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u43	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u44	Dear Head, dear colleagues! The Lithuanian Parliamentary faction decided to change the representation of the faction within its quota within the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The draft Decision provides for the election of Sharov Igora Fedorovic as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Health Protection; the election of Zharubin Oleg Alexandrovich as head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Human Rights, National Minorities and National Relations; the election of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Human Rights, National Minorities and National Relations by discharging the duties of Secretary of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issues of fuel and energy, nuclear policy and nuclear security. The adoption of the decree provides for amendments to the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree of December 26, 2007. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u45	Alexander Sergiyovich, you'll be here. Microphone, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u46	On December 17, the Committee considered this question: according to part of article 83 of the Supreme Council's Rules of Procedure of Ukraine, when the head of the Committee was recalled from office, the right to nominate him to the post belongs to the deputy factions according to his quota. The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council a draft decision of the Supreme Council and to support it. Now, according to the faction of the Party of Regions. Vladimir Mihajlovich, we have repeatedly raised the question of redeployment in connection with the election of you as Head of the Supreme Council of the Budget Committee. Until this issue is put in the Chamber, we would like to request and support the distinguished representatives of the Communist Party faction. We cannot vote in favour of redistribution of committees in favour of your bloc because there is a full monopolization of power by the majority, which, of course, will have a negative impact on our governance in the State at all. We will not have a structure that can effectively control the work of power and the work of the majority in Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u47	Thank you. Dear colleagues, no warning? I will therefore put to the vote a ruling, a draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the election of heads, first deputies, deputy heads, secretaries, members of the Sixth Council of the Supreme Council and the election of the head, first deputy, deputy heads, secretary and members of the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on matters of privatization. [[Registration number 3476]] Again, registration number 3476. Please vote. [[10:50:53]] For – 243 Decision taken. I thank Igor Fedorovich Sharov for his fruitful work as chairman of the committee, and I hope that the new head will be worthy to continue this activity. Dear colleagues, with regard to the proposal of the committee head and national deputy Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov, I propose, Alexander Sergiyovich, that they make a draft of the relevant decision and I will put it to the vote. But before that, I just want to remind myself once again of the minutes of the Conciliation Council and the parliamentary faction in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 14 December 2007. It was signed by all the faction leaders. There is paragraph 4 of the Order on the distribution of managerial positions on the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Special Supervisory Commission on Privatization and on the appointment of heads, first deputies and deputy heads, as well as on the appointment of the First Deputy and Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Secretaries of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Special Supervisory Commission on Privatisation may be considered solely under the conditions of its approval and signature by representatives of all deputy factions in the Supreme Council. In doing so, the Committee on Budget Affairs, the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations are anchored in favour. I'd like to ask that we don't continue. I'm asking you to make a draft decision and let's look at it. I'm in. I'm in. I'm in. I'm in. Dear colleagues, let me give you a message. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law “On the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine” and article 59 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I report that I am part of the Communist Party’s Communist Party. Dear colleagues, the following draft of the Ordinance on the Specificities of the Procedure for Review and Adoption of the draft Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2009 and some other draft laws that ensure the sustainability of the State Budget for Ukraine. But it's because of the document. That document was not included in the review. Before the meeting schedule and it's not in order of day, he's on schedule as a project, but he's not in order of day. We have to vote in favour of including it in the agenda. So I'd like to prepare for the vote right now. May I have your attention, please? I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the daily project of the Ordinance on the peculiarities of the review and adoption of the draft Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2009 and some other draft laws of Ukraine that ensure the balance of the State budget of Ukraine. Please vote. [[10:54:14]] For – 224 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. The Party of the Regions – 1, "The Block of July Timoshenko" – 154, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" – 50, Communist faction – 0, "Block of Lithuania" – 19. Dear colleagues, please sign in for five minutes. Yes, please point to the board. Vladimir Yavorowski, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u48	I give the word to Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u49	Ivan Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u50	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Every year, as far as we can remember, we are not easily given budgetary processes, and it is not easy to adopt the State Budget. And over the last eight years, when we were adopting the country's main economic document at the end of the year, we were amending tens and sometimes hundreds of laws with the budget. As long as the Constitutional Court has said that this cannot be done. Now we're dividing these things and asking you to support: by special procedure, both these laws, and the State Budget, so that from the new year, the country has a budget for pensioners, budgeters to pay wages so that we can pay new taxes and so on. Please, colleagues, back up. We are not going to violate what the Constitution, the Constitutional Court, has defined. Support, in particular, the procedure for reviewing the State Budget Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u51	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u52	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! The budget that we are about to adopt must be the budget for saving the country and the nation from the Government's policies that have led our economy to disaster. But what kind of nation-saving budget could it be if the President smashed it into the air and dust if the National Bank completely disagrees with the macroeconomic indicators, if the absolute majority of the deputies have not seen the budget in their eyes, and they want it, like a cat in a bag, to throw it into the hall after lunch, and adopt it on a short schedule, and Thursday practically on a second reading?Oh, my God! What are we doing?Oh, my God! This is not the budget for saving the nation, this is the budget for disaster, this is the funeral of Ukraine. The Party of the Regions therefore insists that, according to the procedure, there should be a budget review with the Budget Code so as not to be an adventure. We've had enough adventure!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u53	Paul Zebravsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u54	Dear colleagues, this is called “pre-reading the six”. It is for today's budget that even members of the budget committee have not yet seen, understand, which pearls exist there, and offer us in some way, without seeing anything, to vote on the procedure itself. That's the first time I've heard that. I understand that. If a bill in a large number of halls is not challenged and supported, then a reduced procedure can be discussed. Dear colleagues! Today, without seeing the bill, without understanding the philosophy of the bill, it is senseless and irresponsible to talk about a procedure that has been shortened. Then let's just take one line: the Budget Act of Ukraine. And then we're going to give it to the government. And what they want is what they do. He says we plant a thousand acres of millet, and he's drowning the most in the background. That's about right.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u55	National deputy Stecenko, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u56	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, Steshenko, I suggest.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u57	Tushenko, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u58	Volodymyr Mihajlovich, a faction of Yulia Timoshenko, as a responsible political power in Parliament, asks that we return to this issue, put it to a vote, and return to the budget procedure. This is what we are set up to do, and we urge all of our colleagues to support us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u59	National deputy, Illashov, Party of Regions, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u60	I give the word to Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u61	Sergey Kiwalov. Ah, Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u62	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I have a question for you. Can you honestly tell me who's making you so cynical about asking that question and pushing it into the Supreme Council today? Well, it is not possible for everyone to say that there is no budget yet, but we are already considering how to expedite it and approve it. It is not possible for all experts to say that the indicators that are supposed to be placed in a budget that no one has ever seen have been subject to any criticism. We don't pay any attention to the same. And the last. I reiterate that the bill you are now introducing has not been considered in the Committee, which constitutes a grave violation of the Rules. And why you don't see it again, it just surprises me. And what is written in this bill is not healthy at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u63	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u64	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Ladies and gentlemen, I am addressing those who have not read the decree and are now commenting on it. I'm sorry that passion is so hot. You've just received 17 draft legislation. I met them yesterday. Four of them, after comments made, are now being corrected and added by the government itself. This is about laws that must go along with Ukraine’s budget. All of it. And we always did that, and there was no hysteria when in 99 laws we amended one law. And then there was no hysteria. Now it is suggested that these laws be discussed together. And it is proposed, in accordance with the Rules, what to do: 23 numbers to review and simultaneously vote on the approval of these laws in the first reading, as defined in paragraph 1 of this decree. All of it. I propose to vote in favour, because we need to get out of the crisis.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u65	Dear colleagues, we exchanged information on this document. I'm giving you this information. The point is that I put the bill in order of the day after it was placed in the agenda. I'd put it to a vote if it were included, Alexander Sergiyovich, I'd put it to a vote without a resolution of the committee. And now, dear colleagues, I want to say about this shameful practice, I am fully in agreement with my colleagues who have been on the Supreme Council of Ukraine since 2000. And I ask you to think about how you voted and made decisions at the same time in the body of the budget, stopping by changing laws. Just dry statistics to think that we should not continue to allow this: the 2000 State Budget is ten changes at the same time as the budget vote. State budget 2001 - 25 changes, 2002 - 29 changes, 2003 - 41 changes, 2004 - 62 changes, 2005 - 119 changes, 2006 - 52 changes, 2007 - 69 changes, 2008 - 119 changes. This practice in the Supreme Council, which consisted of a disregard plan for the Code of Budgets and the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And so, of course, we have to give it up. But today there is one question: Is the budget needed? We have to. Let's find a compromise so that we can adopt a budget so that people get salaries and pensions, no more. That's why I understand everything, dear colleagues, but there must be the collective will of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Let's make the right decision. Therefore, given the discussion that has taken place, I am voting on the question of whether to include a draft order in the schedule, in the agenda, in the inclusion of draft regulation 3534 in the agenda, please vote. [[11:04:04:04]] For – 209 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Let's take a look at these bills when they're considered by the committees, and I'd like to ask during the break, i.e. from 14 to 16 hours to the maximum of committee meetings to consider these issues, obviously we'll have the will to deal with them. Dear colleagues. There are no more motives after we have made our decision. Please sign in for three minutes, please. People's MP Mironenko, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u66	Please pass the word "Peklushenko."
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u67	Alexander Pecklushenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u68	Dear colleagues, voters, Vladimir Mihajlovich. First, be good, please answer, on what basis did you put the previous vote to the vote? Second question. You've given very good examples of budget changes. And that's the main reason. The worse we prepare the budget, the more changes. Do you want there to be a thousand changes by the 2009 budget? Therefore, we know the practice of the present power. It's all absurd. A budget that doesn't exist and there can't be any attempt to pretend that you want to accept it. Please stop pretending. At least start doing something. You can make a mistake, but all the time you're doing it, there's a crime against the State and.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u69	Yuri Karmazin faction "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u70	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Protectors of India “Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense”. Ladies and gentlemen, an attempt has been made to break the laws to ensure the balance of Ukraine's state budget. You all understand that the budget cannot be accepted without making changes that are aimed at overcoming the crisis. And that's exactly what they want to do to make the crisis worse. So on behalf of me, Yuri Carmazin, and the national deputy Catherinechuk, a decree will now be registered for which we will propose to vote on the job provision, Volodymyr Mihajlovich, December 30 and 31. If you care for the people, let's make a budget, but we'll make a decision, we'll now vote that the budget should be adopted and voted by 31 December. And then it'll be clear whether it hurts or not. The balance of the budget must be ensured; the budget must be accepted!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u71	Yuri Serbin, faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u72	Dear colleagues, please give the floor to the author of the order to Deputy Kamchatny.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u73	Deputy Kamchatny, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u74	Dear colleagues, honourable voters, I am primarily addressing you as the author of the bill so that you can understand what was going on. Today, it was proposed that the budget and the simultaneous consideration of the budget and the bills on which it was discussed and then the successive vote be held. We haven't survived yet, I'm the one who's answering our colleagues, and the criminals we're talking about here are the ones who didn't allow this procedure today. The country can't wait, the voters can't wait! And our proposal was to speed up the review of the budget and the relevant laws. That is why all voters today need to know who is on their side and who is not on their side. I call on everyone to consider this in the next election! Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u75	Thank you. I heard the question of Alexander Pecklusenko. I answer on what grounds I put it to the vote. On the basis of those suggestions, why we're having this discussion, we're going back, I've asked a number of deputies, just like you asked, well, your colleagues, you asked me a question, I answer you. I asked about the return to the inclusion issue, and I obviously had good reasons for it, and I did, and the Supreme Council didn't support it -- we're working on it. Please calm down. It is announced for consideration of the second-reading laws, namely the draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine to prevent the negative effects of the global financial crisis on the development of an agro-industrial complex. [[Registration number 3353]] Reporter: Head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy Sergei Anatoliyovich Teryohin Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u76	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Today, in our second reading, we are considering a draft law amending some of Ukraine's laws to prevent the negative effects of the global financial crisis on the development of an agri-industrial complex. On December 18, the Supreme Council Committee discussed this project in a second reading. At the time of the meeting, 49 seats were given from the national deputies, all included in the comparative table given to you. Of these, 22 were not supported for the reason that they were transferred to the next bill that regulates external trade. [[3379]] Or those that were introduced without taking into account the provisions of the Budget Code and the Rules of the Supreme Council. The bill contains comments from the Legal Authority. We need to agree with some of them that are not directly related to the substance of the proposed rules. With regard to editorial issues, such comments should be accepted. It should be noted, however, that with some remarks we cannot agree on – this refers to the specificities of some civil law on mortgages, as well as rules on the size of wages for grain storage during this period. That's for the stenographer. Therefore, in view of my brief opening statement, Vladimir Mikhailovich, we would have to move on to an article vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u77	Amendment 2. Are you insisting on her? Don't insist. Adam Martinyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u78	I insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u79	Mikoli Kruglov's microphone, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u80	I insist, let the hall be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u81	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u82	The committee did not support this amendment. It refers to taking off an expert duty to export sunflower seeds without, even, setting any quota. After we discussed the positions of our oil industry that showed us the balance, consumption of their production came to the conclusion that it was premature to shoot 14 percent of the expert moment. That's because it's actually budget revenue and there's no budget loss or compensation. I'd like to, Volodymyr Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u83	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u84	I'd like to draw your attention to the fact that the following number 3 refers to the same thing, but it sets at least 1 million tons of quota that manufacturers insist cannot be converted to the next marketing period. Therefore, if it is to support the removal of the export duty for sunflower seeds, it is not at the disposal of the second amendment, but at the disposal of the third one where the quotas are located.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u85	Dear colleagues, the amendment is made to the vote. Please take off the vote. Adam Martinyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u86	Thank you. Adam Martinyuk, Communist faction. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I have a point to make, so the friend will wait, excuse me, because they are interconnected. The first one is listed here, but the faction of the Communists denies taking this into account. When we were looking at the draft in the first reading, we were absolutely against it, and we argued that we had a production base available to recycle not only the sunflower gathered this year, but also more. We can harvest as much as we have an industrial processing base to recycle. Since the committee has taken this amendment into account, we submit it in accordance with the Rules, please, Volodymyr Mihajlovich, to the vote on the confirmation of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u87	Adam Ivanovich, look closely at this correction. This edit matches your position. You insisted on leaving the export duty. Yeah? This amendment leaves an export duty because the first reading made the decision to cancel the export duty. So that's how it's removed, and then there's the export duty. Get out of the way, please. Is it on?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u88	We're not discussing the amendment, we're voting on the amendments. Please, Jerbrowsky. Your turn? Where? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u89	Dear colleagues, in fact, certainly need to work as a farmer as a processor. Last year, a sunflower was purchased for 3,000 dollars, and it is now purchased for 900 to 100,000 dollars. We actually have a combination of 3-4 people who don't want to have any competition. 60 percent of the oil they sell for export at European prices, and here they want to buy sunflower not at European prices but at underpriced prices. So we're working on 3-4 families, or are we still going to make those people who get profits share with those who sow this sunflower? I'm just asking and urging you to take the tribute off the sunflower, and since processors mainly export products at European prices, let them buy raw materials at European prices and that's the right thing to do. That is why I would like you, Mr. Terjohin, to place this amendment that you have considered yours for confirmation. And they swore.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u90	Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u91	I, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u92	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u93	A very short comment. You don't need any blanks. Today, more faithfully yesterday, on Monday, the world sunflower price was in FOB’s bracelets of 2,093 bracelets. If you even pay 14 percent of the export duty, that would be the price of 1 thousand 700 dollars in Ukraine. Now it's the purchase price of 1,000, that is, anyone but the middlemen who wants it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u94	So it's counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u95	Yeah, who wants to export can export and get almost twice as much profit as the export price. So the opposite of what you're saying is that it's the lobbies of seed breakers. If an amendment is to be voted on, then the amendment 3 should be voted on — where a quota of one million is to be set. Now on the balance sheet, it's possible to accept that. But to open up the entire market means to leave the entire oil industry out of business. That's it, so make up your mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u96	Yes. One minute, Carmazin insists on this. Dear colleagues, there can be no discussion, only the author of the amendment. Please, Karmazin, about this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u97	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u98	Because the author of the amendment is arguing with her.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u99	Ladies and gentlemen, my amendment has been registered. I'm going to argue that this accepted editorial needs to be changed. I thank the committee for taking these things into account. Because, let's see what's going on in the net. The Russian Federation isn't stupid either, 32 percent of us have export duties, 32 percent of us do, not 14 of us. They're protecting, they're not behind a group of lobbyists behind our operatives.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u100	Argentina has 24 percent.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u101	Which, by covering up these thesaurus, kill their industry. We are now exporting oil to 56 countries in the world. After the chemical branch has been laid down, when nothing else is exported, at least the oil is exported. And you're suggesting that you bring Polish oil now and so forth, and a variety of other ones that have already come with questionable quality. So I ask the hall to support my proposal and the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, according to the rules, I will put to the vote first the first amendment that the committee has taken into account. But since there are different points of view, for this amendment to be supported, it needs to be supported by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Right? Amendment No. 1 should therefore be voted on. Please vote. [[11:18:39]] For – 354 Correction accepted. Now Amendment No.2 by Mikoli Petrovich Kruglov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u103	It's being taken off because the decision is being made.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u104	You don't mind if I don't? Kruglov's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u105	Vladimir Mikhailovich, there's only one thing I wanted to say that we need to make a complex decision. Then we have to go to the third amendment. Because when we worry about those who are processing, we forget about those who are growing. Because setting any limits, everyone knows, today's price of over 1,000 dollars is not offered to peasants. What are we talking about? Then he just won't be comfortable growing it anymore. Keep voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u106	I totally agree with you, but the Supreme Council has just made that decision. So we take the second amendment off, we move on to the third amendment. Yeah? Amendment of three people’s deputies to Berevsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u107	It's a palate between the first decision and the second. So this is a zero-to-one-million-ton tariff quota compromise. Well, the committee didn't support her either, but the hall did. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u108	Is Andrew Verewsky here? It doesn't, does it? I'll put it to a vote. I put to the vote amendment number three of the national deputy of Verevski. Please vote. [[11:20:10]] For – 201 Correction not supported. Amendment number four. Sergey Ribuk. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u109	Thank you. I don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u110	It was a mistake, I think.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u111	I don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u112	Yes, the amendment. Let's go where we don't count. Amendment number seven of the national deputy Kravczuk. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u113	I would like to support this because, given the situation that this year has been the case with the price policy of agriculture, the land rations rent has been accounted for and delivered by natural products, which are not below the cost of production. You all know that the value of the agricultural product is 750 and above a ton of grain, and the price is 450-500 realistic. And virtually all companies accounted for 15 percent of the income tax and were obliged to pay it. And you know what the state of the business is now. So by amendment, I propose that, on 01.01.2008, the person's income tax be written off on the condition that the current debt is paid in 2008. This will also encourage companies to pay off their current debt to local budgets.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u114	A little comment, if you please. According to the Income Tax Act, the employer has to charge and pay taxes on the budget before paying the income. So on account of that revenue, if you have naturoplat, that's where the inverse coefficient goes. If this has not been done, the 206th article of the Criminal Code of Ukraine “For deliberate tax evasion” will be published. What is being suggested here? These companies, which deliberately avoided taxation on this issue, issued in-kind payments, but did not contribute to the local, I repeat, local income tax budgets, are offered to write off their debt. Then, Mr. Kravchuk, let us add the same to the Criminal Code to relieve them of criminal responsibility and administrative responsibility. You just probably didn't really get what you said. And another question is, these are the revenues of the local budgets, which are what? Rural, rural, and rural areas Well, what's the offer?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u115	Please, Kravchuk, once more microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u116	Dear Sergey Anatolyevich, I would like to point out that these are anti-crisis measures, not current populist actions. That's the first one. The second is proposed to write down on 01.01.2008 and all current payments for 2008 will be paid to the local budgets. And there's nothing criminal about it, given the state of the business.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u117	I'll give you a brief answer: if it's on 01/01/2008, it's already been enough time to pass the relevant criminal case on to the court.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u118	I'm putting to the vote Amendment No. 7 of People's Deputy Kravczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u119	The committee denies it. [[11:24:03]] For – 152
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u120	The decision is not supported. Amendment No. 8 of the National Deputies Group. Katerina Vaschuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u121	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! Edit refers to the right of the agrarian fund to export grain. Today, more than 2 million tons of grain are in the agrarian fund. Ukraine cannot be implemented, and the price is low. There's nothing to buy from peasants anymore. The Agrarian Fund is underfunded by 450 million. And today the grain lies in the peasants, they can't implement it, and the Agrarian Fund has no right to go to the external market. So there are so many authors in this amendment, and we're still asking that the Agrarian Fund be given the right to implement this seed abroad, and for these costs, we're going to buy it back into the peasant bread. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u122	The committee rejected the amendment for two reasons. The first reason is that it contradicts the relevant article of the GAAT State Procurement Agreement, which prohibits any state institution that makes this new regulation from acting as an exporter because it is clearly subsidized by the budget and distorts competition. That's the first one. Secondly, we have rejected this amendment from a motive, let's say, prejudice to possible corruption. When an official starts going to market externally with a resource that was bought for the government. The state budget, you know what can happen. Compare, then, the prices purchased by the Agrarian Fund of the same seed or grain and external conjuncture. How much “stick ” does one God know. That's why we rejected this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u123	Dear colleagues, since the people's deputies Tereshuk, Žebrovski, Láško, Slauta, Vaszczuk, Vasiliev and Ribuk made an amendment, I simply don't call the faction in the absence of time. Please, Jerbrowsky. Let's vote. Peanut, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u124	Dear colleagues! The agrarian fund is the structure that forced businessmen to buy grain at an increased price. And in fact, the Agrarian Fund made such an indicator, because the Agrarian Fund bought at a price higher than what the grain traders bought. If we don't let the Agrarian Fund export production today, that means we're going to give businessmen the opportunity to make money, not a government operator who can buy even more grain in the population. I think that this amendment must be supported. And if the Agrarian Fund were to buy at a cheaper price than the market, that would be wrong. But instead of lowering the price, he increased the price. As a result, giving such a right to the Agrarian Fund is essential.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u125	Sergei Tereshuk, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u126	Dear colleagues, the question is very important. The Agrarian Fund is in fact the only institution today that in any way regulates the price of agricultural production that has already fallen below the cost limit. But if this amendment does not go through, Sergey Anatolyevich, for some reason, let us perhaps at least divide this second amendment, 9.2. 7, let us vote, which allows the Agrarian Fund to sell produce in internal markets, without waiting for government regulations and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u127	Jehovah’s Witnesses, 4 7 is the right position and can be supported. But with regard to exports, well, dear friends, what you're suggesting is that at the expense of the State Budget, a government food reserve is being created, and you're proposing that it be exported to the external markets. Well, what's the point? It's an Agrarian fund that's not made for profit. Even the law states that it is not for profit but for price regulation within the country and for strategic food reserves.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u128	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u129	So what you're proposing is 9.2 7, we can support that, we've talked about that.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u130	Dear colleagues, let's move faster. Amendment No. 8, People's Deputies: Tereshuk, Žebrovsky, Lyszko, Slata, Vaszczuk, Vasiliev and Ribuk I'll put it to a vote, please. [[11:29:16]] For – 378 Decision taken. Amendment 9, Roman Tuck, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u131	I'm filming.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u132	It's taken off by Roman Tjak. Jaroslav Suhi, 10th, is counted. Do you mind? Ivan Kirilenko and Terjehochin, accounted for. Do you mind? Let's move on. Roman Tuck, considered essentially. Katerina Vashuk, 13th Amendment. Catherine Timofievna, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u133	Dear Sergey Anatolyovich! As for 15 percent and banks, we settled the preceding articles. But the last item I ask you to support. This is recommended to banks to provide trade and processing facilities with targeted loans for settlement with farmers for dairy products and meat. Because today the debt is due, and for more than six months the peasants have not received milk for their sale. Because the crisis is getting worse. Tell the banks to do this. This item, please consider. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u134	Katerina Timofievna, you could agree with me if you took away a very interesting word: the credits. Because it's completely incomprehensible, and what it is. Frankly, now any credit is being paid. Because they can't be taken. So come on, I agree with your recommendation. And I urge the Hall to support it as well. That's what I'm talking about. Recommend credit for the goals you are proposing.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u135	Does the amendment agree with this? Microphone, please. Katerina Vaschuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u136	I mean, these are processing companies that are in the APC structure. And the benefits apply to the right to get compensation from the state for part of the value of this loan. So are the villagers. If that's not possible, at least without that word so that they can get normal loans, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u137	Okay. That is, the last paragraph of your amendment without the word “plums”. It's a recommendation to lend to these goals that you say.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u138	Costed by whom?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u139	That's right. But they're both cheap and they're not cheap. So it's not the position of this amendment, it's the one that relates to the cost of the loans. It's the right place for any loan.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u140	I put to the vote Amendment No. 13 of Catherine Timothy Vaschuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u141	Well, last paragraph, we made a deal.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u142	Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u143	Last paragraph in favour, yes. Without the word “plums. ” [[11:32:34]] For – 385
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u144	Decision taken. ‘For’ – 385. Roman Tchac, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u145	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich and Sergey Anatoliovich, but I am still under the transcript. The word “meat” has to be added here, because only “milk” comes here, which is processed, milk and meat processed.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u146	Where milk is, there is meat. Really? So if there's no objection, we can add.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u147	And, dear fellows, one minute. Let's not add. If this amendment is proposed, we should vote for it because we will add a lot. So I'm putting to the vote the amendment just made by the people's deputy Tkac as a supplement. Please vote. [[11:33:38]] For – 390 Decision taken. Correction 14th. Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u148	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies, Sergey Anatolyovich! It says here that the amendment is essentially taken into account. The amendment was proposed, but it is not included. The amendment proposed that, on the basis of the appeals made by agri-industrial enterprises, banks would provide for the extension within five days, I stress, by 1 November 2009 the outstanding loans entered into in 2005-2008 at interest rates are not higher than those provided for in the basic credit agreements. No penalties. In doing so, credits are included in the national currency at the rate of the National Bank at the time the loan is issued, and the negative rate of the difference is covered at the expense of the National Bank of Ukraine. So they're going to be converted into national currency. On the basis of the bank's referrals, the National Bank provides for the period until November 1st to refinance them, resulting from the volume of extended loans for agri-industrial enterprises. This amendment is written that is counted, but it is not on the right hand side, not on the left hand side.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u149	She is. This is page 9, paragraph 11, and beyond. In addition to one item, these are the exchange rates, the conversion of the forced foreign currency into the national currency, with a discount rate on the national bank's assets. First, this is contrary to the National Bank Act, it is impossible for the National Bank to cover differences, it is not its function. Secondly, these exchange differences are twenty-four billion. And generally, these differences are covered by the restructuring of these loans by banks themselves. And we're going to have, by the way, Bill 3517, if I'm not mistaken, he's going into a government project where it's written, and where these courses differ, where they are in terms of accounting, in terms of tax accounting. Thus, in article 11 everything is essentially taken into account, apart from the compulsory definition of exchange rate differences.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u150	Dear colleagues, should we put this amendment to the vote? Let's stick to the Rules and Purity here, vote on Yuri Carmazin's amendment, that's the 14th amendment, please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u151	The committee does not support it, it cannot be implemented there. [[11:36:42]] For 67. Correction not supported. Yes, Catherine Vaszczuk and Eugene Sigal. Microphone, please. This is the 15th amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u152	Dear people's deputies, instead of this 15 at the end of the law, there's a page on the same page, the same right, only legally agreed with our expert and legal administration. The main thing is that banks have no right to impose fines on peasants for default loans. They are obliged to continue. So it doesn't change the rate of interest on its own, and it also spreads into the debt of lysing. So it's a very important readjustment. If we vote now, read carefully, we'll give the village the opportunity to survive in these difficult conditions and to extend loans to us at the expense of the villagers and not to the detriment of the banks, and win both sides. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u153	I'm very sorry, Your Honor Catherine Timothy. We have regulations. You filed an application, and what you nailed back there was not considered by the committee. In addition, there are things that simply cannot be done. Let's assume it's legally impossible to link, as you proposed to a law that hasn't yet taken effect. Or you want to write here about things like government standards there on sausages. But this is not the issue of this law. Let's put this in the Food Quality Act, not here. What's important is that this is what you're teasing, it's not dealt with properly in the committee, and it's not included in the correlation table. So if you insist on a vote of 11 amendments, vote in the paper you filed.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u154	This is 15.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u155	15.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u156	Catherine Vashuk's microphone, then Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u157	Dear Sergey Anatoliyovich, you've seen further revision number 28, here there are no standards, here is the only, especially increased responsibility of banks that are obliged, have the right to receive a refund from the National Bank in the event that they are prolonging agrarian loans, if we don't vote, then the banks of another 40 billion will get, buy the currency, settle abroad, and we'll all be left with nothing. We have banks in the state and we need to limit them to not the Supreme Council, and this was discussed like everyone else, and let's not argue about how this law was voted on the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u158	Catherine Timofievna, if your proposal relates to 28 revisions, let's get to it! And 11 in most positions is included in article 11.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u159	Dear colleagues, we're looking at number 15.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u160	Fifteen, yes. You, if you want 28, let's go to 28 and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u161	Please, Your Honor, I see, Catherine Timothy, are you insisting on the fifteenth amendment? Adam Martinyuk, please, then Smith.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u162	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, let's really not confuse both the chairman and the reporter and ourselves. We're now looking at 15 revisions, we're going to go to 28, we're going to talk about 28. But I absolutely support the authors of amendment 15 that in that appendix that is in our comparative tables, it's an appendix, it's not out of voice, anyone can look and they have a better written 15 amendment, they're proposing a better 15 revision. So, Vladimir Mihajlovich, I ask you to put to the vote the proposal put forward in that appendix, in an editorial form such as in Appendix 15 of the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u163	So, 15 we're already editing?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u164	Now I'd like to.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u165	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u166	So you can agree with the 15th, well, that's the position, but again, "from 1 January 2009." Because it is not possible to refer to a law to prevent consequences that are not yet accepted. Do you understand? The lawyers said it was impossible. Since January 1st, there's no problem. And the only thing I'd like to say under the transcript is that I'd like to warn you that this is where we're going to continue the benefit for the conversion of article 11.21 of the value added tax. I warn you that: (a) this violates the protocol signed by the WTO and may be the basis for the application of the veto to this necessary law. So it's up to you. That's 11.21, that's the yellow box, so it's going to go down to the $600 million we can give to the village. And I suggested that you make a separate tax change to the added value in Law 3306. I'm in charge of doing everything for the village, but I'm afraid the amendment will be made.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u167	These are the second revisions, why are you, this is the end of the regulation, and this is number 28, what are you confused about? What are you confused about, my dear?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u168	Dear colleagues! Please, Garbage microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u169	Okay. Wrong, it's 28th, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u170	Garbage, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u171	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I want you to know, all my colleagues, that this bill was being considered on a committee, an agrarian committee. And if you know that there are experts on the agrarian committee who certainly know better than some deputies this problem that concerns the village today. So I ask you to support this amendment, which Catherine Vaschuk has read. Because it greatly improves the situation of today’s village. As far as Teryochin is concerned. Of course, he advocates programs that Ukraine has entered the WTO, and he speaks of a yellow, green box, but I'm afraid we didn't have black boxes in the village. So I ask you to listen to Catherine Vaschuk and support this amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u172	You can support this as an extra one, but since January 1st, instead of a reference to the law, from January 1st of the following year.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u173	I understand. Dear colleagues, Amendment No. 15 is proposed to vote in the new edition proposed by Catherine Vaszczuk with the words “since 1 January 2009”. Oh, no? So that's how it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u174	We can't refer to a law that doesn't exist.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u175	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Then there's the vote and the proposal that came from the author of the amendment of Catherine Vaschuk and Eugene Sigal, right? So I'm voting on the 15th amendment in the new edition. Am I putting the vote right? Adam Martinyuk, please. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u176	Thank you. Volodymyr Mihajlovich, I would like to emphasize once again for the transcript: the revision of the text given in the appendix to the table.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u177	I said, “In a new edition, which Catherine Timofievna sounded. ” I said that. I'm betting on the vote of the 15th amendment, which is presented in the new edition, which is delivered by National Deputy Catherine Vaschuk. Please vote. [[11:46:02]] For – 406 Correction accepted. Let's go to the 16th. Yagophers, are you insisting on clarification?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u178	It's coming off.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u179	No, it's a deal, it's off.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u180	Hungarian, 17th, essentially counted. Do you mind?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u181	Now we're going to take a different line.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u182	18th, overruled. The Microphone of the National MP Ungurian.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u183	Dear colleagues, the bill in the first reading changed the VAT mechanism for the sale of milk and meat processing to the living weight, and a zero VAT rate for these transactions was abolished. And this right here is about leaving our current tax subsidies and aids for two years, but I understand that in Amendment 15 voted, it's included in the 28th amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u184	Twenty-eight, yes, twenty-eighth.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u185	So I would like to be able to support this as we speak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u186	I mean.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u187	Well, it's coming off.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u188	Are these your warnings off now? In the next amendment, 28th, that's where we're voting, right? Natalia Royal, 19th insist? No, it's not. The 20th is Mikola Kravchenko and Ruslan Knyazevich. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u189	This is the 28th revision of the same.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u190	That's the 20th amendment now.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u191	That's right, but at 28, she's okay with that.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u192	Dear colleagues! [[Kravchenko, Communist faction]] The point of my amendment is this: since 1 January it has been removed, well, if you can say the VAT return benefit for milk producers. This State support has been implemented for nine years and the added value law expires on 1 September. Therefore, the essence of my amendment is to extend it for one year until 1 January 2010. I'll tell you that this is 4.7 million people working here, 2 million heads of cattle, and 20 percent of these producers are producing milk. Therefore, I ask you to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u193	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to draw your attention to the 28th amendment that relates to the same subject you're talking about, but it's fully in line with the Ministry of Agrarian Policy. So I have a request: now, not to look at your revision, but the 28th revision, which is the same thing added in addition, you see, right here in this document. Please, so we'll take your positions into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u194	Mikola Vasilovich, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u195	If the 28th is accepted, then I won't. It will be accepted, I will not insist then.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u196	Well, let's go to 28, let's see. If there's no pleasure, we'll get back to you. Is there no objection? Yes. Let's move on then. Twenty-first amendment. Sergey Ribuk, are you insisting on her? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u197	But we've already voted.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u198	Twenty-first.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u199	Thank you. No, the twenty-first, reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, colleagues, we are now actively discussing, voting, but we are voting exclusively all those amendments, changes that have been in existence for many years, but one political power or economic power is ousting. We're restoring. Once again, we're going to get stuck. But what does the faction of the Party of Regions suggest now? Create an agrarian stabilization fund -- 10 billion dollars to rebuild the sectors that are being eliminated. Liquidated meat farming has been eliminated completely, and industrial dairy production has been eliminated. Pork is practically gone. We'll drive for half a billion and so on. So we insist on voting on this amendment to create a stable agricultural fund in the State for the Cabinet of Ministers. These will be anti-crisis measures, as I understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u200	Well, that's a very interesting offer. You wrote all those programs that have to be funded from the general government budget fund. So I suggest you don't create any new fund, so you forgot to show the source of the $10 billion coming to this stable fund. And when it comes to the adoption of the budget for the following year, just insist that all APC programmes are fully funded, as is the case with the transitional provisions of the Law on State Support for Agriculture. That's why the committee doesn't support it. This is a new structure without clear sources of filling it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u201	Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote amendment 21, the authors of the national MPs of Ukraine the Jury and Ribuk, and please vote. [[11:51:46]] For – 188 Correction not supported. Yeah, we're moving on. Amendment to the 22nd. Sergey Rybuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u202	I don't insist on 22nd.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u203	The 23rd? Ibid. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u204	This is exactly, Your Honor Vladimir Mikhailovich and colleague, this amendment, the 23rd, and it answers the question: where do you get the sources for filling up the stable agricultural fund? If there's a half percent of the revenue, we're going to have not even 10 billion dollars, we're going to have about 18 billion dollars. So that's exactly how the Cabinet of Ministers and the Ministry can regulate and get out of this long-standing APC crisis. I insist on this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u205	I have a proposition for you of a different nature: the next bill - on payment balance - the last article, the last article says that not 0.5 percent, but 12 percent of the allowance, 13 percent of all the allowances go to the stabilisation fund. [[Mr. Ribub, listen to me.]] Let's write in the next law, "including the needs of the APC," and get out of the way. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u206	Dear colleagues. Microphone, please, Ryzuka.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u207	I insist that national MPs be determined regarding this amendment, which was rejected by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u208	The vote is amended as number 23, and the authors are the Jury and the Ribuk. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u209	The committee does not support this. [[11:54:06]] For – 200 Correction not accepted. Correction of the 24th. Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u210	Simonenko, the Communist faction. I ask my colleagues to support my amendment because it is a radical amendment to prevent the negative effects of the financial crisis on the development of the agri-industrial complex. What and what problems do I face? First, to ban the sale of agricultural land by 1 January 2012 until we are out of the crisis. And only then will the Supreme Council consider these proposals. Next, to suspend the Ukrainian Act, which ratified the protocol for Ukraine's entry into WTO. It's not just a case to consider, it's a principle to resolve the question of pause, and thus protect our manufacturers. And the third proposal is to provide a government order for 50 percent of the gross agricultural production. So we're stabilizing the situation, and the state will have a basis for food security, and the peasants will have a strong relationship with the state, not with the mobsters who are taking jobs from our peasants today. And lastly, our amendment, and we need to look at it because.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u211	Let me finish. Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u212	Unfortunately, this project, which we're looking at right now, is more, let's say, addressing the problem of the manufacturer and the processor, which is some clans, not the interests of the state and the agro-industrial complex. So, Your Honor, I ask you to support these very radical changes, they will solve many other issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u213	Thank you. John Kirilenko in this regard, then Sergey Tereshuk and Smituch.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u214	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, reverend Peter Mikolaiovich! We have a moratorium, if we talk about the first part of this amendment, the moratorium works and goes on for the next year, and just until we adopt two key laws. Until we accept them and accept them, the moratorium continues to work. If we vote on this whole amendment, colleagues, well, we have to understand that the veto is 100 percent guaranteed. And it will be impossible to overcome the veto in this room, but we see what the timetable of the political forces. Let's not lose the law! Peter Mikolaiovich, I'm sorry, our faction cannot vote. The moratorium continues to work, and let it work until we adopt laws. The other positions that are offered here, well, you know, the veto is provided 100%. We will not overcome and bury the law that the village needs. I'm sorry we don't support the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u215	Thank you. Sergei Tereshuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u216	Dear colleagues, Ivan Grigorovich is right in the sense that the moratorium will act before the adoption of two basic laws: “For the land market” and the State Land cadastre. But agree, fellow believers, that these two laws do not solve all the problems in land relations. Until all lands have been inventoryd, no moratorium can be imposed today. We're going to adopt these two laws as soon as possible, they've already passed the committee, but we still need to do inventory. So we also propose that Peter Mikolaiovich's amendment be supported in this particular part to continue the moratorium. And put it to a separate vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u217	Yes, Smudge, please. Then there's Aunt Drought.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u218	Vladimir Mikhailovich, we considered on the committee this amendment by Simonek Peter Mikolaiovich and part of it. I want to express my personal point of view. And Part 1, which states: “Foresee a ban on the sale of agricultural land by 1 January. 12 years," my point of view is to support it. Why? Because it's a very big crisis right now, and you know that the village is in such a state that there's every reason to be afraid that the state should take measures to make it impossible for a bunch of land to land. So I ask you to put this amendment in part 1 separately if the whole amendment is not accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u219	Aunt Drought, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u220	I support Peter Simonek only in the event that he may today manipulate the village and the villagers in connection with the crisis. That's why I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u221	Dear colleagues, this was the offer. Obviously, I'm going to put this amendment to the vote entirely. If there's an insistence, I can put it in pieces. If there's insistence. Well, I'll put it all on first. That's right.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u222	There's gonna be a veto!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u223	So I'm voting on the amendment of 24 Peter Simonek. [[11:59:04]] For – 54 The solution. The factions, please. Region Party – 1, "Club of Timoshenko" – 3, "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" – 5, Communists – 27, "Club of Lithuania" – 18. Now, dear fellows, I will put to the vote parts as the MPs insisted. I read: “Recast the ban on the sale of agricultural land by 1 January 2012”. Please vote. [[11:59:44]] For – 199 Correction not accepted. For the faction, please. The Party of Regions – 141, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko” – 7, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” – 5, Communists – 27, “Clocus of Lithuania” – 19. Now I'm putting the second part to the vote. What? I'll bet on the parts. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I'm asking for your attention! Part two: “Stop the act of Ukrainian Act No. 50-6 which ratified the Penalty until Ukraine enters WTO”. Please determine by vote. [[12:00:34]] For - 29. The factions, please. Region Party – 0, “Club of Timoshenko” – 1, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” – 1, Communists – 27, “Clocus of Lithuania” – 0. I would like to vote on part of the amendment: “Recast the government order for 50 per cent of the gross agricultural production”. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u224	That means two and a half annual budgets. [[12:01:07]] For – 197
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u225	Thus, respectable colleagues, the amendment is not supported in general or in parts. One minute, I'm the author of the amendment. Peter Simonenko. Then Kirilenko and Smithyuk. And we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u226	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! The key question is the earth. That's why I'd like to go back to you fellows: understand that the land is our country, the land is your own village, it's yours, we say, loved ones and relatives who live there. In this situation as well as in property, with our factories, factories, we will allow ourselves to do the same with the earth. What, do we want the same earth to be divided only between oligarchs and foreign hosts? Yes, no! So I suggest this is the key to this amendment to vote. Foresaw a ban on the sale of land, agricultural land by 1 January 2012. I ask you to return to this amendment and vote again. That's the key question.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u227	Ivan Kirilenko. Then the national MP, Smithukh. And we will be determined by vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u228	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, reverend Peter Mikolaiovich! The faction will support such a proposal to avoid the veto, we don't know what the political timetable will be in two weeks when the law returns to the hall if it's dedicated. We're gonna bury the whole law. We offer a compromise. To avoid the veto. Clearly, the following year the earth’s market should not have any apiori! The collapse was complete and the price fell, and so on. For a year, I continue the moratorium. The faction votes with certainty, all in favor. For a year.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u229	Thank you. National MP Smithukh.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u230	Ivan Grigorovich, will be vetoed.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u231	Dear colleagues, we're considering the law, we're not looking at the veto right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u232	Dear Mr. Terrohin, you should not fear the President for vetoing! I propose to return to this amendment. Because not all MPs have understood the mode in which we vote. And to support this amendment in part one with regard to the prohibition of land. And to scare us by the President's veto, that's not exactly a constructive position for today. If the President vetoes, let him take responsibility then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u233	Let me give you a quick answer. I don't want to frighten anyone by the President. Because you won't frighten anyone by the President. That's the first one. Secondly, I remind you that recently there was a decree on the first-line measures the government should take. Thus, the decree states that since January 1, without even adopting the laws that you, John Grigorovich spoke of, have introduced the full sale of uncontrollable land. So, listen to Kirilenko, without two laws, we've made a decision here, without two laws there can be no sale. If we write this article down here, see what happens, we'll bury the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u234	Dear colleagues, let's do it this way. Offers were made. First sentence: To return to the review of this amendment, please pay attention and vote on it, i.e. the moratorium until January 1, 2012. The second was a compromise proposal, until January 1, 2010. I'm going to put it to a vote in this sequence. First, however, regarding the return to consideration of the amendment to the prohibition on the sale of agricultural land. On returning to the consideration of the amendment. Please vote. On returning to the consideration of this amendment. [[12:05:02]] For – 231 We're back to the debate. Now the first amendment of Peter Mikolaiovich Simonek. Prohibiting the sale of agricultural land by January 1, 2012. Please vote. [[12:05:33]] For – 221 Correction not supported. The proposal to amend the voting is as follows: “Recast the ban on the sale of agricultural land by 1 January 2010”. Please vote. [[12:06:05]] For – 347 Correction accepted. Let's move on. Let's move on. Correction. The factions, please. Region Party - 169, Timoshenko Block - 122, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" - 9, Communists - 27, "Block of Lithuania" - 20. Amendment 25. No warning? It's counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u235	Counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u236	You don't? Let's move on. Amendment 26, do you agree?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u237	Basically, it's counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u238	Amendment 27, Sergey Tereshuk, do you agree?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u239	We have already voted.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u240	Amendment 28 Catherine Vaschuk and Sigala, no objection?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u241	28, I remind you, we agreed.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u242	We voted 28.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u243	No, no. We voted 15th.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u244	No, no.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u245	We voted on the 15th.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u246	Katerina Vaschuk's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u247	Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is essentially about the value added tax. You know, it's the only help from the state that's come to every producer. Because those twenty percent of the value added was not paid, and the peasant was given as a subsidy to the price by processing companies. It's not working today. If we cancel it, like Kravchenko used to do here, the village loses a lot of money. We're not going to get that in the budget for this crisis. We agree that the STO limit will be extended to this benefit. We're not going to have that kind of money in the budget anymore, but on number 28, I'm asking you, dears, to support everyone else, because otherwise all peasants will not get twenty percent.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u248	Vladimir Mikhailovich, you know, after the previous vote, I personally ask you to support the editorial that Catherine Timofievna gave.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u249	Dear colleagues, here we go. Please record Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk. No, no, there's not a vote yet, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u250	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. I'm sorry, Your Honor, but I want for the transcript that we are voting on the 28th amendment, not the one in the text, but the one in the appendix to our table.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u251	Yeah. The amendment is voted in a new edition, it's for the stenographer. I'll put it to a vote, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u252	Please be supportive. [[12:09:13]] For – 408
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u253	Correction accepted. Dear colleagues, in order for us to continue our work during the break, I ask that we now announce a recess.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u254	So there's two.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u255	Your Honor, no.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u256	There's two revisions and that's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u257	If you insist, but let's do it this way.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u258	No, there's basically two revisions. Yeah, the rest of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u259	Dear colleagues, there are still many amendments and they will insist and we are forced to vote. So I'd like to talk now about what we've already accepted. Find a coordinated position. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 40 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u260	Dear colleagues, we continue our morning plenary session. We've stopped at Amendment 29, and the author of the amendment, Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, insists on taking it into account? Please, it's Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u261	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense. Ladies and gentlemen, this is an anti-crisis action. This amendment refers to the fact that this point, where it is provided, has the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to provide, also to entrust the Cabinet of Ministers with ensuring the construction of the necessary number of electors, including through the DAC “Ukrainian Bread”. I mean, this year our country has made an amazing record crop, won, and now we have nowhere to hide it. Let us see what happened in the days of the king who loved to remember. The five - year reserve was held back then, now we can't, the annual reserve's nowhere to go. So building the elevators is going to be an anti-crisis action that will provide the builders, all of them, with the work and the grain, and then we can.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u262	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u263	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, I am addressing the national MPs. Then we'll be players in this market, the grain market, if we build the elevators now and save the grain, next year we won't have the same crop as we do now, and Ukraine will be able to use its capabilities, and our export potential will be grain and its products, processing products, including the livestock that we now support, agriculture, animals, birds and so on. So I'd like to take this amendment into account, because it's just a government assignment, it's not the norm of something as specific as it is, but it's the support of an agri-industrial complex. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u264	Sergey Anatoliyovich, please explain to the rejection committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u265	This rule cannot be adopted, as it is the norm of budgetary legislation, once again I call for such an initiative to be made when considering the State budget of Ukraine for the second and third readings.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u266	I'm putting to the vote Amendment 29 of Deputies Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u267	The committee does not support this. [[12:43:39]] For - 24 Correction not supported. The next amendment is the 30th People’s Deputy of Kirilenko and Teryochin. The committee suggests that we take it into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u268	It is counted, already voted in another edition.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u269	It is not yet counted, and the committee recommends that it be taken into account. I ask the Ukrainian National Deputies: Is there any objection to taking this amendment into account?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u270	Yeah, we've voted the 15th amendment already, which is relevant to this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u271	Next, Sergey Anatolyevich, please. Next, the 31st amendment of the People's Deputy Dry. Is he insisting? Please, the Suhimu microphone. Don't insist. Amendment No. 32 is the People’s Deputy of Jury. Partially counted. Is there an insistence on taking into account another editorial? Please, Sergey Mikolaiovich Ribuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u272	I'd like to ask the reporter to explain that there's a partial account of what's going on here because they've taken a hard look at it, and they haven't counted it, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u273	We gave the general standard in the last, well, transitional positions so that the Cabinet of Ministers, at the time of the submission of the State Budget, will fully comply with the final part of the Law on State Support for Agriculture. You remember that after years, the amount of allocations to go to the agrarian fund and to the green and yellow boxes was written down. So it's all there, we're just there. They don't, i.e. four years, they don't. And we said that this year it would have to be done. So it's absorbed even more.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u274	The Microphone of the People's Deputy of Rížuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u275	Okay. We agree with that position. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u276	Accepts the amendment. Amendment No. 33 of the Sigal People's Deputy and the Rijuk People's Deputy. National MP Sigal, is there a denial?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u277	It's counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u278	It's included in the bill for the next 3379. I'd like to draw your attention to that all the rest of the right up. [[Now I'll tell you.]]
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u279	Sergey Anatolyevich, hold on a second. National MP Sigal does not object to being included in another draft law. People's deputy Ribhub.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u280	Rybuk, faction of the Party of the Regions. I don't deny it. What the next bill considered and strengthened was this position. But we are now adopting an anti-crisis law on the agro-industrial complex. And we know that it was imported by the government of Timoshenko into half a billion dollars of non-quality animal products. So why can we not restore, as other nations have done, to set up bets that protect our domestic producer, as well as birds and not just birds? We must return the 02 Group to the previous one, which is in force by the Customs Tariff Act. Because non - quality products have flooded the market, and domestic products are not bought because they are uncompetitive. Let's vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u281	I repeat that it is not.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u282	Sergei Anatolyevich, please. Ukraine’s national MP, who amended it, insists on voting in the draft law.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u283	All right, I'll make a comment on behalf of the committee in accordance with the Rules. Once again, all issues relating to the restriction of imports are now being considered in accordance with international procedures agreed upon in 3379, which will be followed by this bill. If we write it as proposed by the Ribuk people's deputy here, it would be a violation of international procedures and international agreements. If we write in another position, but with the same effect as National Deputy Ribuk wants, 3379, we, we have no claims. And we don't have anyone. reverse measures will not be available on our exports.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u284	I put to the vote amendment number 33 of the national deputies of Sigal and Rijuk. I'd like to make a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u285	Sigal got it. [[12:48:43]] For – 187
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u286	Correction not supported. The next amendment, number 34, of the Karmazin People’s Deputy, was also postponed. National MP Carmazin agrees? People's MP's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u287	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, this is about an amendment that supports the point of view that has already been expressed and the argument made by the national deputy Ribhub. I think it's the right point of view and, Sergey Anatolyevich, let's agree with it. All the members, the countries, the members of the WTO today are saved as much as possible. And only Ukraine is always shouting that we are doing what we have to do. As far as we are concerned, will someone live up to his obligations? We've been banned for wheat, we've been banned. And we, you see, are dealing with everyone. Thus, the amendment is based on the Ukrainian Customs Tariff Act, which states: The 02m Yaso Group and the Food Sub-products apply the import duty rates established by the Ukrainian Customs Tariff Act, which were in force on January 1, 2008. And I'm asking you, we're separated for lunch, you know, for a break.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u288	Sergei Anatolyevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u289	Well, I'll only pay attention to what he wrote. Him. Last sessional week, we passed the Customs Tariff Act in a new edition, taking into account the President's proposals. Now a national MP. National Deputy Carmazin, I give you my answer. Now you're suggesting that we set up 10 percent of the charge for the 02nd group, which is to open the borders. We passed the law. Open you suggest, because 3379 is going to go 13 percent on the current rates at the customs rate. You say butter, let's apply 10 percent, which is in the customs tariff. And so. So, well, at least we'll find out what you wrote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u290	I'm voting on Amendment 34 of People's Deputies Karmazin. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:51:17]] For 13 The decision is not taken. Next amendment by national deputy Smituh Grigori Yudkoymovich. Please, microphone to the People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u291	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, my amendment was made when Law 3353 was still under consideration, and then Law 3979 was passed, which, of course, was logical as my amendment to take into account Law 3379. And I agree with that and thank you for the committee's amendment. As far as I have read the law, my amendment is included. If we vote. But at the same time, I would like to remind you of the next factor. When we ratified Ukraine’s entry into the WTO in the spring, you remember that the ratification of this agreement did not take place with the greatest benefit of the majority. Now we're correcting the mistakes that were made at the time. Created, of course, and by your participation. And now there are questions like Carmazin and other deputies, and they say that Ukraine doesn't have to protect its market. Therefore, if such a situation has arisen today, it is not too bad that Ukraine may return and temporarily impose restrictions. So I think in the next bill that we're going to consider, we're going to put points on these accents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u292	Thank you. That's absolutely right. By the way, all of this applies to the rest of the line. It's down to 45 in 3379. I'm the only one who, as Deputy Terjehohin, would ask the Smythech MP not to look for who Rabbinovich is. Since this is the question, this is the standard number two, the first, the twenty-fourth group was signed, I remind you again, in 2003, at the end of the government of Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic. The protocols are all signed then. Let's not look.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u293	Grigory Yudkomovich, don't you insist on voting? The Microphone of the people's delegate, Smittuh.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u294	I don't insist, because my amendment has been taken into account, it has a significant impact on the following bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u295	Thank you. The following amendment is made by the 36 national deputies Sigala, Carmazin and Rijuk. The same: Transfer is proposed. Acceptable authors of the amendment?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u296	It's included in the next project.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u297	They don't deny it. Amendment No. 37 of the People's Deputies of Rizuk. That's the same. Are you insisting, Sergey Mikolayovich? The Microphone to the People's Deputy Ribuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u298	The profile committee will take this into account in bill 3379, so I can only say hello. But time goes on and on. I'm not sure what we're going to look at here next, but what is the point? You know, as long as we're in this debate, we're still carrying rains, bladders, stomachs, and other nutrients. And we're going to be transferring, transferring and transferring the bill. Okay, I agree, but that's my line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u299	Amendment No. 38 of the People's Deputy Tereshuk. Is he insisting? Please, microphone to the People's Deputy Tereshuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u300	Dear Sergey Anatolyovich! Sergey Anatolyevich! Your argument can be agreed that these amendments, both Rijuika and mine, will be included in the next bill. But when I opened Bill 3379, the proposal is to introduce the customs into the cart of apples -- those Polish apples that flooded our market. There's a reference to Law 3379. I'm opening Law 3379 -- in this law, this law should pass it on to Law 3306. So tell me, will it vote in Law 3379 or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u301	We're both going to decide, because, you know, you're not changing the time frame, you're changing the time frame. If you agree, then you just have to remove any term from this position, then one bet is going to work -- that's a big one. We can do it in the next law. But more logically, it's 3306. But we can do the next one. Let's make a proposal, we'll vote for it. Yes, because the proposal for content is correct, what you give.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u302	National MP Tereshuk agrees that we are not voting now. Yeah? I see. Amendment No. 39 of the Vasuk People's Deputies. Catherine Timothy. Please, it's Catherine Timothy's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u303	Here comes my two sugars. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you very much to pay attention: in view of the fact that we have allowed WTO to import 270,000 tons of cane sugar into Ukraine, we have collapsed the entire agricultural sector. So I ask you very much to support the 39th amendment, in particular Group 17 and in the 40th edition to make such an amendment that this law takes effect as of 1 January 2012. So for two years, we're going to postpone importing sugar cheese into Ukraine until we get our sugar production.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u304	Please, Sergey Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u305	Katerina Timofievna, on the 39th hand, all your comments are included in Law 3379, which introduces restrictions. That's why she doesn't have to vote here. It's sugar-sparing. Well, you know that's in the protocol that we ratified. And how the lawyers explained to us that even if we wrote that position down here, we would have, in accordance with the Constitution, the rules of international priority. So you can vote, but this rule is going to be ineffective. I have a request: 39th you shoot, then we'll look at the next law, and 40th, I'll tell you what's going to happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u306	Catherine Timofievna, please agree that this amendment will not be put to the vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u307	I insist. I insist on the vote of the 40th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u308	39th is now under review.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u309	Where we postpone the right to import sugar-sort into Ukraine for 2 years and the previous one into the next law. Dear National Deputies! To your knowledge, today the countries of the European Union, without consulting the WTO members, have increased their substantial export subsidies to Ukraine, which they will import. We're not responding at all. They accept what they want, and we're very obedient and we're burying our manufacturer. I'm asking you to support the 40th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u310	Honorable National MPs, Amendment 39 is not voted on, and it is passed on by the subject of the legislative initiative. I'm voting on Amendment 40 of the People's Deputies of Vaschuk. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:59:19]] For – 129 Correction not supported. Next amendment No.41 of the Vasuk People's Deputies. Catherine Timothy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u311	And we voted on the 28th of the same content.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u312	We voted, honourable national MPs, the 28th. All I want is for the record. Sergei Anatoliyovich, we voted on paragraphs 11, 21 of article 11, please. It's here so we don't forget it 6.2.6.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u313	Catherine Timothy, are you insisting on amendment 41 or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u314	No, that's where it's accounted for.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u315	No, it's not. I see. Amendment No. 42 of the people's representative of Tkacha. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u316	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! Dear Sergey Anatolyovich! Dear fellow MPs! We took a good step with you when in the so-called great anti-crisis law, we adopted a zero VAT rate for purebred cattle. The amendment proposes to take another step, including making the same VAT rate for equipment for animal complexes that are not produced in Ukraine. I think it's going to be very good, because today, about 5 million of that headhead in Ukraine -- about 80 percent of it is grown in private farms. We don't actually have modern animal complexes today. So I'd like to ask you to support this amendment. I'm also talking to my colleagues from the faction of the Party of the Regions. Your colleague Prutnik also made some adjustments. So I'm going to ask you to put it to a vote and support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u317	I remind you. I don't object to the idea, but I remind you that your editing technique doesn't allow you to use it, because if you want to put up such a temporary benefit, you have to put in the OCT code. As you put it, you can drive cars and computers and anything. So please see what is being offered. Bill on Thursday, 3306. Please put in the codes of the U.K.C., agree with the Ministry of Agrarian Policy and the Ministry of Economics. No problem at all. Yes, on Thursday.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u318	I'm voting on Amendment 42 of the People's Deputy Twacha. I'd like to make up my mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u319	Well, you can't do that. [[13:02:08]] For – 72
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u320	Correction not supported. The next amendment is number 43, the National Deputies of the Jury and the Red Rijuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u321	Well, we took those positions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u322	a proposal for a transfer to another bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u323	We accepted the purebred cattle in the antichrist.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u324	Sergey Anatoliyovich, please tell the legislators who made the amendment first. National MP Ribhub, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u325	Thank you. I read in our table, which is rejected and not subject to law. I didn't see. But I think Sergey Anatolyovich will agree with the Supreme Council that we have tribal purebred animals. This is to be thanked to those who will buy and import them, and of course to be exempt from taxation, because it's a currency for the state, for the APC. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u326	That's me.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u327	Are you insisting on the vote, Sergey Mikolayovich? Yeah?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u328	Wait, wait, wait! What is this order of conduct?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u329	Please turn off the microphone on the stand. Sergey Mikolayovich, do you insist on voting your bill?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u330	I ask that Sergey Anatoliyovich explain where this question is involved, since I do not see it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u331	Please explain.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u332	I remind you that we passed the anti-crisis law for the first time. And your amendment, this package, was there, including your treatment of purebred cattle. We voted and supported it. That's the law. There is. With regard to other proposals, we accepted the 28 Caterina Vaschuk and Sigala, we just voted where the second part is included.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u333	He doesn't insist on voting. Amendment No. 44 of the People's Deputy Tereshuk. Do you insist on voting? Microphone, please, People's Deputy Yuschuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u334	I wanted to ask Sergei Anatoliovich if he didn't pass.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u335	No, it's not. Because it's a matter of budget code and budgetary procedure. So we can't look at it here.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u336	Don't insist. Amendment number 45, People's Deputy Ribhub. Please, the MP's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u337	Thank you. Rybuk, faction of the Party of the Regions. Here I think that, Sergey Anatolyevich, they should definitely be supportive. We have 117 distillery manufacturers who have to pay 780,000 dollars for production and plus 500,000 dollars for implementation. That is, those who produce and implement domestic goods are punished twice. But we only have 18 of those licenses bought out of 117. And if the state even sold all these licenses, it would have 50 million. And if we're going to do what we're going to do now, here's the Party of Regions, and I'm going to do it myself to get manufacturing licenses for our own production, then we figured out that the budget gets 580 million plus all 117 enterprises are going to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u338	Please comment to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u339	I would like to point out that this issue is being considered today in the list of so-called budget laws that amend the Law on State Regulations and the arounds of vodka and tobacco products. And it's broader, so not only this discreet problem, but also, let's say, the problem of licensing retail trade, the problem of product accounting, and so on. I'd like to ask you a lot, we're going to issue on Thursday in the last reading, if we adopt today in the first, on Thursday we're going to pass this general law on the regulation. Let's put it there, it's right. But it does not apply to this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u340	Sergey Mikolayovich, do you agree with the removal of the amendment?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u341	I strongly disagree, because why are we now considering this law when all of our proposals are proposed to be transposed into another bill that was long overdue. That's the first one. The other one. As far as I know, Sergey Anatolyevich, that you personally made excise offers to these goods for how many times, and for alcohol, which is in our wine industry, 700 times. So our wine industry in general is going to be destroyed in a direct sense. Then I fear that we, peasants and winemakers, will not be deceived or deceived. Again, we will drink more expensive vodka, who drinks it, and wine will not be competitive. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u342	I'm voting on Amendment 45 of the People's Deputies of Rizuk. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:07:36]] For – 178 Correction not supported. Next amendment No. 46 of the People's Deputy Tereshuk. Do you insist on voting, or do you agree with the transfer?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u343	We're transferring it to the next bill. Don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u344	Don't insist. Amendment No. 47 of the Prutnik People's Deputies. Is he insisting? Don't insist. Amendment No. 48 of the People's Deputies of the Jury and the People's Deputies of the Red Rijuk are counted in. You don't agree with that, do you? You agree. Amendment No. 49 of the People's Deputy is rejected. Is there an insistence? Please turn on the Microphone of the Wooden People's Deputy. Don't insist. So we've considered all the amendments, some of them have been taken into account, and I'm voting on the adoption of draft Law No. 3353 on amending some of the laws of Ukraine to prevent the negative effects of the global financial crisis on the development of the agro-industrial complex, and I'm asking you to identify yourself. [[13:09:04]] For – 262 Decision taken. I have a question for Sergey Anatoliyovich Teryochin, after voting part of the amendments, or there is a need for this bill to work on a third reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u345	No, there isn't.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u346	None.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u347	No, we're just going to have to conduct legal proceedings, because the regulations have to be linguistic, the regulations have to be contacted.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u348	Please, the microphone of People's Deputy Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u349	Honourable Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues, thank you to all the national deputies who supported the law that the village had dreamed of for fifteen years. Unique standards. In fact, after that we will feel that agriculture can be the engine of the Ukrainian economy. One of the only amendments we need to determine right now is that we're going to have two rules on the land market. The first rule is the moratorium until 2010, until 01.01, and the second rule, which has not been repealed, the moratorium will continue until two laws have been passed: cadastre and land market. This is to avoid the President's veto on this bill, and we understand that the veto can be unstoppable after today's vote. This requires that one standard and another be brought together. Moratorium before 01.01.2010 and the phrase “adopts the land market after the adoption of two laws by the Supreme Council”. Then we avoid the veto. I'd like to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u350	Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko proposes a third reading of this project to work and bring it into line.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u351	No, no.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u352	Now we've already approved on the second reading, and I'm asking the question: is there a need for harmonization of norms? The rules provide, if necessary, for a third reading and are being prepared for the third reading of the project. Is there a need? I'm asking again.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u353	I won't.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u354	Are you insisting?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u355	None. The committee's asking for a general meeting.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u356	There are other national MPs, Sergey Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u357	We have a draft decision on adoption as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u358	I'm putting draft Act No. 3353 amending some of Ukraine's laws to prevent the negative effects of the global financial crisis on the development of an agri-industrial complex as a whole. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:11:53]] For – 263 Decision taken. Let's move on to the next draft of the agenda. The factions, please, on the board. A bill to amend some laws of Ukraine is under consideration in order to improve Ukraine’s balance of payments in connection with the global financial crisis. Reporter Terjehohin Sergey Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u359	Thank you. This is the law that we've been talking about today regarding temporary restrictions on imports of certain products that have shown an enormous increase in the last 11 months. The initiator of the interim procedure is Kabmin, who develops and submits to the Supreme Council a project containing a list of goods. Income derived from the introduction of a temporary allowance is proposed to refer to a stabfond. The bill’s standards are aimed exclusively at restoring balance of payments and do not provide for the creation of protectionist advantages for a particular sector. In the drafting of the draft for second reading, a thorough discussion was held on the committee, allowing it to be further elaborated, inter alia, in line with the basic principles of the European Union. Another revision according to the first reading based.?? on customs statistics, it was deemed appropriate to establish, increase the rate of the Temporary Allowance to valid import duty rates to 13 per cent of the customs value of goods and statistics, customs statistics for 11 months. It is predicted that the list of critical imports is approved by the Cabinet of Ministers, with the exception of certain goods whose codes are clearly defined by the bill's rules, we are currently having a discussion about these codes in the drafting of the previous law. As a result of the Committee's consideration, it was decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine should be adopted as a whole, in the second reading and as a whole, Bill 3379 with editorial rights of the General Legal Authority.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u360	Thank you. Let us now consider the amendments made to the draft law. Amendment No. 1 of the People's Chamber of Saints. Urged to Consider the Amendment?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u361	No! No!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u362	Don't insist. Amendment No. 2 of the People's Deputy Teryohin is counted. There is no objection to taking this amendment into account? None. Amendment No. 3 of the People's Deputy Teryohin. Partially counted. Sergey Anatolyovich, don't you insist?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u363	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u364	Amendment No. 4 of the People's Chamber of Saints. Are you insisting? No, it's not. Amendment No. 5 of the Holy People's Deputy counts. Are there any objections to counting? None. Amendment No. 6 of the People's Deputy Tereshuk, partially counted. Do you agree with consideration?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u365	Yes, I agree.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u366	It's okay. Amendment No. 7 of the Varapaev People's Deputy, partially counted. Do you agree? It's okay. Thank you. Amendment No. 8 of the Holy People's Deputy is taken into account in substance. Do you agree with that? It's a Saints national MP, isn't it?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u367	Agreed.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u368	I'm good. Amendment No. 9 of the People's Deputy Teryochina is counted. Is there no objection? None. Amendment No. 10 of the People's Chamber of Saints has been rejected. The MP's microphone is a Saint.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u369	I don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u370	Don't insist. Amendment No. 11 of the People's Deputy Teryochina is counted. Is there no objection? None. Amendment No. 12 of the Voropeiev People's Deputies is rejected. Are you insisting?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u371	I insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u372	Do you insist on voting?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u373	I insist on this amendment. I would therefore like to say the following.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u374	Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u375	I fully agree that the Supreme Council, on the proposal of the Cabinet of Ministers, introduces such a temporary procedure for six months. I do not understand why the Cabinet of Ministers has extended this term for the next six months on its own initiative without the consent of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I believe that in this case we are depriving the Supreme Council of the legislative initiative. That's why I insist on my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u376	I'd like to comment. This law doesn't prohibit the Supreme Council from making a decision at any time, let's say it's not six months, it's twelve months. Just imagine a situation where six months if we adopt this law ends on July 1st, and you and I go to a warm country. Who will be. We have to keep going, so we can only do this in the next session. So that doesn't deny the competence of the people's deputies at any time to change that term. But it does make sure that something happens to our work or that we block the rostrum again. You got it. It's a plus, not a limitation of competence.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u377	Dear colleagues! The vote is amended by 12 of our colleague Voropeyeva. [[1:17:41]] For – 177 Correction not supported. Amendment 13, Dmitri Saints, do you insist on it?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u378	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u379	Teriochina is counted. 15th, accounted for. The 14th? Teriochina. Please, Mikola Kruglov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u380	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that by amendment 13, paragraph 3.7.7, paragraph 2, we authorize the Cabinet of Ministers to change and cancel the temporary allowance, which is the prerogative of the Supreme Council alone, as the law on external economic activity says. Obviously cancel, we're saying that yes, maybe, but change, there's no such right in the Cabinet of Ministers. That's why I would like, as we talked to you, to be scrutinized, because "change" is what we take from the Supreme Council is constitutional law.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u381	Mikola Petrovich, you're absolutely right to say it's a mistake, it's a mistake not to change, it's not something that can be promoted, it can be reduced and cancelled, that's what you said. Given what I'm saying about the transcript, the word "change" is going to change into the word "decrease," it's going to be a mistake.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u382	Mikola Petrovich takes this approach, so let's move on. 15th Amendment, Dmitri Światash, taken into account editorially. How's that?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u383	It's fine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u384	Yes, 16th staged. 17th Sergey Tereshuk, rebuffed, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u385	I don't insist, no.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u386	Don't insist. Correction of the 20th, national deputies Sigal and Carmazin. Sigal, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u387	Dear colleagues, I ask you to consider the substance of this amendment. The point is that only 13 percent of the duty is taken into account, and we ask that there be at least 20 percent of the duty on meat products. In addition, there are five codes, bones, and 170,000 tons of bones have been imported into our country this year as meat and processed for sausages. So I insist that my editing be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u388	Ladies and gentlemen, I remind you that we have now passed a law that has introduced mandatory quality standards that prohibit what you say. With regard to this law, if we don't put a total allowance of this -- 13 percent in the general position, but some individual rate of duty in this law -- it's going to be seen as a charge of protectionism, and we're going to be exporting it. So today there are two: protection of the standards of the past law, and it will cost 23 percent of the time -- that's a lot. So what you are proposing is in grave conflict with our international obligations.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u389	Please, Alexander Yavorowski. Vladimir Alexandrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u390	Vladimir Yavorowski. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I am in order for this to be reflected in the transcript. I made my amendment to the third article. But just for technical reasons, she didn't get here. It's about removing palm oil from this list, which is covered by import duties, which then goes into a huge range of products that are traveling. But the committee, I'm thanking Sergio Teryohine, the committee took this into account. It's just that this isn't fixed for me. Because of that, let it be for the stenographer. But in the second reading, all of this is, and everything is in place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u391	Thank you. Dear colleagues, voter number 20, national deputies Sigal and Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u392	The committee did not support this amendment. [[13:22:18]] For -44
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u393	For 44, the amendment is not supported. 21st Amendment. Please, Mikola Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u394	Vladimir Mikhailovich, when we considered the 19th, we didn't pay any attention, and we agreed on a committee like this that in the last paragraph we're going to give a list of the goods that we're going to have to raise 13 percent in order to be able to protect. And we agreed that in order not to make a separate law, we agreed, 3385. We added, we agreed to add 11 product groups that are verified.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u395	Sound it, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u396	Yeah, it's a group of 4203, 4303, 6101, 6201, 6301, 6806, 6901, 7201, 7301, 8401 and 8501-- they're product groups that we've already broken down and we've agreed on this situation on our own committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u397	I can confirm, really, this, these positions apply to industrial production. So there's no, yes, there's what's produced in us, and there's an 11-month increase in imports by 50 percent or more. So I don't know why it's technically not. Technically, what's going on is not. I'd like to support this position. There's a stenographer, we can add them in legal work.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u398	Dear colleagues, there are no warnings. Is there no need to vote then?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u399	No, let's vote just in case.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u400	Well, now we don't vote if it's okay and no one insists on voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u401	All right, all right.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u402	Don't you insist?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u403	No, it's fine, it says.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u404	Yeah, the 21st amendment works, the accounting is, the 22nd is counted, the 23rd. 22nd Amendment, right? What's that? 22nd, please, microphone. Dmitry Saints.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u405	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, first of all, about the 22nd amendment, which is written as being counted, I want to say that it was not considered at the committee meeting. And we voted, and we supported another text in the right column. Secondly, the last decree on the listing of critical imports was repealed in 2000 by Prime Minister Yushchenko. At the request of the WTO, the concept of “critical imports” was excluded from Ukrainian legislation. So please put this amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u406	Let me explain. If we apply the first-reading mechanism, the sanctions of the Committee on Balance of Payments to Ukraine will be applied immediately. Why? Because the general rule of Article 12 of the GAT says that if a country imposes an import allowance for the purpose of restoring the balance of payments, the country has to set up all positions except for those who consume citizens, manufacture products and so-called critical imports, such as gas, oil, uranium tablets, and so on. So this is the only way that countries that are part of the Committee on Balance of Payments Restrictions do not put Ukraine's claim on the table. If this is done, I warn you, these bets will be cancelled immediately. And this law will be a piece of cake. So we're not going to get anything.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u407	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's do this. The argument, the argument of the amendment, is a minute, and the position of the committee is a minute. Because we can't convince each other. But according to the rules, I am voting on Amendment 22, by Sergio Terjohin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u408	For, for, for, for, for, for, for, Without that, the law doesn't work.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u409	Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u410	All right, we can close. [[13:26:53]] For – 194 Dear colleagues, I'd like your attention. Let's get to the end. If there's any pressure, we'll keep working. Take it easy. Amendment 23, National Deputy Voropeyev. Is that really what you want to take into account? People's MP Davidenko, 24. No warning? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u411	I don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u412	None. Yeah. National MP Boguslaev, 25th Amendment. Don't you insist?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u413	I was told.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u414	We agreed on a committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u415	Twenty-six, Smitch. Counted. Is everything okay? Microphone, please, Smith.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u416	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I address all the national deputies and our listeners. I repeat that in the spring of this year, the Supreme Council of Ukraine ratified the Agreement on Ukraine's Entry, WTO accession, resulting in significant losses to Ukraine's economic potential – agriculture, industry and so on. In the same way, she opened up borders that enabled her to bring all the useless goods here. So now, by saving the situation, the government is bringing about today’s eye, including the situation that we are correcting. changes are made to customs tariffs and so on. I want you to note that in the spring, Mr. Terjochin advocated these standards for Ukraine to open borders, and now he supports this situation. So I would like him to explain what the logic is and where the economic potential of Ukraine has been in six months, that it is unable to deal with this situation?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u417	Dear colleague Smith, I remind you that in the spring we had an entirely different economic situation. Today, Ukraine’s balance of payments is defined as critical. The basis for determining the criticality of the balance of payments situation, which gives us the possibility of introducing such allowances, is the fact that the money fund is provided with a “stenba”. So today we have the right to increase the 12 articles of the GAT, to put such allowances solely in order to restore balance of payments. Unfortunately, we could not do that in the spring. And once again, two thirds of the items we're talking about today were agreed not by the government of Timoshenko, the first or the second calling, but by other governments. 13 years of this mess. I personally signed one protocol, with Japan alone, and not bad.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u418	Amendment 26 is counted. There are no other warnings. Let's move on. 27 amendments. Yuri Carmazin and Sergey Ribuk Who will act? Yuri Karmazin and Sergey Ribhug.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u419	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, the point is that each of us with you, if we want to spend 200 or 300 grams of room with each other, whether it's in the United States or anywhere else, they'll turn it around and say they can't. And we have completely opened our markets. Therefore, we offer a group of 16 ready - to - eat foods made of meat, fish, or crustaceans, mollusks, or other waterless by commodity codes of 16.01.00. 10 a.m. to 16.05. 90.30. 00 here to be subject to this law. I, Sergey Anatoliyovich, you said, in that law that is applicable to this law, 3353, or 3379. Now this is going to 3306. So tell me, please, your amendment has now been rejected, and I think we should go back to it, and here you're rejecting it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u420	They've changed now. We propose to change the critical import detection system. Of course, it's in that position. They're sausages, I understand. In those positions, yes, there will be no critical imports. However, you know that we have 80 percent of the consumption of fish products, let's say it's imports, and we can't limit the consumption of citizens right now. That's why you can't write like that. The only thing I'm suggesting is that the Cabinet of Ministers, if we go back to that edit, just doesn't bring this position into critical imports, it won't be a critical import, you know?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u421	Thank you. Sergey Ribuk, please microphone, faction of the Party of the Regions. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u422	Thank you. These proposals call to mind the proposals of the newly adopted anti-crisis law, so I'd like to support my colleague Carmazin so that we can define ourselves here. And I suggest we vote in favour of our amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u423	Well, here's the biggest food group. I mean, I'm not sure that right now with the state that we have, well, we can reduce the physical consumption of citizens. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u424	Dear colleagues, one minute!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u425	I don't care! Yes, don't cry, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u426	The Supreme Council will now give the vote a decision. The vote is amended by 27 people's deputies Karmazin-Ribug. Please vote. [[13:32:44]] For – 326 Decision taken. Amendment 28, Sergey Tereshuk, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u427	We've talked about this. We can make an offer. When we accepted, we discussed the previous bill we agreed, and I'm saying under the transcript that in this position, in this project we're going to write that the year-on-season, marketing year, let's say for apples in Ukraine, is spreading throughout the year. So there's no lowering of duty in the interseasonal.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u428	Sergei Tereshuk, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u429	Sergey Anatolyevich! One euro remains for an apple cart to Ukraine during the year. Dear colleagues! I'm asking you to support this amendment, after all. The point is that we, thank God, have blossomed apples and pears, but as we enter the WTO, we have opened up completely borders for European apples. Poland, which is subsidized generously from the euro budget today by two bracelets, will not be able to compete with them. Therefore, our request to support the editorial work, as Sergius Anatolyevich, says, is one euro over the year.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u430	Just take off the season.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u431	National MP Smytheuch, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u432	Dear colleagues! I want to give you some information about what we're talking about in Ukraine. You know that Ukraine's critical limit has not yet passed. So we're more of a drop, we're less of a product than we are. So today there is a program in Ukraine called the one - percent congregation of alcoholic beverages, which goes on to renovate, or to stimulate, support, and develop gardening, grapes, and hops. Our committee has already been introduced a few months ago, where it proposes to increase the interest rate to one and a half in order to increase this possibility, in order to increase the positive surplus of production, including apples, in Ukraine. And this will allow us to expand our jobs. So I support this proposal that today, in order to further stimulate, introduce a temporary exchange of one euro per kilogram of these apples.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u433	I'm sorry, it's not temporary, it's standard. However, there is “season” and “no season” and when “no season” is active and when “season” is reduced. So the proposal is to set up, pick up the seasons, and set the only point.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u434	Dear colleagues! Amendment 28 shall be put to the vote. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u435	Only in the paper, as I said, after the season. [[13:35:50]] For 382.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u436	Correction accepted. Amendment 29. Katerina Vaschuk microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u437	Dear colleagues! We have just, in the past law, voted on many fine standards in support of animals and other fields. We didn't do anything for the sugars, we passed it on. Now my paper predicts the same thing to do with sugar. I'm calling you data, right in front of me, that it's only twice this year, two and a half times, that more sugar has been imported into Ukraine than we have imported into ingredients, sugars, chocolate and so on. Because of this, we need to protect the internal market, protect those who grow sugar beets, they're jobs. Our factories are closed for decades each year. I'm asking you very much to support this paper on the sugar restriction due to an increase in the import duty.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u438	Yes, committee, please. One minute, position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u439	Catherine Timothy! We support your position with one observation. In accordance with the requirements of the creative practice of this law, we can only place up to four digits of code, you have a detailed position here. So let's support, but by product groups, four numbers. Okay? It's wider.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u440	Is such a proposal supported? No objections? Taking this proposal into account, I am voting on Amendment 29. Please vote. [[13:38:06]] For – 265 Correction accepted. Katerina Vashuk microphone. May I have your attention, Your Honor?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u441	Dear Sergey Anatolyovich! Dear colleagues! And at the request of my fellow MPs, I appeal once again to Sergey Anatoliyovich. Sergey Anatoliyovich, let's say that this amendment that applied to imports into Ukraine of sugar-sort sugar is still the norm that denies the right to import 270,000 tons of sugar-sert in Ukraine every year for 2 years. For at least a year! When there's such a critical situation, where there's no children of our own sugar, we have a reserve for a year and a half of our sugar, and we open borders. Let's vote anyway.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u442	Catherine Timofievna, if. You know what tomorrow is. After it's done with this law? You've read it. For 30 days, this law is directed, the notification is made by the Cabinet of Ministers, the Committee on Balance of Payments Limitation, and then, during the proceedings, the committee will consider it. These are our international agreements. If there's this amendment you're talking about, this bill will immediately be rejected. Why confuse sin with the righteous? We're still, thank you, Lord. We're increasing the total import rate by 13 percent, except for the critical rate. Give it to God so that it will be accepted.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u443	Dear colleagues! About what? All amendments have been voted on.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u444	No, it's not. Vladimir Mikhailovich, without 22 amendments, this law does not work. I'd like to go back to her because there's no mechanism without the 22nd revision in its use. So please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u445	I'll bet. May I have your attention, please? I'll bet the vote on the return to Amendment 22. Please vote. About the return. [[13:40:29]] For 266. We're back. Please again, Sergey Anatolyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u446	This amendment applies to the installation of goods that go on, I repeat, social consumption, on critical imports, on production products and so on. We've identified codes that can't be included in critical imports at any time. And these codes are definitely subject to such an allowance. However, other products are also possible, which also will not be included in critical imports and will fall under this balance-of-payment allowance. So without this amendment, we have these codes that you've defined that don't work. A request for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u447	I'm voting on Amendment 22. Change the vote. Adam Martinyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u448	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, we have returned to the vote, and we must vote. Because sometimes Sergey Anatoliyovich explains that he scares people, and they'll change their mind to vote. So I'm asking you to support the 22 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u449	I bet on the vote of Amendment 22. Please vote. I ask you to calm down, dear fellows! Please calm down. [[13:42:13]] For – 263 Correction accepted. Dear colleagues, all the adjustments. Please, by the factions. Region Party – 0, “Clock Timoshenko” – 154, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” – 62, Communists – 27, “Clock Lithuania” – 20. Kruglov Mikola Petrovich, microphone. Please prepare to vote for the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u450	Vladimir Mikhailovich, given that we've returned to the 22nd, but we've added 11 product groups to the 19th. So it's exactly the same here, 22nd. Now we have to add those 11 groups that we talked about. That's a technical question.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u451	One moment, head of the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u452	Mikolo Petrovich, you said under the transcript, we agreed, because this was the committee's decision. So from the stenogram we're moving this to the right column to the third end position.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u453	Dear colleagues, let's vote so there's no warning. That's why I'm making this proposal. Sound it again, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u454	Volodymyr Mikhailovich! We do.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u455	Just a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u456	We voted to add 11 product groups to the 19th amendment, taking into account that the 22nd came out. Now, if you include the 22nd, you automatically need to do it technically.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u457	That's right.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u458	Add the same 11. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u459	It's all right. We agreed, the committee agreed. But in order for there to be no variation, I'm putting this motion to a vote and I'm asking you to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u460	For. [[13:43:58]] For – 406
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u461	‘For’ – 406. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, all amendments considered, decisions taken are appropriate. So I put to the vote a proposal for a second reading committee and as a whole a bill amending some laws of Ukraine to improve Ukraine’s balance of payments in connection with the global financial crisis. Registration number 3379. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u462	Please be supportive. [[13:44:41]] For – 269
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u463	‘For’ — 269. Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u464	I salute everyone, a wise decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u465	The factions, please. Region Party 4, Timoshenko Yulia Block 153, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" 65, Communist faction 27, Litvina Block 20. Dear colleagues, we continue our morning session for 15 minutes. The draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law “On Priorities for Prevention” has been announced for consideration. The negative effects of the financial crisis and the changes to some Ukrainian legislation on the protection of citizens' property rights and support for domestic production. Registration numbers for draft laws 3459, 3459-1. This is a short-term review, and the Supreme Council has made this decision. Reporters: Ukrainian national deputy Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, as well as our colleague Anatoly Ivanovich Seminoga. Correspondent is head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy Sergey Teryohin. Peter Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u466	Dear colleagues, as you recall, on October 30, this year, we passed a law with you on first - priority measures to prevent the negative effects of the financial crisis. Under this law, as you may recall, Ukraine has made appropriate decisions, first of all, about the banking system. This law was backed by 182 banks, and this law practically opened the door for us to have practically Mafia clans operating in the banking system today. My project is about to make changes to this law. The fifth article makes the following point: Establish a moratorium on the acquisition of property of individuals who are mortgages or mortgages for the purposes of crediting. To suspend the operation of article 33 of the Law “On the Mortgage”, article 20 of the Law “On the Bail” if there is property of a natural person in the mortgage. What is it? Many young people, young families, have taken credits to buy housing, buy cars, and in this situation, there is a threat that if they cannot pay for unemployment, both cars and housing are taken away. Thus, they are left without property, and banks will start trading at a low price and sell themselves, corrupt schemes, and the difference will remain like a yoke on the neck of a young family. Thus, this article deals with the protection of young people who have taken credit. Article six, amending, is to prohibit financial institutions from recalculating mortgages or other loans and repayments with the principal amount of the debt for the use of the credits in question to individuals in foreign currency at a rate exceeding the official rate of the foreign currency charge set by the National Bank of Ukraine at the date of the contract. The point is that by mid - April of this year, banks had started issuing loans in dollars, and the rate was changing. So this is what we're proposing today.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u467	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u468	By making this change, we predict that the return on the loan will be at the same rate and the rate that was at the time of the contract. And the third. It's a little bit literal. In order to support our own manufacturer today, we propose in article 7 that the National Bank issue loans of less than 3 percent and commercial banks of less than 5 percent. And these loans are aimed at supporting a domestic producer, and stopping today the legacy of a banking system that destroys the principles of economic security, independence, and the destruction of small and medium-sized businesses. I'm asking the people's deputies to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u469	Thank you, Peter Mikolaiovich. National MP Anatoly Seminoga, please, from a group of deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u470	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs. The Constitution of our State guarantees our citizens the right to housing. And during the steady development of the economy, during a stable bracelet, during the energy development of the building industry, many of our fellow citizens took advantage of this right and decided to improve their living conditions at their own expense. Sadly, today, during a financial, global financial crisis, these citizens have become the most incarcerated. It's about the citizens who set up their dwellings, taking credit for the housing they live in. It's not about law firms, it's not about entrepreneurs who have some income on it. It's about the place where you live. My bill, a more faithful bill by a group of national deputies, proposes a moratorium on the alienation of this residence by commercial banks on the non-refundation of the loan. This moratorium is proposed for a period of financial crisis. This period is determined by the Cabinet of Ministers. I propose to support this bill, unfortunately, this bill is not supported by a profile committee, but a profile committee advocates the interests of bankers, and I propose to defend the interests of ordinary citizens, the citizens who today need our support under these conditions. I wouldn't deny it if we had adopted the Peter Simonek bill on the first reading, and this paragraph of my bill was written in this bill as one of the provisions of the bill, then it would be a really valid law that would allow investors to be protected from, during the financial crisis. Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u471	Thank you, too, Anatoly Ivanovich. The committee will be represented by a deputy chairman of the Bondarev committee, since Sergey Anatoliyovich has already reported two bills, so he needs to be able to take a breath.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u472	Good afternoon, Reverend Head, distinguished colleagues. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Tax and Customs Policy at its meeting on 22 December 2008 reviewed the draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on First Action to prevent the negative effects of the financial crisis and to amend certain legislative acts. Established by the National MP Simonenko and the draft law on the protection of the property rights of citizens during the period of the economy of Ukraine from the state of financial crisis introduced by the National Deputy of Ukraine Seminoga, Shersun and Danilenko. The draft law amending the Ukrainian Act “on the first-line measures to prevent the negative effects of the financial crisis and to amend certain Ukrainian legislative acts” is proposed to supplement the Ukrainian Act “On the first-line measures to prevent the negative effects of the financial crisis and to amend certain Ukrainian legislative acts” with three new articles to provide for the following. The introduction of a moratorium on the acquisition of property of individuals who are mortgages or mortgages to form loans. In doing so, it is proposed to suspend the operation of article 33 of the Law “On the Mortgage”, article 20 of the Law “On the Zastava”, if there is property of a natural person in the mortgage. It also prohibits financial institutions from recalculating mortgages or other loans and repayments of principal amounts for the use of the credits in question to individuals in foreign currency at a rate exceeding the official exchange rate established by the National Bank of Ukraine at the date of the contract. Also, with the aim of supporting domestic and agricultural enterprises, the National Bank of Ukraine has been recommended to review the NBA account rate and set it to no more than three per cent and limit the maximum credit rate for Ukrainian producers to 5 per cent.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u473	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u474	Thank you. Also, there are a lot of very serious things that change the legislative rules for guaranteeing the repayment of loans. In fact, he raises a very serious question. Therefore, taking into account the above-mentioned committee recommended to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian law on the introduction into the Ukrainian Act of "On first-hand measures to ensure negative consequences". And also, the second law, that is, two laws and Peter Simonnka, and the Seminoga, is to reject the draft corresponding decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u475	I ask you to sign up for two "for", two "against". This should be discussed – two “for”, two “against”. And then to the vote, Peter Mikolaiovich, we're going with a reduced procedure. Names of the national MPs, please. Sergey Kiwalov, prepare Kravchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u476	None. Yes, please, Mikola Kravchenko. There's no Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u477	Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u478	Adam Martinyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u479	Dear colleagues! Dear listeners! Let's go back to the story. By the end of October, you and I had adopted the Law on the Prevention of the Consequences of a Financial, Economic Crisis. That law protected the banks and wiped out all the profits of the workers. Here's the price of 180 banks, 182 banks, and over 20 million investors. It is the bill of colleague Simonnka that speaks of protecting more than 20 million people, not banks and bankers, not banks, but those who own these banks. And I'm surprised to hear that, reports from the committee, you read the committee's decision. The committee made a decision, not surprisingly, but made a decision, although we know that this is a committee, to adopt this bill in the first reading. Some reason is now coming out of the committee and reporting a completely different opinion, so you can't do that, you can report the committee's opinion, and then your own personal decision, please, but twisting the committee's decision is not parliamentary, although, unfortunately, in Parliament, you can do whatever you want. When we accepted the protection of banks, we kind of protected them, but we pushed them into economic crime ourselves, I'll give you the number, 4.5 billion dollars we got the first tranche of the 16 that they promised us, and then over 20 billion dollars were exported abroad. That's how we protected or not, of course we didn't. So we need to support each other's bills, because they're not alternatives, they're complementing each other, and so we can really at least protect more than 20 million investors, and every family has an investor, that's practically every citizen of Ukraine. I think you're going to vote on your conscience.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u480	Who do we have, Vasadze? None. Mikhailo Chechetov, please. Two "for", two "against".
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u481	Mikhailo Chechetov, Party of Regions. Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, honourable national deputies, Bill 3459 proposes, first, the establishment of a moratorium on the acquisition of property of natural persons, which is a mortgage or mortgage provision for the formation of loans. The other one. Ban financial institutions from recalculating mortgages or other loans and payments issued to individuals in foreign currency at a rate exceeding the official rate of the foreign currency bill set by the National Bank of Ukraine at the date of the contract. And the third. Recommend that the National Bank of Ukraine review the NBA account rate and set it to no more than 3 per cent and limit the maximum credit rate for Ukrainian producers to 5 per cent per year. Project 3459-1 introduces a moratorium on the acquisition of mortgages or mortgages during the period of exit from the financial crisis if the mortgage or mortgage is a residential property in which citizens are permanently living. Note that the imposition of a moratorium on the acquisition of property requires a solution to the issue of the sources of satisfaction of creditors' claims for repayments to debtors because the issue of depositing assets to the population is not the main but the current activity of banks. According to the spirit of the Moratorium’s offer, only the removal of the property will pass away, but it will not affect the contracts already concluded. The general conclusion is this. As a result of the first reading of the bill, both bills are to be returned to the root of the work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u482	Dear colleagues, I'd like to pay attention. First, the committee makes 16 positive decisions, then it changes its decision to negative. Obviously, we need to respect each other and respect our colleagues. To make decisions, if we have made decisions, as a basis, and then in the process of processing, we will find out all the circumstances. With this in mind, I am voting on the draft Law, registration number 3459, amending the Ukrainian Law “On the Priorities for Preventing the Negative Consequences of the Financial Crisis and amending certain laws, legislation on the protection of property rights of citizens and support for a domestic producer. Please vote on the basis, and we will continue to make decisions on the committees. Please vote. Please vote. [[14:00:33]] For – 224 The decision is not taken. By faction, please: Region Party - 1, "Timoshenko Yuli Block" - 152, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" - 24, communists - 27, "Litvina Block" - 20. Dear colleagues, please let's define the vote now. Given the sensitivity, well, now we're going to go back to reviewing this bill and vote. There's a proposal to vote on these bills, because they don't completely overlap each other, they're not completely alternative to sending them both out on the first reading. But we're going to vote individually, that's the way we vote. So I'm voting on the return of the draft bill 3459. Please vote. [[14:01:32]] To -221 The decision is not taken. I'm voting on the basis of the draft law, registration number 3459-1, the authors of Seminog, Shershun and Danilenko. Please vote. [[2:02:04]] For -222 The decision is not taken. Please, the authors, I'll give it to the authors now, we'll give it back, Peter Simonenko, then Seminoga. And then let's figure out what decision the Supreme Council will make.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u483	Dear colleagues, I would like to ask you to vote in the first reading for these two bills. They reflect the interests of many of our citizens. Well, if you're going out now, we've invited thousands of people here to Kiev. You talk about one thing, you lie to them, and you do something completely different. Well, isn't there a sense in the Party of Regions that it's for the common people today that they don't get robbed, that laws are passed? Do you have owners, these big businesses, you don't need three to five percent credit to make a profit? Or will you continue to serve the mob bank? Young people were taking credit, and today you're killing them on the ground and making them search again, only in organized crime groups, for the answer to these questions. I appeal to you once again, Vladimir Mihajlovich, and I ask you to put to the vote now, I mean to go back to the vote and vote together to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u484	Okay. Anatoly Seminoga. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u485	Dear colleagues, by our decisions, our bills have sufficiently protected the banking system today from the financial crisis. But if we don't realize that we need to protect the real sector of the economy: businesses, individuals from bankruptcy, we can't save the banking system, we can't influence the negative phenomena of the financial crisis. So I insist, I invite you to vote again in favour of these bills and to make a decision, thus protecting our voters from the financial crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u486	Invite the national deputies to the session room. Paul Sulkowski. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u487	Thank you. You know, the leader of the Communist faction calls on the Party of Regions to vote or not to vote. In the faction of a party of regions, very smart, well-balanced politicians. And we make balanced decisions. And we want you to know that you, the Communists, have entered the entire orange coalition, and take responsibility for yourself. You don't go to the Party of Regions, you've already got the full program. Take responsibility for the situation in the country. You, Mr. Head of the Communists, Head of the Supreme Council, Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin and Julia Timoshenko, Prime Minister, and don't blame anyone. We will vote, but we will vote in favour of an active, orderly one that will benefit Ukraine, for such laws the Party of Regions will vote. It's not like we're still stealing, it's not like we're still choking. You'll be suffocating by your laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u488	Yes, Peter Simonenko and we move on to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u489	Dear voters, this is where it becomes clear who is voting for. On behalf of the faction, I have proposed that we now support the domestic producer, and the National Bank will have the right to issue loans of less than three per cent of the annual, commercial, under five per cent. Today, 30 per cent is issued. What do you want your money to be, and you've been working or listening to a party of regions that kills a domestic producer by such decisions and demands that the financial system only work to enrich the financial system itself - banks? That is why I propose to support the domestic producer today with a cheap loan. Thus, there will be a job, wages will be paid, and in this situation you do not protect people. We offer to protect their jobs and to protect their market, to protect their pensions and the ability of young people, to obtain loans, not to deprive them of what they received on that loan, both housing and the car, as well as to repay the loan at the rate that was at the time of the conclusion of the contract. You, Mr. Sulkowski, are different.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m0.u490	Dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts, calm down! There's no replicating. Give me a chance. Please, calm down! [[B in m in s a l in]] As a result of the exchange of views, I am voting on the return to draft Law 3459. Please vote. Please vote. [[14:06:57]] For – 221 The decision is not taken. A motion for a return to the draft Law 3459-1 is put to the vote. Please vote. [[14:07:23]] For – 232 Decision taken. I'm voting on the basis of the bill's draft registration number 3459-1. Please vote. [[14:07:48]] For – 231 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. We'll continue our work at 4:00. I very much ask the heads of the committees, committee members during recess, to hold committee meetings to consider those bills that have been tabled by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which are essential for us to consider the 2009 draft of the State Budget of Ukraine.
