ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-23-m0.u1	Good morning, let's register. [[10:02:52]] There are 434 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The plenary session is open. Open not only in the sense of work, but open in the sense of unlocking parliament. For now. Although there is little hope for further work. Yesterday at 21:15, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine sent a bill to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to overcome the consequences of the economic crisis, and I just wrote this bill, after receiving it, to the appropriate committees of profile. Yesterday, after meeting with the Prime Minister of Ukraine, we had a debate at the level of faction leaders on how to consider this bill and other bills. In order to form an order for these bills to be considered, it is now suggested that the factions' leaders come to me and discuss quickly when we consider them and in what order. Once again, in the order of the day, both the economic and the political crisis. And deciding without each other is not likely to be possible, and if possible, it means that none of the decisions are ineffective. So I invite the faction leaders to my home. For the time being, there are more than 20 pages of the bill, 27 pages of it, and if my memory is not betrayed, it needs to be read to the committees. So I think we can start a real job at 4:00. I'll let you know. I invite the faction leaders to me and we'll let you know what order Parliament is doing further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-23-m0.u2	The decision of the Conciliation Council of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, after the discussions, was adopted today, and the Head of the Supreme Council sent to the committees and factions two bills which the government sent to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This is Bill 3308, the Law amending the state budget of Ukraine and 3309, the draft law on minimising the impact of the global financial crisis on Ukraine's economy. In 16 hours, there are requests on the committees to consider these bills, to discuss them at the 16th meeting at night, to try to start discussing these and other bills that were proposed by representatives of other factions. I hope that at 16 p.m., it will be possible to start a discussion of the bills that deal with the minimization of the impact of the world crisis on the economy of Ukraine and other bills proposed by the factions. So the morning meeting of the Supreme Council is closed. The next meeting of the Supreme Council will begin at 4 p.m.
