ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-08-m0.u1	Good morning, dear colleagues. Please register with the “Council” system. [[10:03:49]] There are 445 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The plenary session of the morning of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is public. Dear colleagues, today at Valeria Volodymyrovich Pisarenko's birthday, let's welcome our colleague. Valery Volodymyrovich, welcome. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, before I announce yesterday's Conciliation Council meeting, namely, factions leaders and today's agenda on all the resonant issues that have arisen yesterday, I ask you to sign up for 30 minutes and then we'll make a decision on how to continue working today. Today, according to the Rules, statements by factions are contained in article 25 of the Rules. Yuri Litwin, "Litvina Block", please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-08-m0.u2	Next. Next. Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-08-m0.u3	How's the next one? It's written down by procedure. Do you give up your word? Please come to the rostrum. “Block of Lithuania”, do you give up the word? Leonid Graz, Communist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-08-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, I wish everyone good health. That's why I'm starting this. That in the end, perhaps each of us can get sick. That is why I would like to remind Victor Yushchenko that he not only fell ill in 2004 but also deceived the people by promising to fight corruption, crime and all that. Why am I talking about this? Because today, there is actually an epidemic of tuberculosis in the country, which is the most terrible social phenomenon. Against this background, Yushchenko, Baloga, Knazević destroys the remains of a poor sanatorium-storage treatment base that is anti-tuberculosis. [[I mean the Minister of Health]] Moreover, I can give an example of the fact that there is a Daosy sanatorium in Crimea, where the most unique natural-climate landscape, and climate conditions give treatment effect not only to the anti-tuberculosis of all phenomena, but to the treatment of severe forms of sugar diabetes as number one disease. [[I think it's even a world opening.]] Hence, despite the requests I have written as a deputy to Timoshenko, the Office of the Prosecutor-General of the President and the Balogya, which authorizes corruption in this sanatorium, is being issued to Yushchenko, despite the fact that a request to the President has been received through the Supreme Council. One of the shells was removed, windows were broken down, everything was delivered, and, most importantly, in violation of all the legislation -- both land and the resort were seized by mafia structures in white robes, starting with the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, several hectares of land and private cottages. I'm asking everyone, well, is the last one missing, at least a little bit of conscience, so that people with severe diabetes and tuberculosis who are treated at the expense of the State budget have at least the last breath in this life to extend their daily existence on this earth. Therefore, I am outraged to raise this problem again, and I am telling you again, and Yushchenko, including from this rostrum. If no action is taken to prosecute the facts committed in connection with the destruction of this sanatorium, the violation of the seizure of land will be several thousand, we will go and meet Yushchenko if he comes to the Crimea. [[And those with tuberculosis supported me.]] And the last. Dozens of public offerings, including the bulk of them under Kiev, in the Crimea require immediate consideration of our response in order to allow such expensive pleasure in all respects to be removed and passed on to the sick. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-08-m0.u5	Vladimir Litwin, “Block Lithuania”. They did make the decision to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-08-m0.u6	Dear colleagues! We would like to present to you and ask you to listen to our vision of what needs to be done to overcome the political crisis, to ensure responsible action by the authorities and to ensure the consolidation of society. We have to do this, and I am convinced that we can do this on our own today, because tomorrow we will do it with the participation of international mediators. And it's an axiom. First. It is urgent to hold a nationwide council in the form of a special meeting of the Supreme Council, with the participation of the President, the Cabinet of Ministers, the heads of the local authorities and self-government, and representatives of the general public. It should tell the whole truth about the state of affairs in the country, the reasons for the situation, and the determination of what to do. The other one. The conclusion of this All-Ukrainian Council should be the adoption of a social agreement with the signatures of the President, the Head of the Supreme Council, the Prime Minister, the heads of the faction of the Supreme Council. The Supreme Council accepts this covenant as a law. In particular, it should provide for clear and unambiguous interpretation and application of the provisions of the Constitution. Among other things, it should stop the practice of cheating all disorder on the imperfections of the Basic Law and delay the introduction of constitutional changes before the situation is normalized. Priorities for action in internal and external policy by delaying decision-making on issues of discussion: relations with NATO, language, religious issues, historical history, the Black Sea fleet, and so forth - which divide and disunite society, dispel people. The formation of a national authority that has national confidence, legitimacy in the perception of people, and so publicly, based on professionalism and taking into account the need to expand the base of political responsibility, including in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The total real depoliticization of law enforcement and power structures, the failure to further involve them in political divisiveness. The reduction of the state apparatus by a third, the unification of the number of members of the local councils, is proportional to the number of the population. Creating executive committees at the district and district levels, changing the electoral system. Third. The state budget in Ukraine is to form on clearly defined priorities. To be foreseen in the 2009 Budget Declaration, and in line with the 2009 budget, are health, rural areas, housing, education and science, social security systems. [[As a national idea today, the issue of the preservation of the Ukrainian people should be defined.]] Four. To provide society with all the information about the extent of social obligations that the State has to implement in accordance with applicable legislation, a list of laws that the current authorities fail to implement for reasons. Identify a package of compensatory measures to prevent the deterioration of people’s living conditions. Publicly refuse to apply the culinary format of social decision-making, such as reviewing the recent decisions of the Supreme Council to halt actions or slash more than a hundred social laws. Fifth. The decision to reform the pay system, which today is a state’s fault, is artificially underestimated by more than three times and a corresponding pension. The state has to take responsibility for living standards throughout the country, clearly define minimum social standards, publicly, stress, publicly base the living minimum and minimum wage. Six. Introduce differentiated taxation of citizens’ incomes, including to overcome a huge gap in the standard of living. Seven. Prior to the adoption of the State Privatization Programme, a public analysis of the results and results of the privatization already carried out. Foresight in cases of illegal privatization, failure to fulfil privatization obligations, return of objects to government property, or payment to their real value. Provide real guarantees for the protection of private property acquired honestly. Eight. Identifying companies, objects, and spheres that will ensure national security and sovereignty of the State and thus not be subject to privatization. Those of them who are in private hands buy into government property. Nine. To make public public, under national control, a thorough inventory of all without exception of land: To whom, as far as the land is concerned, to bring all land relations into line with valid legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-08-m0.u7	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-08-m0.u8	Ten. Establish strict rules of conduct for those working in the public service to carry out judicial reform, including to suppress corruption. In particular, determine the choice of judges and compare corruption to treason. Eleven. Establish an elementary order in the country, starting with the fact that the authorities should hear people and end up with the conditions of our lives, to which Ukrainian citizens have already suffered. Ukraine, people need to have a sense of stability and predictability of change in their positive character. And the last. To remove authority from the shadow of men, to oblige local authorities to clearly identify the needs of everyone and every inhabited area, the fate of each group and enterprise, on this particular core to organize the work so that the country can start to live and people to work and to earn. I'm convinced that we should talk about general things, define our common consolidated position, and then start negotiating specific issues. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-08-m0.u9	"Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense", Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-08-m0.u10	Viacheslav Kirilenko "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense". Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! We are supporters of substantive voting on specific bills. Of course, applications can be spoken, but you can simply vote in favour of the agenda. For example, on the prestige of mining work, for example, under the Road Traffic Act, for example, the Social Dialogue Act, the Living Minimum Act and many other issues, which unfortunately the opposition does not vote for. If the thought of the opposition has changed for at least this week, we will welcome such a change of attitude. This week, we see the main issue of budget changes. Unfortunately, the government made changes to the budget, not in March, but in July, but in July. In this regard, we note that our National Self-Defense Ukraine is ready to work in detail on this bill. Of course, not all the remarks made by President Yushchenk and our faction are included in the bill that the government has tabled to Parliament today. And we're going to work on making sure that all the principles of the position that we're proposing are taken into account. This applies to more than anything else and to the creation of a modern army, including the financing of affordable housing, health programs, and agribusiness support programs. These things, we think, are not sufficiently included in the draft budget changes. So, as part of the coalition, we're going to work with the government and our partners with the BUIT so that all of these principles of observation are taken into account. At the same time, we are convinced that in the absence of any of the sides being blocked, we can, at least, mark the country's key issues that "Our Ukraine" is talking about not the first month. And this is the first government draft of the Tax Code and the beginning of a change in the tax system. Second, changes to the Budget Code, which foresees an increase in the financial autonomy of local self-government. Thirdly, a block of land issues and a system of land relations, and an end to the alienation of peasants. Fourthly, it's a question of introducing a single social contribution that will significantly reduce the working conditions for entrepreneurs. And fifthly, this is the beginning of judicial reform. All these bills have either been tabled to Parliament, or they are almost ready for Parliament to start discussing them. At the same time, we know that part of the opposition faction is ready to destabilize the situation by asking about the Prime Minister’s report or the Cabinet of Ministers. If there is such a principled desire, it is certainly a right of opposition. But I would like to stress the following. That there is only one desire to vote on the resolution of mistrust, since in such a case the country should hear the configurations of the future coalition if someone has begun to deal with the issue. Because at the moment we only hear statements, just dissatisfaction with the activities of the democratic coalition, but no one has told the country and society, but rather the opposition is ready to present the format of the new coalition, and are there names of candidates who are not officially declaring it, for example, the new Supreme Council Head and the new Prime Minister. Obviously, these names are not available, but there is only a desire to destabilize the situation and fish in this cloudy water. Because, including the opposition, he knows that it is impossible to create a new coalition in Parliament right now. At least the position of the faction "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" remains unchanged. We are the proponents of responsibility to the voters who gave us their votes and who support the activities of the democratic coalition, which certainly has problems within us, but we also have prospects of overcoming these problems. And if politicians in Ukraine move away from the usual standard of politics in everyday activities. But the situation in the country can change considerably. When we act like the members of the Ukrainian Helsinki Society, 20 years since the creation of which the country celebrated yesterday, our policies will be cleaner, clearer, and more predictable. Twenty years ago, anticommunists released from prison under public pressure began to build a free and independent Ukraine. And they built it without even state institutions. We must continue their glorious and responsible course.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-08-m0.u11	"Julia Timoshenko Block", Ivan Kirilenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-08-m0.u12	Dear Head, honourable voters, honourable colleagues, a few weeks ago, considering our great debts to the state, to society, to the electorate in legislative activities, our faction addressed all the factions of Parliament with a proposal for the last month, to remove from the order of the daily bills, draft regulations that disengage us. And so there is no State Property Fund, the State Privatization Programme, no personnel issues, no mandatory mandate and many other things in the unilateral order of the day. Dear colleagues, the price of the question is at least for the budget minus 10 billion dollars. Instead, we offered to enact laws in this room that immediately unite us as needed by society, people, voters, and the state. We have proposed that we return to the Mining Work Act and protect miners, protect agrarians in the context of Ukraine's accession to the World Trade Organization, support the Road Traffic Act once again, because it is said that the “airlessness” continues, a number of other bills that you are well aware of, and the most important draft changes to the 2008 budget. What do we have instead? Instead, we have a proposal from our colleagues and even more politicizing the situation, further sharpening it, making it deaf. Today, our colleagues were asked to put the government’s mistrust resolution first. What are your colleagues for? For what? For the most difficult period of the first half of the year, when Ukraine became a hostage of the global financial crisis, of the colossal food challenges, when we survived the non-productive year together with you and did not speculate on it when it was already lived, despite the predictions of hyperinflation, stagnation, stagflation and other lessons being predicted. Instead, we have a 2.5-fold lower inflation rate today in June than last year, we have 6.4 percent increase in gross product, 8 percent in industrial engineering, 31 percent in machine building, and we have a wonderful crop grown by peasants. I'm not surprised we're going to get 10 percent of GDP by the end of the year. Dear colleagues! For what, a resolution of mistrust, what happened? The budget, which is now being proposed transparently, honestly, the government, by earning 30 billion with a growing economy, along with the border smuggling campaign, has grown to 20 billion from customs alone, 13 billion from taxes, the government is proposing to distribute honestly in this room, not as in 2004, by a government decision. Honorable colleagues, except that one third of these funds remain in the regions as well. Unless it is against the fact that environmental congregations remain completely in the regions, transport congregations have previously risen upstairs. Unless it's against the fact that for the first time small cities in the budget, they're going to get over a billion dollars for their development. You know the problems of small cities. Unless it's against 1.9 billion going to capital investment. Dear colleagues! We all advocate that regions have an additional momentum for development. Unless someone opposes the fact that aircraft construction, a defining branch for Ukraine, will receive nearly twice as much investment. The shipbuilding sector, too, is nearly double. The shakhtar branch is 500 million extra for grants and 3.2 billion for government guarantees. The highest preference will be for agriculture, which has grown a beautiful crop. 2.2 billion dollars to generate a favourable price for animal subsidies, so that the state can fully take credit payments where meat farming is being developed, for the cost of agricultural technology. Who will vote against it? It's a development budget. If we count and look at the mechanisms, we don't distribute 30 billion, but 60 billion that go further into the economy by the mechanisms that are written down, the mechanisms of government guarantees, the involvement of investments. Many say that there is food somewhere. A third of the budget actually goes to social pay. Unless who is against the fact that Ukraine, having world food prices to fuel, has twice as much wages as our SND neighbours and six times less than in Europe. Dear colleagues, the tariff grid of September 1st is an increase in wages for doctors, teachers, cultural workers. Dear colleagues, at the end of the year, the pension is increasing by one and a half times as a result of the pension reform, and 4.4 billion are additionally going to the Pension Fund. So what's the resignation for? Do we need politics or do we need a job? Our faction clearly requires this week to consider and adopt the budget in the first and second readings and adopt social laws and then engage in politics. Cheers! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-08-m0.u13	The faction of the Party of the Regions, Vasil Georgievich Hara.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-08-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, before reading the text of our statement, I cannot help but touch Ivan Grigorievich Kirilenko, who sang above-deferamba to his Government. A little tip: Go to the store, look at the prices, talk to the people, talk to the business leaders who are moving instead of three for two shifts and are ready to go to business. Read the findings of international experts on the situation in Ukraine and then draw a normal conclusion. The Party of the Regions is demanding work, we have made an appropriate proposal to extend work for a week, and I hope that you support it. We really need to adopt changes in the budget. But not in the budget, very much like the funding of an elected presidential campaign by one of the candidates, who will further reduce the standard of living of the people, but the budget for the country and for the people. We propose the adoption of a package of laws that will significantly improve the economic situation in a country that curbs inflation will improve the well-being of citizens. We insist that the Cabinet of Ministers comply with the Constitutional Court's decision and return the benefits to the Chernobyls, children of war, war veterans, labour veterans and other categories of unprotected citizens they have left in the 2008 budget. There is a need to increase the prestige of mining work, to establish an objective, rather than a voluntary, subsistence minimum, to raise the minimum wage — something that is not in the current draft budget. To protect people from the high prices and the economy from the constant shocks the Government is inflicting on them. If the coalition supports these initiatives, we will vote in favour of the budget. Before that, however, the Government's report must be heard publicly in Parliament with the participation of all senior officials and, above all, the President. Publicly assess the situation and draw conclusions so as not to repeat the mistakes of the future. If the package that we have proposed for human and economic protection is not approved, we will not be able to support this budget, which, as proposed by the Government today, reflects the wrong policy of 2005, which accurately repeats these mistakes in 2008. The world knows that the reform of the judiciary is urgently needed in Ukraine, as corruption in the courts, in the Ukrainian courts, is the cause of everyone. That is why we insist on ending corruption in the courts. Honest judges should be able to work without interference from outside. By the way, we all know what political power holds the monopoly on the courts in Ukraine and what decisions are taken. This should be decidedly put to an end once and for all. Finally, we need to listen to the recommendation of the Venice Commission and adopt laws that reform the judiciary in Ukraine for the benefit of people rather than politicians. The Party of the Regions also brings to Parliament the question of the establishment of the Provisional Special Commission for the Development and Amendment of the Constitution. We have already begun consultations with all factions on this subject. We also insist on the adoption of the necessary laws that provide continuous training for the Euro-2012, but not those that are offered to us today in order to lobby the interests of individuals and groups. We are convinced that Parliament should not go on vacation without fulfilling these very important tasks. But above all, the faction of the Party of the Regions requires you, Arsenija Petrovich, to include on the agenda for today's report of the Government, in accordance with the Cabinet of Ministers Act. You have to put this issue on the agenda within ten days. More than ten days have passed since the Party of the Regions' initiative to hold the Cabinet of Ministers' report, but you are not fulfilling this legitimate requirement. If you once again violate the Law and the Rules of the Supreme Council, the faction of the Party of the Regions will ask you to remove you from the session for two days, according to the Rules. We call on you, the respected Arsenius Petrovich, to follow the laws of Ukraine, not your own desires. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-08-m0.u15	Dear colleagues! The time for discussion and the speech is over. Let me inform the Supreme Council of Ukraine about yesterday's faction leaders meeting in the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the decisions that will be proposed for consideration by the Ukrainian Parliament. Yesterday at the meeting of the Conciliation Council and faction leaders, I stressed the need, first and foremost, for the adoption of a social package of legislation and the review of the National Budget Act of Ukraine. Because these are the key bills that Ukrainian parliamentarians have to adopt during the current session in order to fulfill all the pre-election promises. That is: increase pensions, pay, ensure normal economic development, finance infrastructure projects, secure financing for the Euro-2012 and, in fact, ensure the normal development of the state. Unfortunately, yesterday at the faction leaders' meeting, the first and key requirement that was put forward by the faction of the Party of the Regions, which was supported by two other factions, is the Lithuanian Block and the Communist Party of Ukraine, to consider the question of the responsibility of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I don't want to make political assessments, but I'm going to allow myself to comment very briefly. I consider the consideration of this issue to be nothing but political absurdity. It would be perfectly clear that if a new coalition had been formed, a new composition of the Cabinet of Ministers had been given, and so would be a constitutional decision on the transfer of power to the new coalition and the new composition of the government. And today, there are all legal possibilities for making such a decision, but I understand that there are no political possibilities. As far as the legal question is concerned. Dear colleagues, I must point out that the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers Act provides for an imperative rule on the need to consider the responsibility of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine within ten days of the adoption of such an act. The other one. In accordance with article 225 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, this question is included in the agenda without a vote. Third. I carried out an analysis of the signatures at the request of the coalition and, indeed, under this resolution of mistrust, there are 155 signatures of Ukrainian national deputies as required by article 87 of the Constitution of Ukraine. I mean, formally, on the one hand, there's a legal framework for introducing this resolution to Parliament and considering a resolution of mistrust for ten days. That is, there is reason to say that this resolution can be considered by Parliament. On the other hand, I would like to make it clear that, as with the coalition, as with the resolution of mistrust, I have stood and will stand solely in the position of the current Ukrainian legislation. Despite the fact that there is every legal basis for considering the matter, I cannot help but point out the following. A decree has been made on the responsibility of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. However, article 87 of the Constitution provides for an act such as a resolution of mistrust of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The only time in the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament was a resolution of mistrust by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, a resolution of mistrust by Prime Minister Yushchenko, which was adopted in the form of an act of mistrust resolution. Item two. With regard to article 89 of the Constitution of Ukraine, namely: Article 89 of the Constitution of Ukraine provides for the duty to consider any matter, including the responsibility of the Government on the professional committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which has not been done. Moreover, article 25 of the Ukrainian Committees Act clearly provides for the participation of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in addressing the issue of mistrust by the Government of Ukraine. And the third. I would like to remind everyone of the history of 2006 when the government of Yehanurov was retired, and then Parliament itself cancelled its own unconstitutional decision two months later on the basis of the President's appointment. In view of this, honourable colleagues would like to point out that there are legal grounds for considering the matter. And I have to say that. But the mass of legal commissions that are now in existence in the act can clearly entail the unconstitutionality of the act. In view of this and in accordance with the provisions of the Rules, under any circumstances this question will be voted in favour of a change in voting. I received an appropriate written request. I mean, exclusively by individual vote to all the Ukrainian National Deputies, just like the decision to adopt and form the Cabinet of Ministers has been made, so that we can now find out whether we're going to work properly or whether we're going to go through the political destruction, the collapse of the country, I have a statement from two factions asking for a 30-minute recess. This is the Party of Regions and the KPU. So I say, colleagues, I don't think we can manage in 30 minutes. I'd like to meet you at 11:30. I'm calling it a break.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-08-m0.u16	Dear colleagues, there's another statement for recess, so by 12. 30, two factions: BUTE and “Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-08-m0.u17	Ukraine, we have started the work of the Supreme Council in a completely standardised, understandable regime. I think it's clear that there is no political compromise. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., we'll start with your permission to meet the faction leaders. Today, the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. I ask everyone to express their position.
