ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u1	Good morning, dear colleagues. Please register. [[10:02:15]] There were 443 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin with a very sad event that took place last night, a colleague of ours died, a colleague of ours, a national deputy of Ukraine, the oldest national deputy of Ukraine, a head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the matters of pensioners, veterans and invalids, a member of the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine in the Supreme Council, a general of the army, a participant in the Great National War, a hero of Ukraine – Gerasimov Ivan Aleksandrovich. Dear colleagues, I beg a moment of silence. Please sit down. As far as funeral procedures are concerned, the Supreme Council will inform you, tomorrow all ceremonial procedures are buried, so, please, we'll go say good-bye to our colleague tomorrow. Dear friends, we have a complex agenda today, a whole series of drafts in the agenda. I would like to point out immediately that the individual bills that will be considered in the second reading should have been considered in the second reading is a separate position of the government of Ukraine. And the government is asking the three bills to be translated into the next week -- this is 0943, 0976, and one more bill -- and I'm going to say the number right now, and I think we're going to go to the Cabinet of Ministers and work on these bills, and we're going to set them up for the next plenary week. With regard to the consideration of matters of order of the day, before the beginning of this consideration – life continues – Petra Stepanovitch Cibenka should be welcomed with a birthday. This is life, so, Peter Stepanovich, we welcome you. [[Applause]] I'm announcing a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the election of heads, first deputies of heads, secretaries, members of the Supreme Council Committees of Ukraine's sixth call. Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov The point is that Alexander Sergiyovich will report to the Committee's personal composition. Is Efraem's Alexander Sergiyovich there? Not yet. Is Alexander Sergiyovich here? 2604 is the order of Steshenko. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u2	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues. On June 4, this year, the Committee reviewed a statement by Ukrainian national deputy Steshenko Alexander Mikolaiovich, a member of the deputy faction “Blok of Yulia Timoshenko” about his election as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in foreign affairs. Taking into account that the calculated quota of the deputy faction “Bloika Yulia Timoshenko” in committees of up to 20 persons is 6 and that the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is working in foreign affairs from this faction of 5 national deputies of Ukraine, i.e. the quota is not fully used, the Committee has decided to support the application of the Ukrainian national deputy and to submit a corresponding draft ruling to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u3	Colleagues, I don't think there's any objection. Is there one national MP who needs to discuss the bill? You don't? Thank you. In accordance with the Rules, I put Bill 2604 to the vote on the basis and as a whole. [[10:06:20]] For 367 Dear colleagues, 367, the decision has been made. The two factions of the coalition requested a recess. Could I have asked two factions to consider the bill first, and then declared a recess so as not to interrupt the parliamentary session? Thank you. Colleagues, announcing Bills 1199, 1240, 1385, 2009. I'd like to invite you to the podium of Ukrainian National Deputy Sirot Mikhail Dmitrovic. Please, Mikhailo Dmitrovich. Do you require a reduced procedure? Colleagues, how are we doing on a reduced procedure? Is it supported? Turn on the roman welder, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u4	Dear Arsenia Petrovich, fellows of honor! We do not deny the consideration of these four bills by a reduced procedure. Yet, Arsenija Petrovich, I draw your attention to the view that these bills are considered alternative today. If you look at the content of these bills, they're actually alternatives to 1199 and 1240, and 1385 and 2009 are a separate category, which are also alternatives. So I would ask that we look at them in terms of that logic. Arsenius Petrovich, separately. We also draw your attention to the question of 1418 in the agenda for Tuesday, which is also about housing and utility. We would also like to include immediately in the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u5	Let me finish. 1418?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u6	1418.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u7	We'll figure it out. Okay. I have a proposition: let's make this step by step: first, I've heard your proposal for order of examination. I'm voting on Bills 1199, 1240, 1385, 2009 for a reduced procedure. Colleagues, pay attention! We're voting for a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[10:09:02]] For 384 Decision taken. Now, let's talk about order. Roman Mikhailovich, we are looking at them in the general order, but on a case-by-case basis, I will put them to the vote, as required by the Rules. And I will give everyone the opportunity to comment on the bill before voting on a new motion for vote. Is that accepted? At 1418 we'll make a decision after your break. You take a 30-minute break, and then we'll make a decision. Okay? Excuse me, Mikhailo Dmitrovich. Please inform Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u8	Thank you. Dear Head, distinguished national MPs, respected citizens! The question of privatization of rooms in the dormitory did not arise today. In fact, it began when the privatization of state enterprises and institutions began. They were placed in private hands, and many owners needed to reclassify their homes for other needs. People were evicted from the streets, and they were thus abandoned from their constitutional housing rights. Moreover, there was a violation of the Constitution in that part that could not make people's lives worse by any action of officials or other citizens. Thus, in the past, appropriate bills had been drawn up to resolve the issue. But because of those circumstances, political ones, first of all, that question was not considered and the decision was not taken. I don't consider Bill 1199 and 1240 alternatives today. I think that both our Bill and Anatoly Mathviennek's Bill regulate the same sphere, and in fact they should, in my opinion, be united, let's say, the Anatolia Matvienka Bill should be taken into account, and in the second reading should take into account all the positions of our two Bills, because this should not be about authorship, but should be about solving a particular problem that hurts a lot of people today. So according to the simplified procedure, I propose the same procedure: to take the basis for Anatoly Matviennek’s project and in the second reading, bringing our two projects together, to adopt the law, and to solve the problem of privatization of hostels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u9	Thank you. Please sit down, Mikhailo Dmitrovitch. Anatoly Sergiyovich Matviyenko is invited to the rostrum of the Supreme Council. Anatoly Sergiyovich, please. Once again, 1199 and 1240 are alternatives, and there's been a bit of confusion in the registration sector. Please, Anatoly Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u10	The Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, the "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" block. Dear colleagues, Sir Arsenius Petrovich, I would like to remind you of the history of this bill. In fact, I was the author of a bill to privatize housing, living space in dormitory houses in the parliament of the previous convocation. The bill was passed by a committee, the committee recommended it to be further elaborated, the bill passed not one round table, the bill was heard by associations that protect people who live in hostels. After it was finished, I gave it to him in this vocation. That is why I thank Mikhail the orphan, who rightly says that they can be united today. And I thank him for the initiative that 1240 can be supported in the first reading. As far as this bill is concerned, I'd like to draw your attention to people who have lived there for decades and not for two years. This is about people who have been placed in these hostels in state enterprises that no longer exist. It's about people who can never count on fast housing again. This is about people who have already given birth to children there and who have even married children. And obviously we have no right today not to respond to this category. In my bill, I delete a group of scientific, educational, special, social institutions. I think in the second reading we can look at this category and make it clear. But I'm speaking today and calling on all of you, if we're responsible, and I don't think there's a national MP who wouldn't have been approached by at least one resident of this hostel that we need to keep order. And all the observations that have been made by the Scientific and Experimental Authority can be taken into account in the second reading. Bill 009 is not an alternative yet let's give people as a bruise in our hands, and then when we solve the big money that needs 009, we find these costs, we work out, we can give.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u11	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u12	We can give hostels to those who live there for less than five years. We can give these hostels to privatize even those who don't live there, but today it's for a category that's grown old in these hostels. And I ask you to sincerely support this bill, 1240, and only one vote. I thank Mikhaili Oroty again for the offer that is constructive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u13	Please sit down. Valerius Alexiyovich Baranov. Please, Valery Alexiyovich. And if you'll excuse me, I'm asking you to express your position on how to deal with the bill, or to look at it with two blocks, or to look at it with one block, as they're supposed to be in the register. Okay?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, the issue of privatization of hostels is very important, and there is no need to convince everyone. Our Committee on Housing and Utilities has reviewed all four bills, we have held a joint meeting with all the authors of these projects, and it has come to the conclusion that each of the laws submitted affects one or more aspects of this issue. Therefore, our general proposal is to accept the proposal made by Matvienko Anatoly Sergeyevich. Snacker Nikolai Ivanovic agrees that the moratorium also enters into this law. And the rest of the 2009 law, which provides mechanisms for the continuation of existence, we will take them into account, and we will continue to take them into account in the same law and submit them for your consideration. We therefore propose to accept the proposal of Matvienko Anatolia Sergeevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u15	Thank you. Colleagues. Please sit down, Valery Alexiyovich. Colleagues, two 'for', two 'against'. Once again, the two bills are 1199 and 1240. Please sign up. Stepan Davemuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u16	Stepan Davemuk, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. Undoubtedly, these proposals are up to date, and they need to be addressed. But I would like to pay attention to the following. There are two classes of innkeepers: dormitories that are in business that are actually destroyed and that are not cared for by businesses or local authorities, and that are not passed on or accepted by local authorities. But there is a second class of hostels that function and develop normally. And these dormitories are needed to solve, to ensure that these companies function. So they're a normal, familiar place. In order not to conclude that by adopting these laws, we have actually launched the expropriation of these objects in functioning businesses. And so in the second reading, we need to take these moments into account and clearly separate each other. But there is no doubt that the law should be adopted in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u17	Thank you. Colleague Landik Volodymyr, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u18	Thank you. But I would also like to continue with the thought of the previous speaking colleague and say that on the next, on the second reading, we must not forget that part and perhaps the best and most of the hostels have already left. And people fight in courts and so on. But property is already there, in someone else's hands. So that we can develop a mechanism for returning the dormitories to the people who lived in them before and will live on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u19	Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u20	I signed up, honorary colleagues, against. I'm really against this bill, more specifically, stopping the amount of these bills. Because today, according to the National Property Fund in Ukraine, the constitutional housing rights of one and a half million families living in 14,000 hostels are being violated. And when the second reading is ready, I would like the authors, and obviously they will agree that one of the bills has to be taken as a basis, quite possibly, that or the correct Michael the Orphan, the representative of the Block of Lithuania supported that another bill could be taken as a basis. We're not fighting for the authorship, we're fighting for the realisation of the problem. But it should be borne in mind that today there are very sophisticated means of evicting residents from the dormitory -- the relocation through the transfer of the house to the so-called non-inhabited fund, or the fictitious accident of the building. And this is most often used to drive one and a half million families out of their homes. One second. It's very important. In its time, the Fund of State Property of Ukraine made a serious mistake. He decided to include hostels in the statutory funds of farm societies. And today it's affecting the problems and stopping the privatization of housing for those who already live in these hostels, in rooms of 15, of 20 years. And one more moment. In the early 1990s, Ukrainian legislation did not really have a norm that would oblige housing funds to be transferred to municipal property when a state enterprise was privatized. And that's what allowed many private businesses to put thousands of families in danger of being evicted for profit, actually profiting from further reselling of buildings or from building offices there. So I'm against us not making a decision right now, and by doing so, I've put in a long box, in a long box, the process of making this decision. I'm for him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u21	Thank you. Peter Simonenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u22	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear voters, what is this about? The point is that today those who should be responsible for the crimes committed during privatization are saying that they are supposed to be concerned about you. Housing and family is a problem of privatization. The entire property complexes, dormitories, cultural palaces, sports palaces, etc., were seized from profits. They're putting their money on their pockets now. That's why they dump these dorms on the city housing fund, or they're being demolished and turned into God knows what. That is why the problem today is a public problem. It must be decided immediately, indeed taking away all these hostels from the so-called owners so that they do not continue to mock the residents of the hostels. Secondly, it is necessary to establish a clear public housing programme for socially vulnerable categories, primarily those living in dormitories today, those young professionals who will come into production tomorrow and must be protected.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u23	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u24	One phrase. These are our veterans of the Great Homeland War, those who need it. And the last. This is where we see the well-respected voters in the complex. Literally the day before yesterday, they voted in favour of privatizing cultural palaces, sports palaces, hospitals, libraries, sanatoriums, pioneer camps. Here is the result of what policies are being implemented in the State. The Communist faction will support it, but once again I warn you that this is not a solution, it is only a temporary measure, and they are trying to pay for their crimes.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u25	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the time for discussion is over. Now I'd like to ask everyone very carefully to listen, colleagues, before the vote. So, Bill 1199, introduced by our colleague the Orphan. Mikhail Dmitrovitch proposes to vote in favour of Bill 1240, introduced by our colleague Matvienko. That is, according to the Rules, this is the personal position of the rapporteur and the author of the bill. We should now put to the vote by the Rules 1199 and take into account the position of Michael Dmitrovich, who is asking to vote in favour of the 1240th Act of Matvienka. Do I understand your point, colleagues? Understand? Thank you. So I'm the first to put a bill that's not supported by the author, and the author is asking to vote in favour of the next bill. Please vote in favour of Bill 1199. [[10:23:45]] For-27 Thank you, colleagues! 27-yes. Thus, the bill has been withdrawn and we are now moving on to a bill that agreed on both the author of the first bill and the author of the bill, which we are voting for. It's only about privatization of state hostels, not those that are on the stockholders' balance sheet, not those that are on the balance sheet of other companies, exclusively state hostels. This is about adopting Bill No. 1240 as a basis. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the adoption of a bill to amend the Ukrainian Act on Privatisation of the State Housing Fund. [[Registration No. 1240]] Attention, we have a vote. [[10:24:48]] For the 420. Decision taken. What I'd like to say to everyone. Colleagues, we are now going to consider the next two bills, which are in one system row with the previous bills, 1385 and 2009. There are a lot of legal references, so it's more likely that these four bills on second reading will be passed into one bill. But there is a request from the rapporteurs and the drafters of the bill, and I ask you to consider Bill No. 1385. Mikola Ivanovich Derkac, please to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u26	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, distinguished national deputies, article 47 of the Constitution stipulates that everyone has the right to housing for every citizen. The state creates conditions under which every citizen will be able to build a home, buy it, or rent it. During the mass privatization, as noted here, in 1993-1998, the state-owned enterprise, which was on the balance sheet of these enterprises, was included in the entire property complexes and transferred to the statutory stockholders' funds created in the privatization process. Today, there are more than a thousand hostels in Ukraine who have entered the statutory funds of enterprises in the privatization process. And today, there is a problem of illegal evicting people out of the dormitories they have lived in for years. This is the fate of one and a half million people, as noted by Zarubinsky’s colleague. There has been a situation in which stockholders, whose statutory funds include dormitory funds, misuse the rights conferred on them, manage hostels for their own reasons, and sell them for other purposes, alter their purpose, evicting residents without housing. Thus, the adoption of the Moratorium Law was necessary in order to prevent the illegal eviction of their residents. This project makes it impossible for us to alienate our hostels before their complete inventory is carried out, and so our citizens are being evicted from the streets. To conclude, the adoption of the project will allow the preservation and purposeful use of hostels, determine the legality of their stay in statutory funds of enterprises, organizations and institutions, verify the legality of the alienation of hostels, make the transfer of hostels.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u27	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u28	attack to start planned and capital repairs, their reconstruction and privatization of rooms by citizens who, according to valid legislation, cannot be evicted without the provision of other housing. I support the proposal of the profile committee for adoption on the basis of the 2009 project and the creation of a working group that takes into account the position of the bill that I have proposed in the second reading. Thank you for your attention, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u29	Thank you. Mikola Ivanovich, if you please, so that once again all the national MPs will understand. So you're supporting Bill 2009, the next bill. The difference between the bill that we voted on and the bill that we put in: it regulates the state dormitories, it regulates all the other dormitories that are included in the ownership of the legal persons of the mixed form. Yeah? Understood, please sit down. Alexander Pavlovich Popov. Please, Alexander Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u30	Dear colleagues, the bill that I have the honour to submit has been drafted by members of our committee, representatives of all, I would like to emphasize all factions that are part of our Parliament. His contrast with the previous one, I would like to emphasize, to this end, that if the first version of the law allows for the privatization of the dormitory, our bill is also trying to answer the question and what to do next with these dormitories. Because today we know the issue of the operation of the housing fund and, above all, of the hostels, it is a very difficult question because part of it is in an emergency. Therefore, our bill prescribes the powers and responsibilities of all organs, regional authorities, central authorities and local governments to resolve this problem. It is envisaged that the State will establish a programme, both regional and public, and so on, that we will be able to solve the complex problem of exploitation and further exploitation of these hostels. If someone today can assume that it is possible to put order in a dormitory without State participation, without State budget, it is at least not the right approach, so our position, our committee, is that certain funding must be included in the public programme to address this problem. The main difference is also that if the first bill says that everything that is today can be privatized, our bill does not reject such a right, but the final decision on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u31	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u32	We transfer this right to local governments because the hostel is very different from each other. Some are in a state of emergency, some simply need to grant social housing status and not talk about privatization of rooms in these dormitories. That is why our bill is comprehensive. We support what has been adopted before, and we propose to support our bill. In the process of refinement, I am truly confident that we will take a united position on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u33	Thank you. Valerius Alexiyovich, please. Baranov Valeriy Alexiyovich. Under these two bills, you've already expressed your position, haven't you? Okay. Dear colleagues, we return to the two bills. So, Bill 1385 and 2009. The same voting situation that we had on the front two bills. Authors. Please. Excuse me, we're writing two in favor, two in favor. Player Leonid Ivanovich. Peter Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u34	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I think it is imperative that these bills be supported so that they can be discussed on second reading in a serious way on the solution to the underlying problem. What is it? And that's exactly what the Communist faction will insist on. We believe that regardless of the forms of property today, a person is not obliged to suffer; he must own this dwelling in a hostel. [[Shareholders' company is just a cover, there, of course, is already a specific owner]] That's the first one. And that's how we protect him. Second, it is essential to have a national program that will ensure that the state is involved in repairing, directing, and creating normal conditions for those living in these hostels. Why is our position based on this? Because these hostels did not build so - called new owners. They're using them today to keep them back on, so let's say, in some way depending on those who live in the dormitory, whether he's expelled, or whether he's going to be forced to vote in the election as he thinks it's necessary. And this is the mechanism for recapitulating those people and the political dependence that everyone lives in the dormitory. So the position of our faction of principle is that all hostels, regardless of the form of property, we have to transfer housing to the people who live there for privatization. It's different. The state program is designed to provide repairs to those innkeepers who are in urgent need of this support. And third. It's to create all the prerequisites for it to really be a state-owned social housing program for socially vulnerable people. The Communist faction will support, there is also our bill, our friend, and we will insist that all these comments be taken into account in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u35	Thank you. Vladimir Yavorowski from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u36	Dear voters, dear colleagues! Vladimir Yavorowski, Kirovograd Why will the “Julia Tymoshenko Block” support Law 09? We are convinced that the document that we are going to adopt today concerns perhaps the poorest people in our country today. [[I have no doubt that the first time we read it, we will definitely accept it.]] These are the people who haven't been able to get some more or less decent life and, in fact, stayed in these today, give me the word, but usually the vipers. I'm talking about Kirovograd, which is where I'm anchored by the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, and I've been dealing with extremely difficult questions for several months now. One of the dormitories of a radio plant that, according to the legislation at the time, just couldn't be included in the entire privatization package, but through some manipulation, one of the Kosovo businessmen called Bachmach thinks it's his own, and today he's throwing many of these unhappy families away, literally throwing them out on the street. They've brought the case to trial, but you know our courts, they work, first of all, money, and poor people can't go to trial. And when the main lawyer who led this privatisation and the chief accountant in the court of Zotov came forward and proved that the hostel had not been privatized, the judge firmly refused to listen to him. Because I'm convinced that the adoption of this law, but these people who are left today are unhappy, literally, on this intersection, we'll be able to give them anything back, either give them these little rooms so that they can get more or less comfortable. [[Of course, it won't solve any major state problems.]] I just gave Kirovograd an example of one, but this actually applies to our entire Ukrainian state. So let's vote for this bill and do a very good thing. I understand there's a note from the MPs. Let's do the second reading, we'll do a lot of great ideas in every bill. We just need to get out of here.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u37	Let me finish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u38	Thank you. And please vote for that.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u39	Alexander Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u40	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished national deputies, I would like to provide some clarifications on the privatization of housing that took place in the process of privatization of property. In fact, by the year 96 there was no prohibition to include in the statutory stockholders' funds the hostel. And there's a lot of these cases because there was mass certification privatization at the time. Since 96, it has been forbidden by law to do so, and it has not been done. They stayed off the balance sheet while staying in state property, but they served their businesses. And it's also a problem when businesses don't have the money to do that, they don't transfer it to utility property, and businesses start selling it. So the law of Matviennek, which we voted on, makes it possible to privatize rooms in dormitories, requires compensation from owners if they want to sell this hostel, which makes it more difficult to sell these hostels. Now by the law that we're looking at Rybak. I want to say that the law is really important, it's complicated, but it can only be adopted in the first reading, there are things that conflict with each other. For example, on the second page it says that this law does not extend to dormitories that are privately and collectively owned, including those transferred to the territorial communities for permanent or temporary use. So it's going to only extend to the state housing fund. But on page six, it says that housing checks can be used only for privatization of state housing funds to make money for the privatization of dormitory rooms. And such inadequacies are very much in the law, and they must be removed in the second reading. So our faction proposes that this law be supported in the first reading and that it be thoroughly worked out in the second. In general, the problem of hostels is a very serious problem, which, thank God, Parliament has already begun to deal with. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u41	Thank you. Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u42	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear colleagues, the venerable one-and-a-half million people whose lives in dormitories hang on their hair all the time, because there are completely traditional schemes that take away your dormitories. How it happens. The company is sold, it's forced into an uninhabitable housing facility, and it starts evicting from it to carry out a so-called capremont, which ultimately leads to the re-profile of the building's status, and everything -- you're on the street. And that's why it's absolutely the right question for everyone, by the way, of the bill that's being proposed on this issue, which is the process of evicting thousands of families for profit, and I'm stressing profit in the further reselling of buildings and the creation of a very dense office space there. That's why my colleague, my associate Mikao Ivanovich's bill is absolutely correct with regard to establishing a moratorium on evicting from the dormitory. But there's another question here, dear colleagues. In offering a moratorium on eviction from hostels, it is also necessary to strengthen mechanisms to protect the rights of such citizens from pressure from administrations, such as illegal water or light. Because you understand very well that there is a great temptation when a moratorium is set, just to cut off these dormitories, and let people live, let them survive. And one more moment, I think, is very important. We've raised an important question, but I don't think we can stop at half a step. I think that the privatization authorities should urgently consider the decision to exclude hostels from the value of 100 per cent of the company's statutory funds, and entrust the State with initiating general shareholders' meetings to deal with the exclusion of hostels from statutory holdings where the state owns more than 25 per cent. We won't stop in half.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u43	Jaroslav Suhi, from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u44	Dear colleagues, our fellow Members of Parliament, our experienced MPs, Matthew and the Orphan, others have faced an extremely painful problem, which certainly affects a large part of the Ukrainian population. But today I want to ask you all, myself and the authors: What are the consequences? What do we want to accomplish? I think we should have listened carefully to Alexander Bondar's speech. What are the consequences for society? First, do we want to improve their living conditions? It's not true, it's evil, in these “woron freedoms” as Vladimir Yavorowski said, in these mongrels for eternity to consolidate the low social status of man, it's an improvement in living conditions, it's a lie. Second, I know, I'm from Zaporozhye, we have the same problem. I'm talking about thinking about the consequences together. And for the second reading, they passed a normal law, but no one denies it. Second, what Zarubinsky, a fellow worker, said will be as it was with the businesses. The bulk of the shares will be concentrated, concentrated on the raid, caught up with half the company, and then the entire enterprise. This can happen to the dormitories. When poor people are paid for their rooms at no cost, they are reclassified. For this to happen, in the second reading, you have to adopt a normal scheme that would not allow for this, because if you buy rooms in dormitories, at least a percentage of 30-40, then it'll be too late. And above all, my fellow Members, this bill is distracting us from the full wave financing of today's government and today's regional programme budget. Not a penny to preserve the historic city’s forgetfulness, especially the zero for building affordable housing. If Yanukovitch has allocated 4 billion loans for construction costs, now it's zero. We've allocated 1 billion to build housing for teachers and doctors, and now it's zero. We need to think about how these hostels should be closed at all or made a normal social home, not forever or forever, to condemn people to living in these hostels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u45	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the procedure for discussion has been improved. Once again, two bills: 1385 and 2009. Bill No. 1385 – the authors of Bill No. 1385 – are Mikhailo Orota and Anatoly Matvienko – support the voting for the bill next, this is Bill 2009. So I'm betting, first of all, we have a vote on Bill 1385. At the same time, we all understand that the authors are asking to vote in favour of the next bill is 2009. Is that the right position, colleagues? That's right. Honourable People's Deputies, I am voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Privatisation of the State Housing Fund, No. 1385, on the basis of this. Let's vote, colleagues. [[10:44:49]] For 175 The decision is not taken, the bill is off-limits. And now, colleagues, I'm putting to the vote a bill that's come to consensus by all the authors and asking them to support it in the first reading. Bill No. 2009 on the provision of housing rights for residents to be accepted as a basis. Ladies and gentlemen, we are voting in favour of this bill to accept it as a basis. [[10:45:30.]] For 425 Now, a protocol decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, what was expressed was the position of several national deputies: to entrust the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing and Regional Policy with the consideration of Bills 1199, 1240J, 1385 and 2009 and their preparation for second reading, to consider merging the bill into a single bill. Is it accepted? Is there no objection? None. Colleagues, let's go meet the coalition and announce a recess for 30 minutes, as required by the Rules. It's a 30-minute recess. I'll meet you at 11.15.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u46	Dear colleagues, in accordance with the Rules, after an announced recess, there should be a declaration by one of the factions who requested an appropriate recess. Since I don't yet see the faction leaders, won't you deny that we'll come to the day-to-day issues and then give the opportunity to make a statement? Are we still waiting for five minutes to announce the application? What's the position? Are we waiting for five minutes? Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u47	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to inform you of the position of the coalition factions who have just taken a break. Of course, there is a situation around the workforce. As I have just been informed, the coalition council has not taken a final decision in accordance with the coalition agreement, and they continue to consult. So I propose to continue the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine until the coalition council agrees, including on personnel issues. Ladies and gentlemen, if you allow me before the vote, I do not think that the Ukrainian Parliament should avoid the situation of yesterday's vote in the State Duma of the Russian Federation on parliamentary hearings, namely: “The state of Russian-Ukrainian relations and the fulfilment of obligations under the Treaty of Friendship and Cooperation and the partnership between Ukraine and the Russian Federation”. And I'm going to allow myself to make a very brief comment on that. Ladies and gentlemen, the Ukrainian Parliament has been demonstrating an incredible tolerance, a very important and pragmatic position for some months. And I think our wisdom only plays out for a significant benefit in the Ukrainian-Russian relationship. In the last eight months, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has accepted no harsh statement on Ukrainian-Russian relations. This is related to what we believe that such relations should be based solely on the terms of the treaty, pragmatic, bilateral, effective for both our nations and maximally depoliticized with the exclusion of all the resonant things that we are trying to involve ourselves in. In view of this, it would be appropriate not to accept any statements today, because this will show diplomacy and consideration. But we cannot stay away from the processes that are taking place in our bilateral relationship. And current legislation and regulations provide for the need for us to prepare an appropriate draft decision or statement. Such a decision should be taken. And I propose the next approach to this question. Oleg Grigorovitch Belarus, Committee on Foreign Affairs, please come to our colleagues from the Russian Duma and hold a joint meeting. That's the first one. The other one. As for the interparliamentary group. Natalia Royal and Sergey Kiwalov as co-chairs, I ask my colleagues from the Russian Federation, and in the next plenary week that we work on the committees, to hold a proper joint meeting of two groups. And the third. I am asking the Preparatory Committee, following appropriate meetings and consideration of the matter on the Preparatory Committee, to submit a draft statement by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the President of Ukraine and to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for the implementation of the bilateral agreement on the strategic partnership of the so-called Great Treaty and the future prospects for the development of Ukrainian-Russian relations. Our main goal is to establish relations, not to inspire confrontation between the two states. So I think that this approach needs to be taken and we, as the Ukrainian Parliament, and how the Ukrainian state will show the maximum of intelligence and pragmatism in this approach. Please make a protocol decision. With regard to the following issues of the agenda, we do not yet have the final agreement under Bill No.1369, which is the creation of the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Development and Protection of Economic Competition, so let us put this question down either for tomorrow or for the next plenary week as determined by the Conciliation Council. Is that the position taken? Okay. Thank you. Let us now consider the creation of temporary commissions of inquiry. We have a number of such bills, so I ask that we take a decision to review these bills in a simplified manner. Is there no objection to the TSC's consideration of the reduced procedure? None. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Bills 2087, 2117, 2369, 2524, 2449, 2480 and 2566. Attention, colleagues. Please vote. [[11:36:31]] For - 359. Decision taken. We're starting our consideration of Bill 2087. Oksana's biological vision Volodymyr. Please, Oksano Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u48	Oksana Bilozer, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear Arseny Petrovich! Dear National Deputies! You are considering a draft decree for the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council to determine the reasons for setting up unwarranted housing prices in Kiev and other cities in Ukraine, as well as the failure of outsiders to fulfil their obligations under housing investment agreements. Dear National Deputies! I'm sure there's no MP in the room today who doesn't understand that this is a huge problem. And there is no national MP who does not realize that the essence of this problem lies in our imperfect legislation. And each of us, I'm sure, feels responsible for what's happening today in Ukraine on the housing market. Our decisions today are being followed by thousands of fraudulent investors, and you know, these two sessional weeks were being held in Parliament with the requirement that at least a temporary commission of inquiry be set up in Parliament to give them an answer as to why this happened, how to solve this problem, and how will our society continue to benefit from this market? And unfortunately, you know that the Elita Center didn't become the last fraud pyramid in the area of construction. Today, investors who have invested in housing companies, Kyivvistbud and about ten other construction companies both in Kiev and in Ukraine have a similar situation. And despite the promise of help to investors, we really see with you that it's almost impossible to get. You and I need to figure this out. Moreover, there are now instances where, because of the mechanism of fictitious bankruptcy, they are trying to withdraw the assets of those enterprises that were actually building, either because of raids, or because of other reasons they have not been able to complete housing. As a result of the situation, we came along with colleagues from other factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u49	Let me finish. Speak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u50	about the need to create a temporary commission of inquiry. The three positions that this commission is going to take. First. Identifying the reasons for the failure of the builders to meet their obligations under housing investment agreements. The reasons for the inaction of officials, public authorities, local self - government authorities, which have resulted in such consequences. The other one. These reasons and factors are not based on high housing prices in Kiev in other cities of Ukraine. And the third. To consider the Supreme Council of Ukraine's proposal to improve legislation in order to create an effective mechanism for regulating housing relations, to implement commitments by developers to investment in housing, to protect the interests of investors, to the citizens of Ukraine who invested in housing. To date, 13 national deputies have been elected to the commission, by the way, two additional seats remain. And if the BUT faction wants, we can make two more today. And the term of the Interim Commission defines one year with the fact that after six months we report on the results of our work. I'm short, that's all. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u51	Thank you. Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov, please. Alexander Sergiyovich, from the place or from the rostrum? From the rostrum, if you please. Do you want to get out of here? From the site of Ephraim’s microphone
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u52	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, a distinguished colleague, the meeting committee on May 14 discussed the requirements of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Provisional Rules, the draft Supreme Council Regulation on the Establishment of a Temporary Investigative Commission to determine the reasons for establishing unwarranted housing prices in Kiev, other cities of Ukraine, and the failure to meet the obligations of the builders to invest in housing. Imported by the National Deputies: Bilozore, Vashtuk, Konovaluk, Greeniv and Žebrovski. In its consideration of the matter, the Committee noted that the proposed draft regulation was prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Provisional Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as well as the fact that the deputy faction of the "Bloika Yulia Timoshenko" had the right to add representatives to the interim commission of inquiry. Since there should be five representatives of the deputy faction “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko” and in fact three, according to paragraph 3 of the draft decision from the deputy faction. The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft decision to include in the agenda of the day-to-day session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and to consider it. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u53	Two – “for”, two – “against”, colleagues. Yuri Serbin. Yuri Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u54	Of course, such a commission is needed, although I think that the reasons for everyone's knowledge and personal knowledge have already been laid out in my letter to a colleague of Belarus the reasons why such events are taking place, but it is necessary for Parliament to record them. That's why I'm taking a "yes" and I'm making a proposal. On the stand yesterday was Finance Minister Viktor Mikhailovich Pinzenik, and he immediately responded to our proposal for the purpose of this commission, and unfortunately he did not respond to the head until now, Mr. Stelmam's National Bank. So I ask, in our decision, let us ask Mr. Stelmach, because without him we will do nothing to Viktor Mikhailovich Pinzenik, so that they too will join this commission by consent. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u55	Thank you. Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u56	Thank you. The Lithuanian Block will certainly support the creation of this temporary commission of inquiry, although it would seem to us that, in principle, today there are unjustifiedly high prices not only for housing, but for everything that is sold and bought in Ukraine. In large numbers, although this is certainly an ironic perception of reality, the commission has to be created for everything that is unwarrantedly high in price in Ukraine, and such a commission is likely to become the Ukrainian people, who are the main victim of unwarrantedly high prices. But I would also like to draw attention to the second part of the name of this commission, “the failure of builders to fulfil commitments under housing investment contracts”. It seems to me that not only does the parliamentary commission of inquiry work here in parallel, but the law enforcement agencies have to work here, because it's already falling under completely different things and it has to be punished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u57	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u58	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Ladies and gentlemen, this is a very important question about setting the reasons for such high housing prices as are in Kiev, when the cost of three thousand dollars per day is sold up to twenty thousand dollars, that is, for a hundred thousand per metre in individual homes. In addition, many buildings began to be constructed, these plots were allocated, and these plots were sold, reselled, and so forth. So this is about basic fraud. There are laws, but they are not. So I'm going to propose that the interim commission of inquiry in paragraph 2 write down: with the participation of the Antimonopoly Committee, the Attorney General's Office, the IMF and the Tax Administration to find out what these things are now. And let us remember that at the beginning of the last millennium, there were orders in Odessa that gave the maximum period of three years for the construction of a new object. Including such an object as the Odessa Opera House, and now we have these builders fooling around, fooling around, fooling around and going on for years. So language goes into law enforcement, and if you have to, you have to limit it to some term, and I think the commission of inquiry will let us know. I propose to take this decision, but with the additions I have now made, with the participation of law enforcement, the Antimonopoly and the Tax Administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u59	Colleagues, the discussion is over. So, a few things from your permission. A proposal was made by Yuri Sergiyovich Serbi to include the National Bank’s head and finance minister in the commission. Regrettably, provisional regulation 80, 81 does not provide for inclusion. So if you don't mind, I can formulate a point where on the interim commission of inquiry to work to involve the Cabinet and the National Bank. That's how it works, isn't it? Then we do so, honourable national deputies, we put to the vote Bill 2087 — on the establishment of the Interim Investigation Commission to determine the reasons for establishing unwarrantedly high housing prices in Kiev and other cities in Ukraine, as well as to carry out commitments by the builders to investment in housing. Colleagues, we're voting on the basis, and then I'm going to add one point to the proposal of National Deputy Yuri Serbin. Is such an offer accepted? We're voting on our colleagues. [[11:47:51]] For 255 Decision taken. Yuri Anatolyevich, what offer did you say? Turn on Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u60	Yuri Carmazin. In the second paragraph, I propose to report that with the participation of the Antimonopoly Committee, the Attorney General's Office, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Tax Administration.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u61	The next item, formation, is proposed to add another paragraph to the seventh paragraph. Please turn Adam Martinyuk on.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u62	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear Arsenius Petrovich, I think we can now write down all the organs that exist in our country before the seventh paragraph. It is the right of a temporary commission of inquiry to engage, to cooperate with, and to cooperate with, whom they consider necessary. That is, we should not give them a pre-delegation of whom to engage, and then others, if they want to involve other authorities of the state executive branch, will say, “Sorry, we are not listed in the Supreme Council ruling.” So I propose to accept now and in general, without writing, without specifying who to involve, so for the commission, it would be better to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u63	It offers, as always, a compromise option. We do not appoint public authorities and government authorities, but we write in the seventh paragraph: “For the work of the commission to involve representatives of the central authorities of the State executive and the authorities of the state administration and the National Bank of Ukraine”. [[Dot]] Well, the law enforcement agency is the executive authority. Report, read the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers. The D.A.'s not. Yuri Anatoliyovich, don't knock down the work of the entire Parliament. Please take your seat. Thank you. Dear colleagues, and so on, to the seventh paragraph, the editorial bill: “Temporary investigating committee should be involved in the work of representatives of the authorities of the State Executive and the authorities of the State, the prosecutor’s offices and the National Bank of Ukraine. ” [[Comma]] [[Brackets]] [[By Consent]] Is it accepted? With such a formulation, I am voting on the adoption of the decree in the second reading and in general. Please vote. [[11:50:29]] For 405 That's the thing. Dear colleagues, the factions want to use their right after a break to express their position. The designated Andrew Portnow, who wants to express his position. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u64	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine, I would like to remind you that according to the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, under the 20th article, personnel issues are dealt with in a row and without placing them on the agenda. You know that the Prime Minister of Ukraine, according to the Constitution, has filed for the release of Valentina Petrovna Seminouk as head of the Ukrainian State Property Fund. Our political power requires urgent consideration of this issue in the Hall, as required by part four of article 20 of the Supreme Council’s Rules of Work. At the same time, I would like to report that yesterday our coalition colleagues, the faction “Our Ukraine – the People’s Self-Defense” announced that they would vote in favour of the release of Semenyuk if Portnov withdrew his candidacy as head of the Ukrainian State Property Fund. In this regard, I ask the Prime Minister of Ukraine and the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to withdraw from consideration the draft Supreme Council Regulation on the appointment of Portnova Andrija as head of the National Property Fund of Ukraine. This decision is related to the need to end speculation about the effectiveness of the Ukrainian government and the parliamentary coalition and the acceleration of personnel changes in the Ukrainian State Property Fund, to ensure that the government of Ukraine implements state policies and market transformations in the area of privatization and government ownership. I am well aware of the demand of the faction "Our Ukraine – the People's Self-Defense" regarding the need to stop criticism at the address of President Viktor Yushchenk of Ukraine. But I find it pointless and impossible to change my principles and beliefs in exchange for positions of any rank. [[Applause]] I believe that state interests require that such a candidate be appointed to Parliament as head of the Ukrainian State Property Fund, which will be accepted by the majority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine without any conflict or unnecessary discussion. And coalition colleagues are given the opportunity to implement a coalition agreement and rotate the leadership of the country’s main privatisation institution according to their public obligations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u65	Thank you. To discuss, I hope we don't? Well, please. Let us finish Viacheslav Kirilenko and Alexander Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u66	Viacheslav Kirilenko, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense". We welcome this step of colleague Portnova, and we want to make a special statement to my colleagues from BUT, and for him personally, that it was not our Ukraine that removed him from this position, which he did not lead, that he withdrew himself from this position with public comments that ran counter to ethical issues within the coalition of democratic forces. This is position one. Second position. We ask our coalition partners from the "Timoshenko Block" not to stop halfway and today to put forward to Parliament a candidate for the head of the State Property Fund so that the entire Parliament can discuss this and the coalition, and our faction, including, in favour of this candidature, vote. Because we should all begin to be interested in the principles that the new head of the Maintenance Fund will follow. And to discuss these principles of privatization and voting for a new bid from the BIT, we are ready and call on our colleagues to resolve this issue quickly and expeditiously today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u67	Alexander Efraemov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u68	Dear colleagues, I will allow myself to recall our discussion on this issue. It wasn't just about personnel, if you remember. It was that we needed to deal with privatization processes in our State. Therefore, a bill that we have considered on first reading has been put in place as a matter of priority, but which has not been adopted in general. And I would also like to recall that this bill, if not adopted, is worth the second bill, 2233, on this issue. And, Arsenija Petrovich, you have repeatedly made a statement that only after consideration of the bill could there be a question of replacing the Head of the State Property Fund. At the same time, I would like to emphasize that we, as the supreme legislative body, cannot violate the laws we are enacting. Semenyuk is on leave. According to the Rules, the time limit we have is our duty.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u69	Let me finish. Let me finish. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u70	Under the Temporary Rules, she has the right to speak with the Supreme Council, and the Supreme Council has the right to determine after that whether she has worked effectively or has worked ineffectively. On the basis of the statements made by the manager, she did not refuse to make statements. And as for who's on leave, we have legislation on who's doing it. And I don't think the law is broken on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u71	Colleagues, there is a suggestion to stop discussing the matter and move on to the day - to - day issues. All right, let's talk. (U in m in s a l i) Then write it down. Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u72	Yuri Carmazin. Please pass the word to Alexander Bondar, "Our Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u73	Alexander Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u74	I, on behalf of the Committee on Economic Policy and the Special Supervisory Commission on Privatization, ask a question. We have a copy of Semenyuk's application with your signature "to know" in which she asks you to take a vacation from June 4 to 13. I'd like to know if you signed this application, and on what basis, and nothing more? Because it raised some doubts on both the committee and the committee. Because we “know” and what happened with the statement, we do not know. And that's my question that I have the right to ask you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u75	Mikola Kravchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u76	Pass. Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u77	Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u78	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Thank you, Mikola Vasilovich. Dear Arsenija Petrovich, I have been convinced to this day and I think that after this e conviction I will remain that the arrangements agreed upon at the meeting of the Conciliation Council, especially your arrangements with the faction leaders, have been completely implemented to this day and you have clearly followed these agreements. So let me remind you, more than once, when we were talking about these personnel issues, a constant part of the factions were asking this question. You agreed that yes, we would act in such an algorithm that it would be necessary to adopt a privatization programme, and more specifically, it was language, but to stop privatization temporarily. Since we adopted the privatization programme on the first reading yesterday, it is a privatization programme, and then it is a matter of dealing with the personnel issues of the State Property Fund. Because state privatization programs are not adopted definitively.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u79	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u80	I'm sorry I'm going to go a little bit too far. Because that's not the law, so let's please just stick to the agreement this time, and I think it'll only contribute to the consolidation of the Rules. Next week, I think the committee will prepare for the second reading, the program will be adopted in the second reading, it will become the law, and then please consider all the human resources issues related to the fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u81	Mikhail Papiev, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u82	Thank you. Please pass the word to Yuri Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u83	Yuri Miroshnichenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u84	Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear colleagues, this past week, you remember how much we hear about political repression. We see one of the ministers claiming to be persecuted, we see other national MPs claiming to be persecuted. But please tell me, representatives of the coalition, can't you now, in this case, see clear signs of political persecution of a man who doesn't even have a chance to report on his work? I'm a member of the Special Committee on Privatization, and I can assure you, there is no decision on the part of our committee that recognizes the work of the Maintenance Fund as negative. We knowingly do not allow people to speak, to report, nor do we define the requirements that we will follow.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u85	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u86	We can't say which person will do the best that Parliament will do to this body, as set out in the privatization programme. I think that this kind of setting up of personnel right now can, in fact, once again provoke opposition, including in Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u87	Dear colleagues, first of all, the answer to Alexander Bondar's question, which, unfortunately, I don't see. The person who does not work for the first year in the system of State executive authorities distinguishes the types of resolutions “To know”, “To account”, “Accommodating”. So please let him read the resolution as it says. The second paragraph is that the settlement and harmonization of the issue of leave is defined by two acts: the Vacation Act and the Constitution of Ukraine. So please, the committee has received the appropriate resolution, so make your decision. The second is about the personnel issue. I would like to remind you that everyone on the previous conciliatory council has agreed: if a coalition decision is made on two signatures, as the Coalition Agreement requires, and if a proposal is made, this question is automatically included and voted. The coalition after the coalition didn't agree. The third question is regarding a formal legal approach to staff assignment or dismissal. The provisional regulation provides for the possibility, that is, the right of the person being released from office to speak in the Ukrainian Parliament, or report to the Ukrainian Parliament. In that case, if the coalition agrees on this issue, we have the opportunity to call Valentina Petrovna and listen to her report accordingly. Please, once again, come to agreement within the democratic forces. 12.02 – break until 12.30.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u88	Ladies and gentlemen, we continue our morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Colleagues, if you let me finish the question that we've just been trying to solve, it's a matter of personnel assignments. I'd like to go back to the coalition first. Only Parliament has begun to work properly and only a coalition unity has emerged, I ask you not to take the garbage out of the house, make an internal decision and this decision will be voted out quickly and normally. What's more, right now, just 225 or 226 cards, that's where the line goes. So I ask you to make a decision in the middle of the coalition, and this is the best way to solve any problem. We're just starting to work, it's only becoming more or less normal, it's just getting on the road to constructive work, and we're now starting to put the polyne in the fire to warm up the situation. Colleagues, I'm announcing the next issue of the agenda is the election and release of judges. Yuri Anatolyevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u89	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear National Deputies! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear citizens of Ukraine! Let us warmly welcome you to the festival of the Lord’s Ascension. May the Ascension of the Cross strengthen our faith, instill hope, and confirm our love. With the festival of all of you! Honourable National Deputies, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Justice at its meeting held on June 4, after considering the appointment of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the head of the Supreme Administrative Court and the head of the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine for the election of judges on an open-ended basis, suggest to you the draft ruling of 2601 of June 4, 2008. Dear National Deputies! I'm going to read my name, my name and my father's judge. The judge rises from his seat, and if there is a warning to him, the national deputies report it from the scene. Such a judge is temporarily removed from the draft ruling and we return to the consideration of his candidature after the other judges have voted. Judges today are in a guest bed. In accordance with article 85, part one, part one, paragraph 27, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Committee on Justice recommends that judges be elected on an indefinite basis: The Court of Appeal of the Donetsk district of Soroka Galina Pilpin; the Court of Appeal of the Luhansk Region of Rudenko Vitali Valentinović; the Court of Appeal of Kiev Volkov Volkov Aleksandrovna; The Kyiv Administrative Court of Appeal, Koval Marat Petrovich, Kyiv Administrative Court of Appeal, Romanchuk Olen Mikolayevna; The Central City District Court of the Horn of Creature of Dnipropetrovsk District of Zaloczne Vitali Semenović; The Illchid District Court of Mariupol, Donetsk, Tkachenko Tetjan Borisovna; The Berdian District Court of Zaporozhye Region, Alexia Viktorovich; The Vilnius District Court of Zaporozhye District, Oleen Sergiyevna; The Lightwater Regional Court of the Kirovograd district of Baranjac Alla Mikolayevna; Alchev City Court of Luhansk Lukyanov Olen Viktorovna Anthracite District Court of Luhansk, Kerimov Roman Vagifovich; Ilchitiv city court of the Odessa district of Seminovo Oleg Anatoliyovich; The Kyiv District Court of Odessa Korotayev Natalija Alexandrovna; Malinov District Court of Odessa Verbicke Nina Volodymyrna; The Ravenna City Court of the district of Mellnik Oleg Volodymyrovich; Dergachev District Court of the Nevádom region of Denis Volodymirovich; Intruder District Court of Kharkiv District Grishin Petar Volodymirovich; The First-May City Court of Kharkiv district of Zelenski Vladimir Viktorovich; The First-May City Court of Kharkiv district of Myagny Evgeny Viacheslavovich; The Yellow District Court of Kharkiv Fedushina Mikola Volodimirovic; the Commercial Court of Ivano-Frankiv, Kalashnik Volodymyr Aleksandrovitch. Ladies and gentlemen, please be advised.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u90	Dear colleagues, I'm voting on Bill No. 2601 on the election of judges, on the basis. [[12:43:31]] For 369 Decision taken. Now I'm betting. Colleagues, half a second, that was just the basis. And now in the second reading and in general. There's no objection to the personnel warehouse? None. I am voting on the bill on the adoption of 2601 in the second reading and in general. [[12:44:03]] For 391 Decision taken, thank you. To 391. Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u91	Dear Mr. Chairman, distinguished national MPs, the honourable ones present! The Committee of the Supreme Council on Justice at its meeting held on June 4, having considered the submission of Supreme Court and Chief Justice of the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine's decision No. 2602 of June 4, 2008 on the selection of previously elected judges on an open-ended basis. This draft ruling concerns judges who have already been elected by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on an indefinite basis and are transferred from one court to another by election. I would like to point out that, in accordance with article 15, paragraph 2, of the Ukrainian Law on the election and discharge of a professional judge of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the transfer of a judge by election takes place at a plenary meeting of the Supreme Council without discussion. According to article 85, part one, part one, article 128 of the Constitution of Ukraine, part three, article 62 of the Ukrainian Law on the judiciary, article 15 of the Ukrainian Law on the procedure for the appointment and discharge of a professional judge by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides: To elect judges who were previously elected on an open-ended basis as judges: the Court of Appeal of the Kirovograd Region of Ponomarenko, Valentina Grigorovna; Kyiv’s Administrative Court of Appeal Vasilnik Jaroslav Mikolaiovich Ladies and gentlemen, please be advised.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u92	Dear colleagues, Bill No. 2602 is on the basis of the vote. I can put it on the ground as a whole if you don't have any personal objections. You don't? Ladies and gentlemen, I am putting to the vote bill 2602 on the election of judges as a basis and in general, I ask you to vote. [[12:46:35.]] For 385 Decision taken. 2603, please report. [[B in m in s a l in]] What about 2603? Please. Vadim Vasilovich Kolesnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u93	Thank you. Dear Chief! Dear colleagues! At its meeting on June 4, this year, the High Council of Justice on the release of Tokar Lydia Volodymyrovny from the position of judge of the local Lenin district court of Winnice in connection with a violation of the judge’s oath. The committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine relieve Tokar Lidija Volodymyrovna of her position as judge of the local court in accordance with the application of the Supreme Council of Justice in connection with the violation of an oath. Thank you. She was invited, she's not here today.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u94	In accordance with the requirements of the Provisional Rules, the absence of a freed person would like to emphasize that the judge’s position does not prevent the consideration of the matter. Therefore, honourable colleagues are offered to lay the groundwork and in general Bill 2603 exempt Tokar Lidiya Volodymyrna from the position of judge at the local Lenin district court of Winnice in connection with a violation of an oath. The cook wants to ask you a question, please give me the word of Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u95	Dear reporter, I have read very carefully the material of this matter, which has been handed over to the Ukrainian National Deputies. I want to say right now that I agree with the conclusion of the committee, but it seems to me that the x formal point of view would still have to state the basis for such a decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, that is, more specifically, what the committee believes is a violation that gives rise to the right to speak about a violation of an oath by a judge. I'd ask you, from a formal point of view, to call this a stenographer.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u96	Thank you. The point is that we do not make a complete list of issues in accordance with the Rules in force. We apply the Help of the High Council of Justice, where this matter is fully written down and there are no questions, no justification, never done. That's why I can tell from myself. Aah! It was a classic raid. If you want to read it, I can read it again. But the Justice Committee came to a unanimous conclusion, and the judge was present, and questions were asked. Clearly, man was working, doing what was prejudiced, and he must have benefited from it. I can't say it was profit or profit.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u97	The committee's decision is taken unanimously. No questions asked. Ladies and gentlemen, I place the vote on acceptance as a basis and in the whole of Bill 2603 on the release of Judge Tokar Lydia Volodymyrna. Please vote. [[12:50:02]] For 402 Decision taken. Bill No. 2605. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u98	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished national deputies, we have been introduced by the Supreme Council of Ukraine's decree to release Demchenek Sergey Fedorovich from office as judge of the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine. According to part two of article 6 of the Constitution, the authorities of the Ukrainian legislature and the judiciary exercise their powers within the limits established by the Constitution and in accordance with the laws of Ukraine. According to article 128, part five, paragraph two, of the Constitution, a judge is released from office by a body that he has chosen or appointed when he reaches the age of 65. According to Moskalenko’s letter of January 21, 2008, Demchenka was 65 years old on February 21, 2008. But the Supreme Council of Ukraine did not receive Demchenk’s application to release the judge of Ukraine’s Supreme Economic Court. On the contrary, the Supreme Council of Ukraine and other state bodies continue to be signed by Demchenka's head, Sergio Fedorovich, on the appointment and election of judges, other documents. In the future, this may lead to the recognition of judicial decisions handed down by such judges as illegal, which may paralyze the functioning of the system of agricultural courts. What's more, I want to tell you that more than 200 people in this system can't be assigned to the post of judges right now because more than three months are actually occupied by a person who has no right to hold this position under the Constitution. In view of the fact that the Supreme Council did not receive Demchenk's application to be dismissed from office as judge of the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine, and he was appointed for the appointment of a clear date of birth, there is a question, and we are bringing him up to date for consideration by the Supreme Council — the release of Stephen Fedorovich in connection with his 65 years. I want to say that 10 people voted in favour of this decision, 7 against. This is not taking into account those people who were still absent and expressing the desire that they vote in favour. Therefore, the majority of the Committee's decisions were taken regarding the discharge of the Supreme Economic Court of Demchenk Stepan Fedorovich on the basis of the direct rule of article 126. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u99	Sergei Fedorovich, not Stepan Fedorovich, but nothing. Any questions to the reporter?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u100	Sergey Fedorovich, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u101	Please sign in for five minutes. Celebrities of the Olinick.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u102	Honourable Yuri Anatoliyovich, as a lawyer and former prosecutor, do you think that when a person, the more who headed one of the branches of the judiciary in violation of the constitutional requirements, has not been free of office for a long time and is actually continuing to perform some administratively-like activity, during this period gets a salary, it is absolutely illegal, is there no sign of crime in this person's actions that are linked to the purposeless use of these budget funds for a salary, and does this not signify the acquisition of official powers that is equally criminalized by the Criminal Code?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u103	Thank you. I want to say that there is now a dangerous precedent for non-compliance with the Constitution for more than three months. It's a dangerous precedent, we've looked at it several times at a committee meeting. And of course there are elements to what you're talking about. But based on the presumption of innocence, based on what Sergey Fedorovich was doing in good faith before, I wouldn't want to put up with your arguments right now, I'd like to leave it behind the parentheses, behind the braces. And now I ask you to vote because you have also made this decision: to be released at 65 years of age. And I would like to point out that no authority in the state that had these questions: neither the Supreme Council of Justice nor the Supreme Court -- has asked these questions at the same time. And this is a dangerous precedent in the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u104	Elbrus Thadeyev. Bondik?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u105	Please give Bondic a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u106	Bondi's word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u107	Dear Yuri Anatoliyovich, in the absence of me on the committee, when the decision was taken, I appeal to you and ask you to explain to me how the decision was handed down for registration when we know that there are other decisions in turn. And you don't think it's a vote for this ruling that we're going to set a legal precedent. What is it? You see for yourself, Yuri Anatoliyevich, which should be the submission of the High Qualification Commission of Judges, because no one has seen Demchenk's statement. I can agree with you that there is a direct rule of the Constitution, but where is the statement? This is a formal violation, and we are creating an unworthy precedent for the Supreme Council. Would you agree to withdraw the decision, process it, and recommit it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u108	Thank you. You know, I respect you very much as a lawyer, but unfortunately, I have the opposite point of view. I'm sure I can convince you. If the Higher Council of Justice has failed to perform its function if, for some reason, it has been lost, because it is confirmed that this statement was kept in the qualification of the Supreme Court of Ukraine and between the cabinets, it does not mean that the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as the body that appointed the judge and the even higher head of the Supreme Court, today's higher office of the judiciary, should not apply the direct norm of the Constitution. That's what's going on, I, for example, qualify as a conspiracy against justice. Thus, in the manner in which the decree is registered, the authors of the decree: Sobolev, Philenko, Schustik, Senchenko, Grac, Carmazin, Oilynik. So the authors, all the members of the committee, signed all the members of the committee that made it, there are no members here. All of them.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u109	Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u110	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear Arsenius Petrovich, more likely to you than to the reporter, would also like to ask a question. Unfortunately, I don't have a law under my hand right now that we're assigning, releasing judges, but I feel like the national MPs can't be the initiators of this issue. This question is dealt with entirely by another procedure. We should thank the members of the committee of profile for the initiative and no more. And let's make sure that the ruling is prepared in accordance with the procedure provided for by the special law, not even the Provisional Rules, but the special law. And I think that since we're going to move this issue over a week, nothing is going to change. But we will look like decent people in the respect of law enforcement. Moreover, this refers to the judicial branch of authority, which should first stand on the watch of the law. I suggest we move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u111	Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u112	Can I answer that?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u113	That's not a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u114	The point is, that's exactly what it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u115	Yuri Anatolyovich, that's not a question. Ruslan Lukyanchuk Yuri Anatolyovich, you're going to comment now. It's gonna be okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u116	Thank you. Please pass the word to Sobolje Sergey.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u117	Sergey Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u118	You know, I totally agree with the previous statement that, in fact, there was no such precedent in Ukraine that the head of one of the branches of authority, I don't even speak simply of a judge, would not have met the very clear requirements of the Constitution, where it is clearly warned: 65 years is the basis for the dismissal of a judge. What is more, there is, for example, Dmitri Mikitovich Pritika, who also reached retirement age, wrote a statement while in office, and had no questions. I want to remind you, the same situation for Malerenck, the head of the Supreme Court, reached 65 years of age, and the question was immediately removed. Now we have a precedent, it's been the fourth month. The law defines a monthly term for this. In fact, man failed to fulfill his constitutional duty and blocked the entire branch of the courts. No human can be brought before a judge.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u119	Yuri Anatolyevich, let me ask you a few questions. First question: Was there a meeting of the committee on bill 2605 on the release of Demchenko Sergio Fedorovich from the post of judge of the Supreme Court of Agriculture?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u120	Yes, there was a meeting yesterday to discuss the matter. What's more, I'm going to report to you that we've had three meetings of the committee with this agenda. Moreover, the law that Adam Ivanovich is talking about requires that a judge who has reached the age of 65, a month before that deadline, in a month, I repeat! – four months ago, Adam Ivanovich, he was supposed to do it, do you understand? Moreover, the second part requires that in the event of a failure to comply with these requirements a person loses his pension. That is, Adam Ivanovich, so that you know and know all Ukrainian citizens, as is the case in this case, as it is the law. But in this case, he decided to outsmart everyone — to swindle the Supreme Council, to outsmart the whole system, and the people. That's why we're the subject, the decision was 10-7, Arsenius Petrovich is honorable.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u121	One more time under the stenogram.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u122	10-7, repeat for the transcript.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u123	The Committee of the Supreme Council took the appropriate decision, voted in favour of the decision: “in favour” – 10 votes, “against” – 7. Thus, decisions are considered to be acceptable. Do I get it right? You're officially saying that.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u124	I'm officially stating it, confirming it as the first deputy chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u125	Car driver, please have a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u126	Dear colleagues, if, in fact, by procedure, this separate decree was not voted on by the committee. Mr. Sobolje's proposal to prepare a draft decision was voted on, and we have not considered the draft decision. That's the first one. It's different. [[B in m in s a l in]] And it was agreed that this bill would, this decree, be signed by several deputies. So separately, if under protocol, this is the ruling that the committee did not vote on. That's the first one. [[B in m in s a l in]] It's different. Arsenius Petrovich, my dear colleagues, once again, I would like to draw your attention to this issue, because a legal coalition has been formed. In accordance with article 131 of the Constitution, only the Supreme Council of Justice can present a motion for the dismissal of a judge. We don't have that application. We've been dealing with this. Demchenka’s statement was made in accordance with the legislation in force. But a qualified commission sent a number of questions to the relevant institutions in connection with the fact that there were questions of internship — two or three months. Therefore, we cannot now say that a person is evading his obligation to make this claim. So once again, we suggest that we postpone this question today.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u127	Thank you. Alexander Efraemov, then Philenko's colleague. Then Sergei Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u128	The distinguished Arsenija Petrovich, when looking at this document, raises very serious questions directly how such a short period of time the document could have taken place. To have your signature within one day, to be on the committee, to sign up to the committee, to be considered by the committee, and to take a decision. [[I will allow myself to see that the Committee meets under the Rules only within days of the submission of this document.]] At the same time, the members of the committee who are there say otherwise. This is very similar to the political movements that are taking place in our State. If this is the case, what is happening in the regions where the leaders of the CIA are being removed for political reasons today, tax administrations are being removed, the judiciary is being cleaned, and the whole system is being built. I would urge you, Arsenius Petrovich, not to.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u129	Philenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u130	Vladimir Filenko, Yulia Timoshenko, member of the Justice Committee. I took part in a committee meeting, and I want to say that my colleague and colleague, Vadim Koleznichenko, had a bit of a free treatment of the committee's decision yesterday. The committee voted on the issue by a large majority in favour of the release of Judge Demchenk. But when we were looking for a formula for how to do it better, it was protocol for members of the committee, such as Sergio Sobolev, to prepare a draft decision for me and make it on behalf of the deputies. And I'm talking to my colleague Ephraim, there's no political situation here. There are 126 articles of the Constitution, the norm of direct action. And if the judge takes his tail out, refuses to resign and carry out the Constitution, we have as the body that assigned him to put an end to it. If the High Council of Justice doesn't provide these documents in time, I do.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u131	Sergey Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u132	Dear colleagues, the committee's decision is clear enough. It is the following: to prepare and make a draft order for the release of Demchenk, which was made by members of the committee. I now read article 126 of the Constitution of Ukraine: “The judge shall be released from office by the authority that has chosen him or appointed him if he reaches the judge 65 years” We are the body that has chosen him. This is the Supreme Council of Ukraine. That's why, until then, I think the Head of the Supreme Council will confirm this, Mr. Demchenk's statement to the Supreme Council has not been received. This is therefore an unprecedented case where the head of the Supreme Economic Court in violation of the Constitution does not make clear the requirements of the Constitution, not even the Court of Justice Act. And the Court of Justice Act requires us to consider this issue for two months, which we have done. That's why it's the first time in Ukraine a precedent when.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u133	Wheelchair and we're done, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u134	Thank you. Once again, I want to draw your attention to the Explanatory Note and the last paragraph there says that it's not the committee that brings it out, it's the first. Secondly, I remind you once again: we have already said there is a legal conflict, but Article 131 of the Constitution requires that this issue be considered only after this application has been made by the Higher Council of Justice. And the third. I remind you again, Mr. Demchenk's statement came in due time. At the last meeting of the committee, I showed you a copy of this statement. No one had any comments before that statement. That is why we can make a very serious mistake right now, and I propose that we postpone the consideration of this issue for a week in order for the High Council of Justice to consider and submit to us a submission in accordance with the Constitution and the Law on the Higher Council of Justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u135	What's the committee's decision? Please, the last Yuri Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u136	Dear colleagues! I'd like us to take these emotions off a little bit. I'll tell you what they say in the legal environment. You know who it is, it's the head of the Supreme Court of Agriculture. You all know that the household courts are dealing with matters related, including raiding. You know what some say from experts that now the coalition is trying to put on the head of the Supreme Economic Court a loyal leader. I think that now we all see that there is a conflict of two norms of the Constitution, not even the law, because there is a order in which we should be freed. No one denies that we should, of course, relieve a judge who has reached the age limit. But I don't think a week solves anything. I would have made the decision to go to the High Council of Justice, to consider the matter in its proper order.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u137	Dear colleagues, you can express your position. Now I ask your attention, Yuri Anatoliyovich, thank you, you have already spoken. The first thing I'd like to do is turn to you, and it's my fault that I'm putting the ruling to a vote, and the committee's decision is not signed. I mean, I believe in words. I believe in words, but I can't. First of all, I'm addressing you. Please give me the committee's decision. In two hours, the decision is signed, no problem. Now pay attention, fellows! Let's say we put this decision to a vote right now. And it can be put to the vote. But I read article 131 of the Constitution of Ukraine: “In Ukraine there is a Higher Council of Justice, to which the knowledge belongs — attention! – introduction of the application for the release of judges from office.” If we now vote on this motion without making it, I guarantee you that next week the administrative court will revoke the parliamentary order. Attention! Listen to me. Listen. That's the first point. Item two. Yuri Anatoliyovich, I can put her to a vote right now, but if she gets 225 votes, we'll take it out of the agenda and wait for the next session. That would be my offer. First. The Committee of the Supreme Council should immediately submit a decision to the committee on the adoption of the 2605 bill on approval. The other one. I would like to point out that, in accordance with article 26 of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 131 of the Constitution of Ukraine, I would like to make an application for the release of Demchenko Sergey Fedorovich from the post of judge. After that, when this requirement is not met, and if you give me a committee decision, I'll put it to a vote any day. Then there is a legal basis in the court to speak of the Supreme Council of Justice refusing to submit, the Parliament has addressed it, the Committee's decision is and is in violation of article 126. I don't want us to play for anyone's benefit right now. [[B in m in s a l in]] Term? Give me seven days. Okay? In seven days' time. So I'm asking the Supreme Council apparatus to form this as a protocol decision to Parliament. Is it accepted? Is there no objection? Thank you. Let's move on to the next decision. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yuri Anatoliyovich, you're not a Parliament, but there's already a Parliament here, quite different. The committee is the body of the Supreme Council, not the Supreme Council. Yuri Anatoliyovich, please do not interfere with the work of the Supreme Council and do not do the bearer service to those who wish to carry out this decree, do not do the bearer of service so that tomorrow this ruling will not be brought before the administrative court on all legal grounds. Please take your seat. Announcing 2117. Sniper Andrew Leonidovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u138	Honourable National Deputies, on August 3, 2006, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decided to establish an interim commission of inquiry to verify the situation with regard to the provision of natural gas to Ukrainian consumers, the calculation of natural gas and possible violations of existing legislation in the energy market. On October 4, 2006, the Supreme Council of the Fifth Call heard the preliminary information of the interim commission of inquiry, accepted it, and adopted an appropriate decision, and gave the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine a number of recommendations for improving the situation in Ukraine’s gas market. The recommendations of the interim commission of inquiry were taken into account by the government of Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic, which enabled gas prices to be lowered for the population, starting at the end of 2006, to create a differentiated, fairer system of payment for gas by consumers, and to improve the calculation for it. The work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the government has been blocked in a non-legal way, virtually since April 2007, has not been able to legally ensure the order of the gas market in Ukraine, the legal way of establishing a liability procedure in all chains of relations between gas importers and state-owned enterprises, privatised gas distribution companies, the creation of effective control by authorities and society over its activities, the fulfilment of requirements, security techniques and so on. At the beginning of 2008, government and NAC Naftogaz Ukraine stated that the conditions of existing contracts and existing gas supply schemes had changed, and society had a broad sense of resonance, particularly with regard to the possibility of increasing the price of gas for Ukrainian consumers, the threat and the destruction of the economy of the state. The sharpness of the gas - market issues in Ukraine will not weaken and continue to cause great concern for the population. The issue of Ukrainian gas supply and gas supply became the subject of the February 2008 meeting of the PDO, which gave the Government of Timoshenko the task of providing gas in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u139	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u140	This is the directive. Of course, there is a need for such a commission to work, but it does. Let's finish, Arsenius Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u141	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u142	Of course, there is a need for such a commission to work, but according to the current conditions and approaches of the Supreme Council to regulate the work of the TSC, the drafters insist that the issue of the inability to work in a number of units approved by the Legislative Committee and the lack of clarification of the composition of the staff be postponed. In case of non-transmission, we'll review this bill and replace others.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u143	Thank you, Andrew Leonidovich, please sit down. Alexander Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u144	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, if the drafters of the bill have decided that the draft regulation is not ready and is coming out with this proposal to the session, we have no reason to put it to the vote today. There is a proposal to support the initiative of the authors and to postpone consideration of this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u145	Colleagues, there's no objection to having the 2117 issue brought up by Derrick Andrey Leonidovich on the table, is there? Thank you. The next 2449, Kirilenko Viacheslav Anatoliyovich, please. Viacheslav Anatoliyovich, report 2449. I've already declared 2449. But I've just got a form in my folder, and they're going to announce you, so what are you, five or six of them.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u146	Viacheslav Kirilenko, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u147	Please, Viacheslav Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u148	Viacheslav Kirilenko, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear colleagues, your point is that a decision is proposed to establish a Temporary Investigation Commission to investigate the construction of a metal factory in the Biotzerkow district of Kiev and the possible damage that may be caused by this environment. This is a problem that has long gone beyond the White Church and the Bilocerk district and has become a matter of national importance. As a national MP, I have repeatedly asked all the authorities about the legality of the building permits, the legality of environmental and environmental experts for other documents, including the use of parliamentary questions. Yet the answers I received, I think, are only bureaucratic notes. In addition, as a white churchman of origin, I get a huge number of references from my fellow countrymen to the absolute inadmissibility of building a factory in this area for ecological, environmental reasons, and also to the question of employment in the White Church and the area, because a huge number of job vacancies in the city and the area are not closing now, the more so they will not be closed when the factory is created. In addition, two advisory referendums on how to treat a factory have been held in the city. In the first referendum for the factory, it's 7,000, 34,000 white churchmen against the factory. The second referendum, for the factory – 2,000 white churchmen, against the factory – 59,000 white churchmen, which means 95 percent of those who participated. So I ask all the national deputies to support the establishment of this commission and to find out the legality and the permits and the construction. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u149	Thank you, Viacheslav Anatolyovich. Alexander Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u150	This draft decree was prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Ukrainian Supreme Council's Provisional Rules and the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that it should be placed in the agenda and considered. I'd like the Supreme Council to decide.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u151	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Colleagues, no objection to us going to the voting procedure? No, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the national council, please. Attention! The only thing that came out of this was the request, and I'm going to put it on the ground, and then they want to change the Oily to Sokolova, the personal warehouse. Yeah? Yes. So I'm going to put the vote on the ground, and then the second reading, I'm going to replace the names. Dear colleagues, the vote is based on decree 2449 on the creation of TSKs in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please vote. [[13:19:57]] For 378 Decision taken. Now, until the second reading in paragraph 4, the name Olivnik is changed by Sokolov. Okay? In general, we are voting on the editorial revision of paragraph four. Please vote 2449. [[13:20:25]] For 385 Thank you. For -385. Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u152	Thank you, Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear Arsenia Petrovich, you did the right thing. The only request for clarification is that the profile committee constantly checks because there can't be a member.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u153	The quota is reflected.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u154	It's not a quota, it's not a quota, it's about whether a colleague is not a member of another commission, because there can't be two commissions. I mean, please make sure he's able to be a member of the commission. And there's no objection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u155	According to the 81 Rules, he is to be a member of the commission. It's settled. One, right. I'm talking about the name Falcons. Dear colleagues, 2369 Ivan Vasilovich Vernidubov, please to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u156	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to go straight to the text of the ruling, because the rules are small, and I want to draw attention to paragraph three. The number of members of the interim commission of inquiry was estimated to be 11 national deputies. Since the NUNS faction refused to participate in the Sevastopol commission, nine people would have to be left behind for the protocol. That's the first one. In paragraph 5, BUT instead of Omelchenka named Deputy Zozuli Ruslan Petrovich, this is also for the protocol. And the last is paragraph seven: determine the duration of the activity for six months, and the report of the commission not later than October 10th. I would ask that we vote on such changes. The Constitution allows the Supreme Council of Ukraine to create temporary commissions of inquiry on issues of social interest. What is the social interest and resonance of the circumstances that will prompt the establishment of this temporary commission of inquiry? What prompted Sevastopol City Council deputies, other public organizations to appeal to the Supreme Council with such a request? In that, for more than half a year, the theme of the Sebastopol media has been the embankment of hundreds of hectares of land in Sevastopol and the launching of budgets under the socio-economic programme. Sevastopol's development programme, the inconceivable appetites of the Sevastopol City Public Administration for personal housing issues and their personal environment. In the first place, the public organizations, the supporters of the ruling coalition, in particular the head of the Sevastopol without Corruption, Vasily Greenchuk, who, through the newspaper "Details", informed the city last year about the affairs of the doubtful affairs of the new team. Then there were statements by other public organizations, members of the council, hunger strikes by young people, and there were pickets.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u157	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u158	However, there is no response from the President, the Secretariat. Gorsovet decided that more than two thirds of the deputies were not to be trusted, which in itself would automatically require the President to decide on the resignation of the Chairman of the Sevastopol State Administration. However, that did not happen either. They therefore have to ask the question. And I ask you to support me, to vote in favour of the order to set up an interim investigation commission. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u159	Ivan Vasilovich, could I ask you a question if you'll excuse me? How do you view adding in the name of the commission: “Sevastopol City State Administration and Sevastopol City Council”? Is there no such objection? Do you know the situation? Colleagues, you know? So that we can be objective, or there is a question. Is there no objection? Thank you, Ivan Vasilovich. Alexander Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u160	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, distinguished colleagues, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the above-mentioned draft decision of the Supreme Council to include in the order of the day’s second session and to consider it, taking into account the Committee’s comments on the timing of the report of the interim commission of inquiry, in accordance with article 80, paragraph 5, of the Provisional Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u161	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Colleagues, attention: I now lay the groundwork, and then I lay the groundwork for Bill No. 2369: the creation of the TSC in Sevastopol. [[Ivan Vasilovich, you, if possible, take your seat in order to make editorial corrections]] Colleagues, we vote. [[13:25:37]] For 328 Now I'm doing an editorial. In the title, “Sevastopol City State Administration and Sevastopol City Council”. That's the first one. The other one. In the first paragraph: “To create a temporary commission of inquiry.- and further, the Sevastopol City Administration and the Sevastopol City Council.” And everywhere after “Sevastopol City Administration” and “Sevastopol City Council”. Now John Vasilovich's word to correct. Turn on the microphone of Verni Dubov Ivan Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u162	I'm asking for more of the comments that I've been talking about in the text -- that's point three -- in the number of 9 people's deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u163	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u164	Paragraph five: instead of the name Omelchenka, the surname of Deputy Zozuli Ruslan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u165	Ruslan Petrovich is not a member of another commission?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u166	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u167	Okay. Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u168	And paragraph seven: a report by the interim commission of inquiry not later than October 10th this year.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u169	It's accepted. Yuri Romanovich Miroshnichenko is still proposing an amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u170	Turn it on. There is, isn't there? Dear Arsenius Petrovich, I propose an order for the name to be put to the vote separately. Because we don't have a clear view of this, because we're cleaning up the work of our commission. If it is established that there are no violations in the city’s administration, the answer will be clear. If the committee finds out who is right, who is responsible, we will not get a clear answer to that question. Whether there is legislation, let's say the state administration, or whether it doesn't. So I suggest we put this to a separate vote, and those technical amendments that have been sounded by the speaker, vote now, everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u171	Colleagues, well, we should be objective with you. You can't pour water on just one side of the mill. Are we for an objective approach, or are we for an orderly approach? If objective, let me put to the vote those proposals that have already been dictated. Please vote on the bill as a whole, taking into account the proposals put forward by Jacinyuk and Verni Dubov. Please vote. [[13:28:19]] For-34 Dear colleagues, I think we need to have a minimum of correctness and respect for each other. You just, before I put the question to the vote, everyone waved their heads that we would vote for the Sevastopol City Council, including. From a purely political point of view, proposals are about to begin, only if we are objective will we be objective. Well, you can't just stand up for your own, you can chase strangers. Let the commission consider, make the right decision on both of them, and then we'll look at the walls of Parliament. Well, that's not how it's done. Please sit down, Yuri Anatolyevich. Take the word. Don't yell at me, Yuri Anatolyovich! Carmazine's word.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u172	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense. Dear National Deputies! I address you and address the Head of the Supreme Council, Arsenius Petrovich. Arsenius Petrovich, you abide by the Constitution. I thank you for your position that you support our proposal, which should be written here “to find out about the violation of the Constitution and legislation of Ukraine by Sevastopol City Council and State Administration”. I mean, both of them. This is a violation in the field of land relations, including the distribution of land to enterprises in general belonging to the Russian Federation. This is about giving the land to the citizens of the Russian Federation, about reselling it, which is a violation of our current legislation. And we still have to assign the Ukrainian Attorney General's Office to take part in the work of this commission and contribute to it, because the land is taken away by foreigners, and this is not written in here.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u173	Dear colleagues, there is an offer to give the word of Alexander Sergiyovich Ephraim as the most constructive man. Alexander Sergiyovich, tell me.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u174	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues! We are for issues in any region to be resolved in a fair manner. Therefore, if we are confident that people support city councils, we have no reason not to trust people. We will therefore vote in favour of this bill, with the amendment you have made to change the title. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u175	Thank you very much. I ask you again, my friends: if we're making a deal in the hall, let's not change our minds on the march. We have a deal, so we're voting. So let's break the deal a couple of times, and we're not going to work at all. I would like to put to the vote the question of return to the vote under Bill 2369. Vote. Yuri Romanovich, I respect you very much. The chairman is in charge of the session, and he is better aware that he is putting the vote to the vote. [[13:31:30.]] For 389 I now put to the vote Bill No. 2369, taking into account the proposals of the People’s Deputy Vernidubov and the People’s Deputies of Yatsenuk, which were expressed under the transcript.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u176	Carmazin’s offer is in line with the offer of Jacinyuk. So if you want, I can tell you, including the National Deputy Carmazin. Colleagues, well, given the word “prosecutor’s office,” which is spoken by Karmazin. Yuri Anatolyovich, don't knock down the hall, all right? Taking into account the proposals made by the national deputies Verni Dubov and Yatzenuk Please vote. [[13:32:22]] For 406 Thank you. 2524. Aunt Dmitrovna, please. Bachelor's Aunt Dmitry.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u177	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished members of the people! Your attention is requested to replace the draft decree on the establishment of the Provisional Investigation Commission to investigate the causes of the death of a 17-year-old child in the town of Kramatorska Donetsk Region and the mass complications following vaccination against measles and rubella in the population of the Donetsk region, as well as to verify the legality of the vaccine administered. In May this year, the entire Ukrainian society was shaken by the death of a student of 11th class of Anton Tishchenko from Kramitarsk Donetsk. It is known that after vaccination against measles and rubella on 12 May 2008, he was hospitalized in an infectious hospital with complaints of headache, high temperature. On May 13, at three o’clock in the morning, the child died in a resuscitation. During the same period, the Donetsk region began to register mass appeals of citizens for medical care in connection with the deterioration of self-esteem following vaccination against measles and rubella. Later, complications after vaccination were registered not only in Kramatorska and Donetsk, but in other regions of Ukraine where vaccination was also carried out. All victims are known to have been vaccinated by the Indian Institute of Cheese previously not used in our country. At present, 207 post-operative reactions and 15 post-operative complications have been recorded in 17 regions of Ukraine from more than 113 thousand of Minhvoda's operational data. It is known that a United Nations special delegation has arrived in Ukraine to investigate the causes of the tragedy. However, while international experts continue to insist on the safety and quality of the vaccine and recommend not to stop the addiction campaign, WHO experts in Ukraine forecast a new measles epidemic before winter 2009. But as for the natives.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u178	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u179	As far as national scientists are concerned, they have also not yet come to the same conclusion on this issue. Given the complexity of the situation, the commission of inquiry will need to be dealt with as soon as possible in order to avoid further suffering from two evils — the epidemic and the wrong vaccination. The results will be heard at the beginning of the next session. During its work, the parliamentary interim commission will have to verify the link between the child's death and vaccination, quality, assistance and justification for further vaccination from 16 to 29 years against measles and rubella. All these questions are mentioned in the draft regulation. According to the proposed decision, the results of the work of the Commission should be heard at the beginning of the next session. Since the composition of the commission has been established, compliance with all requirements, I ask that the draft regulation be supported, taken as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u180	Aunt Dmitry, thank you. Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u181	There's no comment on the committee. A request for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u182	Thank you. Colleague Sulkovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u183	Arsenius Petrovich, thank you very much. I'm sorry I asked for your word. You know, dear colleagues, last December, I had a personal tragedy in my family. My own granddaughter died a year and seven months because of the nuisance of doctors in the Ravenska District Children’s Hospital. This case is being investigated and investigated by the Ravenna District Attorney’s Office. That's why I want to ask you all today, so much nuisance in all areas of national agriculture and in the field of our protection of medicine. And so I ask you very much to support this decision, and not just this one, we need to take seriously the lives of the Ukrainian people. And so I'm asking you to support this determination, and I believe that under the leadership of Auntie Dmitry of the Bachelor, this commission will actively work and find those responsible for the death of this child who died in the Donetsk region.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u184	Colleagues, let's put it this way, if they want to say it, then I'll ask the questions, two for it, two for it, two for it. We need to move forward, dear fellows. Vladimir Karpuk and all. The last Karpuk only, he asked.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u185	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear colleagues, we mention medicine in our country in two cases, or when a person is in trouble, then we praise a person and commend medicine, or in medicine trouble -- then we push and politicize these questions. And a good example, even though I signed the decision and I'm one of the co-authors, but I'm warning against politicizing that process. Because mistakes are not only on an organizational level but also mistakes that are made. with immediate assistance. And those questions always need to be evaluated by experts, not politicized or created by a political commission, because I see prejudice already, even though I repeat, I am one of the authors of this decision. Therefore, creating an objective investigation into this issue, because we need to understand that in making a substantive political decision on this issue, we are asking questions about Ukraine’s national security, because we are undermining the foundations of vaccination, losing image in international organizations such as WHO, UNICEF. By the way, we're even asking questions about the 2012 European Championship. After all, experts estimate that the next outbreak in the peak epidemic will be the day before and during the championship. So this is a very difficult question, and I repeat that this is a question that we should not politicize, we are for creating this commission, but against politicizing its work.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u186	All members of the People's Committee were also included under the quota rules protocol, so no policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u187	Aunt Dmitrovna, thank you. We have to vote. Dear colleagues, there is no objection as a whole? There's no objection. I'm betting on a 2524 vote on the basis and in general. [[13:39:52]] For 365 2480, Roman Omelanovic. Please show by factions. Zabuc Roman Omelyanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u188	Dear colleagues, Mr. Arsenij Petrovich, I will present a project on the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the facts of the violation of the Constitution of Ukraine and the current legislation of Ukraine by the city head of the city of Mikolayeva Chaika V.D., other officials of the Mikolayev region, as well as on the facts of the numerous illegal decisions and signs of corruption in carrying out their duties and inefficient management of communal property enterprises and the budget of the city of Mikolayeva. First of all, I would like to point out that the relevant regulatory committee has some observations about the technical formation of the Interim Investigation Commission and we have responded promptly. And the point is that we've sent all the factions of appeals that are appropriate for giving their representatives to work on the Interim Commission of Inquiry, to which they've been handed over. But the decree itself was adopted on the current year, and from the Lithuanian faction came the offer 25. 05. In this way, we have responded literally today and have made a proposal to include a representative from the “Block of Lithuania”, namely Baran's Wallery as a deputy as a member of this commission. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to the fact that article 80 clearly states that if the MPs did not offer representatives to work on a temporary special commission, the commission shall be formed without the participation of representatives of this deputy faction. So I'd like to support this direct determination and the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry, but it's not a political goal. Under no circumstances. Numerous appeals by citizens, labour groups, regarding the gross violation of existing legislation on land and municipal property. In particular, at the beginning of the current year, 3,447 contracts were made, 1,200 acres [1,200 ha] of land in the city of Mikolayev, a large part of which is in breach of existing legislation, and this is already confirmed. At the same time, the city authorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u189	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u190	It has been entrusted with monitoring, efficient use and, by the way, with significant losses in the city’s budget of more than 14 million. We cannot help but be alarmed by such actions by the mayor and his environment as to the establishment in the city of Mikolayeva of twenty-two enterprises that work in the residential area, where direct relatives of the city mayor work and where more than fifty-three decisions are taken by the council for the benefit of these enterprises.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u191	Roman Omelanovic, I'm sorry, you're already out of line. Finish up, please, just back up.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u192	So I'm asking the MPs to support it, but the goal of creating such a temporary commission of inquiry is to return those decisions that have been made unlawfully in accordance with the current legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u193	Thank you. Alexander Efraemov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u194	Dear Arsenius Petrovich! To date, we have been able to work very clearly in the regulatory committee to ensure that all regulations under the Rules, the Provisional Rules, are adhered to. We have never been able to go on violations irrespective of the political winds. The fact that the two bills, which are being considered and the next 2366 appeared on the agenda today, appears to have occurred somewhere in the absence of the Secretariat services with the Committee. Because the committee did not reject the order and the following. The Committee decided to bring it in accordance with the Rules, to the meeting of the Committee, and we will confirm it, and then we will receive it with clear conscience here in the Chamber. I would like us to support and, nevertheless, to finalize the order and then consider it in the Chamber after the Committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u195	I am addressing the author, Roman Omelanovic, if I may ask you to vote now, and you have a proposal from Baranov Valerija Aleksandrovitch, Baranov is a member of the Kiev City Commission. So we're violating the 81st Rules right now. Knowing how he was on the Rules of Procedure, there was a similar story in the White Church. The regular committee sat down, sat down, reviewed, if you don't mind, let the Regulatory Committee sit down, we'll have it in normal order for the next plenary week, you'll replace Baranov with someone else, because it's a violation and we'll look at it in human terms. Can I do that? Let me put it on the ground, let me put it this way, let's put it on the ground, they rework it, and then it'll be normal. That'll be good, comrades. Martinyuk. Martinyuk and Kamchatny
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u196	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear Arsenius Petrovich, let us proceed by law with regard to the committees of the Supreme Council. Another point, if the Committee of the Supreme Council on Rules had not considered this issue, we would have violated the terms, then we would have had reason to consider this issue today. Since the Regulatory Committee considered this issue yesterday, it has made the right decision to send the authors to work on it, I think nothing will change in a week. Moreover, all the members of the profiling committee were unanimous in making this decision because they really did not follow the Rules, little one, but we always follow the Rules. And I would ask you not to take it now, because this is going to go, I repeat, contrary to the committee's decision and we're going to ignore the committee. In a week, nothing will change, and we will vote, and on the committee we will look beyond question, and there is no problem in the session room right now to consider. There's just a committee decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u197	Comrade Kamchatny, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u198	Thank you. Kamchatny, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko”, Kharkivščina. I have great respect and love for my home committee, and I am proud to work for it. But I want to point out that sometimes my favorite committee is wrong, because like everyone else, it has the right to make a mistake. That was the mistake yesterday when we discussed the matter. I want to get our respectable fellow MPs to know that I'm supporting Martiniuk, we'll wait a week, nothing will change in a week. Indeed, the fact is that the factions to which Zabzaluk wrote the bill did not offer their proposals, and this is their right, not their duty. And I'm sure they won't give these in a week, so they'll torpedo and block the creation of this commission. This is also the case with the figure from the Lithuanian faction, deliberately named the man who is already on the other commission so as not to make that decision. Therefore, the author of the bill, in full compliance with the Rules, appealed to all factions, but they did not. And so, I think in this situation, the committee's decision is, I want to remind you, the solely recommendational character and the hall has the right to decide whether to create that commission or not. The only thing I can agree with is for those who have not taken advantage of their rights, they can add their proposals and continue to engage in the work of this commission of representatives of their factions, and the Yulia Tymoshenko bloc has given its full nominations and we are ready to work on this committee. I therefore ask, in accordance with the rules of the Rules, to put to the vote the question of the establishment of this committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u199	Alexander Efraemov and we're done. Colleagues, if I may, listen to Ephraim. Is that what you want to do?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u200	Dear colleagues, Valery Georgievic came on a long journey, had a hard time in Georgia, so he did not immediately enter the committee. You know, here's what I'm calling, I don't want to call the violations that are in this regulation, there's no deputy head of this temporary commission, and so on. We're working with the laws. We, in the committee, make sure that everything is in line to the last comma as it should be, and as you have approved under the provisional Rules. Therefore, we would ask that we do not destroy the committee's cohesive work by acting in the hall, but that we support the committee, there is nothing to be afraid of. And we'll bring it all together, the decision will be made, but then it will be taken completely without violation.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u201	Colleagues can, as always, compromise. We'll take it as a basis if we don't get it in a week, we'll take it as a whole. All of it. If we take it as a base, it's a normal thing. Alexander Sergiyovich, this is the right decision -- we take it as a basis, we work it out, they make one last name, and it's going to be good. Dear colleagues, is everyone satisfied with this decision? 2480. I'm putting the bill on the basis of a vote, shortening the deadlines for second reading, and we're calling on the Lithuanian Block to submit an appropriate candidature. Okay? Okay. Vote. [[13:50:09]] For 165 As a basis, we accepted it. That's why you're working on the committee. Without the committee's decision, we won't be putting it on the board as a whole. Colleagues Baranov, please turn on the microphone. And Kamchatny.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u202	Arsenius Petrovich, I do not wish to be actively involved in this commission, but I would like to say about the previous commission, which I am a member of, in Kiev, in Chernovetsk. I would like to state that this commission has not worked or worked. And I would ask you to hear the report of the chairman of this commission on alleged crimes, because she went nowhere and there was no reaction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u203	Protocolly for the next Conciliation Council, but not just for Kiev, but let's try, because we have produced an incredible amount, and even after today's decision, a variety of commissions of inquiry. And efficiency is usually the more commissions, the less effective they are. Let us, therefore, protocolly at a meeting of the Conciliation Council, determine when we will hear reports from the commissions created by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Alexander Sergiyovich. Turn on the microphone of Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u204	I have 10 seconds to understand what we're doing, respectable colleagues. Today, any MP who is in the Chamber, if he makes a corresponding presentation on the decision we have taken earlier on Arsenia Petrovich, Arsenia Petrovich will not have the right to continue with the document, because a violation of the procedure has been allowed. I repeat to all the deputies, we never get into politics here, here's purely procedural questions. We should not violate them, we should act as stated in the Provisional Rules, then we will always be right.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u205	Alexander Sergeyevich, allow me to correct you. According to article 89 of the Provisional Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine may return the bill, I stress that there is a key word “may”. This bill is irreversible as head of the Supreme Council. In order for you to rework it on your committee's second reading and submit it in a legal order, I suggested that you first read it, work on it and take it off by one vote. What's the problem? What are we looking for in an equal city? 2566. Excuse me, Stone Replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u206	Thank you, Arsenia Petrovich. Well, first of all, I don't accept the sarcasm of our colleague, respected by me and respected by Georgia, because I think that we and the representatives, by the way, of the Party of Regions and the Block of Lithuania, carried out an honorary mission in Georgia -- to be representatives of the Ukrainian Parliament in the elections to the Georgian Parliament. And I think we have fulfilled our mission. And now, essentially. I want to say that we don't really study the substance of the question in the committee, and we study compliance. And in those cases where there's actually a rule of law violation, I want to confirm that there's always a solidarity vote going on. But from that point of view yesterday, thoughts were divided, and the vote was not unanimous: half of the committee did not support the decision, but the committee was in the position to put it in the room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u207	Thank you. Colleagues, over 2566. Wooden Basil Timothyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u208	Dear Mr. Head, honourable Members, you have been given an order to establish an interim inquiry commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to investigate violations by the Ternopil City Council of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Land Code, the laws of Ukraine, the failure to execute decisions of the courts in the selection, transfer, the provision of land-use services, as well as numerous service abuses in the administration of municipal property and the inaction of prosecutorial authorities to prevent violations of the City Council. For example, I want to give you some of the violations in Project 5/13/120. The draft decision was initiated by interested MPs, despite the fact that the Council was informed of the approvals of the Ternopil Regional Court of the Ternopil Region since 23 July 2007 and of 27 August 2007, which had been banned by the Ternopil City Council until the dispute was decided in fact to take any decisions. But sadly, the question was included. The next case. On November 23, 2007, the Ternopil District Court suspended the operation of a Ternopil city head to approve an act of selection and land survey of 8.74 hectares [8.74 ha] of land. But again, unfortunately, it was ignored by the MPs and this decision was taken. The deputy prosecutor of the city of Ternopol regularly takes part in the session. And unfortunately, not once did Mrs. Vasilishin make any remarks. The Prosecutor’s Office of the city of Ternopolis also blocked the issue of an expert assessment of the city’s municipal property necessary for privatization. Even though the State Property Fund had a competition with experts, that's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u209	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u210	That question didn't count either. Despite the repeated appeals I have made to the Attorney General's Office, the situation does not change at all. For a detailed study of this extremely acute problem and the adoption of measures to overcome it, I consider it necessary to establish an appropriate interim commission of inquiry. Yesterday at the meeting of the Regulatory Committee, a note was made regarding the fact that the Party, the faction of the Party of the Regions, had submitted four national deputies. Today, I addressed a letter to the leadership of the faction and the head of the Regulatory Committee was removed from the commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u211	Alexander Sergiyovich, please, Efraemov. Have a seat, Vasil Timothyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u212	Arsenius Petrovich, here, practically, the same case. In order to avoid further entrants to the Committee, then there is the following proposal, where the Party of the Regions'quota for one person is exceeded. There's an offer and I'll sign this decision instead of Bort to include Thadeyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u213	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u214	And Suprunenko was transferred to an arc commission. He'll be working on the second commission. And from this commission, we erased it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m0.u215	Yes, then there is no objection to putting to the vote on the basis and in general taking into account the rights of Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov? I won't. I put it on the ground and in general, taking into account the rights of Efraemov Aleksandra Sergiyovich. I'm telling you, there's been a new decision, so it's okay. [[13:58:16]] For 350. Decision taken. Dear friends, what's your position? Let's move on to the presidents or break up.? One minute left. [[B in m in s a l in]] You want to work, don't you? Is it? Okay, colleagues, then we'll take a break and we'll see each other in two hours.
