ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u1	Invite MPs, national deputies to the session room. Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invitations and guests of the Supreme Council. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:14]] They registered in the 396 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, allow me to provide information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary meetings on December 23, 2008. Eight issues of the agenda, including five bills and two draft regulations, have been addressed. As a result, two laws and two decrees have been passed. Three bills were adopted as a basis. A presentation was also made on the 2009 project of the State Budget of Ukraine. Honorable national MPs, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules, are on Wednesday 30 minutes away from speaking to the national deputies with announcements, proposals, and messages. There's a recording going on. Please state the name of the national MPs who are registered. National MP Sphenov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u2	Good afternoon! Please pass the word to Popov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u3	Please, National Deputy Popov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, it has been a year since the Government's implementation of the so-called new housing and utility policy, and I wish to conclude that the results of such policies have been disastrous. An example is that today the population of Ukraine is practically robbed of inflation and cannot pay for housing and utility services. Budget organizations were deprived of this opportunity because the Government had cheated, adopted the 2008 budget and underfunded local governments. Today, we have real, huge non-payments on used housing and utilities, most of the thermal power plants are operating today without limits on gas and can be shut down at any time. Debts to NACs have skyrocketed, industry losses have not been huge before, wages have increased, think more than 20 times for residential and utility workers. The industry, if it sums up, is today, is actually on the verge of bankruptcy today. There are attempts by the Government today to claim that local self-government is allegedly responsible in that situation. I would like to ask why local self-government is here if the budget deficit in the local budget in 2008 is equal to 8 billion dollars. There is nothing here and the so-called world crisis, because our Ukrainian sewerage has had no relation to the trends of the world economy and will not. The mistakes that have led to this situation are the two documents that have been adopted as the Government's 2008 “Ukrainian Gap” and the 2008 budget. We, the faction of the Party of the Regions, have repeatedly discussed what measures must be taken to normalize the situation. However, this has not been corrected. And I want to say that the two new documents received from the Government are the next year's budget and the next year's programme. This is an answer to the question of why housing and utilities will stop providing vital public services to the population of Ukraine: heat and water, if not Christmas holidays, at least during the winter period, i.e. not having completed the heating season. Last week, the opposition Government made a request to the Government to address the problems of the JCC.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u5	Give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u6	Thank you. But if they don't listen to us, please there are ex-governors among you, there are city measures, I'm talking to the ruling coalition, so let your Government know that we have a real disaster ahead of us if we don't fix everything that has a negative impact on housing and utility development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u7	Thank you. National MP Unguryan, faction “Bloka timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u8	May I have the floor of the People's Deputy Laishka?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u9	Oleg Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u10	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, my dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, while we are with you, we are working on the question of the responsibility of the National Bank for the state of the currency market, for the bracelet, the National Bank and its current management continue to destroy the bracelets. Evidence? Please. Last night, the National Bank came out with a bid to buy a dollar in the market for $8 million 30 dollars when the stock market opened at 7.20. Yesterday, they were already selling $8 worth of dollars. I mean, clearly, the damage to the state. Yesterday, at the National Bank, the first deputy head of the National Bank, Shapovalov, again proposed to refinance the bank “Nadra” 2.5 billion dollars. How is this “Nadra” bank? And how they managed the funds that the National Bank gave them in order to refinance earlier. According to the information we received, the bank “Nadra”, behind which the famous entrepreneur Firtash, received 7 billion dollars from the National Bank in an opaque way. How, then, were they arranged? Of these, only 100 million had gone to pay off the debt to individuals. Other money was converted into currency, and $900 million was bought. In October, $900 million was purchased at a rate of $5.50 a dollar, and 50 copies were sold at a rate of 10 in December. They made 4.5 billion dollars in a flat place at the expense of government funds. The private bank made nearly 5 billion dollars. The National Bank, however, suggests giving them another 2.5 billion dollars. And all of this remains unanswered. We believe that it is urgent, given the situation, to demand the resignation of Stelmak and his first deputy, Shapowalov, who continue to commit illegal, shadowy, those who have signs of corruption and corruption with government funds. Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, the faction of the Yulia Tymoshenko Block, asks you with a proposal, literally on Friday, to put the information of the Interim Commission of Inquiry to the first question. We sat down, four sessions in three days. There are preliminary reports and a temporary commission of inquiry is ready to issue this report. We propose immediately, we ask the President to make a proposal to the Supreme Council for the resignation of Stelmach and Shapoval. Otherwise, the lack of proposals for the resignation of these actors will indicate the President's involvement, the direct involvement of currency machines, the collapse of bracelets, the loss of savings of millions of Ukrainian citizens, and the making of billions of dollars by some businessmen known throughout the country. And guidance.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u11	People's Deputy Czerpicki, faction of the Timoshenko Yulia Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u12	I'd like to give it to Volodymyr Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u13	Vladimir Bondarenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u14	Vladimir Bondarenko, Timoshenko Yuli Block. Dear friends, we have gradually begun to forget one famous program called “10 Steps to Meet People”. But she was reminded by a faithful friend and associate of our president, Leonid Chernowitz. He took these steps in this order. I raised the price for bread almost twice, with the grain extremely cheap. Then he raised several times the price of the passage, regardless of whether fuel prices were falling. At the same time, the profitability of individual utilities, which was to be almost zero, was almost 20 percent, and 300 million of the remaining million dollars in the subway were counted against the tariff illegally, as evidenced by the decision of the Antimonopoly Committee. After that, public payments were made, where he started dividing people into each other, companies also divided into several classes and introduced a heating tariff that exceeds 10 times the acceptable standards. In the meantime, utilities have deteriorated dramatically, including the burning of entire areas of Kiev, and elevators do not work in almost every other building. New tariffs are introduced. I would like to say that the innovation is today also a system of cynical bribery, corruption that is now established in the city of Kyiv and is becoming official. He announced that access to his body and the bodies of his relatives should be paid, with these amounts amounting to $100,000 and less, depending on the status. Well, in particular, the son who runs the tender is obviously less. The brother, a more faithful husband of his wife’s sister, who is in charge of the estate, is likely to be less. The son - in - law who sits on land issues is probably less. Kuma, who controls the whole of Kiev’s social program, including medicine and education, is probably less. But it's too high. And unfortunately, that's all, this vachanalia, it's happening in Kiev, it's not seen by the big corruption fighters, it's not seen by the U.S. Attorney Medvedzko or anyone else. In particular, it is not observed that there is a violation of the Constitution in this case where a citizen cannot reach the mayor, a violation of the Law on Local Self - Government, a violation of the Law on the Status of Deputies, Rural, Rural, and Urban Heads. It's all going away. Why? Because there's a cartridge that knows all this, sees it. When he lacks time because he struggles with the government all the time on the screens, he pours dirt completely undeserving of both the prime minister and the representatives of our faction, and he does not notice under his nose what is being done in Kiev. In view of these circumstances, I would like to say that today I am speaking directly to the President of Ukraine: pay attention to Kiev! This is what gives impetus to all of Ukraine: total corruption, total bribery, total disrespect for Ukrainian laws and citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u15	National Deputy Kamchatny, faction “Bloka timoshenko”. He's handing it over to Oliynik? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u16	Kamchatny, Kharkiv Region, “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko”. Please give the word to a comrade in the Holy of Olives faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u17	Please, Holy See.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u18	Dear colleagues, yesterday on another information day among other fantasies heard by the whole country from the Head of State, the rest of the dirt was poured out on political opponents, yet there was information that, despite the fact that God's man is difficult to convince, needs additional comments, and this is primarily about the part that the President tried to transfer to be responsible for a corrupt fact exposed and associated with Judge Zvaric. I want to make it clear to you that the President of Ukraine and his administration had a direct bearing on the corruption of Igor Zvarz. This is precisely by order of President Zvaric, who was appointed to the post of head of the Administrative Court of Appeal, contrary to the position of the judiciary. He was represented twice and was appointed only twice. President Yushchenk's further decree, noting the high merits of the act, assigned him the title “Deserved Lawyer of Ukraine”. Evidently, high professional qualities have been observed. And each of these presidential decrees is a direct link between Victor Yushchenk and Igor Zvaric. It is quite logical that these original figures continue to be linked to the key role of Peter Olijnik in the commission of this crime, who now serves as the deputy head of the President’s Secretariat and is his representative in the Supreme Council. I would like once again to highlight the role of law enforcement agencies and the judicial system, which have been able to detect the corruption of a similar scale, which leads directly to the head of the state, and to stress that it is in the courts of general jurisdiction that all necessary sanctions have been obtained for the conduct of the search and search. It was the judicial system that immediately responded to this shameful fact, decided to release Igor Zvaric from office, and directed him to his arrest. Finally, to be objective and to Igor Zvarič himself, we must thank him for his comments, which have made it clear that the logic of the Presidential authorities has become clear in recent years. Indeed, you can safely say, “These hands did not steal anything, they sowed and slaughtered.”
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u19	The national deputy of Potapov is transferring the right to speak to a Turkish colleague. Turmanov, excuse me, the faction of the block. Party of regions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u20	Dear colleagues! I have two papers. Yesterday, the budget presented by the Cabinet of Ministers, which you considered yesterday, and here's another document, a presentation of the 2009 budget, only on 16 September. I want to read it. The Prime Minister stated that we are making the coal sector a key sector. On 16 September, the presentation was budgeted for 2009. Yulia Timoshenko noted that, in addition to the increase in coal revenues, the Government also intends to increase its public support for the financing of the coal industry by a double factor of 14.8 billion grivens next year. But in that budget, there were 7.5 billion pensions for coal miners included in the industry's budget. Yesterday the budget was made available. Well, we couldn't get acquainted with that budget, because we already did. The Prime Minister reported. I'm telling you again. It's a 5 billion-million-dollar industry. In this figure, 4 billion 75 million are pensions to miners. What do we need the Ministry to do? Coal mining, coal mining. But it's a pension fund. In 17 years of independence, no one has ever made such a contribution in the budget. And as much as the Prime Minister insulted me yesterday, I spoke in numbers yesterday. We can check them out today. We only spent 4.7 billion bracelets this year at a cost. We're given 750 million next year. For development, the technical rearmament of the future industry, as the Prime Minister has always said, has zero funds at all. What are we talking about today? What industry? On September 2nd, here we played the show, we passed the Safety of Mining Act with you, we invited the well-deserved miners here. But the show was arranged. And today this is the kind of budget that is being allocated! The allocation of this budget is being safeguarded by a law on the prestige of mining work. From this rostrum, my colleagues spoke. Only the sloth didn't talk about miners, about the prestige of mining, but we're actually better today. We have a reverse result. I want to say it again. As many financial ministers as Pinzenik is in the government, he is simply destroying the coal industry. And today we prove it to him. The budget provided by the Government for next year is the destruction of the coal industry. They want us back in the '90s when our wages were paid with a bag of flour and a bag of sugar. There won't be any! The hatters won't allow it! The budget should therefore be revised.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u21	Allow me to finish the speech. You all have it, don't you? Roman Zvaric is transferring the right to speak to Vijacheslav Kirilenko, the faction of "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense", please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u22	Viacheslav Kirilenko. Dear colleagues, most of all, I want to welcome the Ukrainian public with the 71st anniversary of the birth of Viacheslav Maximovich Crnovola. And for all those who respected and respected Ukraine, it is a reason to recall his life course, his struggle for Ukraine, and his memory. Now, on behalf of the deputies who formed the “For Ukraine” MP group, I am authorized to read out the application. Statement by the parliamentary group “For Ukraine”. “The deep moral, political and economic crisis that is increasingly affecting Ukraine requires a new quality of action. Obviously, world processes are just one of the premeditations of the collapse of the Ukrainian economy. The greatest responsibility for the economic crisis in Ukraine and full responsibility for political strife and moral breakdown lie with the Ukrainian politicians. The irresponsibility, lying, and greed of politicians have long gone beyond all reasonable limits. Virtually all political forces and authorities have demonstrated their inability to respond adequately to internal and external threats. While the country is falling into the chasm, chiefs and chiefs, parties and parties are concerned about resources, influence, and short - term popularity. The two greatest forces represented in the Supreme Council are particularly dangerous and cynical. Each of these forces is only concerned about one thing: leading the coalition and the government and then keeping itself in power at all costs. Despite their showy antagonism, both of these forces are essentially the same. She does not care about the future of the country, for they are obsessed only with the future of their leaders. Because of corruption and accountability, Ukraine has wasted a unique opportunity to modernize and reform systems it has received since Maidan. That is why all who now have the freedom and well - being of every Ukrainian more precious than positions, ratings, and thoughtless wealth to unite their efforts, unite to fight, not against, but for: for their own country and for their own people. We are taking a step towards such a union today, and we are calling for the creation of a parliamentary group “For Ukraine”. Ukraine is not a state apparatus to us, not to MPs, but to millions of people who build and develop with their own minds and their own hands every day. Our goal is to make systemic changes that are long overdue. We will act, not as representatives of factions, parties or coalitions, but only as representatives of the people who trusted us in the current anti-Ukrainian Parliament to defend Ukrainian interests. In this we see our primary responsibility. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u23	The word has been given to the National Deputy of Kaplanenko, the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u24	Thank you for the word, “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko”, please give the floor to a member of the democratic coalition Boris Tarasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u25	Boris Tarasyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u26	Boris Tarasyuk, National Movement of Ukraine, faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Today, December 24 is 71 years old from the date of the birth of the hero of Ukraine, founder and multi-year leader of the People’s Movement of Vejacheslav Crnovola. Váchaslav Crnovil is one of the main organizers of the national democratic movement of the sixties in Ukraine. The People’s Movement of Ukraine is forever associated with the name Crnovola. A mass organization that brought the country back to independence. Only a brazen and carefully supported by communist officials was the inertia of passiveity and the fear of the then elite to take decisive and bold steps forward to prevent Vyachelav Maximovich from becoming president of Ukraine. The People's Movement of Ukraine demands that authorities finally name the names of the buyers of the murder of the founder and the multi-year leader of the NRA, Hero of Ukraine, the national deputy of Vejacheslav Crnovola. The killing of Viacheslav Crnovola on March 25th, 99th, on the route of Borispil-Goldanosz is still covered by the darkness of the information taboo. There is every reason to consider the destruction of our nation’s best sons in the terms of the information war against Ukraine to be an anti - Ukrainian media accident and a sad mistake aimed at weakening the nation and protecting the murderers from punishment. The movement requires the authorities to ensure that all conditions of the murder of Viacheslav Crnovola are fully and completely exposed. After the victory of the orange revolution, after the renewal of an illegal investigation into the death of our leader, we had the hope of objectively investigating his murder. However, because of the inaction of the Attorney General’s Office, the matter remains undisclosed. Officials may have reason to hide the truth from the people. Nevertheless, we are convinced that the discovery of the mystery of the death of Viacheslav Crnovola should be a matter of honor for the Attorney General’s Office, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and the Ukrainian Security Service. The people must finally learn the names of the parties and the perpetrators of this crime. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u27	Ivan Kirilenko, faction of Block Tymoshenko. Please. Andrew Kožemyakin will speak in place of Kirilenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u28	Dear Head, colleagues, distinguished voters! Today’s week of work in the Supreme Council of Ukraine is extremely responsible. In these days, we are giving a maturity exam: can the Supreme Council create a full-fledged working legislative base for the country to live and develop in the following year, or are we only capable of hosting large-scale political shows. The Yulia Timoshenko faction urges Parliamentary colleagues to forget about populism, their personal ratings, not to think about future elections, but to work on the fact that in these few days remaining in this year, to create a legislative framework to protect the country's economy in a global crisis, to legally strengthen opportunities for its development, to ensure the well-being of citizens and to arm the government with the necessary tools to combat the crisis. The first and most important task we have to perform for the people of Ukraine is this year to adopt the State Budget Act 2009. In the last three months, the financial and economic situation in Ukraine has deteriorated significantly because of objective factors. Accordingly, the following year will not be easy. Our nation will face even more serious challenges. And how Ukraine will live next year will depend on the main financial document. So we need to be extremely serious and balanced in order to properly form the budget. And this can only be done through a consolidated collaboration here in the hall. It is no longer necessary to frighten citizens by what is laid down in the draft budget. There is a point -- please work on them, make your budget proposals, and we'll accept it. The 2009 budget should be adopted this year. Only under this condition will the government be able to effectively and without waste of time to implement the positions that we will deal with and accept. The second thing we have to do is to adopt laws that will provide the income portion of the State budget for 2009. In addition to the government bills submitted to the Supreme Council to work on the 2009 budget, they will enable increased economic activity, support the real economy, save jobs. Finally, the third task of the Supreme Council today is to ensure that the National Bank of Ukraine works in harmony with all branches of government. The NBA is obliged to set a state stability rate, to maintain a clear, transparent and clear monetary policy, to secure stable credit rates for the real economy. Because what is happening today with national currency is artificial processes that are not linked to the objective state of the economy of Ukraine and the global financial crisis. The main reason for the unprecedented rate of collapse of the bracelet is the inefficient, opaque, and systematic approach of the National Bank of Ukraine. So on Friday, we need to hear a report from the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, give an adequate assessment of the activities of the NBA and take immediate steps to remedy the situation that has arisen today in monetary and monetary policy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u29	National Deputy Mostipán, Timoshenko Block, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u30	I give the floor to Deputy Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u31	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u32	Yuri Karmazin The Party of Fatherland Defenders of Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense. Honorable National Deputies, reverend Ukrainian people! I was surprised to hear yesterday that the Supreme Council isn't working out of the President's mouth. So I want to say that the Supreme Council is working and more than that, I want to remind you that we have a constitutional guarantor. And that's why I want to address now the constitutional guarantor, the President of Ukraine, Victor Andryovich Yushchenk. Dear Victor Andryovich Yushchenko, I am addressing you as the guarantor of the Constitution, because in accordance with article 85, paragraph 12-1, of the Constitution, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is to be appointed and relieved of office for the appointment of the President of Ukraine as head of the Ukrainian Security Service. That is, according to the basic law, he appoints the head of the Security Service of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and who works successfully. On September 2nd, in the roll-call vote on the draft decree appointing the complainant as head of the Security Service, draft No. 1260 voted in favour of zero national deputies. In this way, he has been leading this structure for two years now, contrary to the Law on the Temporary Implementation of the Responsibilities of Officials, appointed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine President of Ukraine or the Supreme Council of Ukraine, according to which, in the event of dismissal, the resignation of a person appointed by the President of Ukraine or a person appointed by the Supreme Council for the appointment of the President of Ukraine for the appointment of the duty of the dismissed person for a temporary but not more than one month, I stress to you, is acting as the first deputy, in the event of his absence, a substitute. This law provides for a constitutionally legitimate person to be determined only by the person appointed to office under the Constitution. So it's possible that because the Security Service is not headed by professionals, that's exactly what happened at the National Bank. So I would ask the Commission to investigate the activities of the National Bank to raise the value of an artificial dollar and lower the national unit's rate of fines to also submit reports to the Committee on Financial Monitoring, i.e. financial intelligence and the Ukrainian Security Service, which does not want to protect Ukraine's public interests in this case. And at the same time, the mass of professionals is being released, the service is being transferred to manual management, we need to go back to the adoption of the Ukrainian Security Service Act and completely review it. Just like, I'm going to the Committee on Banking and Banking, I'm going to the Committee on Budgets, Finance, we need to make changes to the Banking Act, to the National Bank, because what's going on at the National Bank can't continue to happen in the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u33	Ivanenko, the faction “Bloka timoshenko”, last performance. Is it? Oh, Mikoly Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u34	Please pass the word to Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u35	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that after Parliament started working, unfortunately, the rhetoric of criticism at the parliament's address was synchronized on several sides. And yesterday, you know, the president of Ukraine, Victor Yushchenko, gave a large, summary press conference. And what's surprising is that, according to the content, the nature of the charges, and the address of the deputies and the parliament, it's very similar to the voices that we hear in the session room. So if we were to systematically say that we heard at the President of Ukraine's press conference yesterday, I would say that Victor Yushchenko was speaking yesterday as a Christian preacher, Attorney General Yanukovich. As a Christian preacher, he acted interestingly but for a long time; as the Attorney General spoke harshly but without proof; and as the associate Victor Yanukovich, he acted convincingly and with conviction. So there's a problem with what we'd like to see in Victor Yushchenko is a President who, at this difficult time in general here in the session room, would be convinced that the country can't go to New Year's without a budget. If the President believes that the government has made an irresponsible budget, he must make responsible proposals to the budget. If Victor Yushchenko thinks there is a threat to the economic, social sphere, please have a representative here and work together on the budget committee. I am absolutely convinced that despite the political rhetoric that sounded in the hall yesterday during the presentation of the budget, all Ukrainian citizens, as Victor Yushchenko says, understand that entering the next year without a budget is an anti-national, criminal act. I don't understand moralizing talk about the bad budget being bad, even though since January no one can show how to operate the Pension Fund and provide pensions, wages at the same level as they are today. So the position of our political team is simple: in the Supreme Council of Ukraine today, the decision-making centre on the country's main budget document. That's where all the responsible politicians should be gathered, and that's where the right economic and professional proposals should come in, because there's no other way. So I'm convinced that if not on the 25th or the 26th, then on the 30th or the 31st in Parliament, the budget will be approved. And any attempt to take it, move it, move it to another decision-making center -- those are attempts that are wrong and wrong. So once again, my friends, in the Supreme Council, I urge you to work with pride to finish this year and to adopt Ukraine's basic economic law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u36	Dear colleagues, the time spent on speaking to the national MPs with statements, reports, and suggestions has been completed. I ask the secretariat to prepare appropriate assignments as a result of the proposals made by the Ukrainian national deputies. As to the insistence that we had on hearing the report of the Interim Commission, the commission of inquiry concerning the National Bank of Ukraine, the colleagues of honour, we agreed at the Conciliation Council that if we were ready to report the relevant commission when they had the material, then we would set a day and a time to listen to the matter. But at the same time, I would like to inform you that, according to the recommendations and decisions of the Committee on Rules, MPs and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we hear the reports of those committees that have completed their work each week, as proposed by the Committee. So I suggest we do this. If the materials come from the committees, then we will hold a meeting of the Conciliation Board and agree on the matter according to the decisions that are in place, and according to the decision and recommendation of our regulatory committee. Is there no objection? Then let's move on to Wednesday's December 24 issues. Dear colleagues, we decided yesterday to review the bills under reduced procedure. But I understand that the new plenary session needs to be reconsidered. So I'd like to have your attention. I am voting on a proposal to review the bills set out in the schedule for Wednesday, December 24, under a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[10:38:14]] For – 211 Decision taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 1, Timoshenko Yulia Block – 155, "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" – 35, Communist faction – 0, "Litvina Block" – 20. The draft Law on Amendments to Article 3 of the Ukrainian Law on Patenting of Certain Business Activities, Registration No.3189, Reporter - Deputy Minister of Finance Denis Alexanderovich Fudashkin, will be addressed by the Head of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship of Natal Jurijovna Královska. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u37	Good day, distinguished national MPs, there is a bill on making changes to article 3 of the Ukrainian Law on the Patenting of Certain Business Activities, which refers to the change in the rates for oil patents. These bets have not changed since 98 C.E. In fact, 10 years of patent fees have not been reviewed. Thus, the government proposes to amend the bill by providing for the application of a border rate, a set of 300 - to - 2,000 dollars for each loaded gun. A specific tax rate is set directly by local councils, allowing local councils to increase their income by nearly 700 million, which will be used to build local roads. The only thing is: the project needs to be adjusted by the date of entry, because it was submitted in September-month, and it was foreseen to be applied from January 1st, 2010. But in a crisis that exists, we suggest that this law take effect on January 1, 2009. In fact, it's a slight increase because the minimum wage per day is going to be 10 dollars, which is almost two liters of gasoline. The maximum, if a high - income charge is 66 dollars, is less than a canister of gasoline. I want to point out that this tax reduces the income tax, as the amount paid for the patents reduces the amount payable to the income tax. So this is a very substantial extra revenue for the local budgets that will be used to build roads. Thank you. Please support him in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u38	Thank you. Please have a seat. Natalia Kraljevska, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u39	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, honourable fellow MPs! Today we are considering sufficiently complex drafts, and we must understand very well that filling the budget during the crisis is a compromise between power and business. Right now, during the crisis, we need to understand what it means to pay taxes and what is the importance of budget taxes and, above all, for local budgets, which today must ensure the timely payment of salaries for teachers, doctors, to address all the problems of housing and utilities that have accumulated for 17 years of non-performing, and which today, during the crisis, are more acutely raised than ever. And now we have to consider the bill fairly unpopular, but at the same time highly cost-effective, and today we can say speculative types of business that can share part of their profits with local budgets should do so. The draft Law on Amendments to Article 3 of the Ukrainian Law on Patenting Certain Business Activities, No. 3189, increases the rates of trade patent for trade in petroleum products and compressed gas. The new fee shall be set between 300 and 2000 bracelets for each loaded pistol at the filling station for the calendar month. We know that in recent months, when oil and oil prices have fallen substantially, gas prices in our country have fallen several times. And this shows that, unfortunately, we do not have the Antimonopoly Committee working, because the leadership of the Antimonopoly Committee is visiting rather than working as a performer. Secondly, we must also understand that our auto-fuels are concentrated and all networks with one oil and refiners and are now sufficiently liquid. This bill will allow the budget to concentrate 700 million dollars of bracelets. Therefore, the ability and will to take unpopular measures to protect is now in place.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u40	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u41	Those who today will be able to protect pensioners and disadvantaged social people need our support more than ever. Therefore, we must today exercise political will to achieve the economic goals, economic stability in our country in 2009. The Committee of the Supreme Council has considered the bill and proposes to be adopted as a basis. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u42	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is a need to exchange ideas. Please sign up, two to go, two to go. On board, please, the names of the national MPs who are registered. Vladimir Bondarenko, next will be by Mikola Dmitrovich Catherinechuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u43	Dear colleagues, the next day you and I are considering very necessary laws. Of course, the first version that appears today may contain a lot of comments to a document. But what we're saying is, the longer we're going to keep them in this scenario, when we just talk and we can't make any suggestions, or we can talk on the second reading, when we have specific suggestions to consider. That's why I'm making a proposal: to say as little as possible, to express them in writing, to submit them to the relevant committees -- and we'll move forward faster.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u44	Katerinczuk Mikola Dmitrovich, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u45	Dear National Deputies! The European Party of Ukraine, the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Honourable National MPs, a very important bill on patenting some types of entrepreneurial activity, at least he can reduce some of the local budget burden, even though in the indicated directions of financing local roads, the money probably won't go away, they'll go to pay off their salaries and pensions. Besides, I think it's a timely measure because it's actually positive today for rising oil prices. I think we can, in this small part, just allow the local authorities to solve their immediate problems. The faction therefore proposes to support the bill and move to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u46	National Deputy Popov, faction of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u47	Dear colleagues, when Ms. Royal said that an increase in such taxes would lead to an improvement in the housing and utility situation and in other very important social sectors of our country's economy, it was absurd. I've been talking about this half an hour ago. But the bill itself -- it poses a very serious threat to those filling stations that are in the territory of human settlements, especially rural areas. One case is to raise seven times the value of a patent in the city of Kiev in the center, for example, or the district center, and the other in the village. Is it not understandable that this is a wrong approach? Of course, such an approach cannot be voted on.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u48	Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. It's a royal microphone. Committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u49	Dear colleagues, distinguished members of the people! We need to be able to understand with you that, yes, the bill requires clarification. But today, more than ever, we must understand the need to fill local budgets to pay salaries, pensions, to repair the housing and utilities that have been buried for 17 years, and now, in times of crisis, the Timoshenko Government must do its utmost to restore this. Let us therefore show political will. Yes, economic decisions are not perfect. But we need to adopt them in order to form a budget in order to give all social guarantees to the people. To ensure the full payment of pensions. Let's stop populism in the hall. And I call on everyone to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much. Until the second reading, it will be further developed and all necessary amendments will be taken into account in order for local councils to have a differentiated approach to the patent. I'm waiting for your amendments to the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u50	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a bill, registration number 3189, amending article 3 of the Ukrainian Law on the Patenting of Certain Business Activities. Please vote. [[10:48:22]] For – 219 Not accepted. The factions, please. Region Party – 0, Timoshenko Yulia Block – 154, Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense – 45, Communist faction – 0, Litvina Block – 0. I'm betting on the vote on re-reading. Please vote. [[10:48:56]] For – 224 Not accepted The factions? Please. Region Party – 0, "Club of Timoshenko" – 154, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" – 50, Communists – 0, "Club of Lithuania" – 20. A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on taxation from owners of means of transport is being announced for consideration. Registration number 3404. The rapporteur is Deputy Minister Dennis Alexanderovich Fudashkin. Correspondent is head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy Sergey Anatoliyovich Teryohin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u51	Ladies and gentlemen, a bill to amend certain legislative acts is before you. [[on taxes from owners of means of transport]] I would like to point out that the last time a tax on transporters changed in 2000 when the minimum wage was 90 dollars. The bill proposes to raise the tax threefold. Under such conditions an increase in the annual tax rate of a car with a motor volume of 1,000 litres will be 120 dollars. [[for today it's $40.]] A tax rate of over 1,500 gallons [15,000 L] per year will amount to 225 dollars per car. On the car, over 3,000 gallons [3,000 L] of tax will amount to more than 4,000,200 dollars a year. These are expensive cars that have to be taxed more significantly. This will also significantly increase the income of local budgets. All income is used to finance the construction of local roads. And I'm asking you very much in a crisis to support an increase in the tax rate so that local budgets can support the construction of roads that create additional jobs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u52	Have a seat, please. Constantine Anatolyevich Bondarev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u53	Dear Head, honourable deputies! Today we are looking at the Kabmin draft of the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on taxes from owners of means of transport]] The rapporteur has already made a statement on the substance of the legislative proposals. Therefore, the committee’s proposals are brief. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Tax and Customs Policy addressed the issue at its meeting on December 22, 2008. As a result of the first reading of the bill, the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Expert Office will be able to adopt a bill on the basis of the comments and suggestions made. The committee notes the following. Section 1 of section 3 of the bill amends the Ukrainian Law on Taxes on Owners of Means of Transport and Other Self-Cars and Mechanisms. Paragraph 2 of this paragraph provides for changes to article 4 of the Act, which regulates the granting of benefits in respect of this tax. In the event that this standard is adopted, there will be virtually no benefits for the disabled, the Chernobyls, war veterans, disabled children and other socially vulnerable groups. The bill also proposes that persons who, according to legislation are paying fixed agricultural taxes should be excluded from the list of persons who are exempt from paying this tax for tractors and trucks. It should also be noted that this is not in line with the prescriptions of part two and part three of article 22 of the Constitution of Ukraine. On such occasions, namely the narrowing of the content and scope of human rights and freedoms, an official interpretation was given by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine in its decision of September 22, 2005, number 5PP 2005. According to it, constitutional rights and freedoms are guaranteed and cannot be revoked when new laws are passed or amended to valid laws are enacted, and the content and scope of existing rights and freedoms are not reduced. That's how.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u54	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u55	So these legislators need to be removed. The bill does not contain any calculation and justification for the purpose of increasing taxes from owners of vehicles and other car and machinery on exactly three occasions. In addition, there is no calculation of the socio-economic impact of accepting such a proposal, such as the rise in prices for goods and services, since, of course, the additional cost of paying tax to the owner would be included in gross costs. In addition, the adoption of the bill may result in a number of negative consequences, such as reducing the volume and sales of transport equipment, increasing the cost of enterprises and resulting in a decrease in revenues to the State Budget in other tax congregations.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u56	Constantine Anatolyevich, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u57	In view of the above, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the bill be rejected. A draft corresponding to the decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is given to you, dear colleagues. Please support the committee's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u58	The committee's proposal is to reject the project. Please sign up for the discussion. Pavlovsky’s national deputy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u59	Andrey Pavlowski, "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko". Dear colleagues, I propose in the first reading to support this bill. We can work on it. Moreover, I would like to say that a few months before that I had been drafting a similar bill, but with much softer proposals for an increase in the rate of the transportation assembly and I suggest that this assembly be raised only on expensive premium-class cars with large engine volumes -- more than 3.5 liters. The same with expensive yachts, airplanes, and so forth. I think we can work out this bill and take into account what a bill is. laws, more loyally, are already in force in China, Russia, and elsewhere. And first of all, it's designed to encourage our manufacturers to produce cars with low-power engines that will operate now in crisis and fuel economy, and in terms of environmental requirements. That, too, I think, will stimulate them. So I would like to support this bill in the first reading, taking into account the rights proposed by the MPs and my bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u60	National Deputy Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u61	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear National Deputies! Today, we have a task, and everyone cares about local self - control. How can this be resolved? How Can I Change the Budget Situation? Yesterday, the Prime Minister reported, today we hear different comments, and we see different actions. The first law has been rejected, the law that allowed the local authorities to obtain additional funding, so we care about decentralization of the tax, so we worry about local self-government. Seriously, if right now, if we're going to react like this, I'd like you to look at it from this point of view, from the point of view of what's going on. All right. We now need to support those areas that are most affected by the financial crisis, we need and are encouraged by this law to transfer taxes from owners of transport vehicles and other self-propelled cars and mechanisms consisting of public taxes and congregations to local taxes and congregations, giving local self-government authorities the right to impose higher rates of taxation to statutory rates. It's bad or it's good. In my opinion, that's extremely good, it'll give these cities, villages and villages an opportunity to survive. And I'm convinced that this law is going to increase the rate, but it's necessary, because it hasn't been reviewed for many years and the previous law needs to be passed because they're carrying a reduction of the burden on cities, it's going to lose a little bit of the central budget, nothing, we need to change the ratio for local budgets to at least 50 to 50, and now it's the opposite and right direction in this case. I support this bill and ask it to vote, although there are shortcomings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u62	Sulkovsky Pavel Gnatovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u63	Dear people's deputies, one more time today at the morning session, we've just found that it's just a delay in time, it's taking a long time, a difficult time for Ukraine. [[but the first draft of the law – immediately failed]] If there is no such coalition, it is the deception of the Ukrainian people. Last night, Julia Timoshenko is cheating on Ukraine, the people of Ukraine's 2009 budget, it's anti-national. The 2008 budget is virtually unacceptable where it promised to be accepted in March for changes and additions. And in manual mode, Julia Timoshenko spends practically a budget. It's a crime. Yesterday, Julia Timoshenko said that the benefits should be removed from the officials. So the government in 2003 and 2004, the government of Yanukovic, had the opportunity to raise salaries for officials. But he didn't raise any national MPs or government officials and let the President's Administration get up. And the national MPs with the government had 4-5 bracelets. It was only Julia Timoshenko who sat in the Prime Minister’s chair in 2005, and she immediately paid the government officials 20,000, 30 to herself, Yushchenka to the President 50 thousand! And only six months later did Yushchenko, President, and Julia Timoshenko provoke Lithuania, who agreed to raise the people’s deputies to 14,000,500. And today he screams that we have to take off the benefits! So who raised the benefits in 2005? To what extent can the Ukrainian people be lied and deceived?Oh, my God! Thus, the Communists set an example in the first vote today. If they don't make their shoulders orange.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u64	Zibenko Peter Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u65	Thank you. The Communist faction, the first deputy head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, today there are a number of daily bills submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine that seem to represent the price that the people of Ukraine should pay for this ephemeral, ephemeral well-being that the Prime Minister drew from this rostrum yesterday. And that bill that we're looking at right now is another back-up. And it's about making changes to the tax laws of the owners of the means of transport. What are we talking about? It's about increasing this tax not by 3 percent, not by 30, but by 3 times. So 300 percent at the expense of the people, at the expense of the owners of the means of transport, is the first. The second flaw in this document, although the list of credit categories remains kind of the same, but it's an illusion, because because of the decrease in engine volume, a large number of credit categories are being removed from this benefit. But no one has repealed article 22 of the Constitution, which prohibits the adoption of new acts, or the amendment of existing legislation, narrowing down the scope of guarantees of human and civil rights and freedoms is unacceptable. And finally, this power, this government, well, is just dreaming of getting out of a car that was acquired back in the days of Soviet power by a veteran, a pensioner, a disabled person. And so the faction of Communists will not vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u66	Dear colleagues, the discussion of the draft law is over, and I am voting on a draft law on the adoption in the first reading of draft Law 3404 amending certain Ukrainian legislation on taxation from owners of transport vehicles. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:03:27]] For – 224 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Next draft number 3423. [[B in m in s a l in]] For the faction, please show me.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u67	My dear colleagues, sadly, decided to reject the committee. The committee had to work on that. Yes, 224, unfortunately, no decision is made. From the hall. Let's do it again.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u68	Please prepare for the vote. For re-reading, Bill 3404 “On amending certain Ukrainian legislation on taxes from owners of vehicles”. Please vote again first. [[11:04:42]] For – 227 Decision taken. The draft Act “On Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Legislative Acts on Interest Rates for Natural Gas” is being announced for consideration. The rapporteur is Deputy Finance Minister Denis Alexandrovich Fudashkin. From the committee will be the Ripper of Mikola Ivanovich, but he is on a committee meeting. So the working group of the committee is working. So please identify who will be on the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u69	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill proposes to make some changes regarding the setting of an interest rate for gas that is not used for the needs of the population. So this increase applies exclusively to gas, which is not used for population needs. Yes, the project proposes a rent rate of 200 G's to increase to 300 G's in gas production, which lies at a depth of up to 1,000 meters, and after extraction of gas, which lies at a depth of more than 5,000 meters, to apply an increase rate of 100 G's to 200 G's. At the same time, it is suggested that a correction factor can be applied depending on the change in the cost of gas on the Ukrainian border. The same order of business for today is relative to the rent on oil. In addition, the bill proposes to introduce a correction factor for payments for the use of a 1.43, which will allow the combined change of this law to increase the revenue of the state budget by almost 1 billion. I ask you to support this law in the first reading, it will be worked on by the committee. We support some positions regarding the replacement of fixed-rate payments from a fixed-rate rate of interest, which will reflect more correctly the price fluctuations that exist today at the top. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u70	From the committee, please. And then Michaela Martinenko from the committee. Please, please, please. You and then Mikola Martinenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u71	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! A draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on wage rates for natural gas submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers at number 3423 came before the Committee on Budgetary Questions. Unfortunately, the draft was not discussed at the committee meeting, but I have been instructed to inform. The bill foresees an increase in the wage rate for natural gas, which is either implemented or not used for the needs of the population, from 200 dollars to 300 dollars, as well as from 100 dollars to 200 dollars from deposits of more than 5,000 meters deep, and the introduction of an adjustment coefficient to that rate. It is also proposed that in 2009 the indexation of the factor 1.439 of all the basic standards of payment for the use of the mining drums, which are set in absolute numbers and standards of the congregations for special use of water. According to Minfin, which came in an explanatory note to the bill, additional revenues to the State and local budgets from the introduction of the bill would amount to about one billion dollars. According to the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, some clarifications are needed. Because of this proposal to finally balance the State Budget indicators under the bill, support the law in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u72	Thank you. Please, Martinenko Mikola Volodymyrovich. Committee on Fuel Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u73	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, I have already raised this issue with regard to this bill, and I have had repeated consultations with the Ministry of Finance. The main position of the committee is this: by supporting the import price binding algorithm on the Russian-Ukraine border, if it increases, the rent will increase by applying to the exchange rate difference, because we accepted, if you remember, the rent of 100 and 200 dollars per thousand cubic metres of gas no further than this summer. And in these circumstances, when the real economy needs investment, which, unfortunately not too much, we don't see them going through a very wide stream of flows, including gas extraction, we don't have the right to raise. Change these numbers is 100 and 200. But given what changed the dollar's rate to the bracelet, it's really proportional to increase, if the price of gas is, for example, on the border of Ukraine-Russia 250, and today, for example, 179.5, it also needs to be increased proportionally, it's completely normal. But we're definitely opposed to changing the digits of 100 and 200 rents to 5,000 meters by a corresponding figure of 200 and 300. So what's the offer? To vote in the first reading with the understanding that the second reading vote is not going to be if we don't change those norms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u74	Please sign up, Your Honor, to discuss the bill. Yes, on the board is the name of the national MPs. Please show me. Sergey Osika, faction of the Timoshenko Yuli Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u75	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. What would I like to say? That this bill will be supported in the first reading, and I hope that we will accept it in the first reading, and that's why for the second reading, I would like to say the next thing I would like to say is that there's been a bit of an economic error in it, because there's an oil scrap of gas that's like natural gas. I want to remind you that oil gas is produced in the process of oil processing and is by all means a commodity, not a natural resource, so there's no rent on goods. So I think for the second reading, this fifth and sixth paragraphs of this bill is going to have to take out the corresponding words for petroleum gas. And think about the market for compressed gas, because today we're both behind Slovakia and Belarus. In fact, it's not really in very good economic conditions, so to speak, and we're losing a lot, burning it just in the oil. Thank you. And the law should be upheld for the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u76	Paul Zebravsky, please. The "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" faction. Then Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u77	Dear colleagues, in fact, this law provides for an algorithm for the definition of rent. We already adopted this kind of oil algorithm this year. What's the problem? Whenever the Budget Act is adopted and rent payments are approved, regular arrangements are made, excuse me. And if there are colleagues who say that in their territories, or their property, there are oil wells or gas wells, they run with the government they arrange, and the constant bids on the day of the budget go whatever the rent, the rent on gas, on oil, on other things. And that's why, in order for such manual management and such a corrupt system to be removed, including from the walls of Parliament, we need to define an algorithm. Because of this, if we define this algorithm once and for all by law today, then it reduces corruption in both government and in the Supreme Council. I think, of course, the basic numbers are going to have to -- as Michael Martinenko said -- look at where to start. But without defining such an algorithm, it's wrong to work, let's say we're working not as lawmakers, but we're leaving a tool, including pressure on some colleagues, a loving government: this, another government -- on MPs that have a bearing on this business or the territories that this business is. Today, there is no increase in tax pressure -- today, there is a definition of how we're going to do it. Because of this, my dear colleagues, I urge you all to vote in the first reading. On the second reading, we're going to correct, including the base numbers, from which we're going to start the definition of this algorithm, and we're going to look at the compressed gas. But the fact that this bill does not provide for additional tax pressure.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u78	Thank you. Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u79	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The bill proposes, from 1 January 2009, to increase the rent for natural gas, which is not implemented for the needs of the population, from 200 to 300 dollars per thousand cubic metres of extracted natural gas and from 100 to 200 dollars per thousand cubic metres of extracted natural gas from deposits that are entirely located at a depth of more than 5,000 meters and to apply the adjustment coefficient to these wage rates. It is also proposed that in 2009 the rate of 1.439 be applied to the basic standards of payment for the use of mining gears and congregation standards for special water use in the use of surface and groundwater, as defined by the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine since 3 June 2008. The bill provides that a correction factor will be applied to the fixed wage rate for natural gas at each tax reporting period. Its size, then the keywords, will be calculated by the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine. I believe that this method actually creates preconditions for setting interest rates by the executive authorities, which is not in line with the requirements of article 92, part one, of the Constitution of Ukraine. So this law contradicts the country's main document, the Constitution of Ukraine. The faction of the Party of the Regions proposes not to support a bill that goes against the Constitution of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. Please prepare for the vote. A proposal for adoption is put to the vote on the basis of the draft Act, registration number 3423, amending the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine. [[on wage rates for natural gas]] Please vote. [[11:18:06]] For – 230 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we are now going to consider a package of bills that need, first, to be included in the agenda, because they were not included in the agenda of the day session. And secondly, if they're included in the agenda every bill, I'm going to put another vote on their consideration without proper committee decisions. If the Supreme Council decides, then we'll take it, no -- we'll keep working. I am voting on the inclusion in the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Excise Assembly rates for certain means of transport and body parts thereof. Please vote. [[11:19:11]] For – 219 The decision is not supported. I would like to pay attention to the inclusion in the agenda of the Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian Act on Gas Excise Assembly Rates and Diesel Fuels, registration number 3505. Please vote. [[11:19:47]] For – 235 The bill is included in the agenda. I now put to the vote to consider it without a committee decision. Please vote 3505. [[11:20:14]] For – 229 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Deputy Minister of Foods Denis Aleksandrovich. The talker is the head. Please, Smith's microphone while Fudashkin is on his way.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u81	Ladies and gentlemen, this bill provides for a promotion.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u82	One minute, Smythech, the national deputy will speak, and then you will speak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u83	Vladimir Mikhailovich, thank you for giving your word. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, you can't go through these bills that I told you about yesterday. Yesterday, these bills were introduced to the Supreme Council, which will now be adopted at a reduced, fast pace here in the Supreme Council. They were not considered on any committee. There is no committee of conclusions. It is practically inappropriate and impossible to consider them because they conflict with both the existing Rules and the Constitution. Why do you, as chairman, violate the rules of procedure of the Supreme Council, and why do you insist on such laws as are not of paramount importance? They have only one thing with them: increasing the burden on a common citizen, not more, but the principle of the issue is not resolved. When the issue of tax cuts is being addressed worldwide today, these bills increase the burden on a common citizen.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u84	Dear colleagues, let me explain once again the logic of action. When the draft budget was introduced yesterday, we discussed that it had been introduced in violation of all terms, just as the Supreme Council had not considered the relevant bills, and a package of laws had been proposed to complete the income portion of the budget. And we asked and said, at the Conciliation Council, this was done so that the committees on Tuesday, on Monday, who could have considered the issue. No, it's not. The vote will then be put to the vote without consideration. If the Supreme Council of Ukraine supports it, we will consider it. Those bills that the Supreme Council won't support, they won't be considered. Here's the situation. Please, Dennis Alexanderovich Fudashkin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u85	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill envisions an increase in excise duty rates on petroleum products. The rates of excise duty have not been reviewed in five years. During this period, the share of the excise congregation in the price of petroleum products declined almost 2.8 times. The bill proposes to raise excise duty rates by 50 euros. Everyone knows that oil prices have dropped nearly five times today. But there is no corresponding decrease in the price of petroleum products. This has to do with some monopolization of the market. In this regard, it is suggested that this revenue be removed at the expense of the excise congregation, which will not result in an increase in the cost. This will allow nearly 4 billion dollars to be added to the Road Fund, which will finance the construction of roads that will allow for a substantial increase in the number of jobs for the construction of roads, which the state needs very much for today. Thank you for your attention. Please support in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u86	Please register for consideration, for discussion, more specifically, a bill. On board, please, the names of the national MPs who are registered. Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u87	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine People's Defense." Ladies and gentlemen, now we're all looking for where to find the funds for the budget. So in order to finance the construction of automobiles and to make them normal, not only in the preparation of Euro-2012, I think there should be normal roads at all. Well, first of all, you don't have to do it from there, so I'm going to the Motorways Service, to the Transportation Ministry, because the chopping practice is going back to being stopped again. Secondly, we need to get these rates of excise assembly closer to the level even though the countries that are with us are next to us. I looked at the rates of excise duty, excise tax in the EU -- 273 euros per thousand kilograms and in Ukraine -- 60 euros. Is that consistent or not? And look at the prices that are on the fuel today when they're down four times in the world, and we have them down to 50 copies, and that's not the city of Kiev, because Kiev has the highest fuel prices. So what the bill proposes to raise to 110 euros is going to be 2.6 times less, I'm telling Minfin than in Europe. I mean, we still need to go to Europeans, we get European prices around us. Why are we lobbying these things?? So I think we need to raise these bets, they're going to fill the state budget. But I would ask the national MPs behind which the lobbyist structures are linked to fuel to look at these things in a more state-owned way, and in a state-owned way, that means to provide the budget with the filling today. Please vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u88	Alla Alexandrovska, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u89	Dear colleagues, there is nothing new in history and it all repeats itself, and unfortunately, repeatedly. In September 1917, Vladimir Ilic Lenin wrote a paper entitled “A Coming Disaster and How to Fight It”. And in this work, I encourage you to read it, it is very clear that the moment was a moment of economic collapse, the moment of hunger, the moment of unemployment, the moment of the destruction of the population and the destruction of the population. And think about what's going on in Ukraine today. In this work, Lenin said that the main objective and most important measure of disaster prevention was control, oversight, accounting, regulation by the State, the establishment of the correct allocation of resources and the preservation of the people's forces. Eliminating everything, any excess of effort and their savings. What does the Government do, what does it propose? Once upon a time, it was said that the people needed to stretch their belts. And all the bills that we have been offered are intended to do so. And it is a disgrace to those deputies who support these measures in this room. Instead of making us share our profits, we are today translating the gravity of the economic disaster into the people. It is understandable, however, that without the economic calculations and justifications of the measures proposed by the Government, the gravity of the increase in excise duties, in particular on petrol, on diesel and so on, would fall on the final price of the product and not only in the field of road transport. This will cost any product, service, any product. Who's gonna pay for this? The people to whom you have frozen your wages are the people to whom you do not wish to raise the minimum wage. And those who vote in favour of the budget in which these measures are laid will be the traitor of our people. The Communist faction will not support such measures; these measures are murderous for Ukraine, because we need to keep our labour reserves. We have a population crisis, we need to keep those people who can still work.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u90	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi is referring the right to speak to Vasil Kiselov, a faction of the Party of the Regions. Please, Vasil Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u91	Dear compatriots, yesterday from this rostrum, Prime Minister Timoshenko cynically lied to and lied to the people of Ukraine. The point is, by stating that the increase in excise duties on fuel will not lead to an increase in prices. I'm telling you officially, there's an expert opinion that the fuel price of at least 45 copies will be increased if excise duties on GSM are increased. Moreover, dear friends, I would like to draw attention to what the Deputy Minister has just said to us. He's a young minister, he didn't even think he said that the price of one barrel of oil in the summer was $146, now it's 54, that's three times lower. Question: Why did not prices for diesel and gasoline have to be reduced at least twice today? Therefore, four billion dollars, the bracelet that Timoshenko is about to receive in the budget, is planning to gather with the people of Ukraine, with each Ukrainian family. That is a fact, and those who vote in favour of this law will commit a great sin. The faction of the Party of the Regions will not vote in favour of this law. And one more thing. I'd like to ask, remind you all. A year ago, Timoshenko from this rostrum shouted that the 20 billion cubic metres of gas that Ukraine is extracting today would be completely sufficient to meet the needs of the JCC and the population. In the summer, she raised the price of gas for the population by two and a half times. What's that? I have a question: how long will our martyr people tolerate this president, this Prime Minister? And that they are still patient with him, that they may be guilty of it and of the people, including. I believe that the Government must resign, and the President responsible for what he is doing in the country, following him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u92	Dear colleagues, the draft law has been discussed, registration number 3505 has been completed. I put to the vote, please note, on the adoption of the draft Law, registration No.3505 “On amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning excise duty rates on petrol and diesel fuels”. Please vote on the basis. [[11:31:25]] For – 234 Decision taken. There is a vote on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Business Income Taxation, registration number 3518. [[on distributed income payments in the presence of a financial intermediary]] Please vote. [[11:32:00]] For – 205 The bill is not included in the agenda. A proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Business Income Taxation is put to the vote. [[on accounting for the cost of part of uncompensated currency]] Please vote. [[11:32:41.]] For – 234 Decision taken. Now, if you'll excuse me! I'll put the next one to the vote, to review the bill without concluding the committee. [[Registration number 3517]] Please vote. [[11:33:08]] For – 235 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Deputy Finance Minister Denis Alexandrovich Fudashkin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u93	The bill proposes to settle the issue of restructuring loans between banks and borrowers. Today, there is a problem in which, due to a change in course, the relevant courses differ from that of the National Bank to that of the bank according to income and that of the borrower according to expenditure. This makes it impossible to negotiate between the customers of the fixed-rate banks after a reduction in the course and the distribution of risks between the client and the bank, because in any case, these differences are reflected directly at the national bank's rate. The bill proposes to temporarily allow the exchange rate to vary, not according to the course of the National Bank, but according to the course agreed by the client and the bank, with appropriate adjustment in income and expenditure. This will allow banks to negotiate with customers and agree on more liberal terms for repayment of loans. In addition, it is proposed by this bill to create bank reserves to implement the National Bank methodology, because according to our tax legislation on corporate income taxation, we now have two parallel systems: one: the National Bank’s Reserve Formation Methodology, another methodology set out in the Business Income Taxation Act. The bill proposes to adopt the National Bank methodology as a formation regulator. and set up 100 percent of the reserves per year based on the National Bank methodology for spending. From the following years, the adjustment factor is expected to be 0.8. I ask you to support this bill. It is supported by the Association of Ukrainian Banks, many banks, as it opens up the possibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u94	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the speech. Xenia Lapina, faction of our Ukraine People's Self-Defense, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u95	Thank you, Your Honor. I would like to point out that, according to my assessment, this is the only positive bill that really helps to set up the economic processes in the state that the government has tabled today. He's not carrying any extra weight. Moreover, it allows banks to create their reserves freely and to pay their expenses. It doesn't limit banks to the possibility of restructuring mutual debt. I think it really needs support today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u96	Yes, please, Alexy Plotnikov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Mikhailo Chechetov. Please, Mikhail Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u97	Who? But I'll do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u98	Please, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u99	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! I think we should reject this bill. First of all, there's actually some positives, and I don't want to keep it quiet. In fact, the mechanism of formation and the cost of the insurance reserve is clarified, there are things, but there is no introduction, there is no mechanism for introducing a new order of recalculation of foreign currency tax. So this is a completely wide field for all kinds of abuse. In addition, temporary changes in the bank's income tax mechanism and their customers' interest rate transactions are once again the ones that give banks a certain field to do even more hard work against their customers. So given that citizens are not protected by this law, given the vulnerability of the situation in the state, I suggest we reject it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u100	Thank you. Please, Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u101	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The proposal to apply the proposed mechanism for repayment of bank loans from 1 October 2008 does not fully comply with the requirements of article 58, part 1, of the Constitution of Ukraine, under which laws and other legal acts do not have reverse effect at the time. In addition, the draft documents do not provide any justification for the proposed legal term, namely, from October 1, 2008 to April 1, 2009. I point out that the proposed editorial will allow banks to set reduced terms for repayment of loans to some creditors and to leave harsh conditions for others. I consider it appropriate to establish a general order of repayment of problematic loans, such as the decision of the National Bank. In our view, since according to article 7 of the Ukrainian National Bank Act, the function of the National Bank of Ukraine is to establish rules for banks to carry out bank transactions, accounting and reporting, to protect information, funds and assets and to enforce supervisory regulation, it would be appropriate to obtain the relevant conclusion of the NCBs on such legislative proposals in relation to the application of the new order of repayment of bank loans proposed by the project. The position of the faction of the Party of the Regions is not to support a bill that is contrary to the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, Bill 3517 has been concluded. A proposal for adoption is put to the vote on the basis of the draft Act amending the Law on Taxation of Business Income. [[on accounting for the cost of part of uncompensated currency]] Please vote. [[11:40:19]] For – 219 The decision is not taken. I'll put it to the vote: the re-reading. Registration number 3517. Please vote. On re-reading, please vote. [[11:40:43]] For – 223 The decision is not taken. It's being announced. No, it's not under review. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? The next bill is the draft Law on Local Taxes and Congregations. [[Registration number 3532]] I'm voting to put this bill into the agenda. Please vote. The draft Law on Local Taxes and Congregations Please vote. [[11:41:25]] For – 226 Copy that. It's on the order of the day. The second sentence is now put to the vote. To consider a bill without a committee. Please vote. [[11:41:51]] For – 231 Copy that. Dear colleagues, First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Alexander Valentinovich, is invited to the report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u103	The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council, distinguished national deputies! I hope that when everyone in the room understands the meaning of this law, no matter what political orientation, all the factions will support this bill. Why? Because it's aimed at simplifying the tax system. It doesn't give a penny to the state budget, but we get some tax cuts with you. But in difficult circumstances, you and I need to reduce the burden on taxpayers, on the one hand. On the other hand, in Ukraine today, most taxes are taxed than in all European countries. And that's why the second purpose of the law is to reduce the number of taxes administered in Ukraine. Well, and certainly simplify tax administration. With a view to simplifying and optimizing the tax system, creating conditions for strengthening the financial base of local authorities, reducing the costs of both the state and, importantly, paying administrative taxes and paying taxes, the bill makes the following changes. First. Five state taxes are being abolished. In particular, a tax on industry, a fixed tax on natural persons and a business activity, a coat of arms, a fund to take action to eliminate the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster and social protection of the population, a collection to the State Innovation Fund. And it also reduces 10 local taxes. In particular: a municipal tax, a collection of permits for placing objects of trade and services, a collection for the right to use local symbols, a collection of dog owners, a collection for the issuing of warrants for the apartment, a meeting for the running of the ipodymium, a collection for the winning of the race at the ipodymium, a collection of people who participate in the game on the totalitator and the ipodymium, a collection for the right to conduct the film and telesoms, a collection for the local auction, a competition, a sale of the lottery. At the same time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u104	Allow me to finish the speech. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u105	At the same time, we clearly structure both government and local taxes. I want to tell the representatives of our resort regions. In this project, we really cancel the resort congregation. At the same time, we are introducing the only tourist congregation for the entire territory of Ukraine that you can place at local level depending on local conditions. In other words, resort regions will not lose anything, but they will only gain from the adoption of this law. Well, first of all, the taxpayers will win, the tax administration will win, which can cancel both functions, and the administration tasks are not effective, but difficult to administer. Thank you and please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u106	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. Dear colleagues, I ask you to sign in two "for", two "against". On the board is the name of the National Deputies. Vladimir Bondarenko, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. Kojara will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u107	Dear friends, from Alexander Valentinovich's report, we've all come to realize that today's crisis government is changing the policy of funding local budgets and finding real sources. In particular, there are local councils in the resort areas of Ukraine today, particularly in Crimea, Carpathians, that have been deprived of the ability to finance individual programs in their territories. In the Carpathians, in particular, this is the East there, the Rabbit and others, the same in Crimea. In view of the fact that local councils are given the right to set this type of tax and regulate it according to their needs, it is a serious aid to local budgets, local self - government. So I would like to turn to all factions regardless of the political orientation to support this bill, or we will again have from below only criticism, not the real solution to local problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u108	Leonid Kojara, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u109	Please pass the word to Sulkovski Pavlov Gnatovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u110	Paul Sulkovski microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u111	Thank you. You know all these draft laws that go through practically a second Sunday in Parliament, as you'll hear, they're kind of necessary for the 2009 budget. And if we look at it, if we look at it, these projects are practically not going to benefit Ukraine that much, they're not actually balancing the budget this year, they're balancing the budget for this year. And so the faction of the Party of Regions will never support such populist unnecessary drafts of law that are practically beautiful in words, and they will harm Ukraine, the people of Ukraine. And taking this opportunity today, there was Vice Prime Minister Vladimir Mikhailovich on the rostrum, and I would like to ask a question. Literally this year, the government allocated funds to support farmers. 20 million were robbed by officials in the Plains, and I asked Mr. Turkinov to go to Julia Timoshenko, and you told me you'd, uh, hand over the CIA. Well, you didn't assign the CIA. So you're covering this crime and so on. And to the end. Volodymyr Mikhailovich. 65 million in this year were allocated to the Uninterested Loans. And you think 45 million of them took possession of one farm in the Goshan district of Wolowitz, which is taken care of by Blagodir Yuri, your party, Vladimir Mikhailovich, and Bogotsky's buttress. You can imagine. The rest of the farmers on the Plain didn't get a penny of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u112	Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, Communist faction
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u113	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, you and I know very well that any changes to tax legislation, especially those that affect Ukraine's state budget, should be adopted by August 15th. That's the first one. Secondly, this law violates the requirements of the Budget Code. One more thing I wanted to say. The committee headed by the coalition did not consider the matter. Vladimir Mihajlovich, I think we need to move on to the next stage, when draft laws will not be distributed to the Ukrainian people's deputies at all, all will be equally voted by the coalition. But in this way, at least we saved the paper and the kids would go to jail. And when we talk about that package of documents that we're looking at today, I want everyone to understand, especially our voters, it's about how workers have one more time to balance the budget, pick up the most underprivileged part of the population, and thus help that part of the population of Ukraine that refers to the wealthiest citizens of Ukraine. The faction of the Company of Ukraine will not vote for this document.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u114	Mikhailo Chechetov, please, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u115	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! First. The documents submitted to the project do not contain economic justifications and calculations as to whether or not the tax rates are set at the level proposed by the project. The other one. According to part 1 of article 10 of the project, the tourist congregation is determined to be optional in that other taxes and congregations that are not defined by the project have nothing to do with the obligation or necessity to set them up. Third. The draft documents do not justify an increase of ten times in advertising. Four. The draft documents do not provide a justification for the purpose of amending the draft Law on the Treatment of Taxpayers' Obligations to Budgets and State Purpose Funds, which are not related to the draft Law on Local Taxes and Congregations. [[on the order in which the debt owed by the deceased or without the news of the missing person and the natural person - entrepreneur]] Note that article 85, paragraph 8, of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine stipulates that only if, in order to implement the provisions of the bill that have been tabled after its adoption, the necessary changes to other laws are to be made in the section “Transitional Positions” of the bill. Fifth. We believe that this law takes effect at the same time as the entry into force of the Ukrainian Real Estate Tax Act, which is separate from land, is unfounded. Six. Note that the documents submitted to the draft do not contain a comparable table, as required by article 86, paragraph 6, of the Supreme Council’s Rules. The number of comments to this bill does not give rise to the Party's ability to vote in the first reading. We propose to reject this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u116	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill is closed. Please prepare for the vote. Before the vote, I want to say again that all the remarks and criticisms that have been made have logic, and they are correct, because by August 15, we have to make the right decisions. But the budget process is actually broken. That's the first one. And the second. I want to remind you once again that since the year 2000, when Ukraine's budget is being adopted, then the bill is not being voted on at all, and the number has been on the table since 2000, I remind you again, 10, and in 2008 almost one and a half hundred. I mean, it was all growing up. At least now we have to go back and at least talk about what we're talking about. But I understand that we're in the right state of mind -- we need to make a joint decision. Dear colleagues, the draft Law on Local Taxes and Congregations is put to the vote. Please vote. [[11:53:56]] For – 235 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we have four bills, then. That they should be included in the schedule, in the agenda, and also determined as to how to deal with them. So if you don't mind, I'll put it to a vote now, if a decision is made -- after the break, we'll continue our work if we don't -- we'll consider the following bills. Is there no objection? Then I would like your attention. I'm putting a draft bill to the vote. on the inclusion in the agenda of the Real Estate Tax Act, other than the land area of inclusion in the agenda. [[real estate]] [[Registration number 3533]] Please vote. [[11:54:53]] For – 209 Not included in the agenda. We're going to vote now. And then with motive. Let me just give you a minute. Dear colleagues, there is a bill to vote amending some of Ukraine's pension laws for inclusion in the agenda. [[Registration number 3521]] Please vote. [[11:55:32]] For – 219 A daily bill has not been put into order. I'm betting on the next vote, here's two bills. I'll bet. We'll have to put them in line, won't we? [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I will now put two bills into the agenda, because the alternative, the vote will be one. Registration numbers 3489, 3489-1 are draft laws amending certain Ukrainian laws to reduce the impact of the global financial crisis on employment. Please vote. [[11:56:32]] For – 393 Decision taken. Next, honourable colleagues, vote on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Law on Financial Sanctions for the Illegal Use of Lands. About getting into the daytime. Please vote. [[11:57:09]] For – 190 The decision is not taken. So, dear colleagues, right now, one minute, First Vice Prime Minister Alexander Turchinov. I see. Now we're exchanging thoughts.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u117	Dear colleagues, I am addressing all the national MPs, you have not supported the inclusion in the agenda and the consideration of a very important pension bill. In doing so, I know that many deputies have been misinformed about the content of this law and have therefore not voted. Because they were coming up to the government's bed and saying that there were restrictions on either working pensioners or the extension of the military to 55 years. That's not true. All these questions are not in this law. They're all off. This law, I want to explain again, is about paying to the Retirement Fund of small-scale entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs who work under a simplified tax system that doesn't pay a penny to the Pension Fund. And we don't have enough money to pay normal pensioners. And that's why I'm asking, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to vote on this issue because it's a principle position on the balance of the Pension Fund. And those who do not vote in favour of this law will be responsible when pensioners do not receive pensions. Please re-incline and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u118	Dear colleagues, before you ask that question for consideration, please sign in. Five minutes. Please register, exchange your thoughts, and then we'll move on. Here comes the recording. Please point out the name of the national MPs on the board. National MP Scoobenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u119	I ask you to give the floor to the national MP Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u120	Bondarenko. Vladimir Dmitrovich, right? "Timoshenko Block" faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u121	Dear friends, I would like not only us, because we understand more in this room, but those who are receiving pensions today understand that this bill was about a very interesting problem that arose today in Ukraine -- network marketing -- that is, selling a huge amount of goods that are being made through markets today, mostly by major trading firms that have broken down their activities into small-scale businesses. And today, by protecting those who trade on a simplified tax system, they don't contribute a penny to the Pension Fund. Well, in these circumstances, when you really need to think a little bit about it, what are pensioners going to do, where are they going to get the money? We need to share. So I encourage even those who today advocate the interests of this category to realize that without it today, the pensioner system will not survive with the money that it makes.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u122	People's deputy Beales, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u123	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, a Polish satirist Henrik Yagodzinsky once said: “What is the economic crisis? – It is to take away everyone and give it to everyone.” About this principle is being planned and budgeted by our country for the ninth year. I want to say that Law 3520 or Bill 3521 is significantly worsening the pension provision of almost six million of our pensioners. That's why we can't vote for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u124	The People's Deputy Kulikov faction "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense". [[Bondar transfers the right to speak]] The map probably isn't there, look. Well, please, from the rostrum then. It'll be faster than a knife.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u125	We voted against Bill 3519 because it made the pension conditions of law enforcement officials much worse. But we've been misled because the 3521 law is completely different, there's no age limit for law enforcement pensioners -- 45 years. And so if these changes are being removed, we can say that this law should be returned to the vote again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u126	Alexander Stoyan, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u127	Please pass the word to Peter Cybenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u128	Peter Stepanovich Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u129	Thank you. The Communist faction, the first deputy head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! I don't know if it was knowingly or accidentally, but the First Vice-Prime Minister was misleading the hall, because what he was talking about was a completely different law. And with regard to this law, I would like to say that after its adoption, when it was adopted, unemployment in the countryside would become complete, because those who still had work in the country today had it just because the payers of the only farm had a certain benefit under the Pension Fund. And the second argument. You know, that law would only make sense in one case: if the savings, the funds of the Pension Fund, were to increase pensions for Ukrainian citizens. Today, 10 million Ukrainian citizens have pensions ranging from 500 to 1,000, but this is not the case.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u130	People's Deputy Korge, Timoshenko Street.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u131	Please pass the word to Sergio Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u132	Sobole, please. Sergey Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u133	Thank you. Dear colleagues, in my opinion, we must now clearly determine how the Pension Fund is being filled. Whether the State continues to have to count enough costs, which are actually paid by exactly the same other pensioners working to maintain a position on the Pension Fund, or whether we are actually going to go from social justice to all who receive the pension actually taking into account the membership of the Pension Fund directly. Both the MP's and the government's bill in this situation answer that question. That's why we support the government bill, we propose to vote for it, and we take the MPs' positions into account when working on the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u134	Roman Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u135	Dear colleagues, I actually wanted to pay attention to some of the circumstances that. the decisions we make here in the Supreme Council, and it's not clear how to deal with these decisions at all. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we have adopted in our first reading Bill 3532, which, in the final stages, is directly related to the taking of the next bill, which the Supreme Council of Ukraine refuses to consider, i.e. the completely misunderstood logic of our joint decisions. I would also like to draw the attention of the national deputies to the need for a real estate tax. But as the government suggests, I think it also affected the decision of the Supreme Council. Here's an example. A real estate register is offered. How it forms, who it is to be an orderly government, does not answer these questions. So the conclusion is that these bills need to be redrafted. I'm actually talking.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u136	Thank you. Dear colleagues, regarding Roman Mikhailovich Zvaric's remarks. It makes sense, but obviously in preparing for the second reading it is necessary for the committee to take into account that certain laws are not accepted. Therefore, respectable colleagues. So, dear fellows, we've been exchanging our thoughts for a while -- we're exhausted. So on the proposal here, and including from the government, I'm going to put to the vote the question of reintroduction into the agenda of the daily draft Act amending some of Ukraine's pension insurance laws. [[Registration number 3521]] Please vote. [[12:06:15]] For – 212 The decision is not supported. Dear colleagues, we have a recess of up to 12 hours for 37 minutes. Next, we will consider a bill to amend some of Ukraine's laws on reducing the impact of the global financial crisis on employment, registration numbers 3489, 3489-1.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u137	Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to reduce the impact of the global financial crisis on employment. The report is the National Deputy of Ukraine, Jaroslav Mikhailovich Suhi. Please. All the bills have been voted on by a reduced procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u138	Dear colleagues, it is projected that more than 3 million of our citizens will benefit from the right to social protection against unemployment next year. I want to remind you: this was in the late '90s. And the people’s deputies of the third, especially the fourth, recall that we were working on the creation of general government social insurance funds. We brought them in, so the situation was saved. And in unemployment, and accidents in production, regressors, and temporary loss of employment, and the Pension Fund went up. The bill that I'm going to report to you from a group of national deputies is the national MPs of Ukraine, members of the Social Policy Committee Sokka, Pavlovski, Unguryan, Viezivski, Stoyan, Suhi, Shevchuk, Hara. This bill came about and the need for its adoption after we held a meeting on the committee with the governing heads of these funds and with the executive directors of these funds, when we agreed that if we save the unemployment fund, if we save the disqualification of highly skilled labour, we will save Ukraine and eliminate all the consequences of the global financial crisis that our host is currently facing. What the bill proposes. Providing assistance in part - time unemployment to workers who are forced to take vacations. Such workers will receive a minimum wage at the cost of living. The other one. Preventive measures will be taken to prevent unemployment. Another thing is, if a worker is released to work at a factory or factory, not at his workplace, but, for example, at repair, rehabilitation, farm work, he will also be financed by a temporary job loss fund. Next. By the way, if we provide funding for material aid to people who don't work temporarily, we're going to have 220,000 roughly qualified workers.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u139	Please complete your opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u140	Dear colleagues, the bill offers even more stringent conditions for unemployment assistance, well, most importantly I should say, at the end of the day, at the meeting and at the conclusion of the fund, it was agreed that the employer would pay less at the temporary loss of employment – 0.1, and unfortunately at the production – 0.1. These funds will help the fund with temporary loss of employment. He doesn't bring any extra pressure on the payroll fund. I propose to hold the first bill and put it to the vote. He was first introduced by a group of Ukrainian national deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u141	To present an alternative bill, I invite you to the words of Ludmila Leontievna Denisov, Minister of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u142	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The National MP Suhi Jaroslav Mikhailovich just presented the MP’s bill. We support him. We support the standards that apply to supporting employment. This is subsidized temporary employment, partial unemployment assistance. Decisions on specific areas for enterprises to implement this standard will be taken by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. First of all, this will apply to the metallurgical, chemical, manufacturing, and construction industries. It will finance the employer’s spending on vocational training and skills. For citizens, we guarantee the payment of unemployment benefits for both insured and uninsured persons. In the bill, we are expanding the criteria for appropriate work by including the definition of appropriate work for unemployed people in state-owned public works. According to the ILO, the unemployed is the one looking for and ready to get to work. Publicly paid public work, suitable work with decent working conditions, a salary that best fits the qualifications of an expert. The unemployed will be offered a choice. It's not going to be forced. Public works will be implemented in public buildings for the purpose of building and rebuilding, modernizing sports, transportation, medical, tourism, and telecommunications infrastructures, facilities for the final part of the 2012 European Football Championship in Ukraine. The 2009 State Budget Project provides funding to support the real economy. Some of these funds will definitely go to the organization of these works. We're predicting that the deficit will be covered by the Social Insurance Fund in the event of unemployment being redistributed.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u143	Complete your opinion, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u144	Dry 0.1 percent from the temporary fund and from the unfortunate. But our bill differs from the fact that the MP is supposed to propose an expansion of the base of payment at the expense of military personnel. If a worker is released under article 31, paragraph 1, unemployment assistance is scheduled for 91 days and additional workload is proposed for 0.1 percent for employees and 0.1 percent for employers. I therefore propose to support the bill of government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u145	A report from the Committee, Oleg Borisovich Shevchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u146	Good afternoon, dear fellows! In fact, two bills are proposed in the hall. One MP, who signed almost all the members of the committee, of all the factions: “Our Ukraine” and BUT, the Party of the Regions, and the government, which appeared on the committee a little later, so unfortunately we only saw him on Monday for the first time and failed to draw a positive conclusion on this issue, and there are no relevant conclusions in the Office of the Secretariat of the Supreme Council. So the situation is that we have two bills. And, indeed, the minister informed that there is such a difference in that there is an extra burden that Jaroslav Mikhajlovich, unfortunately, did not say 0.1 on the wage fund that the employer will pay, and 0.1 on which it will additionally account and keep on paying. So this is the only thing that distinguishes from extra workload because, really, according to the funds, because at a meeting that was on the committee, a fund from temporary loss of employment and a fund from accidents, they agreed that today's most difficult situation is in the unemployment fund and the most pressing is in this fund. And they agreed, the representatives of these funds, because they were usually heads of government and executive directors of these funds, that they were willing to cut their spending in order to recalculate in the case of the adoption of the law this 0.1 from the temporary loss of employment and 0.1 from the accidents. We're predicting that in order to pay off unemployment, the difference in deficits is going to be about a billion two hundred billion dollars, and that's why this money is going to be enough to cover this deficit. And likewise, for more than four hundred thousand people to be assigned to public work, they will be able to do these jobs and get paid in an orderly manner. So both bills are right. Both bills can be considered and we suggest that the hall be identified.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u147	Oleg Borisovich, please finish your opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u148	Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u149	I guess I'll do your job then, and I'll tell you that Bill 3489 of the Committee is offering to take the floor. Please sign up for the discussion. National MP Burlakov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u150	Please pass the word to Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u151	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the bill that Suhiy reported and reported to our colleague, Shevchuk Oleg Borisovich. Why? Because this is a law that was actually prepared by representatives of all factions, it's more specific. Why do I want to draw attention to everyone and to the television audience that in this crisis situation, our social committee, the government of the funds, have found an understanding in what sense? Today, millions of people will be unemployed and the Unemployment Fund will not be able to pay for all their unemployment benefits. How Can I Solve the Question? There were two ways. The first way is you could definitely increase, let's say, the workload on employers, on a person's work by counting into social funds. And the other way is to redistribute the funds. It's always, you know, a painful way of redistribution, because every fund thinks it lacks funds, but we've had a very serious discussion on our committee, very serious, let's say, calculations have been done and we've come to the conclusion that we can, in fact, reduce or deduct the deductions that were on the other two funds: unfortunately, on temporary unemployment -- and transfer to the unemployment fund. So we actually did a state function, because when this crisis and millions of people become unemployed, the state would first have to develop a employment programme. The State should have set up additional funding from the State Budget of the Employment Fund to ensure that people who have become unemployed are socially protected. But we did it. My colleague Shevchuk said that there goes another 0.01 percent of the person working from the entrepreneur. Trust me, it's a small amount and you can count it. So I would ask that we now take the basis of our bill, and the positive thing that's in the government we can count on in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u152	Pavlovsky’s People’s Deputy
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u153	Dear colleagues, both bills are urgent and relevant now. And indeed, there are measures to reduce the impact of the global financial crisis on employment in our country. They call themselves many things. The government is the only one that is more wide-ranging in terms of organization and support for public work, which is also relevant. Therefore, the “Julia Timoshenko Block” proposes to take the basis, support the government's option and introduce all the useful novels from the MP's bill into government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u154	People's deputy Chechtov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u155	Dear Alexander Vladimirovich! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Two drafts and, if we are to be abstracted from corporate interests, it is indeed better if there is a Hara bill and it has to be accepted as a basis. I want something positive to be taken from the government. I want Noah to focus on the comments to the government's legislation that doesn't have to be passed on to the Harry Bill that we're going to adopt in the first reading. In view of the financial economic crisis, the government bill does not provide sufficient support for the provision of general government social security insurance for unemployment, social services, employment, retraining, and higher qualifications for workers who have reached retirement age and who receive a pension. I find it unacceptable the proposal contained in the government bill in the final provisions on the suspension by 2010 of the employment law on the guarantee of employment for working-age citizens who need social protection and who are unable to compete on equal terms in the market for a park, which is for women with children, young people with disabilities. It should be noted that not all the provisions provided for by the Government Bill can be directly attributed to anti-crisis measures, such as the replacement of the terms “labour centres” for the term “instructional institutions of the State Employment Service” as well as exclusion from social services and material security for the general public social insurance of the unemployed and members of his family. The government bill does not meet the requirements of article 27 of the Ukrainian Budget Code, since its implementation will require additional public budget funds, but there are no proposals for sources of expenditure. A party of regions is proposing to adopt the Harry Bill as a basis for the first reading and to complement the positive moments of government except for what I said, yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u156	Cibenko Peter Stepanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u157	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! I'd like to say that this document is probably one of the most up-to-date and up-date documents. You know, over the past month, I've been very active and very careful about how the process of increasing unemployment in Ukraine is increasing. And I want to give you these numbers to maintain these that these processes are becoming of a ripple nature. For example, if in the first decade of November the unemployment rate turned to the employment center at 72 thousand, an average of 7.2 per day throughout Ukraine, in the second decade at 95,000 per day, the third decade at 117 thousand, an average of 12,000 per day for Ukrainian citizens to claim unemployment status. And it's just open, official unemployment. And if you add still hidden unemployment in the form of forced vacations, a reduced working day, a reduced working week, and so on, it really confirms that this disaster is of such a cosmic nature. This document must therefore be supported, for all budgets, including social budgets, the Pension Fund’s budget, insurance funds, and so on and so forth. The faction of the Ukrainian Company has carefully studied both draft laws that are being passed, they both deserve attention, but we believe that the bill prepared by the Ukrainian National Deputies is more carefully written, it was preceded by meetings with experts, employers, representatives of the respective insurance funds, and we believe that this document should be adopted on the basis of preparation for the second reading of the positive moments of the government bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u158	Thank you. National MP Suškević, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u159	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to say for the reasons of the vote and pay your attention, especially to the committee of profile. Please don't touch the disabled, including the government bill. There is an article entitled “Additional employment guarantees for individual population categories”. And there are people with disabilities who have not reached retirement age. I ask you very much, it's very difficult to employ a disabled person today, and it's very easy to destroy a disabled person at work. Please don't take away the guarantees in the legislation on the employment of disabled people that are today. If you're removing Article 5, look what you're removing, that's the first thing. So I ask the second-reading committee to pay attention and repeat everything that affects the employment of people with disabilities. And secondly, what's touching the Pension Fund -- access to the Pension Fund base can only be for individuals, i.e. pensioners. The MP's bill allows access not only to individuals themselves, to pensioners, but also to others. It's a violation of pension law. I'm asking you to pay attention to that, too. And in general, both of these bills are similar and they just, I think, in the second reading, they have to be further developed to take note of the comments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u160	Thank you. The discussion is over, I'm putting the bill to the vote. From the procedure? [[B in m in s a l in]] Please sign in from the procedure. Herman Hanna Mikolayevna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u161	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to pay particular attention to one of the proposals contained in the bill submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers. I understand that the Cabinet of Ministers is about to lose their jobs and they're good to be sent to public work, but these people are not going to work in public because they have a well-protected business. Instead, hundreds of thousands of teachers, doctors, and scientists who have lost their jobs today are being offered public works. I think it's a criminal offer. These people, these people have lost their jobs because of unprofessional activities, the populist actions of today's government. They need to be provided with insurance against job losses, and they are offered street sweeps. I think the Cabinet of Ministers is going to sweep the streets themselves. Because they promised us in Maidan that there would be 5 million extra jobs, and they're already forecasting it in March.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u162	Adam Martinyuk, Communist faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u163	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, it is unfortunate that there is no intellectual property right to draft laws. We tried to do it with you once. Look, two bills, they're written down in each other. One to the other, the comas are even the same. It's clear who's been cheating. The government filed later, so the government cheated on the national MPs. Well, at least the explanatory note was written in a different way, and so the mistakes were made in the same way. That's one thing. The other one. I remind you, Alexander Volodymyrovich, because you've been conducting this meeting, discussing this issue. Two hundred and eleven national deputies have shown a desire to work on a reduced procedure, so please do not violate the reduced procedure. Only one can come from each faction, and only those who sign up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u164	Andrew Schlell, Timoshenko's Yulia Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u165	Thank you. Vladimir Mikhailovich, well, first of all, of course, I also want to remind you that a reduced procedure is a reduced procedure. Let's move because we have to adopt a lot of laws. But, nevertheless, when specifically about this law, I was usually surprised by the information of the previous speaker, maybe the country was confused, because if there were hundreds of thousands of teachers and hundreds of thousands of doctors in the neighbouring country, it's a good thing we didn't hear that we have billions of doctors and billions of teachers. Hence, when selecting sharp expressions, we need to remember that mathematics and arithmetic were taught in high school, and we need to look very carefully at how many we have and how we do it. That's the first one. And secondly, it is very good to discuss, propose and support nothing, virtually no social bill of the Party of Regions has supported, although the initiative creates, amends, but does not vote. That's why it says everything for itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u166	National Deputy Vizevski, faction of "Our Ukrainian People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u167	Vladimir Viezowski, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense". On the committee, we approached every paragraph that we worked on. I am happy that our bill has been so consistent with all sides: both employers and trade unions and our Committee of Social Policy and Work that it is our bill that is the basis of the bill of government. So it's probably quite fair if we're a bill that the Supreme Council's profile committee has proposed, we're going to take it as a basis, and we're going to take those proposals that the government is proposing into account in the second reading. What's more, our bill sets out clear legislative rules that provide for how much to pay, and how much we redistribute internally to them under a common agreement between trade unions, employers and these funds, and how to redistribute those funds. We're actually redistributing the funds for the Employment Fund because it's the most difficult situation. So I would like this bill to be supported in the Supreme.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u168	Dear colleagues, thank you, time is up. In line with the discussion, I put the first to vote on the adoption of a bill based on the MP's bill, the draft Act amending some of the laws of Ukraine to reduce the impact of the global financial crisis on the employment of the population. [[Registration number 3489]] Please vote. [[13:01:09]] To – 256 Decision taken. [[Applause]] The factions? Please. The Party of Regions – 175, "Club of Timoshenko" – 5, "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" – 30, Communist faction – 27, "Clocus of Lithuania" – 19. The draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the review of sanctions and the determination of powers for the regulation of relations in the field of prevention and countering the legalization of proceeds obtained by criminal means is under consideration. [[washing]] The rapporteur is a member of the State Commission of Securities and Stock Market Sergey Alexiyovich Biryuk. The focal point will be the chairman of the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption, Rybek Aleksandr Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u169	I'm sorry, I'm doing my duty while Baluk's gone. Well, the first person for the time being, until the new year, when there's a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u170	Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u171	Ladies and gentlemen, this is a bill that contains, above all, a clear grading of sanctions for money-laundering violations, because the bill in force ranges from zero to a thousand untaxed minimums. There's a clear gradient of cases and a clear gradient of sanctions, from 500 untaxed minimums. And also for re-infringement. But this bill was introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers in the spring, in the April months, and in September the Cabinet of Ministers and the relevant committee of the Supreme Council introduced the bill in a new edition. The issue of preventing and countering the legalization of the laundering of proceeds obtained by criminal means, 3062, and on September 25, it was adopted in the first reading. So, indeed, the committee and the commission and the Cabinet of Ministers agreed that the bill could be withdrawn from the discussion. But we would only ask one thing: not to refer to him as having lost relevance, but to take into account in the drafting of Bill 3062, because there is also no clear graduation and there is no repetition of the increase in sanctions, because those who abuse and do not, especially in these requirements, may be separated by light fines from the fact that they do not provide information at the same time or do not at all provide information on financial monitoring. Thank you for your attention, and please support our proposal to count these positions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u172	Thank you, sit down, please. Alexander Grigorovich Rybek, head of the committee's subcommittee on combating organized crime and corruption. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u173	Dear Head, dear colleagues! The committee considered the bill as the chief of the 10th of July this year, and it was decided to recommend it to the Supreme Council as a basis. But noting that it is for the sole responsibility of supplementing the laws of articles 7, 8, 11 of the Law on Financial Services and Public Settlement of Financial Services and Article 17 of the Law on Prevention and Opposition to the Legalization of Proceeds Obtained by Crime. But as reported by a colleague, the Cabinet of Ministers on 19 August 2008 presented to the Supreme Council a law number 3062, which you and I adopted on 25 September as a basis. For the second reading, he works with the Committee on Finance and Banking. We are in line with the suggestions made by a colleague from the State Commission on Securities and Securities who are assigned there for processing and accounting. Last week, Parliament adopted a draft Ukrainian law amending certain Ukrainian laws on liability for infringements of securities under number 2614, which also provides for amendments to article 8 of the Ukrainian Law on the State Settlement of the Securities Market in Ukraine. These changes make it impossible to consider the bill that we reported, 2410. Thus, due to Parliament’s adoption of September 25 and December 16, the Ukrainian Bill on Amendments to Certain Laws on Sanctions and on Regulation of Relations in the Field of Prevention and Anti-Legalization of Income, issued by Criminal Code 2410, the proposed amendment loses its relevance and relevance.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u174	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u175	By a December 17 decision, he proposes to be removed from consideration and we ask you to support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u176	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please register. Two in, two in. Taking into account the comments, they will make a statement. have the opportunity only those who sign up. Two in, two in. Please. Please show me on the board. Hanna Herman, please, microphone. Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u177	To the dry one, please pass the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u178	Jaroslav Mikhailovich Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions. Is there a Jaroslav Mikhailovich? Yes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u179	Dear colleagues, I think this is not the first time we've come back to this question. And I think we'll still have to go back to the legislation that determines the minimum of living in one way or another. And in this case, I want to say that in the full sense of the issues that we're looking at, of course, we need to look at the social dimension. The social issue is that, of course, we have to, the reporter faithfully said, increase criminal responsibility, administrative responsibility for the things we now have around Kiev and Kiev. I think that all factions should be involved, in some way or another, in the drafting of legislative acts that would normalize all aspects that we are going to consider today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u180	Yuri Karmazin, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u181	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. Ladies and gentlemen, in this case, which is certainly a matter for now, and without discussion, to be asked questions about the bill, because the other bill regulates those rules. I am concerned about the other situations that have happened today, which are related to the fact that the prevention and opposition of these proceeds, which we have received in the criminal way, we have not voted with you today and the increase of excises, that is to say, we will say, several factions: this and the communists have not voted for excises, we have not voted on land, we have not voted on land, we have voted against it wrongly seized land, it is all about what has been obtained in the criminal way. So I urge all factions to watch these bills from this point of view. And maybe some misunderstandings -- they were arranged before that. And other bills, the kind of bills we've just voted on. This is an MP's bill. We've voted now, we've voted back, we've rejected the Cabminian. Yeah, they have a similarity. But the fact that the MP has made matters worse for the military is that the MP is asking questions from the employers 0.1 percent, that's 300 million. What workers took, and of those who work, is also 300 million, or the price will be minus 600 million, nobody's talking about it. Why adopt a bill that makes things worse, by the way, seriously, and no one reports about it? So, dear friends, I would like this bill to be removed. But so that we take very seriously all the laws that apply to the proceeds of crime.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u182	Dear colleagues, the review of the draft law on the introduction into some Ukrainian legislation on the review of sanctions and the determination of powers for regulating relations in the field of prevention and countering legalization, laundering of proceeds obtained by criminal means has been completed. I'll put it to a vote. Please prepare for the vote. What, what? Please, the head of the Kaletnick Committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u183	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, the committee's proposal was that after it was adopted as a basis for draft laws 3062 and 2614, we considered it once again at a committee meeting with a view to withdrawing it from consideration and rejecting it. And this is a consistent position with the Securities Fund.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u184	Thank you. But, at the same time, I must put to the vote to accept it as a basis. If the Supreme Council of Ukraine does not support it, it will automatically be withdrawn. That's the procedure. So, your honors, I'd like your attention. There is a proposal for a bill based on draft law, registration number 2410, to amend certain Ukrainian legislation on the review of sanctions and the determination of powers to regulate the prevention and legalization of proceeds obtained by criminal means. [[washing]] Please vote. [[13:12:09]] For – 51 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. The factions, please. The Party of the Regions – 1, "Club of Yulia Timoshenko" – 0, "Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense" – 31, Communist faction – 0, "Club of Lithuania" – 19. What I'm trying to say is that my card doesn't work. Check why my card doesn't work. Please. Adam Martinyuk, I said, with motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u185	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I want to explain to those of you who are currently looking after the work of the Supreme Council. In order for you, the honourable electorate, to have the mistaken impression that he spoke almost unanimously to the Supreme Council does not want to support laws related to the fight against corruption. No, it's not. I call your attention once again to both what the rapporteurs said, both from the committee and from the committee, what the committee chairman said. Since this bill, I'm paying attention to number 2410, and we've already adopted in the first reading the bills in numbers 2614 and 3062, they were newer and fresher, and so they absorbed what was proposed in this bill. So the national MPs are not against corruption, but, unfortunately, because of a certain bureaucratic burden, this bill has only come to the fore today. He's out of date, and those two bills that were adopted in the first reading, better, we'll support them in the second.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u186	Thank you. I beg you, fellow believers, this is an explanation to consider. The draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the State Biosafety in Creation, Testing, Transportation and Use of Genetically Modified Organisms is being announced for consideration. Registration number 2436. The rapporteur is Minister of Environmental Protection Georgiy Georgievich Filipchuk. The focal point will be the chairman of the committee on environmental policy, environmental management, and the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, Anatoly Ivanovich Seminoga. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u187	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Ladies and gentlemen, the situation since 1966, when transgenic technologies have officially been applied in the field of dealing with genetically modified organisms, makes it necessary to improve the legal and regulatory framework. In view of this, it is important to put an end to the separate positions of legislation, but even more so, to bring Ukraine into force today's laws that correspond to the main law, the basic law on the State biosecurity system in the creation, testing, transportation and use of genetically modified products. It is proposed that the following laws be amended: environmental protection, animal life, plant life, environmental expertise, and licensing for certain types of farming activities. What does this give us? This gives us today at the level of central and responsible authorities empowered to exercise more effective control, strengthening their competence. Second, these are measures for environmental protection, for the protection of human safety in the handling of biotechnologies. Third, it is to establish responsibility for violating environmental requirements when dealing with a given product. Next, it's the end of the subjects in environmental expertise, something that hasn't been done in practice since 1966 when these products began to be officially used. And in the end, we think it's very important.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u188	Give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u189	Engineering that works today in a closed system that is licensed. So the acceptance of this The bill will give us an opportunity to strengthen responsibility and to increase human health and life security, to strengthen environmental security. Thank you for your attention and please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u190	Thank you, Georgiy Georgievich. Fellowship of the First Vice - Chief of the Committee on Environmental Policy for Environmental Use and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster, Mikola Haritonovich Schershun. Please, Mikola Haritonovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u191	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! Ukraine's draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on State Biosafety in Creation, Testing, Transportation and Use of Genetically Modified Organisms. According to the Cabinet and the Committee on Budgeting, implementation of the stated objective does not require additional budgetary and other material costs. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine considers it possible to adopt a bill as a basis. The Committee proposes to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt a draft Ukrainian Law amending certain laws of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on State Biosafety in Creation, Testing, Transportation and Use of Genetically Modified Organisms, based on further work by the Committee. Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u192	Yes, Mikolo Haritonovich, thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need for discussion? Please sign up. Yes, please put the names of the national deputies on the board. National Deputy Karpuk faction "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u193	Vladimir Karpuk National Deputy “Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense”. The “Our Ukraine” faction supports this bill, which regulates amendments to a number of laws of the relevant basic law adopted on 31 May 2007 under number 1103. At the same time, we note that Ukraine uses a large number of food products, including food products that do not contain genetically modified products. And to change that images of different microorganisms are only used after complex testing, human clinical examinations, and study in the environment. Therefore, continuous control of the use of genetically modified products is extremely relevant in Ukraine and the adoption of this law will allow for the resolution of these problems in part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u194	Vladimir Bondarenko, faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u195	The "Julia Tymoshenko Block" will also support this bill, and it is particularly important that it becomes effective as soon as possible in view of the fact that in times of crisis there may be situations where some parts of the population of Ukraine will not pay attention to the currently unexplored sphere, particularly the impact of genetically modified and transgenic products on human health. Today, there is information that such products are imported into Ukraine by various means, and more often, they are imported by the family of plants, which as well as some of the animal species that have been prepared to be used for commercial production. Therefore, it is obvious that the government should also be able to control the products already imported, their reproduction in Ukraine, because it is the reproduction of genetically modified plants and animals that can cause them to mutate and especially have severe consequences for the population. That's why we need to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u196	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the Lithuanian Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u197	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, it has been said that from somewhere in Ukraine products with genetically modified organisms are being imported. But this is a mass nature, a mass product is being introduced into Ukraine, with no one today knows what it will end for the health of the population, for the human population. Clearly, this bill is of such a technological or technical nature and makes changes to a number of other laws. But I would like to ask representatives of the government: “And what happens in the marking of goods sold in Ukrainian shops.” Why, in due time, a decision was made to make sure that people knew where the food was, first of all, the GMO’s food field and where it was clean organic products. This decision was made by the government in its time, but then, apparently, under the influence of lobbyists who use GMOs for their revenues, destroying the population of Ukraine and, above all, succeeding generations, repealing this decree of the Cabinet of Ministers. I ask representatives of the government, if this is voted on in the first reading, to propose proposals to make this unacceptable. In the countries of the European Union, there are separate shelves in stores where people know -- there's GMO products, there's cheaper ones, and one can choose: buy clean food, first of all, or poison themselves and the next generation. So I ask very much that the Ministry of Environment, which is directly interested, obviously, in a clean environment, in the development of a normal human population in Ukraine, is the initiator, the provider of such changes that people know they are eating. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u198	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. The proposal for a committee to adopt a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on State Biosafety in Creation, Testing, Transportation and Use of Genetically Modified Organisms is submitted to the vote, registration number 2436. Please vote. [[13:24:11]] For – 413 Decision taken. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Pension Insurance is being announced for consideration. [[on the repayment of debts to the Pension Fund]] The rapporteur – the first Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Rosenko, will be the co-rapporteur of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, Valeriy Mihajlovich Suškević.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u199	Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies, has recently been able to take steps to increase pensions. A timely and full pension payment is ensured, the annual pension plan is implemented and implemented in 2008. However, there is also a substantial debt from the payment of insurance contributions to the Ukrainian Pension Fund. In particular, the debt of economically active payers as of December 1, 2008 amounts to about 450 million dollars, of which 360 million are insurance premiums and 94 million sums of insurance and fines. In order to encourage repayment by insurers of the debt owed to Ukraine's pension fund, the government is submitting a draft corresponding to Ukraine's law. In particular, the bill proposes to reduce the amount of financial sanctions applied to incursions and payment of insurance contributions. Thus, a fine of 10 percent of unpaid payments is foreseen for default or early payment of premiums. To date, such sanctions range from up to 50 percent, depending on the duration of the payment delay. At the same time, it is offered at the request of payers to dissipate fines and fines that have been charged for default or non - time payment of premiums, within 60 calendar months, with the postponement of the first payment for 120 calendar days. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Committees, and the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine believe that.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u200	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u201	Yes, thank you. In the first reading, a bill can be adopted as a basis, so please support the bill and the bill adopted as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u202	Thank you. Valeriy Mihajlovich Suškević. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u203	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, I have already reported to the Conciliation Council that this bill should be adopted, well, as they say, from the beginning of the fall. And really this bill brings out the debt, the debt payments that exist today and that have already been accumulated today. Practically real downsizing from 20, 50 percent to 10 percent of the contributions owed to the Pension Fund. It is at the expense of getting out of the shadows that they are able to dislodge these debts. Therefore, the PIC, the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, Disabled Persons, asks for immediate adoption of this bill and for a real solution to the issue of the Pension Fund's debt. Thank you. Please accept.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u204	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss it? Please sign in. Please put on board the name of the national MPs who are registered. People's MP Landik. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u205	Thank you. I'd like to maybe even add to that change, because we're getting our pension payments right now, and they're all going one way, just going to the Pension Fund. See, if an enterprise is not large, which you say the oligarchs did not buy, and was stocked with an investor, there are usually debts under the Pension Fund, VAT and so on. Thus, according to our legislation, under article 106, paragraph 5, all of this money, even if the current enterprise pays to the Pension Fund, is in debt. I can even read to you article 106, paragraph 5, as it says: “If the insurer has unpaid mortgages, foams and financial sanctions and pays the current amounts of insurance contributions, these amounts are due to the payment of mortgages, pennies and financial sanctions.” I mean, no one's ever gonna read you the actual ones in your life. And for the current unpaid -- immediately foam, fines, and the Pension Fund, we can live our whole lives with a penny that they put on those businesses that just physically can't pay there and there. Therefore, I propose that the law amend this rule by writing: “that financial penalty is only for the consent of the insurer.” Then it'll help. And the fact that you're downgrading, you're adding something. An enterprise can't pay only debts, and that's what you'll count on. That's not possible, that's not social justice, that's, you could say, a full pension fund. You can't do that! Only with the consent of the President.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u206	Thank you. Well, that's obviously what you can do when you prepare for the second reading, this right over here. Vladimir Yavorowski, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u207	I don't want to profit from a friend, so please give my word to my neighbor Yuri Serbin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u208	Yuri Serbin, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u209	Dear colleagues, we are now seeing that there has been a significant decline in accession to the Pension Fund. But not just because companies can't pay, but because they've already lost their hand, because it's impossible to pay the penny, it's impossible to pay the current payments, because they don't count. And I fully support my colleague, Landik, that such amendments should be made, but only in the second reading, because the basics of the law are healthy, we have to remove the stalemate from the enterprises and actually fill the pension fund. Therefore, our faction will uphold this law, and in the second reading it can be clarified. I propose a hall and I ask you to uphold this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u210	Ivan Hare, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u211	John Haretz, Ukrainian People's Party, faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Clearly, in times of crisis, the rules of the game need to be changed in both the economy and the Pension Fund. And let's face it, half a billion dollars in debt to the Pension Fund is due to a number of reasons. One reason is that there was no proper supervision, and the other reason is that businesses could find themselves and find themselves in a difficult position. Today we have to say that there's a lot of non-payment of wages there or of non-payments to suppliers because there's no government control. Let's face it, if the basic order were to be given today, we would be reducing this crisis twice today. Thus, this bill offers relief for businesses with fines. If we used to have a scale of 10 to 50 percent according to the delay of payment, we are now offered a fine of 10 percent and the foam remains. What's the foam for? In order not to be tempted again, let's not pay, and there the Supreme Council will then take note of these debts, and that will be the end. So let's think about whether it's worth doing this, or in the second reading, weakening this rule, or counting a penny for every day of non-retirement to the Pension Fund. But in the first reading of this bill, we must be sure to accept it, for not only should we think about the business, we should think about the pensioners, we should also think about the people who gave their lives, creating this nation, who gave their health to their jobs. So our wisdom is to find this balance between the interests of the enterprise and the interests of the citizen, in this case, the pensioner. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u212	Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u213	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues! At first glance, there is really nothing to argue about: the Ministry of Social Work is introducing a bill, the “ura” needs to be supported. But let's think about what they're offering. I can't understand how in the circumstances where the Pension Fund is not fully filled, when we keep talking and the government, any government official who's speaking is screaming, there's nothing to pay for the pension. And it's not just a scream. It is very good that we have had the courage and courage not to support and consider the inclusion in Bill 3521, which was written in white: “No pension insurance during 2009” as it was this year, let it remain so. [[Unfortunately, not all factions have]] This is about filling up the Pension Fund. To fill the Pension Fund, 10 percent, 20 percent, and 50 percent of those who do not pay contributions are now established. The pension fund can't handle the job, can't take the benefits, so let's just leave 10 percent of the fine. Where is the guarantee that these 10 percent will be fined? Then they'll say no fine at all. That's why I, my dear colleagues, urge you not to vote in favour of this bill, because it will not work for the Pension Fund, because it will not work to fill the Pension Fund, and it will work to reduce the income of the Pension Fund. We're going to give the same signal to those who have to pay what they can't pay, because 10 percent is not 50, and then this 10 percent is written by the good people's deputies or the Ministry of Social Work, and in the end, it's all going to turn out to be a regular pensioner. So once again, the Ministry of Social Labour has introduced a law that is harmful to pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u214	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. Is there something about the government or not? From the government, I say. You don't? Dear colleagues, a proposal for a committee on acceptance is put to the vote on the basis of which it is to work extensively with regard to the comments that have just been made in preparing for the second reading. Therefore, the proposal to adopt a draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on State-wide Pension Insurance is put to the vote on the basis of the draft Law on Amendments to the Law on the general obligation to pay off debts to the Pension Fund. Project registration number 2315. Please vote. [[13:37:03]] To – 236 Decision taken. A draft Act supplementing article 20 of the Ukrainian Law on State Pension Insurance is being announced for consideration. The rapporteur is the first Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Rosenko. The focal point will be the chairman of the committee, Valeriy Mihajlovich Suškević.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u215	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Ukraine's draft law was designed by the government to improve the control mechanism of the banks' institutions for payment to insurers in full terms of the corresponding sums of insurance contributions. In recent times, unfortunately, there have been more cases of violations by commercial banks of the relevant regulatory acts, and in particular the Ukrainian Act on General Compulsory State Pension Insurance, concerning the exercise by these commercial banks of control over the payment of the corresponding premiums by insurers. I'll just give you a few digits. In particular, some of the banks audited by the Pension Fund bodies in 2007-2008 revealed almost 900 violations of current legislation. Accordingly, the amount of unpaid premiums amounted to some 90 million dollars. Such a situation and the uncertainty of the laws in force have led to a worsening of the actual discipline of payment of insurance contributions. Therefore, the draft Ukrainian law proposes to clarify the situation of Part 20. Article 20 of the Act. In particular, it is envisaged that banks accept payment orders and other payment documents from the insurer for the issuance of salaries only if payment documents are submitted simultaneously to the insurer for the payment of the corresponding premiums. Therefore, considering that the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Veterans, Pensioners, and Disabled Persons supported our bill in its decision. It's thoroughly worked. We suggest that this bill be adopted in the first.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u216	Complete your opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u217	There is a request to adopt this bill as a basis and as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u218	Please, Valery Mihajlovich Suškević.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u219	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this bill is completely in line with Bill 2315. The point is that today it is proposed that the law take more stringent control over the discipline of payments by legal persons to the Pension Fund. In doing so, the payments to the Pension Fund are proposed for all payments, including through wage banks. This improves the existing mechanism, which means that payments will be made through legal integration into this process of the Pension Fund, the National Bank and the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, which will then be controlled by payment through any bank in which legal persons receive payments, precisely payments to the Pension Fund. This sub-control will allow you to minimize the avoidance of less than is provided for by legislation, payments to the Pension Fund from legal persons who are, which means that they give jobs to our citizens. I think that this bill can really be adopted, both as a basis and as a whole. And it's also very urgent, because it really involves the control of the National Bank, the Pension Fund and Minpraci's government, so that these payments are made by all legal persons in accordance with Ukrainian legislation. Please accept both as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u220	Let's sign up for a discussion. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u221	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". The people want to see Ahmtov, who has voted now, sign up. Dear National Deputies, before that, we considered the Law on Amendments to the Law on Compulsory State Pension Insurance. [[on debt repayment]] And now we are considering the Law on Amendments to the Law on Stately Compulsory Pension Insurance. What am I talking about? That's what I'm saying, the honourable leaders of our state, that you're asking the question, and here's the question in just one sentence. He needs to be accepted. It has to be accepted, no questions asked. But we could have done it in the same law and not put it, twice not wasted our time. This is only about the fact that Article 20, entitled “Calculation and payment of insurance premiums”, adds only a half sentence: “in order determined by the Pension Fund’s management in agreement with Nutzbank and the central executive authority in the field of labour and social policy”. Were we not able to make changes to article 20 of the previous law or to previous ones when we considered it? Mowgli. So I want to make a general comment to the government and to all government agencies. Ladies and gentlemen, please save the time of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And to do that, pass bills that are really bills, not, as Rikin once said, something in his nose. Therefore, it is necessary to accept it. It should be accepted immediately in two readings. Where in God's name is still wasting time on the half sentence of this, which I've given you literally and more, and we're basing it on more than it needs time at all. And obviously we're going to have to go back to those laws that are actually filling the budget today, including the Pension Fund. And we're now, I think instead of Ahmatov, let him say maybe Catherinechuk as the European Party, because the next Ahmed is written. So thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u222	Dear National Deputies, National Deputy Ahmetov Rinat Leonidovic is absent from the Hall, so the discussion is concluded. I am voting on the adoption in the first reading of the draft law on the addition to article 20 of the Ukrainian Law on the National Compulsory Pension Insurance. [[No. 2401]] I'd like to make a statement. [[13:44:55]] For – 249 Decision taken. The proposal of a profile committee is about the adoption of this draft law as a whole. Are there any objections to Ukraine's national MPs against the adoption of this bill as a whole? Any objections? Oh, no? There's no objection. I am voting on the adoption of draft Law No. 2401 on the completion of article 20 of the Ukrainian Law on the National Compulsory Pension Insurance. [[13:45:48.]] For – 254 Decision taken. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Draft Law No. 2408 amending the Ukrainian Act on State Social Assistance to Low-Supplied Families. [[on the assignment of assistance]] Report to the First Deputy Minister of Social Policy, Paul Rosenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u223	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Honourable National MPs, in the bill, the government proposes to clarify the arrangements for the granting of State social assistance to low - income families and the conditions under which they should be appointed. In particular, it is proposed to expand the list and include families that are included in the assignment of children who are trained in the day-to-day form of education not only in vocational and higher education institutions of the first and fourth levels of accreditation, but also in general educational institutions after they have reached the age of 18. In addition, the bill specifies circumstances under which state social assistance is not granted. In particular, if a working family member is not working and is not in the middle of a job, he is not learning. In this context, however, it is up to the local executive authorities to make decisions on how to help people who do not work, if they have three or more children in their families, or if the family has a disability, and if the family does not have any source of livelihood as a result of a prolonged illness of one or more family members. At the same time, the bill proposes to strengthen the responsibility of the person for filing false information seeking State social assistance. In view of the fact that the Committee on Social Policy and Labour and the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, as well as the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council, has reached a positive conclusion on this bill, there is a great need for this bill today to be voted on as a basis and as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u224	Stoyan Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u225	Ladies and gentlemen, this is about amending the Law on State Social Assistance for Lowly Families. I want to give you a little point. Today we have these families of low-income, multi-childly underprivileged people in the state of 142 thousand. And the average aid, on average, is about 758 dollars. What do we propose? What the government offers more faithfully, and the committee supports. Clarify the circumstances of the refusal. For it may be that many young families who are underprivileged are refusing to be helped by the law that is now in force. We suggest that we make it more clear what circumstances will move us to refuse such help. Secondly, as the rapporteur has already said, to extend the rule that the order of assignment of state social assistance may not only be for those who study in vocational and technical schools at the I-IV level of accreditation, but also in public schools. And it is very important that we also predict that if there are three or more children raised in a family, or there is, say, a disabled person there, they should also have the help of a material means. So this law really improves the situation of many children of low-income families. I want to point out that the positive conclusion of the Chief Executive, the positive conclusion of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, they support this proposal, there is also a note from the representatives of the U.S. trade unions and their associations, that is, the tripartite commissions that also support this bill and our committee proposes to take the basis, but if you agree, it could be accepted as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u226	Let's sign up for a discussion. National Deputy Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u227	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense. Ladies and gentlemen, is this really a necessary law, I agree with the committee's statement that such a law is necessary and it solves many of the issues that are now in particular, and the initiatives that have been taken to raise us?? One day the birth rate and the care of the children improved, because in article 7, we first change its name in general, it's now called a condition under which State social assistance is not assigned, its size is declining, or the pay is cut, meaning. And secondly, there are additional guarantees for people when they have a disabled family or a low-income multi-child family that raises three or more children under the age of 18 if these children are trained in the daily form of education in general education and in vocational and technical higher education institutions at the I-IV level of accreditation, but not longer than until they reach the age of 23. And the inability to obtain any source of livelihood is also due to the prolonged illness of one or more members of the family. The decision to grant such social assistance is made on the basis of an examination of the material and household conditions of the family. And that's why the only thing here is that there might be a reduction in state social assistance in the case of misinformation or hidden information. I think the law is perfectly well worked out from a legal point of view, changes, and they can be adopted, both in first reading and in general. So we can put it if there's no objection. I just don't see where to make any more changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u228	The national deputy Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u229	Vladimir Yavorowski, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, town of Kirovograd. Dear colleagues, honourable voters, outside and formally this bill is, I would say, precise. He's just clarifying some of the details. It's a perfectly natural legislative practice when laws are passed, then life makes certain adjustments and certain requirements, some clarifications and so forth. That's what this bill looks like. It is very timely and necessary because it is during the period, of course, of the crisis and impoverishment of our people, so to speak, that it is the most, so to speak, open, and which is most affected by all these circumstances, that is, by many families, it gives them the opportunity to survive in these circumstances, that is, the essence of this bill. In general, it's humane, because whatever the crisis is, whatever the crisis is, the nation has to think about its continuation, the demographic problems that there is, and it's also focused on it. Because of this, the Yulia Timoshenko Block will give even more votes than he has for the bill. And I very much ask Michael Chechchev, my colleague, to raise your hand vertically, not horizontally when we vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u230	National Deputy Sulkovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u231	Dear colleagues, the faction of the Party of the Regions will support this bill and would like to take the opportunity to address this question to the minister's representative present. I was in the “Variance” on Friday, you may have heard, there was a minister present on Thursday, and I also reminded myself that only in the Rakitni district did I visit those villages and meet people. [[I was born there.]] You think what? Only in these rural councils for the last 2-3 years, there has been no such thing at Kuchma, for 2-3 years, have all those mothers who have given birth to five, ten, fifteen children, to this day in the President’s office, and the state, state and state officials in your ministry already sit on your head. [[There are four villages in these two village councils.]] And they can't issue a certificate from a heroine. It's a crime, I think. Yushchenko is on his way to Ukraine, urging him to warm up his child’s love. But where is the conscience after all in these officials? Why won't you issue these certificates? She doesn't get it, this mother who gave birth to ten or more children, she can't get 6,000 one-time help today. You can imagine, but the mother, who gave birth five years ago, has this certificate for two or three years, and that 15 children have not been able to obtain this certificate in the last three years. So how do you look at the future of our Ukraine? It's a crime, and I think these oranges are just bullying the people of Ukraine, just bullying them. And as soon as you leave, you will not disgrace Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-24-m0.u232	The discussion is over. I am voting on the adoption in the first reading of the draft Law 2408 on the amendment of the Law on State Social Assistance to Lowly Families. Please vote. [[13:56:52]] For – 390 Decision taken. A representative of the profile committee made a proposal for adoption as a whole. Is there a denial? Is there no objection? I am voting on the adoption of draft Act No 2408 amending the Ukrainian Law on State Social Assistance to Lowly Provided Families. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:57:33]] For – 397 Decision taken. I'm going 15 minutes. [[B in m in s a l in]] Committee meetings. Yes, committee meetings begin. Dear colleagues, in this regard, it is right that we need to work out many questions on tomorrow and Friday. Thus today, we have concluded our consideration of the issues scheduled for the morning plenary session. The morning plenary session is closed. I'll see you tomorrow at 10:00 in the morning.
