ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, please register. [[10:01:48]] There are 391 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. In line with Monday’s Conciliation Council decision, we form a schedule every day and approve it after the faction leaders meet in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, we're going to need at least an hour with leaders to format such an order of the day. I invite the faction leaders to the office of the Chief of Staff of the Supreme Council to agree on the order of the day. At 11 o'clock, we begin the plenary session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u2	We continue the plenary session. I'm asking you to sign up for the national MPs of Ukraine. Pedestrian Ivan Vasilovich, please. Leonid Kojara.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u3	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! An extraordinary event has taken place, which is a further testimony that the President of Ukraine and a part of the forces that are directly subordinated to the President of Ukraine regularly and brutally violate the Constitution of Ukraine, in particular, on September 1-2 of this year, the U.S. Coast Guard ship Dallas, which was involved in an American humanitarian aid operation to Georgia, was illegally staying in Ukraine. In this connection, I would like to point out that according to article 85 of the Constitution, only the Supreme Council of Ukraine can approve of the decision to allow the armed forces of other States to enter Ukraine. Moreover, there was no other legal basis, including the relevant international agreements for the warship of the U.S. warship in Ukraine. I would like to remind you that the Constitution and the Law of Ukraine “On the Order of Admission and Conditions of Circumstances of the Armed Forces of Other States to the Territory of Ukraine” of 22 February 2000 provides for the next order of the passage of foreign military formations into Ukraine. Firstly, only an international treaty ratified by the Supreme Council of Ukraine can give rise to the admission of foreign military forces. The other one. On the basis of such an agreement, the President of Ukraine can make decisions on admission. And the third. The Supreme Council of Ukraine must approve such a decision by the President. Something is not mentioned in the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s approval of the President’s proposal. There is also no mention of a visit to the Dallas ship in our approved Law approving the decision of the President of Ukraine to admit troops of other states to Ukraine in 2008 to participate in multinational military training. I would like to remind the distinguished National Deputies that this was the second time since March 2006, when U.S. Navy ships entered the territorial waters of Ukraine and docked in Feodosija in fact for the promotion of President Yushchenk and the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine. Then it became a source of considerable social tension in the state. It seems that the President does not learn from his mistakes and does not care about the security and authority of Ukraine in the world. By the way, the President does not care about our relationship with foreign nations. In this regard, the faction of the Party of the Regions demands that tomorrow the Minister of Defense of Ukraine and the Minister of Foreign Affairs come here and provide an explanation for this matter. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u4	Uljana Mistpan, Timoshenko Street. Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to yesterday when the Ukrainian Parliament demonstrated that the idea of turning Ukraine into a monarchy republic is not popular either in Ukrainian society or in the Ukrainian Parliament. The logic of yesterday's decisions that we adopted, and for which, I recall, the 360-370 people's deputies voted, i.e. the MPs who represent the main factions -- the Yulia Timoshenko Block, the Party of the Regions, the People's Self-Defense, the Communist Party -- recorded that we cannot live in the country when, in order to solve any of the smallest issues, we need to take a stand at the President's Secretariat. And I think that Parliament is the body that should clearly and unequivocally govern the country and control the situation. I know very well Victor Yushchenk's pre-election program. And what we did yesterday is perfectly consistent with his position as presidential candidate. Then we talked about the fact that the Security Service couldn't spy on Ukrainian politicians. It must protect Ukraine and Ukrainian politicians. And what we did yesterday -- we did it in accordance with democratic norms and what the opposition said a few years ago. We cannot live in a country where the governor can hammish a national MP, a prime minister or a simple citizen and say that he is awaiting instructions from the great head of the Secretariat to comply with the decision of the Supreme Council or not to comply. I think we're going to continue our work together in the direction that we have local self-government and not representatives of some political parties that use one-percent popularity, run regions. So, I think that's the question that we're going to solve just like we did yesterday with the investigating committees. I remind you that in 2003, there were people in this room, and I, including myself, said that parliamentary control was an essential and important function to be carried out. A special commission of inquiry cannot wait months for a member of the committee to obtain documents from officials. That's why I want to say it again. All of our decisions yesterday are in favour of Ukraine's democracy, decisions in favour of parliamentaryism in Ukraine, and decisions that have prevented Ukraine from trying to turn Ukraine into such a monarchy. I want to say again from our faction. We promised our voters when we went to the elections, not to serve the President, or to serve a party -- we promised our voters to serve Ukraine. And yesterday's decision is to serve Ukraine and protect our national interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u6	Vladimir Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u7	Vladimir Bondarenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko. ” Dear friends, the time that came after yesterday for each of us was a time to think about what happened, and we get a lot of different information from many sources. In particular, I had conversations with ordinary people, with managers. Everyone today does not fully understand what has happened. And what happened to us was, first of all, that the President himself broke the coalition with his own hands. You can't go down on Balog or O2 or anyone else right now. The president broke the coalition. His hands, his instructions, were directed by those on whom we today nod and say that they are to blame. They're not guilty of anything, although their personal position has sometimes changed the position of the President, and that was an anti-State position. Why? Let's look at the structure of government. In a normal country, there is a legislative authority that acts independently, executively, and judicially. What have we had lately? The instructions from the Secretariat, the transformation of the President's instructions to one faction as a minimum was the law, and they acted in such a way as to comply with those instructions, not to act on their own conscience. If you're talking about the Cabinet of Ministers, it's a nightmare at all. We got an organ -- the National Security and Defence Council -- that's kind of a legitimate body that completely replaced the Cabinet of Ministers. More than 60 decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers were groundlessly revoked and duplicated by the Council of National Security and Defence. What is it, state authority? The same governors called Roman Immortal asked permission to go or not to the Prime Minister. Where, then, is the vertical government that should ensure the readjustment of the laws and regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers throughout the territory? They were directed at ordinary members of the Secretariat, who were transforming the President’s instructions. We've been given an organ like the Ukrainian Security Service, which has started to follow only the instructions of Pukshina or anyone else, by starting to digest the government's actual leaders, the discovery of criminal cases, and what we've received today, even that letter from Balogah, is a sign of some kind of dross and nonsense that has begun to dominate today. How can such a state continue to exist? So yesterday, from different political backgrounds, there was a signal that we had to stop this vacchanal, and we did it yesterday. And it had to be done earlier, because we were getting an uncontrolled state, an uncontrolled state, an uncontrolled legitimate body -- the Supreme Council, an uncontrollable executive power, because it wasn't allowed to work. I remember the budget of Ukraine when we agreed on a budget for the budget committee, and 20 minutes later a new project came from the President to break. I remember being giggled right here in the rostrum. I remember it all well, and you remember, so we are right, we are going this way, we are strengthening the Ukrainian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u8	Alexander Steshenko. Tushenko Alexander. None. Wooden. Kosov Mikhailo, please. Mikhailo Kosov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u9	Dear colleagues, our constituencies. Today's media are full of detective reports that in the Ukrainian Security Service, documents of treason by the Prime Minister of Ukraine and the entire Ukrainian government have been deposited. I couldn't help but wonder about these documents. And it's in my hands. This is a letter from the head of the President's Office, but they are sending information to the Security Service that has become known in the verification of the activities of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Just think about what a detective story is: she became known for checking the activities of the Cabinet of Ministers. So, what is the next word? An analysis of this information shows that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, under the leadership of Prime Minister Yulia Timoshenko, has deliberately endorsed decisions that pose a threat to Ukraine's national security in the field of economics, such as government budget losses. Well, I don't get it. At the end of the previous session, we considered that the economic activity of the Cabinet of Ministers had added 32.2 billion dollars to the government budget. And here it turns out to be a national betrayal. But what is further said in this document is: “Please consider this information and give an assessment.” Well, to evaluate it, it is well known to open a criminal case regarding the presence in the actions of the Prime Minister and other officials, i.e. ministers, signs of criminal activity to the detriment of Ukraine's national interests, particularly those provided for in articles 111 – “State betrayal”, 365 – “Poverty of power” and 367 – “Service negligence” of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. How does this matter continue to be considered? It turns out that 611 tasks were sent to the Cabinet of Ministers from the Office of the President and only 130 were carried out, despite the fact that the Secretary of the President sent the Cabinet 200 letters of warnings. Listen, Julia Timoshenko called, made a proposal to give the House the President's Administration a sign on "Paragraph Six".
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u10	Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u11	Vladimir Yavorowski, "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko", city of Kirovograd. Dear colleagues, I don't want to remind you of a peacemaker who has no interest in watching a crocodile sneak up on a cannibal. But in all this, it's very important to me as a person and as a national deputy, very important, that I went up to this rostrum to give some signals to our constituency, perhaps the most radiant part of our electorate, who, of course, in what happened yesterday, would see some global, so to speak, displacement. What happened was about to happen. Nothing else could happen. I'm very sorry, I asked a few questions yesterday to those who went up to the rostrum, explain to me the difference between the statement of "Timoshenko's Yulia Block" on Crimea and Kirilenko's statement? I couldn't get an answer, because they were exactly the same statements, they only had different stylisms. It turns out our colleagues were waiting for this opportunity. They were waiting for this opportunity. I'm sure they have 10 more days today. I think that a lot of what was done yesterday has already been said today by "Our Self-Defense" that these congregations were illegal, I think there was also a statement by Kendzior, as well as the People's Movement. That's why I want to tell our voters. We're totally calm. Yesterday was a day that put many things in place. After nearly a year of fruitless work yesterday, Parliament did a few of its most compulsory civic duties — and on miners. By the way, we made a mistake, but we introduced this bill from January 1, 2009. And let's take the courage to go back to that, because the miners went off in an euphoric state, and only today will they find out what we said "a," but they didn't say "b". That's why I don't want to live in the country when the official, I want to remind you, nobody today remembers who was the head of the First President's Department, I don't idealize him, Kravczuk. Nobody remembers. I happen to remember who that was. I'm actually thinking that, listen, this is some kind of Mephistofel post, this head of the Secretariat. Whoever comes there becomes such a terrible figure. It turns out that the tail guides the dog, not the dog tail. Because of that, nothing, once again, has happened. No betrayal, I'm sure the Party of Regions feels the same way. What happened was what was supposed to happen was the normal work of the Ukrainian Parliament. It's 10 days. Think, dear fellows! You just don't have another way out. You want an early election? Please, we're leaving. But what are you going with? As a result, once again, nothing terrible has happened. Think, think, think again! And we'll work with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u12	Cowchenko Mikola.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u13	Cowchenko, the Communist faction. Ladies and gentlemen of the people! I should like to inform you that, at the initiative of the Communists of the Donetsk Region, on 22 August, there was a multi-thousands of representatives of the territorial communities in the area, which expressed outrage, mistrust in the course of internal and foreign policy conducted by President Yushchenko and his officials in the regions. What has caused such a large-scale decline and indignation in the area? The thing is, we've never had such a nationalism in a multi-national area since independence, which has always lived peacefully and normally. The current power, clearly aware of the multi-nationality of the region and the political views of the vast majority of the population in the area, has taken steps to implement policies aimed at the promotion of nationalism and at exacerbating the social and political situation in the area. I repeat, none of the governors have been as self-inflicted as they are now in the Donetsk region. Vandalism flourishes in the area, and nine monuments have been destroyed in just two months. In the Netherlands, it is funny to look at 3,654 people who have reportedly died of starvation, 43 monuments have already been installed, and 46 are still planning to be installed. The point is that they even make mistakes in cities that were founded in the 58s. Today, major events are taking place on the day of the celebration of the 130th anniversary of the birth of Petlura. That's not what we've had in Donbass. We only want to remind the district leadership that Petlura is the organizer of the Jewish pogroms, and you are gathering schools, kindergartens, streets to name him. Today, an oral order is being made to place Shuhević's landscape portraits at the museums at the entrance. It is now the case that 30 young men in Mariupola, who were prevented from taking action in perpetuating UN-OPA heroes, were beaten with british-headed KNOVCs. We requested a report at the meeting before the head of the ombudsman on the reasons for his violation of the decision of the regional council on this matter. The session of the Regional Council prohibited practically all these activities in the field. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u14	The Communist faction is inconceivable. Peter Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u15	Dear colleagues! Dear voters, as we already know, have been informed that our Ukraine's bloc is coming out of the coalition. Thus, the coalition broke up. And irresponsible nationalist, political forces led by Yushchenko have created new problems for the State of Ukraine and for the deprived people of Ukraine. And I think it is particularly important for us today to understand the reasons behind this irresponsible political campaign of horror, the deception of people by these nationalist forces when they go to elections. And when they come to power, the second time in three years, Ukraine is not only deceived, it is humiliated and crushed. And I would like some reasons for what is happening today. First of all, this coalition is based on a nationalist ideology, which is originally aimed at the division of our society, the humiliation of those nations of the peoples that constitute a minority in our country. This also shows that their policies are initially aimed not at Ukraine's interests but only at the interests of the parties. Initially, we are witnessing with you that it is these nationalist, political forces that are proponents of, not Ukrainian politics, but of the American and Western ones in Ukraine. We are witnessing with you today that these political forces are exacerbating conflicts with our brotherly neighbouring peoples: both Belarus and Russia. I believe that the interests of this group are particularly affected by the capital that has entered this structure, i.e. the coalition. I would like to draw attention to the fact that in 2005 the orange coalition almost broke up because they accused each other of corruption and they were the bitter scandals that drew attention to each other back then. In 2007, as a result of the early elections, Yushchenko brought the same corrupts to Parliament in the same factions and introduced them into power, giving them posts and many other things, and then, through the State and General's office, the generals of the army were handed over to us today more than the military. In 2008, this coalition is practically involved, according to the President, in the poisoning and natural activities of espionage. What do we suggest? We suggest: - Establish a special commission to draft changes to the Constitution; - consider the draft, because we have very few, 60 days left to change the Constitution, which eliminates the presidency and forms a parliamentary republic. Here's what we have to do today and what we've been spending almost 60 days doing today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u16	Sergey Sobolev, Timoshenko's Yulia Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u17	Dear colleagues! Dear voters! It seems to me that, at the end of the day, it has become clear not only that there is a timetable in Parliament, but also that there is a general timetable of forces in society. That's what it's all about. It's not a secret that for the last eight months since the appointment of the Timoshenko government, we've had one opposition force, we thought it was Communists, some thought it was a Party of Regions, some thought it was a political force called the Block of Lithuania, it turned out not. If you analyze all those critical remarks, and more specifically all the lies that the President's Secretariat has done to the government, I think that the joint efforts of the Lithuanian Block, the Communists and the Party of the Regions would not be enough to bring society to a dead end with allegations of treason, attacks on the head of the Secretariat, and with different versions of these assassinations by the Prime Minister. On the need for urgent regulation of economic policy, on the need to reverse government decisions that made further inflation impossible. And you can draw these examples one by one. This feeling that the President's Secretariat, and the President himself, did not realize that elections had taken place, that voters had given a clear mandate of trust to the two political forces, the Yulia Timoshenko Block and our Ukraine-National Self-Defense. But it turns out that the task of the Secretary of the President and Yuschenka himself was not to put order in the state, but to prepare for a possible victory, we really don't know what victory, in the next presidential election. Yesterday, I think it was the most crucial event. Whoever is elected the next President of Ukraine will be forced to work under clear conditions of law, not by disregarding the law. Because if we complete this process, and the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine or the Acting Officer, and we, by the way, have a unique situation, we haven't had the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine in months, how can this person do this, or this service, to the security of the state? She was engaged in one of the political gains, in the execution of Baloga, Kukshin and the President's tasks personally. That's why I think the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" stands before the election. Or it dumps that ballast in the form of balsa, biscuits and other people who were leading the country into a dead end, and it's really going back to democratic values. Or Ukraine needs to settle this issue in a timely election. We're the first choice. I think that's the only way out of this situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u18	Let me finish, won't you? Akimova.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u19	Dear colleagues! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that behind the political battalions of yesterday we can forget the great economic risks that our country, our people and our business are currently facing. I would like to remind you that we are now rapidly building up macroeconomic problems. Trade balance deficits are on the rise. Very high inflation remains. After winning the relationship, I think in view of the government's summer relations that inflation has already been defeated, the specific figures speak of another. To date, consumer price inflation is more than 26 per cent, i.e. virtually 2.5 times higher than last year in a similar period. Producer prices are rising rapidly. What's he talking about? This indicates that the Government's hands are now opening up an inflationary spiral that will be on the shoulders of our people, not only this year, but at least for the next two years. How is the Government of Timoshenko concerned with the problems of inflation? The fight is only addressed by administrative pressure measures. These measures, unfortunately, do not produce any radical results in terms of price reductions, but they question the interests of our national producers. A few examples. The extension until 1 July of the quota for the exports of grains and sunflowers to representatives of the Timoshenko Block, but unfortunately this was realized that 7 million of our grain remained at stake, and the interests of our agricultural producers were threatened. At present, the minimum prices set, the purchase prices set for grains are substantially higher real prices, at which our agricultural producers can sell their grains, and agriculture is now at risk. Gross economic interference over the past six months has led not only to high inflationary pressure on the shoulders of our consumers, but also to a significant slowdown in real wages growth. But this has led to a significant slowdown in economic growth in Ukraine, industrial production, its growth rate has dropped nearly one and a half times and the overall economic growth rate has dropped by more than one per cent. Risks of increasing gas prices are increasing. Inflation “breathes in the face” of the Ukrainian people. During this parliamentary session, the Party of Regions demands that economic policy priority be made in the fight against inflation. To that end, we must first think about the people on whose side is the inflation burden, to consider and adopt the social bills that have been put on the agenda today by the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u20	Peter Cibenko. Let's get this over with. I'll give you enough. Please, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u21	Second question, budgetary process. We must think and make a informed decision to make the 2009 budget ineffective. And question three. We must consider how to make the National Bank of Ukraine more independent and how to ensure real coordination of the monetary policy and policy of the Government so that inflation is halted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u22	Peter Cibenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u23	Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! The Supreme Council of Ukraine began its work. What did the first meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine that took place yesterday show? First, it has shown quite eloquently that much of the MP Corps as well as millions of Ukrainian citizens do not share President Yushchenk's position in assessing Georgia's aggression against South Ossetia. The Presidential "Ukrainian" doesn't know where the sorghum, in spite of the obvious things, has been trying to track down its American hosts and try to make them guilty of the conflict in the Caucasus of Russia. But the deputy corps had sufficient sanity once again not to go through the service of Georgian Führer Saakashvili and his overseas hosts from the United States. For various draft decrees, statements by the Supreme Council of Ukraine that attempted to justify Georgian aggression voted for 70-80 people's deputies. The fact is quite eloquent and encouraging. I would very much like to expect that this vote will begin with the recovery of the Ukrainian Parliament. Second observation from yesterday's meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. One of the European monarchs once expressed himself as if the state was me. In this way, President Yushchenko of Ukraine tried to act. Thus, the last day in Parliament showed that more and more deputies do not want to be held hostage to such policies and run into even the highest official of the state. Amendments to a number of Ukrainian laws have shown that the majority of the MPs do not want to be formal, but actually want to be a member of the higher legislative body of the state and do the will of their electorate. Finally, these are still real steps towards building a parliamentary-presidential system of power in Ukraine, as envisaged by the recent changes to the Constitution of Ukraine. And about the further fate of the coalition. The faction of the Company of Ukraine doesn't care at all, because what's happening today, that's what we've been saying since the beginning of the Supreme Council's work at the moment, that there's really no coalition in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. That is, the colleagues today who joined the coalition.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the day-to-day issues. First of all, let's welcome our colleague Sergei Konstantinovich Velizhansky on his birthday. Sergey Costinovich, welcome. Second, about the formation of the agenda. We agreed that until the general order of the day is approved, every day we form a schedule at the faction leaders' meeting. I'm showing you the position that today is proposed and voted by all faction leaders. I ask everyone to listen very carefully to the bills that I include. Please be very careful not to raise questions. Someone got involved, someone got expelled. Before the vote, I take stock of the bills included. So, listen up! The first bill, 1440, is about a social dialogue in Ukraine. The second bill is 1034, amending the Ukrainian Housing Minimum Act. The third bill is 3097, amending the Ukrainian State Budget Act. Next, the issue of ratification – 0047, 0046, 0049, 0050, 0058, 0054, 0060, 0061, 0066, 14 and dot, and dot. You guys hear that? I very much ask that there be no objection then to those bills that are included. The faction leaders have agreed, can we ask that we stop the discussion? Thank you. Dear colleagues, pay attention! I propose to vote in favour of today’s schedule. Attention, we vote, and then I'll speak on the bill procedure. [[11:52:17]] For 327 Decision taken. Now, colleagues, be very careful. I remind everyone, Bill No. 1440 is about social dialogue. We've spent about four hours with you in the last, last session to consider this bill. Does Everyone Remember? Everyone remembers. Because of the political situation of the bill, there was no vote on it. Therefore, the next order for consideration of draft laws is proposed. We give 10 minutes to report to the National MP, Harry, and we go straight to the voting procedure, due to the fact that we have completely passed this procedure. In this way, I put to the vote the question of the special procedure for the consideration of Bill No. 1440, namely, that only a statement by the Ukrainian National MP did he report without discussing the transition to the vote of the bill in view of the fact that the bill in question was considered under the full procedure of the last session. Understand? We're voting for a special procedure. [[11:53:39]] For 326 Vassil Georgiyovich, please. Turn on the microphone from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u25	Dear colleagues, I just want to remind you from the history of this bill, just a little bit forgotten, the time has passed. The drafting of this bill is due to the lack of a framework law in our country on social and labour relations and the need to legislativeize the foundations of social dialogue as a necessary condition for the country's social and economic development, to raise the standard of living, to reach agreement in society, and to identify the parties to social dialogue, to define the legal and institutional basis for its functioning on the principles set out in the conventions and recommendations of the International Labour Organization. The bill sets out the legal basis for organizing a social dialogue on improving labour, socio-economic relations, mutual understanding at the level of the labour community and society as a whole. The arrangements for the establishment and operation of social dialogue bodies are defined, the representation of the parties of the executive authorities, employees and employers is determined by the principles of social dialogue, that is particularly important, that is the representativeness and plethora of the parties, that is the independence and equality of the parties, that is the constructiveness and mutual respect, that is the voluntaryness and real commitment to themselves, that is mutual respect and the search for compromises, that is the obligation to consider the proposal of the parties, that is the priorities of conciliation, that is openness and transparency, that is the obligation to fulfil the commitments made and that is the responsibility for fulfilling the commitments made. And a little bit of history. I would like to recall that this bill has been drafted by the parties to the social partnership. First of all, representatives of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, representatives of workers who represented trade unions at all levels and employers. The developers felt that it was possible to invite the President to initiate a legislative initiative and to propose it to Parliament, as had been done. After that, our committee worked on it. We've been through all the procedures of the first, second reading. But you know, the situation in the last assembly: the bill was fully worked out, the working group was set up, the discussion in the sessional room, but there was no point in adopting the law. Therefore, our committee, given that all the procedures have been followed, has considered this bill already in this assembly and I propose that, once again, since all the procedures of this bill have been passed, it has been adopted as a basis, as a whole, both by law and in the shortest possible period of time, to place it at a completely different, different, higher level of social dialogue in our country, which will enable it to decide both at the level of the labour community in the collective agreement and in the regions, there is a significant increase in social and economic work, social protection and dialogue between the three parties to the social partnership. Please support the Committee's decision to adopt the bill as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u26	Thank you, Vasil Georgievich. Dear colleagues, this is how we considered the bill. All the questions that have been asked by the national deputies during the past discussion have been asked. Here's the next offer. The bill is not simple, so we suggest that we consider it and adopt it now in the first reading. Only in the first, absolutely right. Because there's a lot of notes to this bill. So, honourable Ukrainian national MPs, I put to the vote Bill No. 1440 on Ukraine's social dialogue for adoption in the first reading. Please vote. [[11:58:21]] For - 354. Thank you, colleagues. Next Bill No. 1034. Vasil Georgievich Hara is about the minimum of living. I'm putting to the vote the issue of special order -- we've also considered this bill -- a special order of consideration of the bill. An exclusive report by the Ukrainian national deputy, Hari Vasil Georgievovich. Then, without discussion, proceed to the voting procedure. Here was the proposal of the leaders of the MP factions – first and second reading. My colleagues, Ivan Grigorovich, I don't know where you agreed. We were just at the faction leaders' meeting. It was an offer to put first and second readings. Dial it up, dial it up. He doesn't dial, he doesn't dial. I'll leave it as we agree. Dear colleagues, pay attention. We are voting in favour of a special procedure for considering the bill. [[11:59:24]] For 305. Do you mind if we take a look at him for a break? That's three more minutes. Vasil Georgievich, please. I'm continuing the session until the question is addressed.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u27	Dear colleagues, yesterday we have to be honest, and to be honest, we have done a great deal for the miners. For the first time, we have taken a comprehensive approach to solving part of the social problems of the multifaceted industry. And I would very much like us to do a good job today for virtually all the people of Ukraine. To that end, it was only necessary to restore the former status of subsistence minimum, which Parliament had destroyed, unfortunately in 2005, the Cabinet of Ministers' proposal, recalling the weak economic opportunities. Indeed, the Cabinet of Ministers had proposed that a subsistence minimum should be introduced into the Budget Act and had in fact artificially built a subsistence minimum under the budget. That is why for the past four years, the State budget has been set at three, or four, minimum subsistence rates actually taken from the ceiling rather than objectively calculated on the basis of the actual cost of the list of products, goods, services, so-called consumer baskets, at prices at the time of preparation of the draft State budget. This has resulted in the underemployment of workers, pensioners, scholarship students, and the underprivileged persons receiving social benefits. It must be understood that all discussions on raising the standard of living of the population of Ukraine will remain an empty sound unless we establish an objectively existing standard of living, the basic social norm of our State. That is why I, on behalf of the faction of the Party of the Regions, and my comrades have prepared a bill to restore the status of living minimum. The whole point is that the subsistence minimum per person, as well as for those belonging to the main social and demographic groups, is approved annually by the Supreme Council by a separate law on the submission of the Cabinet of Ministers before the start of the budgetary process. It is on the basis of the Law on Living Minimum approved by the Supreme Council that the Cabinet of Ministers develops all the social parameters of the budget for a certain year. With regard to the 2009 State budget, the Cabinet of Ministers, I just want to remind myself that it is still mandatory to comply with the requirements of the Living Minimum Act and to approve a new expanded list of products, goods, services approved by the Scientific and Social Council as early as 2005. Since we are using an outdated list of adopted ones today, think about it! - in 2000. Another circumstance must be taken into account in the Cabinet of Ministers in its work on the State budget. Under the law, the minimum wage in Ukraine has to be at the minimum subsistence level since 2009. We have an obligation to do so in accordance with the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. If we do so, we will raise our social standards and at least bring them closer to the European ones we seek, and most importantly, we will significantly improve the social protection of Ukrainian citizens and their standard of living. This is indeed the sacred duty of the Supreme Council. The Committee on Social Policy and Labour had made a positive decision on the bill. Please support the Committee's decision and adopt the law on first reading, but given that our colleagues are not prepared to adopt the bill as a law, although it is very simple, there is nothing we can do but agree to at least adopt it on first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u28	Dear colleagues, the bill actually changes only one rule, if every year we formulate a minimum of living in the Ukrainian State Budget Act, this bill foresees the need to adopt a separate law, it is clear that it must be adopted before the Ukrainian State Budget Act, which would determine the minimum of living. In principle, there is just a question that is not settled, which applies when this law is to be passed. If we don't settle this until the second reading, it will remain a declaration. Therefore, it would be logical for us to simply put the first reading on the committee and the second reading on the committee. Is there no such objection? Okay. Then the next proposal is the adoption of Bill No. 1034 on subsistence minimum in the first reading. Please vote. [[12:04:20]] For 344 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I announce a recess. After the break, a review of the Law on Changes to the Budget refers to a single tariff network.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u29	Dear colleagues, we continue our meetings. Let's wait a minute, have the Ukrainian national deputies come into the Parliamentary Hall. Colleagues, there is a proposal to start a review of the bill. Bill No. 3097 on amending the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2008 on the introduction of the third stage of a single tariff network from September 1st. Please, Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u30	Dear colleagues! This bill is one of those important social bills that we passed yesterday, which we are likely to adopt this week. In addition to mining laws other than social pay laws, we also provide for the consideration of rural laws. Today's law aims to approximate the introduction of a single tariff network, its third phase for the budget area. A few words about the history of the question and his philosophy. The objective was to bring the number and quality of work into line with the three stages of a single social tariff network. In order to create a motivation for highly skilled work, so that people have a desire to improve their skills, to work as much as possible in one workplace, to motivate them to work in rural areas. This was all the case with our colleagues from the Social Policy Committee, and I would like to particularly thank our colleagues, Haar Vassili Georgievic, Stoyan, Suhogo, Papiev, and they just created the bill. The subject of our committee is that a billion 270 million will be allocated to budget workers and that one month before all law provides for it, in the light of the situation and inflation, the budget committee will vote in order to allocate the money. The Government accepted the proposal. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u31	Dear colleagues, here's the next offer. When we were discussing the inclusion of the issue in the agenda, it was suggested that it should be considered in a simplified procedure. I mean, not by procedure at all without discussion, but by summary. So that now the Ripper can speak two in favor, and two in favor, and we vote. Okay. I am putting to the vote the question of reviewing Bill 3097 for a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[12:43:56]] For 283 Decision taken. Mikolo Ivanovich, I'm asking you to come to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u32	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, distinguished national deputies. The Committee on Budget Issues at its meeting on 2 September 2008 considered a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2008 and amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts and submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputies, Pecklusenko, Kirilczuk, Lavrinović, at registration number 3097. Regarding the approximation of the introduction of the third stage of the single tariff grid of September 1, 2008, instead of November 1, 2008 for teachers, doctors, and other budget workers. To this end, the bill aims to increase the cost of work by $1 billion 127.8 million compared to the 2008 budget, of which 808 million is an additional grant to local budgets for increasing the value added tax on imported goods in Ukraine. According to an expert opinion by the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, such a bill is proposed for support. The conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration is missing. As a result of the review, the Committee on Budget Affairs adopted a decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a bill under registration number 3097 on the approximation of the implementation of the third phase of the ECSC as a whole as a legal basis. At the same time, on September 2, the Supreme Council had already adopted the Act “On amending the 2008 State Budget Act on Coal Support, which increased the revenue and expenditure of the State budget by 568 million dollars. Therefore, to ensure the balance of the state budget and the consistency of the bill with the bill adopted yesterday on increasing coal support, it is necessary to assign a committee on a protocol basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u33	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u34	To entrust the Committee on Budgetary Questions with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council to the text of the law and Appendices with editorial and technical legal clarifications, in particular in the clarification of the summary figures on the revenue and expenditure of the State budget, as well as the application of this law from 1 September 2008 until the submission of the law for signature by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u35	Mikolo Ivanovich, can you walk past what you read at the end? Can I have my accent on this one?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u36	In order to ensure the balance of the State budget and the consistency of the bill adopted yesterday with the bill on increasing coal support, it is necessary to assign to the Committee on Budget Issues, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council, editorial and technical legal clarifications to the text of the Act and Appendices, in particular, in clarifying the summary figures on the revenue and expenditure of the State budget, as well as on the application of the Act of 1 September 2008. Before the law is passed for signature by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u37	That's the thing. That's why I asked you to do it. We voted in favour of the law yesterday. I asked the vote yesterday about the vote's cancellation. Until the head of parliament has signed the law, we need to decide to abolish the voting results for yesterday's law as a whole, to bring it back to the second reading, to walk again in the texture, to include the issue of the implementation of the law from September 1st and then to adopt it as a whole. There can't be a technical legal argument because it didn't happen at the time of reading this law. That's what we're talking about yesterday's law. Mr. Baby, I can hear everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u38	Arsenius Petrovich, this is about to.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u39	Turn on the microphone so it's under the stenogram.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u40	By signing the bill, the annexes that we would have, yesterday, if we were to consider at the same time, I would have said the same thing, and all the supplements would be on both incomes and expenditure are balanced. Since there was only one law voted yesterday, and today, God forbid, let's vote on the second one, these supplements have to be. approved by protocol.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u41	It's two different laws, understand. Well, these are two completely different laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u42	We'll do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u43	No, it can't be protocol. Colleagues, what are you doing? Well, it's a legal process. Please, Baby wants to say something.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u44	Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Dear Arsenija Petrovich, the bill now reported by the chairman of the committee is the registration 3097 on changes to the State budget in part of changes to the tariff network. approaching from November 1st to September 1. The bill that we passed yesterday, which has been effective there since January 1, 2009, is proposed for yesterday's or September 1st to be a bill to increase mining. These are different bills. And what Mikola Ivanovich says to agree on 3088 and 3097, which is currently under consideration, is a bill on amending the budget, where we envisioned the maintenance costs of the mining sector. And we can, so it's proposed to strike a balance, because two bills on the same subject, we can balance them up and we can assign them to the committee and to the main legal office. I mean, actually, the committee's decision is completely understandable.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u45	Now I can tell you again. Yesterday we passed Bill 3088. Right?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u46	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u47	Did we vote for 3088 yesterday? Vote. The text of the bill that was voted stipulated that the financing of these expenses was carried out by what number, Mikola Ivanovich? [[B in m in s a l in]] In that case, from the 1st, if I'm not wrong, or from 1.01.2009, I don't remember now. Colleagues, please, please. Natalia Yuriovna, thank you. Let us now consider the law that is in the order of the day and confuse the righteous with the sinner. We'll be back by 3088 and the committee will sign it. And then I'm going to make a decision about what form it should be. If voted, only until we sign do we have a chance to reverse the voting results, make changes and re-adopt the whole. So I'm only going to look at 3097. Thank you, Mikola Ivanovich, sit down. We're not looking at 3088 right now. Please write down: two for, two for against. We have no speeches, two in favour, two in front. Please log in. Well, we don't have performances. Vassil Grigorovich Hara.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u48	Dear colleagues! The faction of the Party of the Regions believes that the bill must be supported. And we were the initiators of this issue. The point is that we must pay particular attention to this multi-sufficient budget age. In recent days, these industries, and especially our doctors, have been particularly offended by cultural workers in terms of wages. This will be fair, restoring what was before in the tariff network, a single tariff network. And given what we're going to do today. And if we still adopt the law and the subsistence minimum for 2009, which we adopted on first reading, we will add significant amounts to the salary of our excellent budget staff in 2009. Therefore, I believe that the law is very worthy, and we must unanimously give our votes in favour of this law by supporting all our budgetary spheres. And we propose to vote unanimously for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u49	Thank you. Ivan Kirilenko. Kirilczuk Ivan Kirilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u50	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues! Yesterday we gave a nice gift to the miners. Today we do the same for teachers, doctors, if we adopt this law today. This is the first aspect of the issue. Second, we're starting a new budget period. As the previous speaker said, the next budget period should already be set up in the new tariff network. We also know a long time ago that we have teachers, doctors, cultural workers getting paid or not getting the lowest wage in the budget area. That's the third side. And as far as the financial side is concerned. This bill, which we received yesterday, has three additions. In these three additions, it is clear how much, how much, and when will be paid, and what articles. In this regard, the Ministry of Finance has fully foreseen the balance sheet under this bill, which is all the more so that it was budgeted this year, only the introduction was much later. Because nothing changes here, the balance endures, so we certainly need to support it both in the first and generally as a law to adopt here, there is no big change. It's just that the transfer is due on September 1st, and everything else, without any additions, can be accepted without any change. And it needs to be adopted today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u51	Pursuant to the Rules, factions who did not participate in the discussion are entitled to the right. Please, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko and Oleg Zarubinsky. It's possible from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u52	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! In discussing the project, I would like to state on behalf of the faction that we will support it. At the same time, I draw all of us attention to the need to address this problem in a complex. Because in this case we are partly responsible for wage formation on behalf of the State, we are only discussing budgeters. And to a large extent, we have a very strong problem today in those who work in other non-budgetary sectors. And you and I know today how low wages are, of course, and this is a high unemployment rate, it's social tension, it's small contributions to the Pension Fund and many other funds that are created by the availability of jobs and the policies that are to be implemented in the State. Therefore, I believe that we must take very seriously today in the matter of State control over the level of wages. I am talking about this with concern because almost 90 per cent of the property is privately owned today, and private entrepreneurs today have a large share of their income through the heaviest exploitation, i.e. not payment, late payment and many other schemes that are carried out primarily not for the benefit of workers, but for those who now own enterprises. And the third problem that we need to consider in order to address it in a complex is, of course, the one that concerns many is the level of prices. On the one hand, through tariffs, we raise the level of income for the same budget and, on the other hand, those who, today as the owner in the field of consumption, in the area of services, are certainly raising prices and are currently affecting all categories of citizens who have not been affected by the decision of the Government and the decision of the parliament to increase the tariff network. I therefore reiterate that the faction will vote, but we need to look at the problem much more widely.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u53	Please, Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u54	Oleg Zarubinsky, Block of Lithuania. You know, your honor, I didn't want to speak, but when I heard that it turns out to be a gift to miners, I was surprised. You know, presents make Santas. When legislators realize their right to legislative initiative and give miners who die every month and every year a little more than they have, well, conscience should have and say they are gifts. Similarly, obviously, and so we voted to improve the lives of miners on these few percent. And they did the right thing by voting yesterday. So today, I can't view what's being done as another new gift. You don't have to call your job some kind of charity to others. And one more moment. The Block of Lithuania will certainly vote in favour of this, because unfortunately today, people of intellectual work -- teachers, doctors, people working in the budget sphere -- are either left in the worst condition in terms of material life, in terms of real income. But we believe that these people — both teachers and health professionals — have social benefits to be linked to things that are not specific, where a few percent of the language goes, but should be compared to the social expenses of government officials. And the Block of Lithuania has passed an appropriate bill, because both teachers and health professionals are performing a public function, perhaps more than some officials who are considered to be civil servants. We'll vote for it, we'll have to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u55	Colleagues, the bill was concluded. So it's dry left. Please give me the reasons for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u56	Dear colleagues, I may not have taken it for reasons of vote, but did my colleague's speech make me realize that there's no understanding in the session room that we're considering today? But in the end, we're looking at one of the points of this global conceptual problem -- the definition of the real cost of labor as the cost of the resources needed to fully reproduce the labor force. We can't manage wages in some area of other people's agriculture, but with regard to the minimum wage budget, we can adjust. Because energy is now dominated at cost, the percentage of bank loans, taxes, the depreciation of wages is very low. So I ask everyone to respond with understanding to the vote. The bill also needs to be supported because a mere mechanical increase in wages, which is not due to productivity growth, does not solve systemic contradictions in the pay system. We have to encourage national farming, we have to do systemic farming.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u57	Dear colleagues! Attention! I'm voting on this bill. So I'm going to re-explain what we're voting for. We are voting on Bill 3097. He predicts one thing. We have in the State Budget Act a valid transfer to the EU and the financing of this transfer to the One Tariff Network has been provided since 1 November of this year. This law, which we vote on, moves from November to September of the month. So in fact, people in the back will get the extra money that's provided for in this law. The amount of funding is one billion 127 million dollars. Colleagues, I propose to vote in favour of the first reading of this bill. Let's vote, colleagues. [[13:02:04]] For 361 Now we have the opportunity. The committee proposes the adoption of the bill as a whole. So in order to look at it in general, I'm putting the question of consideration to the vote. on the procedure for the second reading of the bill. Please vote. [[13:02:36]] For 363 Colleagues, “for” – 363. So now I'm voting on the adoption of Act No. 3097 amending the Ukrainian State Budget Act on the basis and in general. As for the table, the table will be comparatively signed after a technical legal analysis, because there were some figures that need to be reconciled. Vote. [[13:03:18]] For 361 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, we've moved the EU to September 1st, so people will just get more money. I congratulate you on this decision. Dear colleagues, let's move on to ratification issues. Turn on the factions. Yeah, don't yell. Region Party – 161, BUT – 153, “Our Ukraine” – 2, Communists – 27, “Block of Lithuania” – 18. Dear colleagues, I propose the entire package of legislation that we have foreseen before the end of today, is a series of ratification documents: one, two, three, four, five, six, seven. Nine acts. Is it a requirement to call it not to wash again? You don't? Thank you. I propose to vote in favour of the short-term procedure for examining these legislations. Please vote. [[13:04:36]] For 331 Decision taken. I'm asking Vadim Mikolaiovich Gurjos on the rostrum. Vadim Mikolaiovich, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u58	Dear National Deputies! For your consideration, there is a draft Ukrainian law ratifying the financial agreement between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank. The goal of this project is to rehabilitate the Kiev-Chop road from the city of Broda to the city of Zitomir with a total length of 313 km. The financial agreement was signed on July 30, a year later. According to the financial agreement, the loan is engaged for 20 years with a 5 year maturity and a bet of EUR.bor plus 0.55 percent. So for today, this total interest rate is 5.72. So the terms of the loan are quite positive and attractive for Ukraine. For example, for today, the same loan from foreign commercial banks will cost the same euro.Bor plus at least 5-7 percent. Cooperation with the European Investment Bank is being carried out jointly with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. This project has been in existence since 2004. The first area was from Chop to Stry. The second area is from Strzej to Brodov. And now this is the third area, from the Brods to the city of Zitomir. It's practically, I told you, 313 kilometers. According to the European Bank for Reconstruction and Reconstruction and Development, tender procedures have already begun. And they finance jobs in these areas. There are six subcontractors involved in tendering, including Ukrainian companies. This road is also part of the list of roads that are involved in preparing Ukraine for the Euro-2012 championship. The bill was discussed, and five committees considered, and positive conclusions were reached. Please support the draft Law on the Ratification of the Financial Agreement between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u59	Please have a seat. Oleg Grigorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u60	A committee may not be voted on without it. Dear Head, distinguished national MPs. The Committee on Foreign Affairs discussed the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of Ukraine's Financial Agreement on European Roads between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank, and unanimously agreed to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of this law. [[No. 0047]] The project proposes to ratify the financial agreement between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank, which was signed in Kiev on 30 July 2007, under which Ukraine is granted a 200 million-euro debt investment loan. As a result of this project, it will lead to a European level of transport and operation of M06 Kyiv-Chop, which will improve communication with the European Union countries, will have a positive impact on the development of the infrastructure of the surrounding regions, which will speed up small and medium-sized business development, improve the economic situation in these regions and increase the number of jobs. The main scientific and export administrations, other committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, including transport and communications, finance and banking, support the bill and recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine ratify the agreement. In line with the conclusions of the Budget Committee, the implementation of the provisions of the said agreement has an impact on the revenue of State budget financing and the volume of government debt, as reflected in the State budget figures for the current year 2008.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u61	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u62	Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u63	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is no desire to register, so if there is no such desire, I propose to go to the voting procedure. Dear colleagues, I propose that we make a decision on whether to grant consent to be bound by an international treaty through the adoption of Law 0047. Please vote. [[13:10:28]] For 350. For 350, the decision is made. Next bill, 0046. Draft Law on Ratification of the Amendment to the Convention on the Physical Protection of Nuclear Material. Bull Valery Alexanderovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u64	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, honourable deputies, the Convention on the Physical Protection of Nuclear Material was signed on March 3, 1980, and became effective for Ukraine on August 5, 1993, 15 years ago, after which, along with the laws of Ukraine on the use of nuclear energy and radiation security and on the physical protection of nuclear installations, nuclear materials, radioactive wastes, other sources of ionizing radiation, became the law of Ukraine regulating the physical protection of nuclear material. Ukraine adheres to the Convention’s requirements, which were repeatedly observed during the MAGATE mission. The 15-year experience of applying the Convention pointed to the need to improve it, new challenges to the security of the peaceful use of nuclear energy have emerged. That is why Ukraine, together with 25 other participating States, has become the initiator and co-author of the amendments to the Convention. On July 8, 2005, at a diplomatic conference in Vienna, 88 participating States, including Ukraine, signed the amendment. The aim of the amendment is to strengthen the regime of physical protection of nuclear objects and nuclear materials. The amendment to the Convention on the Physical Protection of Nuclear Material extends the operation of the Convention not only to nuclear material but also to nuclear installations, such as nuclear power plants, research reactors, nuclear fuel depots, fuel factories, uranium enrichment centers, and so forth.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u65	You have 10 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u66	Excuse me. The new edition of the Convention will serve as a basis for improving national legislation in part of the regulation and physical protection of nuclear materials, nuclear facilities. With the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Amendment to the Convention on the Physical Protection of Nuclear Material, Ukraine agrees to be bound by amendments to the Convention as an international treaty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u67	Thank you. Please sit down. Oleg Grigorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u68	Alone? Sure. It's like a football report. Don't talk to your head. The committee reviewed the draft law on ratification of the amendment to the Convention on the Physical Protection of Nuclear Materials and recommended that the Supreme Council adopt the law. The implementation of the amendment will significantly strengthen the physical protection regime, extending its operation not only to nuclear materials but also to nuclear installations: nuclear power plants, research reactors, shelters, and so forth. The ratification of the Protocol does not provide for additional financial obligations regarding the payment of membership fees. The main scientific and expert office supports the adoption of the bill. The Committees of the Supreme Council on European Integration and on Environmental Policy, on Environmental Use and on the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster support the ratification of the amendment to the convention. The Committee of the Supreme Council on Budget Affairs believes that the proposed bill will not have an impact on the budget. Please support the committee's recommendation in foreign matters.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u69	Thank you, Oleg Grigorovich. Please sit down. Colleagues, there is a proposal to move on to the voting procedure. Is there no objection? Okay. I put to the vote the question of whether an international treaty should be binding through the adoption of a law on the basis and generally on the ratification of an amendment to the Convention on the Physical Protection of Nuclear Material. Please vote. [[13:15:45.]] For 349 Decision taken. Next question - 0049 Fedashkin Denis Alexandrovich. Draft Law on the Ratification of the Convention between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Iceland on the avoidance of double taxation. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u70	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs. For your consideration, a draft law on the ratification of the Convention between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Iceland on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in respect of income tax and capital taxes is presented. The draft law is being prepared to implement the State procedures necessary for the validity of the convention, which was signed on 6 November 2006 in relations between the two countries. Income generated in economic relations between residents of Ukraine and Iceland is subject to double taxation. First, in the country where income is generated, there is a resident, secondly, in the country where the activity is taking place. The Convention provides an opportunity to eliminate double taxation, prevent tax evasion, reduce tax barriers to foreign investment and trade. According to the bill, 5 percent tax on dividends is envisaged if the actual owner is a company that owns at least 25 percent of the capital and 15 percent in other cases. It is also envisaged that interest taxation in the interest-paying country will be taxed at a rate of 10 percent and the royalty will also be taxed at a rate of 10 percent. The implementation of the project does not require additional budgetary funding. Please support this bill and ratify the signed convention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u71	Please sit down. Oleg Grigorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u72	This convention provides mechanisms for the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion of persons resident in both contracting states. Ratification of the convention and protocol will help to avoid double taxation, prevent tax evasion, reduce mutual tax barriers to foreign investment and trade, which will further deepen Ukrainian-Iceland economic relations. Minfin claims that implementation of the law will not require additional funding from the State Budget. The main scientific and expert office supports the adoption of the bill. The draft law was considered at a budget committee meeting that concluded that the bill would have no impact on the income or expenditure of the budget. The Committee on Foreign Affairs recommends that the Supreme Council adopt the bill. I'll be in in a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u73	Thank you, colleagues, thank you, Oleg Grigorovich. It is proposed to proceed to the voting procedure. Dear colleagues, vote on the issue of consent to be bound by an international treaty through the adoption of a law on the subject. in general, on the basis and overall, of the ratification of the convention between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Iceland on the avoidance of double taxation. Please vote. [[13:19:36]] For three hundred Decision taken. Next bill, Fedashkin Denis Aleksandrovich, is a convention between the Government of Ukraine and the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan. Also on the elimination of double taxation. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u74	Honourable National Deputies are presented in the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Convention between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan on the Prevention of Double Taxation and the Prevention of Tax Deficits on Income Taxes and Capital. The bill is intended to implement the procedures necessary for the effectiveness of the Convention, which was signed on 30 November 2005 in relations between the two countries. Income in both countries is actually subject to double taxation. First, in the country of residence where the resident income recipient is located, as well as in the country where these incomes are paid. The Convention provides an opportunity to avoid double taxation, also regulates tax evasion prevention, reduces tax barriers to foreign investment and trade. The convention contains standard tax rates. Yes, tax on dividends at 10 percent if the actual owner is a company that owns at least 20 percent of the capital, and 15 percent in other cases. Interest will be taxed at 10 percent, Royalty at 10 percent. The implementation of the project does not require additional funding from the State budget. Please support the law on ratification of this Convention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u75	Please sit down. Oleg Grigorovich Belarus, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u76	The Committee on Foreign Affairs has considered the draft law and considers that the Convention provides an effective mechanism to avoid double taxation and to prevent tax evasion of persons resident in both treaty states. In line with the conclusion of the Ministry of Finance, the implementation of this law will not require additional funding from the State Budget of Ukraine. In its conclusion, the main scientific and expert body supports the ratification of this bill. The draft law was considered at a budget committee meeting that adopted a recommendation and concluded that the bill had no impact on the income and expenditure of the budget. The Committee on Foreign Affairs recommends that the Supreme Council make a positive decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u77	It is proposed to go to the vote for the bill. Is there no objection? There is no proposal to adopt as a whole the draft law on the ratification of the Convention between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Hashemite Hashemite Kingdom, registration number 0050, and the consent of the Supreme Council to the obligations of the international agreement. Please vote. [[13:23:07]] To 363. Decision taken. Next bill, 0058. Kupchisten Alexander Mikhailovich. Draft Act on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam on the readmission of citizens of both States. Colleagues, miss the reporter, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u78	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, Honourable People's Deputies, is under your consideration the draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam on the readmission of citizens of both states. If the bill is approved, an internal procedure will be carried out in connection with the entry into force of the agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Vietnam. The Vietnamese side completed its internal state procedures last December. The implementation of the terms of the agreement will allow for the identification of procedures for the reception and transfer of persons who are in the territory of the contracting parties. The agreement identifies, inter alia, rapid and effective procedures for identifying and ensuring the safe and orderly return of persons who do not meet the conditions for entry and residence in Ukraine or Vietnam. I would particularly like to point out that Vietnam is today the first South East Asian country to be the supplier of illegal, illegal migrants to agree to such an agreement with Ukraine. Recruitment of the treaty is in keeping with the national interests of Ukraine and will serve practical purposes in combating illegal migration. I would also like to point out that further implementation of its provisions should be a step forward in the implementation of one of the principal tasks of Ukraine, which is to create a single readmission space covering the countries of illegal migrants, transit and destination. I would like to point out at the conclusion that ratification of this agreement would be appropriate today, since tomorrow the eighth European Conference on Migration is opening in Kiev. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u79	Please sit down. Oleg Grigorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u80	The Committee on Foreign Affairs considered the bill and unanimously recommended that the Supreme Council accept it. The Ministry of Internal Affairs believes that the implementation of the terms of the agreement will not require additional expenditure from the State budget and will take place within the allocations provided for the Ministry of Internal Affairs. The Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, the Committee on Law Enforcement, is supporting the bill. And they think ratification is appropriate. Please support the committee's recommendation.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u81	Is there no objection? Please, the Zarubin microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u82	Thank you, Arseny Petrovich. Oleg Zarubinsky's Block of Lithuania. Dear colleagues! I would like to point out that this is an example of a readmission agreement that is favourable to Ukraine. Because in this case, the two contractual sides are Ukraine and Vietnam, and most illegal migrants entering Ukraine are, let's say, from the countries of Southeast Asia. Moreover, according to this agreement, funding for the return of citizens from the beret country from which these citizens came is Vietnam. This is an example of what is advantageous to Ukraine, unlike what we have accepted our time, not us, but some of our colleagues, the unfavourable readmission agreements with some Western European countries, along with the buximatly liberalized visa system that we see today, including that said by the Ministry of Justice. This is the right bill, this bill is favourable to Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u83	Dear colleague Zarubinski, I sincerely thank you for your modest assessment of my personal work as this bill and this agreement were signed at a time when I was a normal person, the minister of foreign affairs of Ukraine. [[Applause]] So I ask you to vote in favour of this bill. Dear colleagues, I am voting on Bill 0058 on the ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam on the readmission of persons. Please support everyone. [[13:28:17]] For 363 Thank you, dear friends. Let's go to the next bill, 0054. Natalie Eugene Boycun, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u84	Dear Arsenia Petrovich! Dear National Deputies! Allow me to present the draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Framework Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the European Associations Commission. The framework agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the European Association Commission was signed by Ukraine in 2006 with an application. The framework agreement is designed to improve the existing mechanism of cooperation between the parties in the field of external assistance and to replace the current general rules applicable to the financing memorandum. This was an international agreement that was concluded back in 1994. The Agreement defines the legal, administrative and technical conditions for the implementation of programmes and projects of external assistance to the European Union. Among other things, this international agreement contains provisions on the tax and customs treatment of external aid resources, as well as other privileges and immunities to be extended to experts, citizens and members of the EU. Once internal procedures have been implemented and effective, the framework agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the European Associations Commission will replace the general rule mentioned above. The implementation of this framework agreement will contribute to the development of relations between Ukraine and the European Union in the field of external assistance tools of the EU. The implementation of these external aid programmes will contribute to the availability of grant resources to implement projects in such areas as nuclear safety, cross-border, regional cooperation, energy development, institutional development, infrastructure development. In connection with this, I request you to adopt the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of a Framework Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the European Community Commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u85	Thank you. Please, have a seat. Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u86	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! The European Integration Committee, at its meeting on June 18th, considered this bill - ratifying the framework agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the European Cooperation Commission - and recommended that the Supreme Council take it as a basis for it as a whole. The same decision was taken by the Committee on Budget Affairs, as well as by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration of the Supreme Council. This agreement regulates the legal, administrative and technical aspects of the implementation in Ukraine of projects and external assistance programmes of the European Union. Today, these issues are regulated by the general rules applicable to the 94 - year memoranda of financing. So this framework agreement has to replace these general rules. The document defines detailed provisions regarding rules applicable to the implementation of measures financed wholly or partly by the cost of the association, such as exchange of currencies, customs duties and taxes. A statement made at the time of its signature, which provides for an interpretation of the definitions of this framework agreement, is added to the framework agreement. Thus, the adoption of this bill will contribute to a deepening of relations with the European Union. I ask the Supreme Council to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u87	Thank you, Boris Ivanovich. Please sit down. Dear colleagues, there is a request to proceed to the voting procedure. Is there no objection? None. I am voting on Bill 0054 of the Law on the Ratification of the Framework Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Commission of European Associations on the adoption as a basis and as a whole and the granting of consent to the obligations of the international agreement in question. Please vote. [[13:32:38]] For 327 Decision taken. Next question: 0060 - Ratification of the Agreement on Economic Cooperation between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria. Natalia Eugene, please. And you, Natalia Eugene, are here to make it easier for you to walk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u88	Honourable National Deputies, the draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on Economic Cooperation, have been developed with a view to implementing the internal procedures necessary for the effectiveness of the treaty. It was signed in 2007 in Sofia on the Ukrainian side by the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Ukraine Arsenij Yacinuk of the Bulgarian Minister of Economy and Energy of the Republic of Bulgaria Dmitrov. The agreement is aimed at further development of bilateral economic cooperation on an equal and mutually beneficial basis. Under the terms of the agreement, the contracting parties will develop bilateral economic relations by strengthening economic cooperation between executives, local governments, economic operators, including exchanges and economic information of mutual interest, and mutual visits by representatives of the parties. International fairs, exhibitions, promotions for business representatives, seminars, conferences, symposiums will be activated. Promoting the role of small and medium-sized businesses will also be central to the implementation of this agreement. The agreement is based on the need to bring Ukraine’s international treaties into line with European Union legislation in connection with the accession of the Republic of Bulgaria to the EU on 1 January 2007. The adoption of the law will provide a basis for a treaty to take effect, allowing it to be directly implemented in bilateral relations. Today, Ukraine has a legally binding relationship in the area of trade and economic cooperation with most countries of the world. And please support the draft laws on the ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on Economic Cooperation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u89	Thank you, please sit down. Vladimir Mikolaiovich Evening, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u90	Dear Head, honourable national deputies, one of the main tasks of Ukraine's foreign economic policy is to develop an algorithm for optimal interaction between the national economy and the world economy. The Republic of Bulgaria has an important place in the Balkan direction of foreign political interests in Ukraine, due to the geostrategic location of the Republic of Bulgaria in the Balkans, closeness of interests in the Black Sea and Danube regions, Ukraine and Bulgaria are united by traditional economic and trade ties, Ukraine is among the first ten trading partners in the Republic of Bulgaria. And the agreement that you have in mind provides that the contractual parties will contribute to the development and increase of mutually beneficial economic cooperation, its expansion and its intensity on the principles of equality and mutual benefit. The greatest interest for our nation is cooperation with Bulgaria in the food and processing industries, agriculture, light industry, and tourism. The draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement on Economic Cooperation between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria does not conflict with Ukrainian legislation. The ratification of the treaty is in the national interest of Ukraine. The Committee is of the view that it is appropriate to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the approval of the draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Agreement, on economic cooperation between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria as a whole. This is supported by the Committee on Economic Policy, the Committee on Budget Affairs, the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u91	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u92	Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u93	Thank you. Dear colleagues, it is proposed to adopt this bill another one, which I have also signed, on the basis and in general. I'm betting on the vote to adopt Bill 0060 as a basis and as a whole. Concerning the granting of consent to be bound by an international treaty. [[13:38:02]] For 355 Thank you. “For” – 355, decision taken. Before I went to another bill, I wanted to speak to Alexander Sergiyovich Efremov. Alexander Sergiyovich, I just got here. I just got here. have just made your statement as the heads of the Regulatory Committee that there are some questions about whether or not to sign the laws, that you will question the transfer of the right of signature of the laws adopted by the Supreme Council, the First Deputy or Deputy. Your statement just came in, and I got it. I don't know where that came from, so I'd like to say, exclusively. I can let you read it. Says Alexander Efraemov, chairman of the Regulatory Committee. So I would like to point out, Alexander Sergiyovich, that neither the First Deputy nor Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine have the authority to sign any acts adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This is a direct constitutional mandate solely for the Head of the Supreme Council. The other one. What's going on with the signing of the acts. The head of the Supreme Council is obliged to sign any acts that have been adopted within the framework of the constitutional procedure. Please, Alexander Sergiyovich. I was just surprised by that statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u94	Arsenius Petrovich, these are insinuations. The media asked me a question, I answered, I know the Rules well and answered as you think. I'm telling you, as long as there's a head. Head of the Supreme Council, other alternates are not entitled to sign the document. If there is a situation of release or removal, there is another procedure. But I wouldn't have made another comment, because I did. And here I officially confirm that.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u95	They've closed the subject so we can keep it simple.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u96	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u97	You know, we're about to have a conversation. Anything could be. And then the laws will start to be signed. Let's move on, 0061, to ratify the agreement between the Cabinet and the Government of the Republic of Estonia. Please, Natalia Eugene.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u98	The important national deputies of Ukraine, with a view to expanding and diversifying the relationship between Ukraine and the Republic of Estonia, the development of a bilateral legal framework in the field of economic cooperation in 2007 was signed in Kiev by the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Estonia on Economic, Industrial and Technological Cooperation. On the Ukrainian side, it was signed by Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovic of Ukraine, on the Estonian side, Prime Minister of the Republic of Estonia Andres Ansi. The conclusion of the agreement was due to the need to bring international agreements into line with European Union legislation in connection with the accession of the Republic of Estonia to the EU, which was May 1, 2004. The adoption of the Law is a necessary prerequisite for the validity of this covenant and will begin its implementation directly in bilateral relations. This will be the legal basis for stable economic, industrial and technical cooperation, improving the standard of living of the people of both countries, and making effective use of their natural and human resources. The agreement also provides for the creation of a joint intergovernmental commission of economic, industrial and technical cooperation. The implementation of the Act does not require additional expenditure from the State budget, please support the Ukrainian law on ratification of the agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Estonia on economic, industrial and technical cooperation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u99	Please sit down. Vladimir Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u100	The venerable head, the distinguished national MPs, in external economic relations, is a complex approach to the entire population of trade and economic and investment relations with foreign partners. At the same time, the main priority of our state's foreign economic policy is full integration into international financial and economic structures, achieving an effective level of participation in international cooperation and international division of labour. In view of this, Ukraine looks forward to working together and supporting its efforts on the part of European societies. In this aspect of Ukraine's external economic relations, Ukrainian-Estonian cooperation is important. It is important that the national interests of Ukraine and the Republic of Estonia coincide in the economic sphere. The interest of the Estonian side in accessing investment projects in Ukraine and markets in the production of Estonian products in our country. In the science and technology sphere, the Estonian side's interest in using the scientific potential of Ukraine to introduce new technologies. In view of the current state of development of the national economy of the Republic of Estonia and the interests of Ukraine, transport, woodworking, capital and housing, energy, development and the introduction of high technologies, etc., can become a promising area of bilateral trade and investment cooperation in the future. Taking into account the importance of bilateral relations, the Committee on European Integration considers it appropriate to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the approval of the draft Ukrainian Law on the ratification of the agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Estonia on economic matters.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u101	Let me finish. Dear colleagues, please proceed to the voting procedure, as there are no other proposals. I am voting on Bill 0061 on the ratification of the agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers and the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the granting of consent to be bound by this international treaty. Please vote. [[13:44:42]] For 316 Decision taken. Last bill. I invite you to Leonidas Grigorovich Sergiyenko's rostrum. Please, Leonid Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u102	Dear National Deputies! You will have before you the draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Hungary on the points of integration of the Ukrainian-Hungarian road border within the Fifth Pan-European Transport Corridor, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine dated 12.06. 08 No 0066. The draft Law of Ukraine has been developed with a view to implementing the internal procedures necessary for the validity of the Agreement signed 21.03. In 2006 in Kiev. I would like to point out that the draft Treaty has been under way for more than 10 years. And the Treaty sets out in detail the basic principles of car communication between Ukraine and Hungary for the future. In particular, the Agreement provides that the road link between Ukraine and the Republic of Hungary under the Fifth Pan-European Transport Corridor will be implemented through the construction of a new highway and the modernization of existing road areas, and that they will be connected in two equivalent, branched directions. That's right. The agreement defines the location of a direct merger on the Ukrainian-Hungarian state border of the future highway “West border of Ukraine of Kiev”, which passes the territory of Ukraine and the M-3 motorway, which passes the territory of the Republic of Hungary. This is the point between the points. An international pass point will be built at this point. The construction of a new road, the Western border of Kiev, is expected to be 735 kilometres long and the estimated value of 27.5 billion dollars will be implemented on concessionary grounds. The road, which now follows the existing route "Niredzhasa-Vashášnamen-Zahon-Chop-Uzhrod-Mukacheve", will be modernised through the international pass point "Chop-Zahon". In addition, the contracting parties will look far away at the possibility of building a new international crossing point across the state border of Chop-Zahon. Along with the construction of a new bridge across the Tis River, which will be arranged separately.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u103	Thank you. Please sit down. Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u104	Mr. Golovo, honourable national deputies, the Committee on European Integration discussed at its meeting on 2 July this year the bill on the ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet and the Government of the Republic of Hungary on the points of integration of the Ukrainian-Hungarian road within the fifth Pan-European transport corridor, and recommended that the Supreme Council adopt this law as a basis and as a whole. The main scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine supports such a decision by the committee. The agreement foresees that Ukraine and Hungary will build a new highway and modernize existing areas of road within the fifth Pan-European Transport Corridor. The unification of the new highway will take place in two equidistant, branched directions. Thus, the adoption of the bill will create favourable conditions for improving transport links between Ukraine and Hungary, as well as other European countries, involving additional freight flows and increasing transit flows across Ukraine along the route of the fifth Pan-European Transport Corridor. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-03-m0.u105	Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to move to the vote on the final act of legislation that has today been incorporated into the agenda. 0066 Draft Act on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Hungary on the points of integration of road links. Please vote in favour of the adoption of the law and the granting of consent to be bound by an international treaty. [[13:49:11]] - For 350. Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, the day's order is exhausted. The meeting of the Supreme Council is closed.
