ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u1	To all of you, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine, I sincerely welcome you to the New Year and the Christmas of the Cross. You know, at the end of last year, instead of preparing for the celebration, we passed the Ukrainian State Budget Act. I think it's the last session of the Supreme Council when on the last working day of the year we adopt the Budget Act. This year, everything will be subject to the requirements of the Ukrainian Budget Code, and the following year, we will definitely celebrate the last day together and prepare for Christmas. We, colleagues, have a choir in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which, by the way, will be five years later. And our colleagues came to give us a hand. They said it was free. So I'm asking that our reverend choir sing us a generous song, and we'll move on to the plenary. Thank you very much. Thank you, thank you, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u2	Please sit down. I'm asking you to sit down. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to sit down. You know, as they say, they say that when you start a year, when you meet him, he'll be a year old. I want to tell you that the beginning is very optimistic. I ask you to register with the "Council" system. [[10:06:07]] Dear colleagues, there are 444 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is public. Dear colleagues, I would like to inform you about the meeting of the Conciliation Council yesterday, which, in fact, took place twice: in the full format of the morning and at 19 p.m., we met with the factions' leaders, and the decisions that have been reached, and the agenda of the day, the calendar work plan that will be presented for your consideration, which will be reported to the head of the Ephraim Committee. Colleagues, we've got 631 drafts under consideration by the Supreme Council today. If it was 611 yesterday, we actually add 20 bills every day. The Committees of the Supreme Council have already registered 438 bills, as opposed to yesterday, where there were 346. This is about the fact that, in fact, the number of legislative initiatives by Ukrainian national deputies is increasing at an incredible rate. And the committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine today are overloaded with those bills that have been tabled. And that's very good, because this is our main work, and in fact this is the preparatory work and the preliminary consideration of the bills that should be brought to the consideration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I proposed several times yesterday, and I insist once again on the proposal, and I ask the committee heads to listen to it and the faction leaders, and yesterday we discussed this for quite a long time, as to the need for a thematic approach to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on these or other bills. Statistics confirm the relevance of such an approach. I took the main committees that registered the largest number of drafts. And today we can talk about that, I'm not saying that during the entire plenary week, but during the plenary week, we can have a few plenary sessions that are of a purely thematic nature. The largest number of drafts are now registered in the economic sphere, namely, in the Economic Policy Committee. There the committee is looking at 50 drafts. In view of the other committees, I would like to ask the heads of the committees to prepare for the second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine a thematic approach to the consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the most important and important bills governing the key areas of Ukrainian life. Such committees are: first, it's an economic policy committee; second, it's an agrarian policy committee and land reform; there's about 30 bills registered there today; third, it's a state building and local self-government; fourth, it's a legislative safeguard; and fifth, it's a matter of social policy and work. In view of this, we now have, in fact, five key committees that will be able to offer the Supreme Council of Ukraine thematic approaches to invite appropriate government experts, relevant independent experts and our professional colleagues to discuss each problem separately. If this is a matter of pension reform, please. If this is a matter of savings payments, please. If these are other issues, starting with the fight against corruption and ending with the reform of the law enforcement system, we are able to approach you very professionally and in a normal, standard way to deal with the issue. The second cluster is the extension of the next session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and we have a very effective regulatory committee. Alexander Sergiyovich will report this question today. But yesterday at the Conciliation Council, we reached the next agreement, based on the fact that the number of issues is very large and their willingness to do so will, to say the least, be offered for your consideration of the next agenda: to continue the current session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for one plenary week. At the same time, focus it exclusively on committee work. I mean, the main tool is the meeting of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, processing, reaching conclusions, expertise. And all that will be ready, you and I will take a look at Thursday evening at the Conciliation Council and include us in Friday’s agenda because we are on Friday. He's proposing that we gather. And next Friday we will also have a plenary. In view of this, I hope that we will have a good set of legislative acts that we will be able to consider on a standard and normal basis. That's why the President's proposal is right. I would like to point out that the President has introduced 17 bills as urgent. I think it is in our best interests to consider such key bills, such as the bill to amend the Code on Administrative Offences in the Part of Increasing Responsibility for Violations of Road Traffic, and more specifically, Safety of Movement and Increase the appropriate amount of fines. A bill that deals with changes to the law and, in fact, a new edition of the law on public procurement. We have promised, and it is not really the first month that we promise to make changes to this law that is in everyone’s mouth. And literally recently, we had a meeting with local self-government authorities, with city mayors, with district and district leaders, where people are screaming about the need to make changes to this law. It's a law, let's look at it. Amendments to the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers. Everyone knows part of the unconstitutional clauses or parts that conflict with the Ukrainian Constitution. Let's work on this one. The issues of the imperative mandate and other key issues, including the organizations of authority in the places to be considered today by the Supreme Council, and I think it would be appropriate to support and continue for one calendar week of the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. One more thing that concerns the consideration of our draft laws. I would like to remind everyone that the 96th Rules foresee a reduction in the time limit for consideration of drafts no more than half. Therefore, after each bill, I ask the relevant Main Committees to propose an order for consideration and inclusion as urgent. And in view of this rule of article 96 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, take the appropriate decision to expedite the process, but only within the limits of the Rules. An important appeal, colleagues, to you as national deputies I have, and I must raise that question. In the last month, I have personally returned 12 legislative initiatives by Ukrainian national deputies, in accordance with article 89 of the Rules, as those that have been properly drafted. I'm going to let myself decrypt what I'm talking about. It's not so bad when the holy and sacred right of the legislative initiative of the Ukrainian People's Deputy goes to his consulting assistant through facsimile. Twelve Ukrainian national deputies passed bills where there is no signature of the Ukrainian national deputy and where the facsimile stands. I'm asking you to stop this practice. This is, to put it mildly, improperly, primarily in relation to himself. So that we can have everything strictly in line with the Rules. And I'm asking the Regulatory Committee, and Alexander Alexiyyovich has already informed us yesterday that we should take this matter down forever. Now, colleagues, about the order of the day. There were several suggestions, they were difficult to discuss yesterday. But, to me, yesterday's meeting of the Conciliation Board in broad form took place effectively, in harmony and very correctly. For your consideration, and you are now on the actual schedule of today. We have suggested those issues that are controversial, to be excluded from today’s plenary meeting. To form an order for the day Friday only after we meet on Thursday on the committees, and on the following Friday we will see what will be considered in the committees, and thus we will also form a full plenary day for the next Friday. What is proposed for your consideration today. There are a few key and very important things that we need to consider today. The first and most important is the ratification of the Agreement on the simplified visa regime between Ukraine and the European Union. In principle, we have notified and exchanged information about the validity of this agreement. But the Ukrainian Parliament, in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts, is obliged to conduct a full and comprehensive procedure for ratifying this critical and extremely important agreement for Ukrainians in the first place, which will allow for the reaffirmation of the status of the simplified visa regime agreement. The second key issue that we propose to consider is the question of amending the Earth Code, and that's where the final positions are, you know, we've been discussing it, with regard to the moratorium on land, four bills have been registered. Yesterday at the Conciliation Council, we also agreed with them. The third question is the draft of the People's Deputy of Klukkowski, which refers to the amendment of the 99 and 101 articles of the Ukrainian Law on the Election of People's Deputies. Next. A number of decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on parliamentary hearings will allow me to read: 1291 is about the implementation in Ukraine of the European Social Charter, 1292 is also a committee of Harry, about the state of compliance with the constitutional guarantees of the labour rights of citizens. Next is the verdict for the annual award, Katherina Seminovna reports, 1309. Next. Sergey Petrovich will report on the appointment of out - of - turn rural and urban head elections. As I said before, Boris Ivanovich will report two questions: this is a simplified regime agreement that goes into a readmission agreement. Next is a draft of the Act on Amendments to the Law on National Awards of Ukraine. Then there are four bills relating to the transitional provisions of the Earth Code. Next is 1278 Klukkowski, this is 101st and 99th. And the last thing I would like to point out is the draft regulation on amendments to the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This is about the implementation of the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers Act on the “hour of questions to the Ukrainian government”. In fact, for the first time in the history of the Ukrainian Parliament, we are moving on to the classical principles of the functioning of parliamentaryism. It is when twice a month the entire composition of the Ukrainian government will be present in this room and within an hour to the Prime Minister and to all members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine the national deputies of Ukraine and the Ukrainian Parliament as the highest legislative authority in Ukraine will ask questions to members of the Ukrainian government. This is what happens in all parliaments, starting with Britain and ending with Canada. This is one of the powerful manifestations of both parliamentaryism and parliamentary control over the executive branch of power. In view of this, this is the last question that will be considered with regard to amending the Rules, but we hope that this will be the first Friday when the Ukrainian government fully cooperates with the Ukrainian Parliament in its response-to-question mode. Colleagues! I wanted to ask you a question, it's about the schedule. There are two legal options or two legal subtleties. On the one hand, the Parliament, and more precisely the Supreme Council, should approve exclusively the order of the day session. And under the 68th Rules, the agenda of the relevant plenary is approved by the Conciliation Council. Yesterday at the Conciliation Council, we passed all this list, if you don't mind, we can, on the basis of the Conciliation Council's decision, agree on the schedule for today's meeting and not put questions to the vote for approval, because it doesn't run into the Rules. If I insist on asking questions about the approval of today's schedule, I don't see any objections, we can vote on it. But to avoid introducing this practice and it has always been that we agreed on the Conciliation Council, this is a unanimous decision, I ask you to support such an approach and that order of the day, which yesterday is agreed upon by the Conciliation Council, I ask you to approve and to take action so that we can go through it today. The second question, colleagues, which I should also discuss with you, is a statement by the factions today. We've got factions today, 30 minutes of factions. Half a minute, fellows, please finish, everyone will be here! 30 minutes -- we've got factions today, given what the regular rule predicts, on the one hand, three minutes, and on the other hand, a total time of 30 minutes. To keep me from being criticized, I'm asking for the next agreement, once we had a lot of factions, so we only had three minutes, but as we have a general standard of 30 minutes, let's make this informal decision ad hoc: every faction of six minutes, and yesterday all the faction leaders asked for it. So we're within the Rules of Procedure for 30 minutes, but to get everyone to say something, and more than that, we haven't seen each other for a very long time. I'd like to speak to everyone for six minutes. If. Do you want to go through with it? Let's start by procedure, please, three minutes by procedure, who wants to sign up, speak to the national MPs, and move on to 30 minutes from the factions. Three minutes in total, colleagues, one minute at a time. Please sign up. Peter Nikolayevich, say five, it'll be five. Please, Cibenka. National deputy of Ukraine, Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u3	Please pass the word Kravchenko Mikoli Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u4	Mikola Vasilovich, please have a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u5	Arseny Petrovich, I ask that the draft Regulation 1116 of 5.12.07 on the creation of a working group to develop the Ukrainian Code on Road Traffic be included on the agenda today. Given that there are six bills, plus the President's bill, I ask him to set up a working group today so that, given the interruptions and so on, we can develop a road traffic code. And second, Arsenius Petrovich, there's a request, and I want to make you a correct comment. Well, you don't have to operate with the people's deputies in the hall, it's surgery today, it's on the Contingent Board yesterday you had to solve all the questions, and we were the performers. You came, you filed a document and we started working, and so we spent half an hour, practically, what was on the Conciliation Council yesterday.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u6	Bullying by Gennady Alexanderovich, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u7	Please pass the word to Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u8	Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u9	Dear colleagues, our faction supports the proposals of the Conciliation Council for us to work actively up to 25 numbers. We also think that we should allow faction leaders, factions to inform the faction every week, so we support the idea of increasing performances from factions. And at the same time, Arsenija Petrovich, I would like to ask you to officially convey to the highly moral staff of the President's Secretariat that the next time they write letters to you and to the Supreme Council, they were more balanced and read the Constitution of Ukraine. Because the MPs are willing to work, when they come to the media, a letter from the President's Secretariat proposing that the Constitution be violated with adequate and very inadequate comments to the MPs. This reminds me of some classics at the Kuchma Secretariat so that they do not repeat the sad history of relations with parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u10	Thank you. Bondik Valeriy Anatoliyovich, Party of Regions
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u11	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, I signed up for what my colleague from the Communist faction Kravchenko said. Your sleep is not really foreseen by the Ukrainian Rules, but, by the way, it was very timely, because you urged the MPs to really respond to the challenges of society that there is. And I'd like to ask you, why don't the laws that our colleagues already have on the agenda apply both to miners and to the protection of the social and labour rights of miners and so on, that is to say, they were introduced earlier. That's why I signed up. And by the way, as you might think, maybe we should move away from the appointment and resolution of some personnel issue, because there are open court conducts, there are lawsuits, including the Valentina Alexandrovich Nastavajchenko and his actions are found to be illegal, that's exactly what I mean by my plea for unlawful acts, remember, there was a questionable protocol on corruption, which the court found out. That's why I'd consider it appropriate to remind you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u12	Samolikka Katerina Seminovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u13	Well, I'd like to say Arsenija Petrovich, too. During your meeting with the guarantor of the Constitution, you tell him to look at the Constitution of Ukraine from time to time and fly over the Carpathians on skis so as not to celebrate the greetings of Leonida Kuchma to the national deputies of Ukraine. It doesn't crush him, we work, we're ready to work, but I can see that it's already a system and, you know, it's a sign of a permanent violation of the Constitution of Ukraine. We don't need to be forced to work, we had to form a coalition at the right time, and you're saying that the committees that are bound by the bill, Arsenija Petrovich, may be separate and so on, but I want to tell you, we need the Scientific and Legal Authority to speed up the conclusions, because we have nothing to work on.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u14	Thank you, Catherine Seed. Ladies and gentlemen, time is up. Very brief comments. First. As far as the observation is concerned. Regrettably, this is the responsibility of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, before we gather and so that all Ukrainian national deputies will hear what has been decided on the Conciliation Council. Because we don't have more and less equal national MPs in Ukraine. And unfortunately, that question immediately arose after you raised the issue of personnel voting in the form of a vote in the form of a vote in the form of a vote. This question was taken off the Conciliation Council, and it's my job to inform you about it, not your faction. So once again, I am reminded that it is my duty to bring to the attention of all the Ukrainian national deputies. There are no more and less equal. That's what we agreed on. The second question is about the letter. Colleagues, we discussed this yesterday at the Conciliation Council meeting and the original letter I received, he's tolerant. And the commentaries in the press were really disturbing. The third question is 1116. Would it be possible for me to ask for 1116 so that we can include it on Friday so that we do not disturb the situation? Okay? Let's put this thing into the working group on Friday. Colleagues, we have Eduardo Anatoliovich Prutnik's birthday today. I would ask Edward Anatolyovich to welcome him and wish him all the best. Edward Anatolyevich, happy birthday. [[Applause]] Dear friends, this is also our anniversary. Today we have 16 years of government protection that meets us every day in the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So I think let's welcome these loyal people who have been through a lot since the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Applause]] I'm asking the factions to sign up for the show from the rostrum as we agreed for six minutes. Please record. Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich, "Club of Yulia Timoshenko". Please, Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u15	Dear Head, colleagues, dear voters! To the conviction of the BUT faction, the main political task of the year that began is to restore people's trust in all branches and levels of power, and a strategic goal based on this trust and for the support and understanding of society, finally to start deep radical structural transformations. The time and potential for evolutionary change has exhausted itself. And that's why the government literally began to implement the promise from the first days of the year. Already millions of our fellow countrymen are receiving their first contributions, increased pensions, social benefits. Let's support them with a strong and effective job. And there's something to work on. First. It is this year that tax legislation and customs tariff policies will have to be improved without delay. It is not just about the demands of the WTO and the EU. We have, or are not, the most complex fiscal system in the world. From year to year, we only promise to ease the tax burden on the manufacturer. It is absolutely clear that if we continue to work at maintaining health, subsidizing the Pension Fund, supporting individual sectors or spheres, nothing will change for the better. And once again, half the economy, as before, will be in the shadows, and medicine and other representatives of the social sphere will be in the backyards. Thus, there is a need for a real continuation of pension reform, insurance, and much more, so that the social standards of life can be specifically raised. Or take painful inflation problems. And our neighbors have tariffs and food costs, but there's no such shocking rate of depreciation of money because there's a way to put in the surplus: the stock market, investment projects, a branched network of services and services. And we have either a deposit, or a consumer market, and that's it! And here we also need our legislator's work. The other one. Saving and reforming the housing sector is directly linked to the second phase of the changes to the Constitution, namely the transfer of remittances of money and responsibility to local authorities. “Government of the territories” – with such a slogan went to elections essentially all political forces. And that's right. Decentralization and budget functions are long overdue. The center is carrying too much weight. So let's start with the first laws of the New Year, we're going to start delegating power to the places, we're going to form a budget right below, and we're going to leave a lot of money to those who make it. Third. Without a legislator and a pepper sprayer this year and in solving the problem of energy - efficient technologies. Only the lazy one doesn't talk about our energy saving economy in the world. Compared to even neighbouring Poland, we have almost three times as much energy consumption per unit. Today, it saves only the comfortable environment of the external market. And tomorrow? Four. We now have, or are not, the largest legislative debt owed to the peasants by halting the reforms on the halfway road. Without the completion of land reform, all other mechanisms of state regulation and support are unfortunately not working. The economic spheres that have been reformed have gone completely to the level of the 1990s. And only agriculture stopped at a slightly higher level. Percentage In doing so, we have a uniquely favourable opportunity to grow production: so far, tax taxes, minimum payments to the Pension Fund, budget support, which has increased 22 times in eight years. Food in the world is also extremely expensive. More and more plant production is going to produce biofuels. And that's convenient. In Ukraine alone, wages, pensions, other social benefits have increased fourfold over the last eight years, with more than 50 percent of the family budget going on food and going on for many years because we are behind scientifically based standards. So the motivation for the APC is. So what's the deal? One of the answers on the surface is soon spring. In order to plant and grow quality, it takes only a circulation cost of about 20 billion dollars. Banks that will always provide not more than three billion, but they can do 40 billion. But there's no mortgage on peasants and there won't be. Thus, technology will be simplified once again in most of them. Experience of agrarian neighbors in the west. 70 percent of loans and especially long - term loans for new technology and technology are mortgaged on land. At this point, only 1 percent of them per year are subject to sales. Because they don't have a market, or trade. the main, and the land mortgage. I think we're able to prescribe exactly such rules as to protect the peasants in the fields where he gave birth and gave birth to bread, there were never any iddromes or, for example, golf courses. We have a great deal of work because most of these systemic decisions of great national importance lie solely in the area of legislative regulation. A number of them are unpopular, but they are essential, since no other is given. In some places, social life and economics are being developed, not by us, but by the way, and that's unfortunate. In the past, we must put aside the exhausting opposition and start with a clean letter of constructive work that is long - awaited by society. Finally, we must join forces in the state of U, the ranks and branches of power, and still make our historic Ukrainian breakthrough. The experience of China, which is one and a half billion, is convincing. The “Olympic 2008” will be in Beijing, and the construction site has literally turned into the whole sub-heavenly. Changes are remarkable. China today is the engine of the world economy. Our fate has also given us a chance to stay forever from the world – the Euro-2012. Hundreds of billions need to be conquered and incognito changed Ukraine, literally, in 3-4 years. We did not know the pace and volume of such things in all previous years together. 46 laws have to be adopted in order to launch a full preparatory mechanism. And there, of course, is no delay. The president, the government, a number of deputies have already passed the necessary bills. We need to get to work now. As they say, God is helping us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u16	Thank you, Ivan Grigorovich. Litwin Volodymir Mihajlovich, “Block Lithuania”. Greenewsky Sergey Rafailovich? Grenevetsky Sergey Rafailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u17	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, the more we talk about European values and standards on a national level, the less these standards in politics, law, economy, culture and even in football. I will not point out once again that we have not implemented the recommendations made in the Parliamentary Assembly resolution of the Council of Europe of April 19th last year. From this point of view, the country’s leadership will continue to seek to reform the political system solely under itself, without listening to the positions of European institutions, particularly the Venice Commission. A sufficient example with the approval of the 2008 State Budget, when amendments to 100 laws were made at the same time, but these changes are in effect until December 31, 2008. What about the legal vacuum? The Lithuanian “Block of Lithuania ” faction made an appropriate statement in this regard. In particular, we emphasized that the factions were able to resist the ban on the sale of agricultural land, this last wealth that is still owned by humans. We stopped the damage to the peasants and the village of the decision to introduce an insurmountable tax fair for the APC. The faction cannot agree with the further reduction in state support for small-scale citizens, such as blackbacks, veterans. We will continue to stand firm against any attempt to solve the key public tasks by jumping in and hiding from society the real content of the country's budget beyond the attractive innovations that will turn to further improvement in life for the common people. By the way, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine has repeatedly acknowledged the practice of halting the adoption of State Budget laws by other aid, compensation and non-constitutional laws. In doing so, the Constitutional Court stressed separately that, according to the Constitution and the Budget Code, no changes to other laws could be made in the adoption of State Budget laws. This approach destroys parliamentaryism. The Supreme Council is not needed at all, as the changes made give the Cabinet of Ministers and, in fact, the Prime Minister the right to regulate social payments. Here are the first results of the changes made. Yesterday, the Odessa District Council approved the 2008 district budget, which included an increase in the cost of keeping employees in check by 3.8 million. Money, or 39 percent, and property management, increased by 1.8 million. A coin or 68 percent. That kind of Ukrainian breakthrough on the local level. What is a double game, a lack of control over local authority, or an open disregard for the State Budget Act? I can say with full responsibility that ignoring the rule of law, adapting it to the needs of today poses threats to the national interests and security of the state. It is commendable that the Head of State is concerned with the problems of Euro-2012 and the participation of the Ministry of Defence in the preparation of football championships. But how could it happen that in Odessa, for the promotion of the firm Ucrobonbud, the stadium of SKA moved from military property to private owners? Its territory is likely to be used to build multistory buildings. It is not enough that the stadium has already been able to change its owner. The Euro-2012 in Odessa is threatened by a lack of attention on the part of both local and central authorities. And I'd say, rather because of the increased attention on their part. [[in quotes]] Or, as an example, the national security issue of extremism and the protection of the rights of national minorities. In Odessa, cards are distributed openly on the streets on behalf of the so - called Orthodox public. Even the principal rabbi of Odessa and southern Ukraine is confused. The sad practice of raiding has also spread to national organizations and their homes. It is an attempt to steal from the Association of Bulgarians of Ukraine, located in Odessa, the All - Ukrainian Center for Bulgarian Culture. In the Odessa region, by the way, there is the world’s largest diaspora. The scandal around the center of culture will not contribute to strengthening Ukraine’s authority in the European Union, which is a member of Bulgaria. I would like to remind you that in accordance with article 119 of the Constitution of Ukraine, it is not only the duty of local government administrations to ensure the rule of law and the rule of law, the observance of the rights and freedoms of citizens, but also the implementation of the programmes of their national cultural development in places of compact residence of indigenous peoples and national minorities. Today, citizens expect power not only from eloquent promises but also from effective work to protect their rights and freedoms. Taking advantage of the opportunity, I would like to offer, on behalf of the faction, the heads of the respective ministries and authorities to analyze the situation and take the necessary measures to respond. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u18	Thank you. Kirilenko Viacheslav Anatoliyovich. The “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense” bloc.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u19	Viacheslav Kirilenko, faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. Dear colleagues, honourable voters, we demonstrated in the second half of last year the ability of democratic forces to work together and unitedly. We signed a coalition agreement, we created a coalition government, we were able to bring the country into the new year with the State Budget. We will continue to fulfill all the commitments we have made to the electorate. Of course, the 2008 State Budget is not an optimal document. The "Our Ukraine - National Smoob Defence" is already preparing budget proposals to maximize both social development and social standards, although this is largely already included in this year's budget, but also to provide maximum opportunities for unlocking the economic activity of fellow countrymen. We believe that this is the key to solving all Ukrainian problems, and we will continue to focus on that. Although we can proudly tell voters that most of the social obligations of "Our Ukraine – the People's Self-Defense" are beginning to come into effect with the entry into force of the 2008 budget. The minimum wage has already increased from January 1 to 515. By the end of the year, it will grow to 605 dollars. This is the execution of one of the key election promises of the bloc and one of the President's social initiatives is to raise the minimum wage to 600 dollars this year. At the same time, we understand that the key to this problem in increasing the average wage and we as a coalition are going to do everything to increase the average earnings of Ukrainians to at least 200,000 dollars by the end of the year. In addition, we are pleased that the budget provides for the implementation of another key social initiative by the President to overcome the pension "comparation" and increase labour pensions by 35 per cent. This is a matter that 13 million Ukrainian pensioners need to solve, and we will do our best to ensure that the coalition, together with the government, effectively solves this problem. At the same time, we believe that it is only the beginning of a great coalition and government activity to solve problems that affect the entire country and all Ukrainians, regardless of the political power they have voted for. In this context, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" supports President Yushchenk's call to shorten parliamentary vacations and organise Parliament's best work for the benefit of citizens. Therefore, a whole series of laws introduced by the President as urgent must be adopted at this session in the first reading, and we must therefore begin work on the following commitments of the democratic coalition to our electorate. Yet, we are also concerned about a few other problems. We are concerned that during the budgetary process, an article on the elimination of parliamentary benefits has been published. And that's why our faction has already registered a bill today to abolish the MP's benefits and privileges. He foresees cancellations for free residents and free tickets, free elite sanatoriums, and free multi-million - dollar payments. We believe that the MP's salary and pension may remain high, but they cannot be as immorally high as they are now seen. I think the coalition's obligation is now to end the issue of abolishing the MP's benefits and adopting the bill. The same is true of touching. We insist on the immediate removal from the People's Deputy Status Act of the 26th article, which guarantees integrity. The relevant bill is registered at the end of last year, and we will insist on voting at this session. In addition, 150 signatures of deputies from the coalition are being completed under the draft amendment to the 80th article of the Constitution, which, in fact, provides for parliamentary immunity. Therefore, at this session, we believe that our Parliament is obliged to initiate a procedure to amend the Constitution in order to eliminate parliamentary immunity. We hope that this approach of ours will support both the opposition and in the roll-call vote, the voters will be given the opportunity to see who really is for canceling the parliamentary immunity, and who just used it as an election slogan. In addition, the adoption of laws on the Cabinet of Ministers and on local administrations introduced by President Yushchenk will allow for the creation of an effective system of state executive power. And the ratification of the GUAM statute will strengthen Ukraine’s position as leader of this international union. Moreover, recognition at the national level of the fighters for Ukraine’s independence will restore historical justice in this regard. All these bills have been tabled by President Yushchenk as urgent. And that's why our faction calls everyone to productive work without holidays.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u20	Thank you, Viachelav Anatolyevich. The faction of the Efraemov Region Party Alexander Sergiyovich Please, Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u21	Dear President, distinguished colleagues! Celebrations have been heard, and many people at this time are trying to figure out how the previous year will live and what it will accomplish in the present. Perhaps, and in order to move forward, it would be logical to try to assess the state of reality in the State today. Moreover, we have been completing the work, perhaps the most grey and inefficient of all sessions of the Supreme Council since Ukraine's independence. Before that, at the discretion of the President, he had effectively blocked the work of the previous Supreme Council for eight months, thereby paralyzing the legislative process and moving the country forward with it. As a result, the country was abandoned again in 2005. The orange representatives, as then, obtained absolute power in the face of the President, the Cabinet of Ministers and at least the minimum but most of the 227 deputies in the Supreme Council, and the inexorable desire of one person through the planned violence against the Constitution to concentrate that power in one hand. In short, under the slogan of democratic transformation, we are being tried to return to the authoritarian past even further. The philosophers say that the memory of the people is short - lived. Therefore, I would like to recall only a fraction of what we have been promised just before and not so long ago by those who are now in power. We have been told that they should only be at the wheel as soon as they are found and presented to the people who ordered the murder of a journalist named Gongadze, charged with the poisoning of the President, overcome corruption, divided power and business, repay debt to investors for two years, and cancel the call to the army on 1 January of this year, and much more. What has been fulfilled from the promise that everyone present in the room, including those listening to us on the radio and watching on television, can be assessed on their own. And here's what we have on top of that, I'd like to highlight it separately. We have a President who, having been in power for three years, positions himself as if he were leading everyone and everyone, but he is not responsible for anything. We have a budget that violates everything that can be breached and, for example, provides for the same amounts of funding for Ukraine's culture and for the President's Secretariat, which, on the one hand, defines clearly insufficient and more political, populist funds for the return of savings to investors and at the same time freezes payments under 102 laws, which are minimally estimated at 70 billion rubies, which do not fully address the needs of the regions. We probably have the biggest business march in power, instead of reminding us of the promised division, and also recognizing the head of one construction organization that 80 per cent of his apartments are purchased by officials and law enforcement officials. We also have a declaration of one of the highest acts of the State, which is willing to go through and submit to it, and which at the same time only wastes on clothing the amount corresponding to its annual declared income or the appointed minister, who can claim the Guinness Records in the Book of Records, because the first record in his workbook is the “Minister”. You could go further, but frankly, even from the above analysis, it's not in your own right, and you can quite understand those journalists who are accumulating the opinion of most people, saying that Ukrainian politics is immoral. In our statement today on behalf of the faction of the Party of the Regions, we do not wish to accuse anyone. We would like, dear colleagues, to ask us all once again to reflect on how things are in our kingdom? And our respectable voters are told that we understand what we need to work on, that we will not deviate from any promise made during the election campaign, and we will try to work so that we can look you in the eye. And our respected journalists would have as few excuses as possible to accuse our political party of immorality. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u22	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich Communist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u23	Dear National Deputies! Dear citizens of Ukraine! Indeed, a new employment year has begun, and the Ukrainian Company’s faction voted last year in favour of the 2008 State Budget, taking into account the principle of the Company’s position on the need to fulfil its social obligations to our citizens. That is, the return of lost savings, the increase in pensions, wages, the increase in welfare payments to veterans, disabled people, children of war, other categories of people who need special attention and care from the state. We came out of the fact that failure to comply with the law entails criminal responsibility, and from that point of view we should start acting in charge of the budget. But we, the Communist faction, are warning this will not bring about any positive change if the government does not scrupulously control the level of prices and tariffs today. We also stress the inadmissibility of populist budget spending. Today, the budget lays down a mine of slow action if it is not damaged. It will eventually destroy the country's powerful economic complex and destroy any opportunity to improve living conditions. What is it? By 400 million dollars in the budget, the reduced expenditure on housing and utility development is 785 million dollars compared to the previous year, and government funding for the development and implementation of advanced technologies in the field of energy conservation and production of alternative fuels. Seventy-nine million have been reduced by state support for heat-electricity measures. At the expense of the State Budget, i.e. by the same pensioners, workers, officials, veterans, in fact, pulling out of the pockets of ordinary citizens, he intends to direct 12 billion dollars to pay off the debts of Naftogazu Ukraine. That is, to hide the crimes of those who, during the time of their position as chairman of this company, the president’s godfather and the great esteemer of the Mercedes, at the cost of millions of dollars, were squandered by government funds. But let Mr. Yvchenko and those who were with him return their debts, not ordinary people who have only suffered from orange-gas affairs and foolish policies in the field of energy cooperation with Russia and other countries, gas suppliers. Next. Privatization by Skrutelek, Skruzalznica, Odeski Przypornicy, several other powerful enterprises are all that is left of our state. So we sell these businesses, we hand over the money, and then the oligarchs get all the profits in their pocket, and the state doesn't have any property, and the budget doesn't have any income. The bitter experience of the “Criminals” should teach us to dominate the state today, which is why I am particularly stressing this. We voted in favour of the budget to get people their savings back, but the methods that the government is doing will not contribute to the real welfare of our citizens. It's a banal redistribution of the budget for the benefit of one or the other business groups. What do we, Communists, offer, and what will we insist on? First of all, it's an admission of lost savings to government debt. Secondly, we have to figure out what the savings should be. You and I understand that this money was directed towards the construction of factories and factories, that is, money worked for the future of investors, their children, and their grandchildren. Therefore, savings should be returned, first of all, on the basis of the profits of those who “accepted” property created at the expense of the people. Thirdly, it's a luxury tax, you buy expensive jewelry or a car worth hundreds of thousands of dollars or assets, you pay three percent of the cost to the savings fund, that's fair. And yet another important requirement is that our savings be returned in full and with the necessary indexation. Thousands of Soviet predators and thousands of Ukrainian bracelets, according to Odessa, are two major differences. We believe that the State budget should actually be state budget, not service the interests of certain clans. The Communist faction therefore insists on a substantial review of the structure of the income and expenditure structure of the State budget for 2008, an increase in the development of the real economy sector in order to prevent hyperinflation, economic downturn, and provide real sources for the State’s social obligations to the people. Another problem that raises particular concern about the extremely negative impact on socio-economic development is, of course, the harmful and economically unwarranted introduction of Ukraine to WTO. I'm not talking about NATO anymore, because involving Ukraine in this military-police bloc, which is being used by transnational corporations to redistribute world markets and to control world natural resources, is going to be a state-wide crime. And to conclude on what are called the President's initiatives for Parliament's work. Our faction is ready to work without holidays and without holidays, and not even weekends, but not for the pleasure of the presidential precepts, from which neither humans nor the state has any use, just, yes, unless it's all right in the state that we need to consider in an orderly manner the introduction of new orders, the assignment of a "bloody" accountant called "Heroy of Ukraine", the rehabilitation of criminals from the UN-OPA, and other similar presidential enquiries. [[I mean Pettluru.]] If Yushchenko had taken care of the people, Ukraine and not offered this stupidity, but would have supported the proposals for the immediate adoption of the Law “On Continuation of the Moratorium for Sale of the Earth”, the immediate adoption of the Law “On Principles of External and Internal Policy”, on the definition of those prospects for the development of the state that our Ukraine urgently needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u24	Thank you, Peter Mikolaiovich. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I propose we move on to the agenda, we now have the first decision, registration number 348, to amend the Ukrainian Supreme Council Order on the calendar of the first session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the sixth call to January of this year. Yesterday the Regulatory Committee considered this issue and I invite the committee head, Alexander Sergiyovich, to give you a brief overview of the content of the decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u25	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished national deputies! On January 14, 2008, the Committee reviewed the mandate of the Head of the Supreme Council of 9 January 2008 to amend the Supreme Council Order on the calendar of the first session of January 2008 at the request of the President of Ukraine. In accordance with section 4 of the first part of article 13 of the Ukrainian Act on Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and article 19 of the Supreme Council Rules of Ukraine, the Committee decided to make a draft decision to amend the Supreme Council Regulation on the calendar of the first session in January 2008, which proposes: 15 plenary sessions, 17-18 January work in committees and factions, 18 January hours of questions to the government, plenary sessions, and 21 to 25 January, 21 to 24 January work in committees and factions, 25 January hours of questions to the government, plenary sessions, closure of the session. The Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine include in the agenda a prescribed draft decision by the Ukrainian National Deputies, members of the Committee and support it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u26	Thank you very much, Alexander Sergiyovich. Colleagues, are there any suggestions for the draft decision? If they're not here, please. Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich, sincerely. I ask you to put order 1348 to the vote. Once again, we have two plenary days besides today. This is Friday and next Friday. The daily routine of each Friday will be determined by the Conciliation Council. After the committee heads make proposals to include the relevant bills in the agenda. I'm voting 1348. Please vote. [[10:59:47]] For 374 The factions, please. Decision taken. Thus, the Supreme Council of Ukraine continued the session for another plenary week. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to go to the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Decree No. 1291 on Parliamentary hearings on "On the move towards implementation in Ukraine of the European Social Charter". [[revised]] The rapporteur is the chairman of the committee, Vasil Grigorovich Hara. Please, Vasil Grigorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u27	On 14 September 2006, the distinguished colleagues of the Supreme Council of Ukraine ratified one of the two main documents of the Council of Europe in the human rights sector of the European Social Charter. [[revised]] If the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms protects civil political rights, the Charter deals with the protection of the social and economic rights of workers. The ratification of the European Social Charter is due to the obligations assumed by Ukraine when it joins the Council of Europe, as well as to Ukraine's accession to the European Social Charter on 7 May 1999, which provides an opportunity to reaffirm the European choice of the State, to ensure that the rights and freedoms of citizens are properly realized in all their manifestations at the European level. I would like to point out that the adoption of this decision and the hearing will contribute to the development of national social security policies, in the development of European norms and standards. National legal and regulatory framework for their employment, education, vocational training and retraining, medical and social assistance, protection of the family, children, support for people with limited opportunity, and our financial opportunities, further, for Ukraine to join the 27 articles and 74 paragraphs of the European Social Charter. There are two challenges to ratifying the European Social Charter. First. The need to effectively prepare reports on the implementation of the Charter to which Ukraine has acceded. And the second. The subsequent improvement of national legislation on articles and paragraphs of the Charter to which Ukraine has not acceded to ratification with a view to its full ratification. The European Social Charter has a monitoring mechanism to monitor compliance with the obligations of ratifications undertaken by the State. The mechanism is based on the procedure for reviewing national reports in accordance with international legal practice. As part of the reform of the reporting system, a new system of national reporting on the European Social Charter was decided at a meeting of the Committee of the Council of Ministers of Europe on 3 May 2006. The new reporting system entered into force in 2007. All the provisions of the Charter are provisionally divided into four thematic groups. The first is employment, vocational training and equal opportunities. The second group is health, social security and social protection. And the third group is labour rights. And the fourth group is children, families and migrants. Ukraine should submit its first report by 31 October 2008. And if we do not want a negative assessment for the first time, we must do everything we can to ensure that the articles of the Charter that we have signed are fully implemented. Compliance with the norms and standards of the Charter is one of the conditions for the successful implementation of Ukraine's European aspirations and requires constructive cooperation by the Government, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the central executive authorities, and social partners. With regard to the subsequent improvement of national legislation on articles and paragraphs of the Charter to which Ukraine had not acceded upon ratification, work on the matter had only begun. In particular, on 16 March 2007, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the Law on the Ratification of the European Convention and on the Legal Status of Migrant Workers, which lays the basis for Ukraine's accession to article 19 of the Charter on the Rights of Migrant Workers and Members of Their Families to Protection and Assistance. By order of 26 April 2007, the Cabinet of Ministers approved a plan of action for the implementation of the provisions of the European Social Charter for 2007-2010, which provided for the preparation of Ukrainian national reports on the implementation of the Charter, which Ukraine had acceded to when ratifying the subsequent improvement of national legislation on articles and paragraphs of the Charter to which Ukraine had not ratified. [[No. 207. 37P]] The regulation provides for the drafting of the laws necessary for accession to articles and paragraphs of the Charter, which Ukraine has not yet ratified. It is for the consideration of these issues that parliamentary hearings will be sent, resulting in a recommendation to address these issues. In view of the above, the Committee on Social Policy and Labour of the Supreme Council requests support for draft Decree No. 1291 on the holding of parliamentary hearings on the implementation of the revised European Social Charter with you. I beg your pardon.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u28	Thank you, Vasil Grigorovich. Ladies and gentlemen, is there a question to the rapporteur regarding the proposed draft decision? Are there any suggestions for a given draft decision? If there are no suggestions and questions, I also base the entire 1291 project on parliamentary hearings. Colleagues, you are. I'm in the middle of something. Please sign up for your statement, five minutes on offer. Philenko Vladimir Pilpovich, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Volodymyr Pilipovich, please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u29	We support this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u30	Polachenko Volodymir Avrumovic, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u31	Carpuch.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u32	The word is given to Karpuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u33	Vladimir Karpuk “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense”. Ladies and gentlemen, of course, we will support this decision, given the importance of the European Social Charter. But I point out that there is a subsequent decree of 1292, and in general the Supreme Council has already registered a number of draft regulations for the conduct of parliamentary hearings. The Fifth Council adopted the practice that such hearings had previously taken place in committees — committee hearings, and only after the committee discussion had been held did we suggest that we should hold this in the Parliamentary Hall. So there is such a proposal that the following -- Bill 1292 and other draft decisions on parliamentary hearings -- be made after proposals from committees are made that are agreed upon.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u34	I see. Pedestrian Ivan Vasilovich, Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u35	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Ladies and gentlemen, we will support this proposal in view of the following. First. Indeed, by October 31 of this year, Ukraine should report on the implementation of this Charter. This is the first shade. And the second shade. We need to think urgently, when preparing for these hearings with the Cabinet of Ministers, that the minimum wage, the minimum pension, the minimum scholarships would not be lower than the minimum wage. If that doesn't happen, everything we're talking about will just be a declaration. Thus, such hearings must be conducted in the Supreme Council Hall. And let the Social Committee prepare for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u36	Thank you, Ivan Vasilovich. Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich, “Block of Lithuania”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u37	Thank you. The Lithuanian bloc considers it appropriate and appropriate to hold parliamentary hearings on this important subject. But I do have a question. Obviously, this is the form of the question, since we could not. Vasil Georgievic, you said that the first national report should be prepared and submitted by October 31, 2008. Am I right?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u38	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u39	I have a question: who is preparing this national report? Because the issue of the implementation of the Social Charter is the issue of control over the activity of power, first and foremost. First moment. And second moment. How does the decree reflect the information of those who are preparing and who are already obliged to prepare a national report in the form of parliamentary hearings, whether they will report on what state of implementation of the social charter, or will we just talk? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u40	Thank you. Who's cooking. The national report is being prepared by the Government. And about the second question. There's already a training plan, if it's decided, of course, there's a training plan. The materials will be collected from various sources and, of course, from the Cabinet of Ministers. The Cabinet of Ministers will be the main rapporteur for the reports on the work that we have before the report to the European Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u41	Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u42	Simonenko, the Communist faction. The faction will vote in favour of this decision, based on what we have here in Ukraine to deal with the atrocities that accompany our lives. First of all, we have a disgusting charter, and no one is doing it in Ukraine. That's a first. Secondly, Ukraine has become virtually underdeveloped over the years of independence, with only a commodity base. Therefore, job creation — as such, there is no programme — the elimination of the same poverty and unemployment — we do not have this programme. There is virtually no sufficient level of wages, a constitutional rule that requires everyone to pay for it to develop. Rest and treatment: There is a great deal of doubt in general, so to speak, about the possibility of rest and treatment with the family. Education, housing. Ukraine's youth take the first place today in alcoholism in Europe, AIDS, the tuberculosis epidemic. That is, the issues of compliance with the social charter are ripe and must be analysed.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u43	Thank you, Peter Mikolaiovich. Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u44	Dear Peter Nikolaevich, I agree with your critical remarks. Indeed, we do not have everything well in this area. But it is clear that nothing is being done on a social charter that we cannot because no one has seen it. We signed this document in 1999, and we have ratified and have been responsible ever since ratification: we are in September 2006. That is why we want to be alone before we report, and before Europe sees us, to see what we have good, what is bad, and we could still fail and, well, let's say, what we have failed so far, to this day, within the limits of the commitments made by Ukraine to do. And to make the European Union look more, less and less like a person on these issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u45	Bilorus Oleg Grigorovich, final question and comment, "The Yulia Block of Timoshenko."
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u46	Respectable colleagues, ratifications, parliamentary hearings on social paper are, of course, necessary. But we should, as has been said here, start this work on the committees. Our Supreme Council is overwhelmed by parliamentary hearings, as we have seen, always lacks time to complete the whole subject. I understand that the ratification of social fa. Chartering is a huge responsibility for the government, for the whole state. We take responsibility for socializing the entire economy. So we need to look at this as a matter of national importance, if you want, of a national development strategy that will now be under European control and that's good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u47	If I may, Arsenius Petrovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u48	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u49	The colleague may not have understood exactly what was going on. We ratified this European Social Charter in September 2006. And in October, the first phase of the European Union's control of what Ukraine had done after ratification was under way. And in order for us to look pretty good at the first report, we need to see what we have done, what we have not done, and try to do by October, the first report of our Government on the implementation of this charter to have a decent, more or less decent look, is the first one. And the second, regarding the overload of parliamentary hearings, is, by the way, the first draft proposed at parliamentary hearings for the next session. Therefore, there can be no overload. Third, it is the social policy of the State. We are with you only after the election process, there has not been a single political party, including the one in this room, that would not have made tremendous promises to address social issues in the State. So let's go down to the ground and see what our situation is today and what we have to do to make it happen.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u50	Thank you, Vasil Grigorovich. My fellow Members, I have come to understand that we have only one proposal: to normalise the question of holding parliamentary hearings in part of the formation of a single schedule and schedule of such parliamentary hearings. You can hear the offer very much. Therefore, by generalizing what was said in the Hall, I propose to include in the draft decision a point whereby the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine should make general proposals for the format of a single schedule of parliamentary hearings at the second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. That's the only offer. In view of this, I am voting on Decree 1291 with an appropriate proposal. On the basis and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u51	Vote, Regions! What are you sleeping there?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u52	Next. Okay. Next. Okay. I ask you to put it to the vote. 1292. In 1292, you will perform. [[11:16:16]] For 402 Thank you. “For” is 402, the decision is made. The factions, please. Thus, taking into account the corresponding amendment, such a decision has been made. I'm asking you to go to 1292 is a decree. The draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine also refers to the hearing on the status of compliance with the constitutional labour rights of citizens. Reporter Vasil Georgievich Hara. Please, Vasil Georgievich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u53	Dear colleagues, the Constitution of Ukraine has declared our country a legal social State, defines a number of guarantees of the social and labour rights of citizens, which are rules of direct action, which includes the right to work, article 43, and the right to rest, which is ensured by the provision of weekly rest, as well as paid weekly leave, article 45, and so forth. For the implementation and development of the Constitution, the labour rights of citizens are also governed by the Code of Labour of Ukraine and other laws, regulations and regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, ministries and other central executive bodies, with a total of several hundred. In addition, a large part of the additional rights of working citizens are established by collective agreements and agreements between employers, trade unions, executive authorities and local governments. For 16 years, the system of labour rights has undergone radical changes in Ukraine as an independent State. The law of labour market relations and the protection of citizens from unemployment have been regulated, collective labour relations, and a legal unit governed by mandatory social insurance. The Labour Code has been amended more than 45 times. A significant number of new laws have been adopted: pay, employment, employment protection, collective contracts and agreements, leave, order and settlement of collective labour disputes, trade unions, employers'organization. Ukraine has acceded to a number of international important agreements. It should be noted, however, that the legal framework for human rights in the field of labour involves a wide range of problems with their practical implementation and implementation, and, more precisely, an infinite number of violations. This refers to violations in the recruitment, employment and dismissal of workers, employment contracts, employment books, employment service fees, equality of labour rights. There are phenomena such as illegal employment, civil agreements, internal labour migration. There have been new types of violations of citizens'rights. Such as: avoidance of the prescribed procedure for entering into employment contracts, failure to pay within the prescribed time limits of wages, refusal to register accidents at work, violation of the right to collective bargaining, to join trade unions, and to organize strikes. Particular attention should be paid to the expansion of transnational corporations in Ukraine, which are characterized by a desire to reduce labour costs, including labour and socio-economic rights of workers. During the years of independence of Ukraine, we have not once conducted a thorough study of the state of respect for human rights in the field of labour with a view to improving the system of protection of those rights, nor have the attempts of individual public and judicial bodies produced the desired result. Consequently, there is an urgent need for a broad study of the state of human rights in the field of labour, taking into account the realities of the multifaceted market economy and the liberalization of social and labour relations, the significant changes in labour law over the past 16 years, the emergence of new phenomena and public relations that require legal regulation, and the improvement of the effectiveness of public oversight of human rights. The study should be aimed at achieving the following objectives. First. To identify the most influential factors that have led to systemic violations of human rights in the field of labour are legal, institutional, economic, moral and ethical, and to propose action by public authorities, social partners to address them. Second. To assess the full application of Ukrainian labour law, its compliance with international law, the real need to protect social and economic human rights during the transition period of the multifaceted market economy. Third. To assess the effectiveness of the system of prevention and renewal of violations in the field of labour. Activities of local public administrations and other executive bodies, State oversight bodies, courts, labour dispute commissions, Mediation and Reconciliation Service, trade unions and employers'organizations. Fourth. Proposal to improve the effectiveness of the work of public bodies that oversee and monitor human rights. Fifth. Develop proposals to improve monitoring mechanisms for compliance with international labour law in Ukraine. Sixth. To assess the situation and make proposals to strengthen the scientific, organizational and informational protection of human rights in the field of social and labour relations. And the seventh. To propose a thorough examination of the legal implications of new processes that arise in the field of social and labour relations and relate to human rights, with regard to the proliferation in Ukraine of trans-national corporations, inter-State labour migration, virtual employment and the like. It is for the consideration of these issues that parliamentary hearings will be sent, which are proposed by the Committee, on the basis of recommendations on the solutions to these issues. I would like to say one more thing that, in considering this, our committee has taken a unanimous decision on support and this draft regulation, with the only clarification that the data being heard is proposed to be held on 12 November 2008. Why is this done? This is done to see what we have never seen in Ukraine. This requires a tremendous amount of time, a tremendous organizational effort to examine what has been said. Therefore, in view of the foregoing, our Committee requests that draft regulation 1292 be supported and that at least, if any, an attempt can be made, for the first time in the history of Ukraine's independence, to see what we are doing in the field of labour relations, the protection of constitutional human rights, and the social and labour relations of Ukraine. Please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u54	Thank you, Vasil Georgievich! There are requests for answers, I ask five minutes of enrollment questions. Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich, please, "Litvina Block".
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u55	Thank you, Arseny Petrovich! Dear Vassil Georgiyovich, as you report, you are likely to take care of the organization of these parliamentary hearings. There is no doubt in the Lithuanian Bloc faction that they are to take place in Ukraine. In this regard, I have a simple request to prepare for these parliamentary hearings, and even more so, the point is that they will be prepared in November 2008 with comparable tables. That is, what is the share of wages in the unit of self-sustainment in Ukraine for metallurgical, chemical, engineering and other businesses that fed Ukrainian multimillionaires and billionaires, and what is the share of the wages, the cost of the unit of production in Britain, France, and Germany. This table has to answer the question you asked. Why do the current working relationship in Ukraine not correspond to the Constitution? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u56	Thank you very much. You have raised a very important question, which may have to be key in addressing this issue. Because when we talk about the social protection of our people, we have to have fair pay with you in the first place. Hence, this is the basis for solutions to all social issues, and this is the same. Secondly, we have yet to adopt the concept of wage reform in 2000. But today in 2008, we are no closer to solving this problem. And what you're suggesting is that we will definitely do and we will see what the light is like and what we need to do in order to take the first such solid step to reform wages by increasing, of course, a reasonable increase, part of the cost of products. Because for different industries, for different regions, it can be completely different for different activities and cannot lead to one, say, 40 per cent. Because 12 percent can be a lot, and 60 percent can be small. Thank you. We will certainly take your suggestions into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u57	Kamchatny Valeri Grigorovich, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u58	Please give the floor to the deputy of Jabor.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u59	Deputy Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u60	Vladimir Yavorowski, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. I mean, it's not even a question, it's just an appropriate proposition, so it seems to me. Arsenius Petrovich! According to experience, we can now impose, just which committee first got caught, the one that, as it were, is already taking up a certain niche of hearing. All we normally can't hear is because I think we need to choose two levels, one level is the problems common in Ukraine that are of interest to every citizen, and this question is archival for everyone, because we have a state of human rights protection at work today at the cave level, we know that. Because I think we need to mark for the next session the most important few hearings that we're going to have in this room, and the rest, Arsenija Petrovich, we need to move to the committee level, that's where some kind of punctual, narrowly professional, let's say, things that need to be heard, done at the level.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u61	Your idea is fully and fully supported, and in 1291, when we voted, we put in order 1291 a paragraph that defined the need to create a single target plan to address all questions about parliamentary hearings, and so we will approach. This is a very wise offer. The sand. Vassil Georgievicz, please excuse me for being approached.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u62	I'm literally a few phrases. Vladimir Alexandrovich, thank you for your statement on this bill. Our committee provides for committee hearings on very important issues as well, but we bring to the heart of Parliament the two key issues that exist in our State: the right to work, the right to decent pay, the protection of work, etc., and social protection. If we find the best building models, solutions to these issues in our State, everything else will be much easier for us to decide. Therefore, at one session, we make only one proposal for hearings and for the next session, one proposal from our committee. But I believe that these are simply global issues that should be of interest to all, without exception, MPs, all political forces and all committees. In addition to our own committee, we will, by the way, engage in the first and second readings and other committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u63	Popesku Ivan Vasilovich, Party of the Regions of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u64	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. The noble colleagues and the noble Vassil Georgiyovich! There is such a suggestion, even when considering these issues during parliamentary hearings, to give special attention to three issues. The first question that our colleagues already have is fair pay, since today's minimum wage is 20 percent less than the minimum wage. And that can't be, especially when we ratify the Social Charter. One second. Creating jobs. There was a promise of one million jobs each year, to look at the government and see how many jobs will be created this year, because if we create jobs, of course, there will be job guarantees for citizens. And third, most of all, in my opinion, we have a lot of graduates today who are unemployed. So we should look at the question of the guaranteed first place for university graduates, especially those who study at the expense of the State. I'm asking you to pay attention to this, this is also a training facility, it's both the unions and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u65	Thank you, Ivan Vasilevich. I would like to say the following about your question. Virtually all the political forces, all the factions in this room, have provided enough good bills in part and minimum wage, subsistence minimum, total wages, social protection and so on. But this approach, it's so local. We do not have a systematic approach to addressing these issues. It is our job, first of all, to ensure that the fairness of the pay at that time and the creation of jobs, and the guarantee of the first job, both of which, we have an integrated approach. That is, a comprehensive approach so that we do not fill the holes in our most painful places, but have found solutions to the issues of the State in an integrated manner to address all basic labour and social protection issues. This includes consideration at both the first parliamentary hearing and the second.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u66	Thank you, Vasil Georgievich. Dear colleagues, are there proposals for a draft decision now? Ivan Vasilovich, I understand that this is a general proposal that does not apply directly to the text of this decision. Fellows, I repeat: Are there any suggestions? If there is no proposal, I also lay the groundwork for the entire 1292 vote – Parliamentary hearings on the issue of the status of respect for the constitutional labour rights of citizens. Please vote. [[11:31:18]] For 398 Decision taken. The factions, please. Party of regions “for” – 149, “Block of July Timoshenko” “for” – 139, “Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense” “for” – 64, Communists “for” – 26, “Block of Lithuania” “for” – 20. I was asked by national deputies, by colleagues to announce the results of the factions because of what the radios don't hear, I'm going to announce. Draft regulation No. 1309. On the basis of the vote, please, Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk. And I ask others who want to sign up for motive. Three minutes of motive. Please sign up. Martinuk Adam Ivanovich, a faction of Communists. Alexandrovska gives him the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u67	Thank you, Arsenia Petrovich. Dear colleagues, we did the right thing to make these decisions, but we were in a bit of a hurry. It has been rushed in that way that we can now make decisions with you for the next five years. I would like to ask that, in making appropriate decisions on parliamentary hearings or other matters of consideration, we should be guided by the Rules that followed. We could talk about parliamentary hearings at best about the second session, and we're already with you, sorry, on the third session. So let's say that this is the fault of the regulatory committee, which, unfortunately, did not consider this issue, it would have to deal with these issues in the first place. Yes, the initiator is the Committee of Social Policy, but all of these questions, they're organizational issues, they have to go through the Rules Committee's expertise. So, please, let's stick to the rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u68	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Gordijenko Sergei Volodymyrovich, Communist Party
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u69	Honourable chairman and honourable colleagues, when they meet with the voters of Ukraine who are unable to watch TV shows, they ask the chairman to give the results of the factions. I handed it over to Arsenija Petrovich and thank you very much for taking it into account and asking for the support of others.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u70	Thank you. Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich, “Block of Lithuania”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u71	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, distinguished colleagues. The Lithuanian Bloc has given 100 per cent of the vote deliberately for parliamentary hearings to consider the guarantees of labour rights of citizens. The motive for our vote is absolutely clear and clear. The state does not fulfil its functions of guaranteeing the labour rights of Ukrainian citizens. This is contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine and the main is nowhere, and in countries even in Eastern Europe there is not such a small percentage of the cost of a unit of production that goes to pay. From here we have poverty problems, from here we have problems with oligarchs in geometric progress more than in rich countries. That's why we think that these parliamentary hearings are supposed to give a clear picture of what poverty is all about in Ukraine. And it is that the state, once again, does not guarantee the labour rights of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u72	Thank you, colleagues. To sum up, I think Adam Ivanovich's offer is right, and I'm going back to what we've decided. Let's confirm the only schedule of all plenary hearings for the second session. And so we will not have any collisions that have arisen today. I'm going to move to the next issue of the agenda, this is 1309, the draft decree on the award of the annual Supreme Council of Ukraine Prize to teachers of general education, vocational engineering, preschool and extra-school institutions for 2007. Rapporteur: Katerina Seminowna Samoylik, secretary of the Committee on Science and Education Please, Catherine Seed.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u73	Ten minutes, right? Dear people.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u74	Up to ten.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u75	How much? Up to ten. Honorable national MPs, distinguished radio audiences and educators! The Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the Order on the establishment of the annual Supreme Council Prize for Teachers of Public Education, Vocational Technical, Preschool and Non-School Education Institutions. I recall that this decree was voted by almost the entire composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, more than 300 present at the meeting, more than 300 national deputies. The aim of this decision is to stimulate the active participation of educators in the formation and further development of the country’s education system, the promotion of better teaching and professional skills, the promotion of the prestige of the teaching profession, the attention given to the higher legislative body of Ukraine, the Supreme Council, the teacher, the teacher, the teacher, the mentor. They are the source of knowledge, competence, cultural, behavior, and even parental functions. So raising the role and authority of a teacher in society and encouraging teachers to do creative work is a state-wide task. That is why the members of the profile committee took this decision to implement the prizes in order to join the case. I recall that the decree provides for the introduction of 30 prizes per year for the Supreme Council of Ukraine for 20,000 each of the best teachers of general education, vocational engineering, preschool and extra-school institutions. The position that we have also confirmed about the annual Supreme Council of Ukraine Prize is the defined criteria for the award of applicants, namely: the award is awarded to teachers of general education, vocational technical, pre-school and extra-school education institutions for their special achievements in teaching and educating students aimed at ensuring the accessibility of education; the implementation of Ukrainian citizens' constitutional rights to obtain quality education; the development of national and universal values; the establishment of patriotism, democratization; the formation of civil society and the development and implementation of new technologies; the updating of educational content; the methodological provision of teaching processes; the creation of new textbooks, teaching aids; the development of civic society and the development of and the introduction of new needs for development of children's development; and the development of educational systems for children's development. There is also a procedure for nominations for the annual award, the final decision on the award, and its award. This is done at the beginning of each school year. The place of work is followed by those who claim to do so, with broad discussion and publicity. And of course, the submission to the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is being submitted by the district council, the district government, at its final stage. And we already have experience with the prizes of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for youth organisations for the contribution of young people to the development of parliamentaryism at local self-government. And you and I have made sure that this is, indeed, an expression of great national concern for them. Accordingly, for six months a committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, along with local self - government and educational and scientific authorities, had been taking out candidates for the annual prize. Taking into account the number of pedagogical workers in general education, preschool, extra-school and vocational schools in the region, the committee recommended that the authorities of the State executive and local self-governance put forward candidates for the annual prize in this ratio: 18 prizes in general secondary education, and this is understandable because it is the most powerful network; five is pre-school education, four is vocational and three is extra-school. Given that the number of bonuses is 30 and the administrative and territorial system of Ukraine consists of 27 entities, Dnipropetrovski, Donetsk and Lviv oblasts, large areas, two candidates are proposed for the 2007 award. In the coming years, such a right will be granted to other powerful areas. We've got a passport so we can do it, even if we're not in the Supreme Council, so we can control it. The committee was offered proposals by the applicants, including teachers from the general education institutions, 12, managers, i.e., directors of educational institutions, four men in charge of preschools, four workers, directors of the vocational education system, two, managers of extra-school institutions, two, district technicians, city administrations, three. Of all these claimants, 10 of them are teaching staff who represent educational establishments located in rural areas. The Committee on Education and Science has a full package of documents, submissions corresponding to the local executive authorities, local self-government bodies, district administrations, district councils on the 2007 award of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Prize to teachers of general education, vocational and technical, pre-school and extra-school educational institutions. After considering and discussing the submission of district administrations and district councils, the Professional Committee recommends the adoption of a draft decision as a whole. And I'm addressing the Ukrainian National Deputies: this is our first step, the humane step towards teaching, to the teachers, I would like to ask you to support this decision, the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u76	Thank you, Catherine Seed. I'm asking you to sign up for the answers -- questions, five minutes. Miroshenko Yuri Romanovich, Party of Regions
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u77	Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear Catherine Semenovna, of course, I don't think we have the right not to support this initiative, because all teachers today are probably looking at us and this vote will determine how much the Supreme Council cares for Ukrainian education, for Ukraine's future, for those who give their lives, their strength, their soul to raise our children. Please tell me, should we stop at this? Or do we need to go deeper, systematize this work so that we do not have to go out with such initiatives in a fragmented way, but have the teachers constantly felt the concern of the Supreme Council for them and for education in general? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u78	Thank you very much. If you remember, in the past, we have also made an appropriate decision regarding scholarships and a separate decision regarding the prizes for young scholars. Because you know that we have only one young scientist under 35. We need to encourage them. That's absolutely right. But I think it's still a temporary measure, and we still need to do everything we can in the National Budget of Ukraine to get the salary of a teacher, a master of a vocational school, a worker, a Methodist, a school director to be judged by the state really in a state, because this category is a state programme, this category is probably a higher category of public people.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u79	Thank you, Catherine Seed. Yavorowski Vladimir Aleksandrovich, "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko".
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u80	Vladimir Yavorowski, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. Of course, what we've done is, let's say, small, but it's a step to raise a little bit of the prestige of the Ukrainian teacher, teacher and teacher, so that's a good thing. I was just thinking, Your Honor, the time you took and what you said is very important. But would it not be wise, for example, to simply take these names and names all over Ukraine today. That would be very important. Because of this, I make a proposal, Arsenija Petrovich, it would be very important, since this is the Supreme Council’s prize, so let’s do it at the next session, for example, and perhaps for one of our working drunkards, we will invite these people here and officially, in the Supreme Council, to give them this prize to see what these people are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u81	Vladimir Aleksandrovich, I want to tell you that we have a young man who has a job. It's a practice. We call upon the Supreme Council of Ukraine and solemnly award these prizes. Well, really, I want to tell you both emotions and respect. Because we're just being mugged here. We're not doing anything, we're just immoral, we're not doing anything. It will also be for the prestige of the legislature, and it will be for the teacher. I think he'll remember his whole life. As far as names are concerned, you all have them. If Arsenius Petrovich gives me the assignment, I'll call his name. If he announces, I also think it was very good for everyone to hear everyone who doesn't know, probably that we are voting for this teacher today, for a prize of 20,000 dollars. For the teacher there is a great reward, believe me.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u82	Stratovic Vladimir Mikolaiovich, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u83	That's not how we announce it, is it?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u84	We're about to get to that, Catherine Semina.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u85	Vladimir Stretović, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense", Party of the Christian-Democratic Union. Of course, we should welcome the initiative to set aside 600,000 from the budget of the Supreme Council to honor our best teachers. But you rightly said that this should be reflected in the budget, and the main help of the Supreme Council in the education sector is our budget, which needs to be worked out in detail by March 1, to see where to find the left-wing articles, not to be afraid of that word, and to retrain them to support our education. But I have a very practical question. Since this is the prize of the Supreme Council, please tell Catherine Simeonovna, and from what article will the state budget allocated to the Supreme Council be cut off 600,000 in order to allocate these funds? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u86	Vladimir Mikolaiovich, this is unrecorded. When we took a decision, we wrote down what was in the funds of the Supreme Council and in the budget of the Supreme Council to record that money. And we have practice with you, and we have already given young people, but much smaller bonuses, and that's already in place, and we wrote it down in the regulation, starting on January 1, 2008. We predicted it with you. As for the budget, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Science and Education is now working on changes that need to be made to improve the position of our teaching, our school. Believe me, they will indeed be significantly different from those accepted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u87	Herman Hanna Mikolayevna, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u88	A very good initiative, of course, we will support it. I just want to ask, do any mechanism envisaged that teachers who were particularly in Western regions were repressed for their political views have a chance to be promoted by local self-government authorities? Maybe there's something like the nomination of some candidates, at least one candidate for submission here, the Supreme Council, the People's Deputies of the Supreme Council? I'm just interested in the fate of those teachers who have experienced political repression in 2005 and who are now also struggling because of their political views. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u89	Thank you very much. We didn't put it in the right place. And I want you to know that there is experience. With regard to prizes for young people and youth organisations, we received both the prize and the Youth Movement and the Lenin Communist Youth Association, and the young deputies of all levels of different political parties. Yes, indeed, you speak quite correctly. I think the committee is going to make changes and propose changes to the situation so that we don't get that those who are closer to the body are going to be covered, and everyone else is going to be, I'm sorry, don't give the Lord God a race in our society. You can't let that happen. I agree, and I think the committee will support this. Because today we're in opposition, tomorrow they're in opposition. It is such a wheel that it will undoubtedly go through all our destiny and political parties.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u90	Thank you, Catherine Seed! I could ask you one question, two, actually.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u91	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u92	First. So I realized that each individual teacher is talking about paying 20,000 dollars.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u93	That's absolutely right. Twenty thousand dollars for every nominee teacher. Anyone recommended, starting with a remote rural school or kindergarten and a district. Everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u94	And two, if you please. First of all, colleagues, I address you, Mikolo Ivanovich, I address you! Mr. Mikola Ivanovich, distinguished colleague, head of the Committee on Budget Affairs. We have 88 Rules for the Budget Committee's conclusions. So that we don't have any questions from our fellow national deputies, but from which, in fact, the sources will be paid. Because I remember very well the times when, often or often, the different authorities of the state decide to pay the prize and there is no bonus in the budget. So I'm just asking that next time we always have a brief statement about which budget article is fully funded so that we don't go crazy.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u95	Of course, Arsenius Petrovich! I think that's how it's gonna be. This may also have to do with the fact that we are not fully active and are working in an unusual way. And we know all of you that all financial costs should go through the Committee on Budget Affairs. That's absolutely right.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u96	Yeah. So I'm asking that it be this way. Colleagues, who now have suggestions for the draft decision? There are no suggestions. Any suggestions? There are suggestions. Let's take five minutes to make an offer. Timoshenko Mikhailovich, Communist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u97	Dear Catherine of the Family. Well, first of all, I really welcome your initiative. I am happy and proud that, indeed, the lecturer deserved both great attention and the higher legislative body. That's how I say it. And proud, and happy for our colleagues, that we, I think, will support today's higher legislative body this issue. I'd like to look at this list that's being submitted today, and I think first of all, I need this position about the prize to be known to every teaching group and every teacher. That's one proposition. And the second sentence, when I analyze this list, is very little for a rural teacher. We had to either recommend, or in the position to advise, and give guidance. We've got it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u98	Thank you very much. Well, first, this decision and position were published in the Voice of Ukraine and the Government courier. Second, it's sent to all regions. That was a year ago, even more than a year and a half ago. This is the first time. As for the rural teacher, of the 30 people, I named 10 rural teachers. If we analyze the number of teachers who work in different regions and in different places, it's like we're doing the right thing, Mikhailovich, although your question is correct. Today, dear fellows, in rural areas, we have 65 percent of the teaching community are pensioners. And it's very important for us, really, to pick up young people. We'll work. Here, we didn't even think you'd make any suggestions about position. We will certainly consider and propose to the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the near future.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u99	Kravchuk Vasil Petrovich, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. Suggestions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u100	Vasil Kravchuk, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear Catherine of Simeon! The question is that the funds will be set aside from the corrosives of the Supreme Council. And this is the responsibility of the regulatory committee, which I represent and am the head of the business subcommittee, and this issue was not aligned with the regulatory committee. That's the first one. As far as the situation is concerned. Wouldn't it be appropriate if we had teachers up to a million, but only we're 30, and we're still looking forward to looking at the situation, to make the first, second, third prize, so that the wider circle will still be covered by premiums and stimulating teachers?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u101	I think we're going to take that into account, too, and the committee head is nodding at my head, and we're going to take that into account. As far as I'm concerned... it's not my fault. I gave this ruling early and it should be signed to the regulatory committee, Sergey Volodymyrovich, and Mikoli Ivanovich. It's not my fault anymore, I'm the author of the bill and the committee supported it. I think, dear colleagues, let's support it, it's our first big, beautiful step to meeting education and education.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u102	Thank you. Rudchenko Mikolayovich, Block Lithuania.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u103	Please give the word to Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u104	To the Zarubinese word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u105	Thank you. Dear Arseny Petrovich! Dear colleagues! It seems to me that we're now going to support the proposal, it's perfectly legitimate and in principle there's no subject here for discussion. Because the price of the issue of 600,000 dollars is compared to how much power is spent on itself and various institutions of power, it's just funny, I'm sorry. In which way there is not always a “student” called, and far is not always legal. And as for teachers, you know, society is very indebted, the state owes a lot to people who raise our children, by the way. She owed to those who carry, as was once said, good, everlasting, light. And, you know, now the trade, as one classic used to say, is a literary hero: “The trade here is not appropriate”. It seems to me that it is necessary to support such awards and that our teachers are encouraged. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u106	Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u107	Thank you. Dear Catherine of Simeon! Dear colleagues! I think we need to support this initiative, and the faction of the regions supports that we honor this work of teachers. But I'd like to remind you, you see, we've been looking at a draft of the Supreme Council of Ukraine today for 30 minutes. Remember, when we accepted Ukraine’s State Budget on second reading, we also considered it for 30 minutes. That's why we need to ask the teachers first of all today. We're talking about 30 bonuses today, and we've forgotten about 3.5 million budget workers, and over 1 million teachers. And so the faction of the regions insists that when changes are made to Ukraine's state budget by March 31st, it is proposed to introduce the third stage of a single tariff network from April 1st and to significantly increase the salaries of budget workers. This will be a major honor to these people for their work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u108	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u109	Mikhail Mikolaiovich, we'll work together. And I see that the time is running out, Arsenius Petrovich, I would very much like to make such a point in my own determination, the newspaper Voss Ukraine, to publish the decree with a full list of those who will receive the prize of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u110	I think it's a very logical approach, but we can even do it without making any changes to the point. Adam Ivanovich, did I say right? Yes, all decrees are still subject to publication, official publication. That is why there is such an offer, and we will immediately publish it in the “Governmental courier”. The second thing I want to tell you is that as soon as I have spoken to the leader, I'm sorry, I'm still living in the Voice of Ukraine. The second thing we've done, I've just checked, is in the top council's fundraiser, and we're going to confirm, we're going to pay it all off. Thirdly, here I wanted to consult you whether we are making a decision as to whether we are deciding on our arrangement for the award of these awards. Because people, it's for a simple person, for a simple teacher, it's a big deal when he comes to the Supreme Council, when he gets this prize, it's gonna be beautiful and right. Adam Ivanovich, tell me. Turn on Adam Ivanovich’s microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u111	Thank you, Arseny Petrovich. That's not a decision to make, because it's a rule of law, and that's what it's worth to see in the bonus clause that the award is in a solemn setting in the Supreme Council. But by no means do we understand the Supreme Council that we will call them to the meeting of the Supreme Council of the Plenary. In the walls of the Supreme Council, the Head of the Supreme Council, with the participation of representatives of the committee, will hand over this prize and this should simply be included in the prize position.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u112	So then I suggest, we do this, we do a protocol assignment, we turn it on, we make a protocol commission, we form with the committee, and we hand over these bonuses. Dear colleagues, in view of the fact that we have concluded 1309 in the discussion, I am voting on the Supreme Council Resolution 1309 Project on the award of the annual Prize of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to pedagogical workers, general education, vocational education, preschool and non-school institutions for 2007. Be my guest, colleagues. [[12:00:42.]] For 402 Please show by factions: The Party of Regions "for" – 142, "Block of July Timoshenko" – 147, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" – 68, Communists – 26, "Block of Lithuania" – 19. Dear colleagues, I announce a 30-minute recess, as provided for by the Rules, at 12:30, we start work from the early elections, and the main thing is ratification.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u113	Colleagues, we continue the morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The next question of the agenda is the registration number 1324, 24-1, 24-2 and 24-3. This is about the appointment of out - of - turn village, village, and city heads. The reporter is Upper Sergei Petrovich. This is the head of our subcommittee of the Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government. Sergei Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u114	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government on January 10, 2008, at its meeting, discussed the question of the appointment of consecutive elections for Crimean-Rose Rural Head, the Crimean-Rose Rural Council of the Biological Region of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Kumarov village head, Kumarov village council of the Pervomay district of Mikolaiiv district School Village Head, School Village Council of Simferopol district of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Amurosius city head, Amurosiuska city, Amurosius district, Donetsk region The issue was raised in connection with the timely suspension of the mandates of the given heads, namely: Hachatourian Arschavir Janavovich, who is the karst-roast village head, in connection with his personal statement; the Zarite Tetyana Alexandrovna - Kumarovska Rural Head, in connection with his death; the Master Vladimir Alexanderovich, who is the school’s village head, in connection with his personal statement; and the Sokolova Mikol Ivanovica, who is the Amurosian citizen’s head, was raised in connection with his personal statement. The Office of the Supreme Council in connection with the local authorities, the local authorities, believes that it is appropriate to recommend the Supreme Council of Assignments as a result of its consideration of the matter. assign the selected heads out of the queue. All the statements that are. and all these documents were considered by the appropriate sessions, and the sessions also addressed the Supreme Council to appoint the next election. In view of the fact that in accordance with article 85, paragraph 30, of the Constitution of Ukraine, part three of article 14, part two and sixth of article 15 of the Ukrainian Law on the Election of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local councils and rural, village heads are appointed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Sunday no later than 70 days before the election day. The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that Sunday’s elections be scheduled for March 30, 2008, by adopting the relevant decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the draft of which was submitted for consideration by the Supreme Council. This is the draft Decision on the appointment of a Crimean-Hungarian head. [[Crimea Village Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea]] [[Registration number 1324]] Kumarov village head. [[Kumarov village council of the Mikolai district of Pervomay]] [[Registration number 1324-1]] School's village head. [[Simferopol School Village Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea]] [[Registration number 1324-2]] And an Amurosian city head. [[Amvrosijuka city of Amvrosijev district of Donetsk region]] [[Registration number 1324]] The committee requests that these decisions be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u115	Thank you. Five minutes for a question-answer to the reporter. Please log in. Vaszczuk Katerina Timofievna, “Block of Lithuania”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u116	I have the following question. Did you discuss the appointment of the country heads or the appointment of the village head? That's what you said. Is this just a technical mistake? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u117	I guess he's talking. Excuse me. An election decree.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u118	Samuel Catherine Seminovna, Communist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u119	Thank you. I want to ask you the next question. Please tell me if this list is going to run out of these rural and rural councils where we need to hold elections, where for various reasons, someone died, someone wrote a statement themselves, someone behind bars ended up for what. Well, I can see why and all that. Does this list run out? First. And secondly, I think it's in the rural and rural councils that if you have any candidates for the election, you have to speed up the debate. I know in the Herson region, where there has been no country head for more than a year, the village is on the coast of the Black Sea, and the land is collapsing. And you know, it even makes someone so that the election doesn't take place. He's behind a bribe. You can see there's a man under investigation. And so this is both a question and a proposal, all of these questions need to be accelerated and considered at the sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine so as not to allow the score.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u120	Ladies and gentlemen, the committee is very attentive to these issues. Sadly, this list is not yet exhausted. Yesterday, literally on the subcommittee, we considered five more suggestions from local councils. And I think it depends, unfortunately, not on the committee or not on the subcommittee, but how these documents come to the Supreme Council immediately. You know that in previous sessions we have considered and adopted more than 70 rural, rural, and urban decisions. And I think maybe even from the tenths, maybe there's a little bit more. Well, it's about to be considered and introduced at this session.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u121	Sergei Petrovich, thank you very much. Colleagues, are there any suggestions for committee decisions? If there are any suggestions, please sign up. Five minutes to make suggestions. If there's no proposal, we'll put it to a vote. Vote? supported, dear friends. I'm voting on a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the appointment of the Crimean-Corosian-head elections scheduled for Sunday, March 30, 2008. [[No. 1324]] Please vote. [[12:42:24]] For 362 The factions, please. Region Party – 116, “Timoshenko Yulia Block” – 134, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” – 65, Communists – 27, “Litvina Block” – 20. I'm betting on the vote of Decree 1324-1 on the appointment of the Kumarovje Rural Head election. The elections were scheduled for March 30, 2008. Please vote. Now, Adam Ivanovich, next in line. Something happened to the sound, comrades. [[12:42:58]] For 364 Decision taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 118 – “for”, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko” – 130 – “for”, “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense” – “for” – 69, Communists – 27 – “for”, “Clock of Lithuania – 20. On the basis of the vote of Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u122	Thank you, Arsenia Petrovich. Dear Arsenija Petrovich, we're spending a little time on the faction display. The Rules stipulate that the presiding officer shall declare the results of the factions at the request of the national deputies. When there are some controversial political issues, when there are questions that really arouse the interest of the electorate, the factions ask the factions to announce the factions. If there are no proposals to announce the factions, I suggest saving time, because the questions here are clear, I am the solution and.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u123	Adam Ivanovich, we're doing what we've been taught, purely according to the Rules. In view of this, it was the offer of the Communist Party of Ukraine to announce the results by factions. So if this proposal is not currently supported, let's do it this way. Adam Ivanovich, I ask that we no longer be discussed. We have to vote. So I ask, if there's a demand for factions, then I'll vote for factions. Is that accepted? Okay. Let's move on. 1324-2 on the appointment of the secondary election of the village head. The election was scheduled for Sunday, March 30, 2008. Please vote. [[12:44:44]] For 380 Decision taken. I'm betting on a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine 1324-3 on the appointment of the successive election of the Amurosian City Head. The elections were scheduled for March 30, 2008. I'd like you to identify your colleagues. [[12:45:13]] For 383 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we have passed this point of order. Now I'd like to ask you a request: I've been approached by a few colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies, well, they wanted to speak out on the grounds of the vote and wanted to give some information. I ask five minutes for the reasons for the vote to be given, and there our colleague Shershun asked. I ask you to sign up, let our esteemed head of our Central Electoral Commission, including, of course, the local one, and the record of the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u124	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u125	One second. Mikola Haritonovich, half a second. Well, you asked, well, Adam Ivanovich, and you'll ask. What are you doing? I'm asking you, it's gonna be fine. The man has been asking for the third day. Mikola Haritonovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u126	Dear Head, dear colleagues! I worked in the areas of Ukraine, which are the most dangerous in the environmental field, under the Order of the Lithuanian Block. And once again, it has become clear that, often in political events, we are missing out on the problems that apply to each of us, our constituents, the prospects for Ukraine's development, because according to environmental experts, the situation of environmental pollution, the efficiency of the use of primarily non-renewable resources in Ukraine is the worst in Europe. Taking this into account and in line with the program with which the Lithuanian Block went to the elections, the People's Party has identified the solution to environmental problems as one of the priorities of its activities. In this regard, we suggest that we systematically review and refine existing environmental legislation, adapt it to the existing situation, since the market we dreamed of and became a reality has acquired vivid signs of savagery, naturalism, and permissiveness.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u127	Let me finish, 30 seconds. Mikola Haritonovich, 30 seconds so that we can treat our colleagues very properly and finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u128	So in view of the fact that there is no time and the faction I would like to ask my colleagues that environmental problems are not just a matter for the industry, they are social problems, including the law. Therefore, the approach to their solutions must be systematic and complex. That's why we need to develop and adopt such conceptual documents as Ukraine's sustainable development strategy and environmental policy strategy. And already, environmental protection, environmental improvement are problems that affect everyone and everyone. They can and should unite all of us for the future Ukrainian State, its people, for the sake of the happy life on Ukrainian land of our children and grandchildren. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u129	Thank you, Mikola Haritonovich. Thank you. Hooray! Colleagues, sometimes these things happen. Let's be fair to each other, the more we have a reduced plenary week. There are important statements that we can meet, and within the limits of the Rules, only on grounds of vote. Dear colleagues, there is a suggestion to move on to the next issue of the agenda. This is about ratification. We have a reporter and a co-reporter today. The rapporteur is Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine Ogrizko Vladimir Stanislavovic. The main committee is the Committee on European Integration and co-rapporteur Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk. Two questions on ratification: the first is the ratification of the draft law, the draft law on ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the European Society on readmission, and the second on visa facilitation. I invite the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, Ogryzka Vladimir Stanislavovich. Vladimir Stanislavovich, you will hold consultations later.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u130	Dear Arsenia Petrovich, distinguished national deputies! The draft laws of Ukraine on the ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the European Community on the facilitation of the processing of visas and on the ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the European Community on the readmission of persons are submitted to your consideration. Bills are designed by the Ministry to ensure that contracts are valid. The visa facilitation agreement will only take effect if the readmission agreement becomes effective. Two letters of history. The agreements were signed in Luxembourg on June 18, 2007. The bill under consideration today is accepted without notice by the Ministry of Internal Affairs, Economics, Finance and Justice, as well as by the Security and Administration Service of the State Border Service of Ukraine. On November 29, last year, the European side reported that it had completed its internal procedures necessary to make these agreements effective. The ratification of agreements by the Ukrainian Parliament will be the last step towards ensuring that they become effective on the Ukrainian side through agreements reached with the European side. The agreements are actually being implemented by the parties since January 1st of this year. It is important that the preamble to the agreement refers to the prospect of establishing a mutual visa-free travel regime for citizens of both sides. The agreement envisions substantial, substantial preferences for our citizens. In particular, five - year, five - year - old visas are provided for businessmen, journalists, and officials of central and local authorities, permanent members of official delegations. Single multiple visas will be issued to science, culture, sportsmen, professional carriers, crew members of trains, and participants in the exchange between related cities. Free visas are given to students, students, citizens who travel for humanitarian purposes, disabled persons, accompanying persons, athletes, journalists, professional carriers, crew members, pensioners, children under 18 years of age, members of official delegations, and so on. Importantly, the deadlines for examining applications for visas will be up to 10 days in normal cases and up to two days in urgent cases. An important result of the agreement is to ensure that the process of obtaining Schengen visas is transparent. A declaration has been added to the agreement, which strengthens the legal capacity for Ukrainian citizens to obtain a reasoned decision if they refuse a visa, as well as a separate declaration on the transparency and accessibility of visa procedures for our citizens. It is important that the visa facilitation agreement also includes the Declaration of Poland, Slovakia, Hungary and Romania on the start of negotiations with our State on agreements on the so-called small border movement, which provides for visa-free travel for residents of the border regions within defined limits. I would like to report that a treaty with Hungary has been signed today. Negotiations on such a treaty with Poland and Slovakia are now being concluded. Importantly, in accordance with article 12 of the Agreement, a joint committee of experts is established to monitor the implementation of this agreement.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u131	Vladimir Aleksandrovich, I'm very sorry, but I have to interrupt: to be clear, we have 0011 now, it's about the readmission. So you don't have to report 0012, you have to report it twice. So I'm asking you to return to 0011, readmission, and the second time you'll be on a simplified visa regime.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u132	Arsenius Petrovich, if possible, combine these two points because they are coming.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u133	Unfortunately, we have no right.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u134	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, the readmission agreement. All right, if you do. Let's do it this way, but, you know, these are two related documents that.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u135	So keep this information in mind. It's okay. Colleagues, please be quiet! This is about two related documents, but, Vladimir Aleksandrovich, highlight the first block, if possible, a readmission, the second one, a visa issue, and then we'll go through a simpler procedure in the second vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u136	The readmission agreement establishes that, on the basis of reciprocity, quick and effective procedures for identifying and safely managing returnees who do not meet the conditions provided for entry and residence in Ukraine or one of the member states of the European Union, and provides for the facilitation of the transit of such persons to their countries of origin. That is, the terms of the agreement establish the obligations of contractual parties to accept without undue formalities of their own citizens who have violated the regime of residence on the territory of another contracting party as well as of third - country nationals, provided the evidence provided by the agreement is presented. In doing so, third citizens and all without citizenship, with whom Ukraine has not concluded bilateral readmission agreements or agreements, are suspended for two years from the date of entry into force of this agreement. It is important that the European Commission provide appropriate assistance to the Ukrainian side to arrange for the temporary whereabouts of the persons who were involved in the agreement. It is about implementing technical programmes within the framework of a European development cooperation tool. Similarly, funds from the Asylum Migration Program can be used for this. The overall budget for this programme for 2007-2013 for the European Union is set at almost 400 million euros. In order to properly prepare the preparations for the implementation of the specified agreement, the MCC and other relevant ministries have developed a plan of action for the implementation of this agreement. It includes the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Sports, the Ministry of Youth and Youth, the Ministry of Sport, the Ministry of Mintrenzwezu, the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and the Ministry of Sport. ......................................................................................................... Some temporary detention facilities are being built in several regions of Ukraine. The State authorities involved will submit project proposals to the Mineconomy for external assistance to implement this agreement. But it is very important that the first two years of this agreement do not extend to Ukraine for those detained in the European Union. Thank you, Arsenia Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u137	Thank you, Volodymyr Stanislavovich. Dear colleagues, please register "question-answer" for five minutes. Bev Valeriy Ananiyovich, Communist Party
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u138	Dear Vladimir Stanislavovich, one question. Did the Ministry of Foreign Affairs calculate the consequences of signing, after signing and ratifying this agreement, the consequences and the number of illegal migrants in the territory of our country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u139	Thank you. That's what the State Border Service does. According to her, this number will not be large, and more importantly, I would like to emphasize once again that the first two years of this action will not apply to citizens with whom Ukraine has not signed a return agreement. So if a third - country national is detained in the territory of the European Union, that means that Ukraine will not accept it for two years. Only when we make the right agreements with these third countries will we be forced to accept them. By the time these agreements are signed, as I have already told you, these temporary maintenance facilities, on which the European Union is providing us with adequate financial support, will be operational.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u140	Thank you. Pedestrian Ivan Vasilovich, Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u141	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Reverend Vladimir Stanislavovich, you said that after the ratification, we would normally open up new retention points in various regions of Ukraine. So the first question. What are some new additional points, and in what areas are they expected to be opened? The second question is, who's going to finance it, and how much? And the third question -- what is the number of people on average for the first two years of the year, do you predict, or are you predicting, will be kept in these points? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u142	I find it difficult to say how many people will be held in these parts. I can't give you an answer to that question, because I'm not a prophet. And what's suggested for these to be in the most sensitive regions, I can call it. This is Odeščina, Kharkivščina, Zakarpatska District, Kyiv Region and the Autonomous Republic of Crimea.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u143	Vyziewski passes the word to Klukkowski, “Our Ukraine – the People’s Self-Defense”. Yuri Bogdanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u144	Thank you. Mr. Secretary of State! While welcoming this long - awaited agreement in Ukraine, I would like to ask questions, and what are the prospects for making similar agreements with our eastern and northern neighbors in connection with the well - known state of our border and the accumulation of migrants in Ukraine?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u145	Dear Mr. Klukkowski, I would like to report that draft readmission agreements have actually been prepared with the Russian Federation. So the same is true of the agreement with Belarus. So we have a ring that will help us solve these issues properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u146	Shevchuk Sergey Volodymyrovich, House of Julius Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u147	Dear Vladimir Stanislavovich! Since this question is sensitive and I would like you to answer that question, or the ratification by the Ukrainian Parliament of this agreement will accelerate the conclusion of the corresponding agreements with Russia and Belarus, that is the first question. And the second. Is it envisaged in the agreement that the European Union will provide appropriate material assistance to our State to arrange for the gathering of illegal migrants, including Ukrainians, who have arrived illegally in the European Union? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u148	Thank you, Sergey Volodymyrovich, for asking. Of course, it will be quicker, and we conclude that this year such agreements with Russia and Belarus will be concluded and signed. Regarding financial assistance. I can tell you that unfortunately, last year, 30 million euros, or 45 million dollars, were not used for the normal setting of these temporary maintenance facilities. I don't think we're going to be giving these gifts this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u149	Vaszczuk Katerina Timofievna, "Litvina Block".
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u150	Dear Mr. Minister! The question is as follows. Nevertheless, I would like to know exactly what part of the cost of supporting these people is being borne by Ukraine and what part of the European Union. That's one thing. And the second. As the government predicts, there are a lot of problems in the health-epidemiology situation, people from different regions in Ukraine, and there are many problems, and there may be diseases that we don't even know if it's going to be taken into account, whether it's going to be the authority in places, how it's going to work and how it's going to be prejudiced. And third, tell us, how much does voting for this treaty today and for this, how do they relate to each other? Because the other one's more than that.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u151	Dear Catherine Timothy, from the last, these two covenants are interconnected, if there is no one agreement, then there will be no other. That's right, Mr. Zarubinski. So these are two agreements, and if we vote one, we have to vote another. Unfortunately, there can't be a distribution here. So I would very much like the national deputies to vote in favour of two agreements today, because this is one package. As far as the disease is concerned, these issues, as I have already reported, are foreseen in the plan of action that I have been talking about. And certainly all the right, necessary conditions for safe maintenance will be foreseen, because among those ministries involved in this work, the Ministry of Health is one of the leading ministries. Regarding the distribution of funding, I have already said that the European Union is ready to provide us with all the financial assistance we need for such centres.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u152	Thank you, Vladimir Stanislavovich. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to invite you to the floor of co-rapporteur Tarasjuk Boris Ivanovich, Committee on European Integration.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u153	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! Boris Tarasyuk, “The People’s Movement of Ukraine”, “Our Ukraine”, “National Self-Defense”. At its meeting on 27 December, the European Integration Committee discussed the draft law on the ratification of the agreement between Ukraine and the European Union on a number of individual missions. And the committee at its meeting recommended that the Supreme Council adopt this law. The Committee on European Integration based its findings on the conclusions of the experts of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Expert Office, which also supported and expressed positive support for the ratification of this agreement. As we know, the treaty was ratified by the European Parliament in November, and also approved by the Council of the European Union last November. The problem of readmission of persons is a complex problem that has largely arisen for the European Union countries because of the illegal migration of Ukrainian citizens to these countries. Thus, the European Union’s desire to protect its labour market is natural. As far as Ukraine is concerned, this problem is an internal state problem for us, which is that the state must provide its citizens with a decent level of work and pay for their work. In addition, the State must ensure that the illegal migration of third - country nationals entering our territory through an unreliable, unfortunately, border in the East and the North of our country is prevented. That is why this is a problem for both Ukraine and the European Union. I wanted to remind myself that this readmission agreement had been concluded and developed with the European Union for a long time, and it was a kind of package on which the European Union would either provide Ukrainian citizens with a simplified order of visas to enter these countries or not. Therefore, in view of these circumstances and of the European Union’s commitment to provide technical assistance to Ukraine in setting up temporary detention facilities for third - country illegal persons, I ask the Supreme Council to support and ratify this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u154	Thank you, Boris Ivanovich. 3 minutes for a question-answer to Boris Ivanovich, please sign up.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u155	Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u156	Dear Boris Ivanovich, the treaty includes a declaration by the European party on the provision of available financial resources. for the implementation of an agreement that will ensure that EU funding is properly funded. However, an analysis of the Declaration, which is called the Joint Declaration on Technical and Financial Security, in particular the situation under which both parties agree to implement the Agreement on the basis of the principle of shared responsibility of solidarity and equal partnership, shows that Ukraine assumes 50 percent of the obligation to finance the readmission of persons who have reached the EU irrespective of their place of residence. Moreover, even getting another 50 percent of the funds will be problematic. The question is whether the ratification of this agreement will bring additional financial burden and budget costs to Ukraine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u157	Thank you. In my time as I reported this issue to the government, in the government of Viktor Yanukovich, these issues were discussed quite deeply. And I have to say that, of course, for Ukraine there will be some extra cost of maintenance, temporary maintenance, that will be between 7 and 14 days. At the same time, in the course of the negotiations, we reached an agreement that the European Union would participate in the financing of these expenses. Either way, whether we are party to this agreement or not, Ukraine, as a European country, must ensure a proper level, a civilized level of detention for these people who are still being held in these temporary centres. That's why our country's spending is going to have. When we discussed this in the government, I remember the figure that was floating, about 200 million euros. And a large part of this spending, the European Union is ready to cover
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u158	Silent Paul Mikhailovich, "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko".
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u159	Thank you. Dear Boris Ivanovich, you know that Ukraine can gradually become a sort of advocate of those who cannot enter beyond Ukraine and especially those who fill us from the eastern and northern borders, those persons of different, I say, groups and citizens. And how do we settle this issue so that we don't really turn into a common zone, a gray zone where Pakistanis and Vietnamese and all that mass of refugees who are staying in Ukraine, and what do we do about it? And is there enough resources available for us to solve this very important problem? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u160	First. We need to make a readmission agreement with Russia so that Russia can take third-country nationals who are illegally entering Ukraine. Such a deal is made with Russia. The other one. We need to provide our border in the east and north of the country with adequate equipment and modern equipment to prevent illegal migrants from being allowed through neighboring countries of Russia and Belarus. These are the things we must do. Well, and of course, what's necessary is, if we have illegal third-country citizens temporarily entering our territory, we have to provide civilised conditions to maintain them.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u161	Thank you, Boris Ivanovich. Thank you, Boris Ivanovich. Dear people's deputies, it's all been a long time. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you once again. Language. Do you want to talk about it? No problem. Five minutes to talk. Okay. Then let's have a full discussion. Okay, okay. Please include in the discussion, sign in. Bev Valérie Ananiyovich, Communist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u162	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues. Dear voters, as a person who has spent 30 years working in internal affairs, I want to say that our desire, our people's desire and the nation's desire for a European culture, European standards, European standard of living, of course, is clear, and we support that. But unfortunately, the ratification of the Agreement with the European Community on the readmission of persons can cause a number of problems for our nation. It has just been said that our country will become a giant European receiver of illegal migrants. Why? Because the 2,700 kilometers of border with Russia and Belarus are completely transparent, there are hundreds of thousands of uncontrolled crossings. And so the absence of an agreement with Belarus, the absence of agreements with countries such as China, India, Bangladesh, Iran, Iraq, Afghanistan and so on, the absence of illegal migrants to Europe will lead to what I am talking about. [[By the way, the deal with Russia is not ratified, Boris Ivanovich]] These are serious consequences. The other one. Let's take another situation into account. Today, our citizens in the embassies of individual European countries, on borders, including in the countries themselves, are transformed, including by our efforts, into third-class citizens. And so if we agree to ratifying this agreement today, we will not be doing so well. What's more, we're being asked to put a car in front of a horse, let's ratify today, and then we're going to sign corresponding agreements with all the supplier countries, including signing corresponding agreements with both Russia and Belarus, through which 85 illegal migrants fall into the territory of Ukraine and then into Europe. By the way, 85 percent, I'm sorry. I've got everything, yeah, can I talk? By the way, in 11 months 2007, there were 8.5 thousand illegal migrants in Ukraine. According to expert experts, in five years we will have hundreds of thousands of such citizens in the territory of the state. In addition, I am informed that the Committee on Legal Protection has received proposals from the Ministry of Internal Affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u163	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u164	I'll count next time and I'll be in. I would simply like to inform you that the Ministry of Internal Affairs has made a proposal, inviting 56 million to arrange six new detention facilities. Today, there are only two of them in the area of our tap, the Carpathians and the Kyiv region. And the last. Our country loses $400 million a year on consular payments alone. We are promised 30 million dollars a year to equip and support illegal migrants. So I urge you not to ratify these agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u165	Thank you. Bunny Ivan Aleksandrovich, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” Block. Please, Ivan Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u166	John Haretz, Ukrainian People's Party, faction “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense”. Ladies and gentlemen, we have already acted in such a way that we do not want to bring order in our country, and then we present this unwillingness as an argument that nothing should be done in relation to either the outside world or our inner life. This kind of thing is happening to us right now and in our discussion. The thing is, there's an uncontrolled migration problem at our door. We already have hundreds and hundreds of thousands of people in Ukraine who are unknown to the countries where drugs go, weapons go, disease goes, and power doesn't control all these flows, because we don't have the border of the eastern regulated, because we don't have the northern border regulated, because we don't have the southern border. And we're told that if we don't have such a border, we shouldn't have to settle our relationship with the European Union. I think if we ratify this Agreement, then finally the responsible authorities have to understand that we need to immediately put order in our camp. We signed an agreement with the Russian Federation back in 2006. Why is it that we, in the Supreme Council, do not have this covenant to date so that we can ratify it? And it would also be one of the arguments to put order on our eastern border. That's why we have to express today's wish of the Supreme Council that the Ministry of Internal Affairs should speed up the preparation of the documents and give us this Agreement, and we will ratify it to normalize these relations with the Russian Federation. The other one. We should finally maybe even consider separately sorting our eastern, our northern borders. To what extent will we tread water in our feet? We're not delimited today in the Azov Sea, we're not delimited, we're not done demarcating Belarus, we're pretending that nothing is happening. So my position is this. We don't have to look at our indifference today, we don't have to look at our irresponsible arguments so that we don't normalize these problems with the European Union, but we need to turn this pyramid around, concentrate our efforts solely on controlling migration processes, because we're going to wake up in a year or two, and we're going to see that there's no place in Ukraine for Ukrainians anymore, that there's going to be completely different people here and they're going to rule our nation. So I want us not to be afraid of ratifying this Agreement, but on the other hand, we have to act in the east direction and in the north, if we are a state, we are building Ukraine all over the perimeter and deep and wide.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u167	Miroshenko Yuri Romanovich, Party of Regions
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u168	Dear voters, dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. You know, it's a contradictory feeling when you listen to both speeches and comments and questions. I could continue that negative list of consequences that Ukraine will have as a result of ratifying these agreements. It's also the cost of our taxpayers, because it's the increase in crime in our country, because it's the problem of transporting or returning these citizens to Ukraine and then returning them to Pakistan, to India, to Afghanistan, to other countries, and that's also the cost. But, at the same time, dear colleagues, can we today allow ourselves to be caught in the sand, to get away from this problem, and to say that Ukraine will not solve these issues in the legal field? Ukraine is a European country, Ukraine needs to solve the problem of migrants and the way the countries of the European Union do it. Today we have one chance: either to stay alone with our problems, because we have these migrants coming to Ukraine, and most of them are staying in Ukraine, because they're not being missed in the countries of the European Union, you can see how they're setting their borders. And now that we can get an ally in the eyes of the European Union, including in negotiations with Russia, with other countries, together with them, to pressure them to take their migrants away, and then actually improve the conditions and protection of their citizens within the European Union, to bargain maybe something for us, for our citizens, and in this way, if we think about it, we have no other option to ratify these agreements. This was a serious problem and discussion when the government of Yanukovich considered the problem. This was a serious subject for discussion at the faction of the Party of Regions. Various thoughts were, but we have come to the conclusion: if we are a responsible parliament to the people of Ukraine, before the future, we should ratify this agreement, but not stop at it, but continue the legal settlement of all these relations that arise from the problem of migrants, illegal migrants who enter Ukraine either through readmission or directly from abroad, or through the Russian Federation, or directly from other countries. So I would like to invite, of course, it's not a simple decision, but I would like to invite colleagues to support this, these agreements, to ratify them and to start working systematically on both the committee and the ministry, and perhaps with our colleagues in international.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u169	Thank you. Vaszczuk Katerina Timofievna gives the word Zarubinski Oleg Alexanderovich, Block of Lithuania.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u170	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues, me.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u171	Comrades, please be quiet in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u172	I would like to speak only with no emotion, based on the analysis of the text of this covenant. Given that the number of illegals who have come to the EU through Ukraine will be much more than in the reverse, the adoption of this act, and all of them must agree, relies on Ukraine's core obligations – to take on its territory as its own illegally staying citizens, but mainly citizens of other countries that have entered the countries of co-operation through Ukraine. Here is the big question, for it is not difficult to define Ukrainian transit in accordance with the Treaty. What documents confirm that people came from Ukraine? But these are travel documents, these are the statements made by the employees of the Border Control Authority. But think about it, even any accounts, receipts, contracts that prove a person's presence in Ukraine in this situation and people who were in Ukraine have certain documents, but have come and illegally crossed the border from Belarus, from Russia, you know, there's a certain enclave, from the territory of other states, that can also be noted as being illegal from the territory of Ukraine. Accordingly, Ukraine will bear social economic and other costs. Next, a state without proper valid contracts, and I want to insist once again on readmission with other countries, with Russia not ratified contracts, not even by the Supreme Council, especially by the State, risks, in fact, turning, as a colleague said, into the EU's backstopper for illegals. By the way, we should also consider that Ukraine has a fourth position in the world at the level of migration flows. And here's the deviant behavior, there's the disease that doesn't belong to our climate and all that. Indeed, according to the agreement, the EU is actually under an obligation to finance only the transport of readmissions to the Ukrainian border, article 12 of the agreement. At the same time, the EU is committed to providing financial resources to support Ukraine in implementing this agreement. So we can point out, and this is true, dear colleagues, that one of the features of this document is that for detailed regulation of the rules and procedures of readmission, the issue of financial assistance is only set at a declaratory level, without any articles, without any explanation. [[detailed regulation!]] And I have a very important proposition, if you don't mind, I'll take 10 seconds. Dear Vladimir Stanislavovic, in accordance with the Ukrainian Law, which we have drafted, by the way, on Ukraine's international treaties, it is established that, when signing the ratification, approval, acceptance or accession to the international treaty.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u173	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u174	10 seconds, really, it's important.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u175	Ten seconds, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u176	Applications and warnings may be made in accordance with international law, article 10. Taking into account that the ratification proposals under this law are made by the Ministry responsible for the conclusion of an international agreement, it would be appropriate to assign or request the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine to develop the Transitional Provisions of the Law on Ratification, which would take the action of other parties before the entry into force of this law, i.e. the entry into force of the readmission agreement with the neighbouring countries. Then we would really say that this is in accordance with the national interests of Ukraine. This should not be associated with the simplified visa regime. The simplified visa regime must be linked to the visa-free regime that we have granted to EU citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u177	Thank you. School Andriy Vasilovich, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. Colleagues! Ivan Grigorovich, will you be speaking? Where's School? Andrew Vasilovich, aren't you from the rostrum? Okay. Please include the school’s location.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u178	Thank you. I would like to point out very briefly that when colleagues who spoke before asked the question that we have eight thousand illegals. This is, of course, eight thousand in five years, I don't know how it's supposed to go up to hundreds of thousands. We now have Ukrainians working constantly, legally abroad. Legally, I'd say. Hundreds of thousands of people working there. This will be reflected in the non - ratification of this covenant. It's a really hard, really hard decision, but it needs our support with you. If we do not do so, then we will have real responsibility. So I want to emphasize that this is how you put the scales. If you are opposed to Euro-integration processes, please do not vote in favour of this law. If you are a proponent because these Euro-Integration processes are complicated, you are voting for this ratification. Now, I'd like to give a word to my colleague at the Chevchuk faction, please, from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u179	In general, a part of the statement is not formally referred under the Rules. Formally legal, frankly. I'm asking you next time not to. Give me two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u180	Thank you, Arsenia Petrovich. I won't ask you for extra time. I'll tell you, my dear colleagues, that we must now make a responsible decision. Unless this agreement is ratified, it is clear to everyone, including the Lithuanian Block factions, that the Visa Facilitation Agreement will not then be adopted. In the back of a multi-year, long diplomatic negotiation process. Clearly, we do not want to accept this bill. Better accept, ratify the simplified mode agreement. The other side, the European Union, would also not want to adopt and ratify the simplified visa regime agreement, insisting on readmission of persons. But a compromise has been agreed upon. At the same time, the European Parliament ratified two agreements. And so today, the Ukrainian Parliament has a clear and clear question: either we ratify these two agreements, or we will promote the isolation of Ukrainian citizens within our own states, if we don't count the possibility of moving to the East alone. There was another argument that after the treaty was ratified, the number of illegals in Ukraine would increase significantly. Honorable colleagues, do you not realize that Ukraine is now becoming the fifth or sixth state in the world that accepts, without wanting to do so, illegal citizens from other nations? The ratification of this agreement will allow us in the middle of Ukraine to finally start to put order in place, especially if the European Union’s funds are allocated. I would also like to point out that the ratification of the readmission agreement will allow Ukraine to speed up the process of signing relevant agreements with our Eastern neighbours, as well as with the countries of Asia, first. Secondly, this opens the way for a faster adoption of agreements for a small cross-border movement. You know, after the Schengen expansion, it practically stopped. All kinds of boat rides, no matter how we treat them, are usually negative, but they are only happening today.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u181	Thank you. Colleagues, give me half a minute. The factions of the factions have officially ended. Now we have to move on to the speeches by the national MPs. Do you insist on speaking to the national MPs? Some, yes, others, no. So we insist. Five minutes of public speaking. Please sign up. Let's get out of here. Not from the rostrum, but from the spot. I ask that in one minute more national deputies speak. Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich [[B in m in s a l in]] It's written down for me. Well, look, they wrote it down like from the rostrum. So look, please, at the way you speak from the rostrum. Look, please. And then Alexander's going. It's all right, Peter Mikolaiovich. Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich Please. From the scene.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u182	Thank you. I'd like to pay attention again. It is not an obstruction or an attempt to bury this covenant. The point is that there have been minimised risks and comes out of the rostrum, and as a representative of Block of Lithuania, that's exactly what I'm talking about, I can still give you a whole range of risks that are not included in the text of this agreement. I don't say, by the way, the negative attitude of law enforcement organizations towards this deal, because we're sending people who might not want to go back, let's say, where they went and wanted shelter in another country. But once again, I would like to refer to the Honourable Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, and perhaps you, Vladimir Stanislavovich, would answer how you look at the perfectly legitimate, legitimate possibilities for us to develop transitional positions that would bind the entry into force of this law with the entry into force of readmission agreements with neighbouring states in order for this to happen in sync, and that would then be for the benefit of Ukraine, that is true.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u183	Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, Party of Regions. I'm sorry, Alexandrovska, because it went straight to Papieva. Alla Alexandrovska, after her Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u184	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Arseny Petrovich! I would like to point out that we have already had similar practice in the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine when we sent the ratification law to the Cabinet of Ministers to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Because Zarubinsky actually had very partial suggestions and very bad that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs itself had not thought of what the Transitional provisions in this law could really be done to protect our interests. I am the representative of the Kharkiv region, this border area, which will happen today we have illegal, indeed illegal, foreign citizens in the territory of the region. We have the Barabbas market full of these people, and we suffer because the infectious situation in the city is very difficult. There's never been such a thing that people work in pain three or four times with viral diseases, who's in control? We're spending our budget money on this because we have to help these people anyway. I therefore propose to support Zarubinsky's proposal, to amend the law to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u185	Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u186	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Interestingly, the spirit of this treaty will make Ukraine 90 percent as a requesting state, because we are a transit state and very many citizens who are illegal immigrants are entering the countries of the European Union. But there is a risk that two years from now we will face a huge problem, because whether illegal migrants have arrived in the territory of European countries from Ukraine or not, they will return to Ukraine. And another risk, very little talk today about the government budget of Ukraine, because this agreement will be implemented within the appropriate allocations of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the State Border Service. So I really wanted us to have at least a reasonable estimate of the state budget and the risks that lie ahead for us in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u187	Smélova Svetlana Alexandrovna conveys the word Simonenko to Petra Mikolaiovich, and Matthew also conveys two words to one Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u188	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I would like to address you and explain the situation to our constituents. First of all, we are witnessing with you that this ratification is trying to achieve the challenge that Ukraine is a health zone for Europe. Before that, the President, as you recall, made a promise to Europe that he would provide Ukraine with a territory to bury wastes of the European level, including the nuclear cycle. Today, this accumulation of human resources, indeed, migration, you know, is not what makes Europe today, and in this case, it is what makes Ukraine a destitute. That is why Ukraine is now being transformed into a sanitation border, I am not talking about environmental, epidemiological and so on. Next, it happens when the ultimatum is exposed to us. You will gather all those who do not need Europe, and we will allow you a simplified visa, so to speak, to leave Ukraine, because your skilled workforce we need in Europe, you still have nothing to do with Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u189	Let's keep going, because Simonnka has one more minute from Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u190	Thus, in this case, it is beneficial for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to simply open locks so as not to address the employment of its own Ukrainian citizens, job security, wages and so on. Therefore, once again, I would like to stress that this is a serious law and without agreeing on positions with the Russian Federation, it will only lead to Ukraine being a prodigal and, let us say, promised the President to turn the waste dump into a waste dump for Europe, and today Ukraine is becoming a human resource reprisal. As you can see, our statement by Comrade Behwazza on this point is evidenced by many without documents of migration, and this will naturally require that they be here all this time. Once again, this order or decision of ratification cannot be taken today. The Communist faction categorically refuses to participate because it's giving up national interests and those who think it is today, it's the fifth column, I mean, who will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u191	Dear colleagues, the time for discussion and presentations, both by factions and by national deputies, we must give the final word to the reporter, Vladimir Stanislavovich, and to the co-reporter Boris Ivanovich. Do you insist on concluding, colleagues? Don't insist. Great. Dear National Deputies, summarizing once again, it is a matter of actually considering a set of documents: 1. It's a readmission. 2. This is a simplified visa regime. There will be no simplified visa without readmission or vice versa. Question two. Readmission is a perfectly normal phenomenon, it is not necessary to run illegal migrants on its border, and it will not be necessary to export them. Question three. Last year, 30 million euros were given for temporary maintenance, none of which was used. This year, 30 million euros have been re-allocated in European neighbourhood policy to build temporary maintenance sites. So we need to make immediate use of these costs so that there is no repetition situation in 2007. In view of that, I would ask, and from what Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk said, by the way, I'm addressing our fellow Communists, I've put in 1355 a draft decree, which is both Zarubinski and Communists, and you can include all the extra points that apply to those or other warnings, look, it's given to you, 1355. I'm putting to the vote 0011 -- draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification. Half a minute so we don't get confused. On the ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union on the readmission of persons. I beg you, colleagues, be careful. There's a question on the vote. On the basis and in total, 0011. Vote. [[13:40:28]] For 226 Decision taken. Please show by factions. The deal's ratified. Please go to 0012, which is the Visa Facilitation Agreement. Vladimir Stanislavovich, please briefly inform us once again about the basics of the agreement.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u192	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, honourable deputies! I've already informed the people's deputies about the basic provisions of the visa facilitation law. In the information order, I'll just give you an answer to the Honourable Deputy Behvizo. Never under any circumstances did Ukraine collect $400 million as a visa congregation. The maximum I collected, the maximum I collected, was $30 million a year for visas. At the same time, I would like to emphasize and bring you only two figures, the distinguished national deputy of Bevéz. While we are discussing this matter
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u193	Vladimir Stanislavovich, I'm sorry, I'm gonna try to get some order in the hall. Colleagues, on the stand of the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, report an extremely important document – the Agreement on the simplified visa regime with the European Union. Well, you can keep quiet a little bit. Now we're going to vote and you're going to take a break. There's 18 minutes left.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u194	Dear Arsené Petrovich, I have only half a minute, I just want to complete my answer to the honourable representative of Bevanzo. Two digits. First digit. In 2004, 500,000 foreign tourists visited Ukraine. 2007 Six million after we have simplified the opportunity for citizens of the European Union to visit Ukraine. Another number. [[Just a second.]] Every day a foreigner in Ukraine spends $120. So multiply by 6 million and subtract 30 million and you'll see what the number is. That's why we're saying today that this is just the first step in moving forward in the medium term so that our Ukrainian citizens can do the same without a visa to visit all the countries of the European Union. That's what we need time for, dear colleagues. This is not done in one day. Because we need to ensure the safety of our borders, which today, honourable deputies, has been spoken of on more than one occasion. Let's ensure border security and we'll open the door to the European Union. Thank you, Your Honor Arsenia Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u195	Thank you, Vladimir Stanislavovich. Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk’s report Boris Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u196	Boris Tarasyuk, National Movement of Ukraine, faction “Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense”. Dear colleagues, Minister of Foreign Affairs Vladimir Gryzko has already explained the main advantages that Ukrainian citizens will enjoy when they travel to the countries of the European Union. I just want to remind you that these multiple visas will receive 10 categories of Ukrainian citizens and free visas will receive 14 categories of Ukrainian citizens. For those who receive visas for fees, the lowest level is set for all countries that use the visa regime with European Union countries. The European Integration Committee at its December 27th meeting last year recommended that the Supreme Council approve and ratify the agreement. The positive conclusion is also made by the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council. I would like to remind you that this agreement has actually been ratified by the European Union and has become effective on the part of the European Union since 1 January of this year. Thus, Ukrainian citizens are already using the simplified procedure for obtaining visas in the countries of the European Union. I would like to draw your attention, my fellow Members, to the draft law on the ratification of this agreement, to the three factions of the Committee on European Integration, namely: the Party of the Regions Evening, Shevchuk of the “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko” and Anatoly Grizzenko of “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” and I - have put forward a draft decree of the Supreme Council, which is in your hands. His registration number 1355. The purpose of this draft decision is to entrust the Cabinet of Ministers and to create a mechanism to respond to possible non-compliance by the member states of the European Union with this agreement on Ukrainian citizens. In our opinion, the adoption of the said decree and the direction of the Cabinet of Ministers will contribute to ensuring the rights of citizens of Ukraine to freedom of movement by travelling to the countries members of the European Union and thus protecting the rights and interests of our citizens in the context of the implementation of the above-mentioned agreement. This draft regulation does not require additional funding from the State Budget. And I would ask you, fellow honourable Members, to vote in favour of the ratification of both this treaty and the decision that is proposed for adoption in the context of this agreement with the European Union. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u197	Thank you, Boris Ivanovich. Respectful colleagues, in view of the fact that the two questions are related. Do we include discussion, or do we not include discussion questions? Don't we? Supported. We do not then speak from factions or from national deputies. I then put to the vote number 0012 – the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the European Association on the Simplification of Visas. Colleagues, I ask you to vote. [[13:47:50]] For 413 Thank you very much. Result: 413, decision taken. In view of this, we have made the right decision today to ratify the relevant Agreement, both on readmission and on the simplification of the simplified visa regime. [[Please show by factions]] Colleagues, the committee made 1355, it was Boris Ivanovich who made the appropriate warnings when ratifying them. The point is that it is actually a constant monitoring of the implementation of this agreement, both in one way and in another. That's the kind of propositions that came out of your mouth. The issue of the visa-free regime proposed by Ukraine is also addressed. So this is a very appropriate decision, and I would like to ask that, given that it is supported by all, 1355 votes. For reasons please write down for a moment, then order in tank armies. I'm asking for a vote on the record. Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u198	Thank you, Arsenia Petrovich. Dear colleagues, we can accept and support the proposal made by Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk, but I would then like to support Arsenija Petrovich's proposal that both ratified documents be monitored. So let's add to this draft decision, which Boris Ivanovich is proposing, besides monitoring related to the simplified visa regime, and recommend that the Cabinet of Ministers monitor especially the first ratification agreement on readmission, because the issue of readmission is much more painful for society, for the state than the second question. And then it'll be perfectly natural when we combine both of these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u199	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Belarus, please “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, Oleg Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u200	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Foreign Affairs has consulted the Committee on European Integration on these two ratification acts, and of course we support them. We also support the draft decision made by the head of the Committee on European Integration by Boris Ivanovich, and we think that today we can agree with the proposal made by colleague Martinyuk, because our citizens have suffered injustice so much that they demand justice itself, and above all from their own state. I urge everyone to vote in favour of this decree, it will work for our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u201	Matthew Valentin Grigorovich, please, the Communist Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u202	Please pass the word to Behvizu.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u203	Comrade Behiz. On, on, speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u204	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues! The law on Ukraine’s international agreements shows that if an international treaty is to be properly signed and new laws are to be adopted, they are, as a rule, given in a package. [[Part Seven, Article 9]] So the proposals made by Zarubinsky's colleague and other colleagues are absolutely right, and let's go back to this with this approach.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u205	Sharov Igor Fedorovich, “Block of Lithuania”. Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u206	No, no, no, not Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u207	Because it shows Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u208	Not Zarubinsky. Dear Arsenija Petrovich, I ask you to give the floor to the author of the decree of Shevchuk Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u209	It's already an interfractional job. That's a good thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u210	I thank Igor Fedorovich. And I apologize to your colleague Zarubinski. I mean, respectable colleagues, next. That the decree is absolutely not a requirement of the European side. This is an initiative of the Ukrainian Parliament, two committees, and, to some extent, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. This is about monitoring the implementation of the Visa Agreement. Clearly, such control is simply necessary, since we have a great deal of violence against Ukrainian citizens. And the Ukrainian side is under an obligation to control, track and respond adequately to these facts. So I think it's in our best interests.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u211	Cibenko Peter Stepanovich, Communist Party
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u212	Dear colleagues, I urge all fellow Members of Parliament to listen to the thought expressed by Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk and supported by other colleagues. Indeed, we need to put some safeguards in place so that this decision does not work in this format: we wanted it to be better, but it worked out as always. This is me because, in the context of the ratification of the readmission decree and in the circumstances where Belarus and Russia have not ratified such documents, returned citizens who have not obtained legal grounds for their stay in Western Europe appear to be citizens who are legally resident in Ukraine because they have been returned on legal grounds. This will continue to be Ukraine’s problem, not the countries from which they left. So I would ask my colleague, understanding this, to act in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u213	Dony Alexander Sergiyovich, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u214	I consider the previously approved Law on the Ratification of Treaties between Ukraine and the European Community on the Simplification of the Formulation of Vehicles, which is radically discriminatory with regard to Ukrainian citizens. We actually bribed government officials, officials and businessmen, giving them the right to a simplified regime. In addition, they were involved in political bribery by allowing journalists to do so, including the package. And we left ordinary citizens in the same situation. It seems to me that the demeaning attitude that the European embassies are now demonstrating, unfortunately, to Ukrainian citizens, they will encourage the idea that we should not go back to the situation of abolishing the visa-free regime for European citizens. It seems to me that there may be more respect for the Ukrainians in Europe. Otherwise, if we do, we alone, on the one hand, will not be put into sin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-15-m0.u215	Dear colleagues, time for discussion is over. As head of the Supreme Council, I have a lot of references from the International Rebirth Fund, the Open Ukraine Foundation, the Centre for Conversion and Foreign Policy of Ukraine, a number of issues that we have a number of issues. I think it would be right if we went to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs asking them to resolve the issue of the small border movement with the Poles and now resolve a number of issues that have arisen in connection with the expansion of the Schengen area. I know that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is actively working on this issue, so let's give them an opportunity, and we will always lay their backs on them so that Ukrainians can move freely through the European Union. There is one proposal that has been made and supported by all. She was supported by Communist colleagues and our colleagues, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense," in principle, Boris Ivanovich is also absolutely not denying what we were talking about. Thus, Decree 1355 with one appendix, after the words: “the agreement between Ukraine and the European Union on the facilitation of the formation of EU member states, the coma, and the agreement between Ukraine and the European Society for the readmission of persons”. So we're going to question appropriate monitoring, dear friends, then we're going to gather, including inviting border guards, inviting the police, and we're going to hear a real picture of how much the visa regime was simplified on the one hand, and whether or not, we need to consider changing the order of the border crossing by other citizens in Ukraine and setting up temporary maintenance centres and illegal migrants. This, I think, is going to be an important and good meeting, and we're going to help both ourselves and the authorities. Colleagues, I ask 1355 to put to the vote the Supreme Council's decree on the right of citizens of Ukraine to freedom of movement, taking into account the law that I have declared. Please vote. [[13:57:29]] For 398 We're voting brilliantly, "in favour"-398, the decision is made. So we've formed a complete set. Colleagues, we're 14 years old. We won't be able to start discussing the next question. Therefore, a break is announced, or more specifically, at lunchtime. We adjourn the morning session, the plenary session of the Supreme Council. I, my dear friends, am waiting for you tonight's planning session.
