ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u1	Let's register, colleagues. [[16:30:18]] There are 439 nationals registered in the hall. The evening plenary session is open. Colleagues, that is, brief information. I don't know if Terjochin's in the hall right now or not. As soon as the meeting is over, I apologize for delaying the opening of the evening plenary. But the committee completed 68 pages of the second reading of the bill. Unfortunately, the final committee's decision is not taken and I've signed a commission for two committees, it's a committee of economic policy and a committee of Mikli Janović Azarov to look at this table and make their own decisions. This is what we have just come to today and what, in fact, was written in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So the final, agreed option, where the decisions of the three committees are not available, is not even the decision of the Committee of Teryochin. In order to take all the proposals into account, so that we don't start a fever right now and adopt a bill that doesn't get the required number of votes, the next position is proposed by the faction leaders. Two additional committees will now be sitting and we'll go to Bill 3309-4/p tomorrow morning. The second question is the order of the day. On the agenda, we have a second issue: Bill 0916, 0917 – this is Ukraine's Sudokustvo Law. A very controversial bill, so I would suggest that we consider this bill in a second reading and send it out for a third reading. Now there's a discussion about what to consider. The bill contains 900 amendments, 300 of which need to be voted on. And if we go into the process of reviewing the second reading, then we won't be able to stop it in order to consider the anti-crisis bill. But to be fair and by the Rules, we have come to the next decision. If there's 226 votes now, we're going to look at the bill in the second reading and the transmission in the third on the system. If there are no 226 votes, today we will only undergo the economic ratifications of those relating to funding. Do you understand the position? So I'm putting a question to the vote. Come on, ask, don't rush, don't wave, please. Sign up. Mikola Komar.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u2	Conovaluku, please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u3	Please, Konovaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u4	Dear colleagues, you know, I hate to talk about it, but patience is running out. You know, if it's the goal of demonstrating the unworkable Supreme Council, it's working. I'm, you know, surprised because on September 2nd we established the agenda. Is there not enough problems in the state for Parliament to work effectively? Arsenius Petrovich, I'm surprised by your personal behavior, you disrespect today, not the Supreme Council, not the people's deputies, not the voters who put us here. [[Don't you??]] You know, if you've made a flexible statement, puffing about what you've resigned, please get up and sit in the hall and work. But I'm convinced that we really need today, you know, not to be guided by Banking's instructions, but to be able to get a normal job. So I am surprised to learn why we do not consider the issues of public health, the issues of health care, the many issues that affect voters today. We came in the morning, a disrespectful break.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u5	Peter Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u6	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that we must conclude our consideration of the outcome of the crisis. Because I was in Zaporozhye yesterday and a very disturbing situation. It touches the most powerful businesses, it's also Zaporozhye car factory, it's Zaporoztal, it's Aluminum factory, it's Dneprovestal, it's Transformative, it's Ferrosplenic, it's Titanogne. A very serious situation that poses a threat to energy as a whole. The economic security of our nation. So I'm convinced that, in the first place, we need to complete the discussion of this issue and the economy of Ukraine, i.e., the managers, the financial and banking structure should know in which direction, in which formats it will operate. Regarding ratification. I would suggest that we not consider ratification at all right now. We have not yet determined the course of the crisis, but we are committing ourselves to other nations in times of crisis to do what we do.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u7	Sergei Sass.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u8	Thank you, Arseny Petrovich. Please give the floor to Ivan Grigorovitch Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u9	Ivan Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u10	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues! The faction position is constant. We have suggested that it be necessary for our colleagues to finalize a bill that makes it impossible or minimizes the effects of the global economic crisis on Ukraine’s economy and financial system. Yes, he's not ready for the moment. Plus, he was commissioned by the Chief of the Supreme Council to be examined by two other committees of profile. Indeed, the law is unforgivable. A lot of changes. We are ready to continue our work today to consider this law. As an option, we can start looking at it tomorrow. The court system raises a great deal of questions. He was accepted in this room when there was no more Parliament when he was illegal. Therefore, we can go back to him only in the first reading. The faction position is constant. Let us first decide what a country and people need today. Then go to other laws. We are against putting this law into consideration today, on the subject of a judicial system
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u11	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u12	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Democratic part of the “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” bloc. Ladies and gentlemen, I am asking you to let us, Arsenius Petrovich, now take and wait or call where Terrochin is now, let him report, let the question go, let it be examined. We must now consider only questions that can unite the hall, only these questions. That means we have to consider the anti-crisis measures. That means we have to do ratifications. We did four yesterday. ratified very serious international agreements. I didn't see in any media, on TV, what this job was done. I urge the media today to take all the good fortunes and failures of the Supreme Council adequately. So let's do it today, ratify and accept and calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u13	It's a stake.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u14	Thank you very much. I ask you to give the floor to Alexander Stoyan, my colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u15	Alexander Stoyan, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u16	Dear Chairman, you know, Mr. Yatsenuk, I am no longer the first term in Parliament and such disrespect as you have for the deputies, there has been no. 16 hours. You are the Head of Parliament. Why didn't you come out and tell me why we've been walking for 40 minutes? Why are we walking for three weeks without realizing what is happening? And we know what's going on. The “Julia Tymoshenko Block” is afraid that there will be a funding item in this law and they want to take it down. But you said you had to do everything immediately to take the anti-crisis action. Let's take it now, even if we approve the stabilisation fund, that's the first. Secondly, let's go back to Lukash's law, to the law of Leipzig, which our political power supports, let's look at, and then let's move on. But I want to say it again. Mr. Yatsenuk, you're a young man, respect Parliament, respect your colleagues. If there are any reasons, come out and speak. Stop playing dumb. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u17	Dear colleagues, the time for discussion is over. The main thing is not to have a last term in Parliament, it's very important. What I want to say about the order of the day is once again, colleagues. It's determined by faction leaders. If someone has worked elsewhere, I am again reminded of the regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. There's a non-military organization, and there's a clear order of action. If faction leaders are in the Head of the Supreme Council and the deputy heads of the Supreme Council are also in the cabinet and have even been detained, then the Chief of the Supreme Council has officially apologized for all of them, both for his deputies and for the faction leaders, and said that the situation is as follows: there is no final decision of the committees. If there is no solution, then we cannot allow the bill to be considered. The next issue of the day’s order is very controversial. But what I'm saying here is that in order to get to it, you have to look at about 900 amendments, but in order for there to be no discussion that we have an aberration in the walls of Parliament, I'm putting it to a vote. If 226 votes go up, we're going to go to the Courtship Act, if not, we're going to look at the ratification documents. Please vote. [[16:40:39]] For 206 The decision is not taken. Colleague, quiet! [[B in m in s a l in]] Let us now move on to the consideration. Show the factions, calm down, calm down. Let's go over the ratification documents. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, colleague Lavrinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u18	Dear colleagues, we have now demonstrated new approaches to the parliamentary procedure when we have a day-to-day agenda and a second reading of the law, of course, that this may require a special decision by Parliament to start looking at it. And we've taken such an interesting approach here. That is, we must now vote on every issue, whether in the first or second reading, whether we approach or not, whether it is 226 or not, or whether we will consider it as stated in the Supreme Council Rules so that our innovations do not overturn parliamentaryism in general as a phenomenon, and do not overturn the authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u19	Dear colleagues, please. You want to make a statement, so please write down for 5 minutes to express your motives and move on to the agenda. Moses, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u20	Please hand over Kirilenka Viacheslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u21	Please, Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u22	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “Our Ukraine”. Dear colleagues! Dear voters! For eighteen days we called on Parliamentary colleagues from the “Timoshenko Block” to stop blocking the rostrum. Eighteen days later, they made such a decision, and the rostrum was unlocked. We are now witnessing how for the third time a committee of profile headed by the representative of the faction “Timoshenko Block” cannot put a table in the hall so that MPs can make informed decisions on the anti-crisis package. The same is true of the reluctance to quickly adopt anticrisis laws. That's why we call on the BUT faction to speed up the work on the anti-crisis bill, not to detain Parliament and the entire real economy, because they delay time and solve both economic and political crises.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u23	Comrade Bondarenko, could I ask you not to yell? Thank you. Evening.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u24	Evening, Party of Regions. I give the floor to Deputy Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u25	Dear colleagues, what can I tell you? You heard yesterday how friendly you voted for the anti-crisis action and said that it was absolutely necessary for Ukraine, working at night, the committee worked the day, unknown, we should have submitted these measures. Today something is being termed, perhaps something is being carried there, something has not been arranged, perhaps Ukraine is no longer in need of anti - crisis measures. But I want to support my colleague Lavrinovich, who said, if we are going to go on such a pattern right now, that we should vote that we don't have to vote, then please put the ratification to a vote, or let's do so, Mr. Yatsenuk, establish the agenda and follow the agenda. Don't manipulate, I emphasize again, the Supreme Council, you're the speaker, not the Chief of the Supreme Council, go after the project that we approved, the draft work of Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u26	Corge, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u27	Please pass the word to Sergio Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u28	Sergey Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u29	Sobolev, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! A unique event has now taken place: during the President's decree to dissolve Parliament's previous call, Parliament has tried to vote on two bills that do not correspond to the Constitution of Ukraine or to the spirit of legality in Ukraine. 35 members of the presidential faction led by Viacheslav Kirilenko supported the Party of Regions in an attempt to overthrow the Supreme Court of Ukraine and the entire judicial system. And this is what happens when the country is in a global financial crisis. That's why our faction thinks the only option now is to send everyone to the committee and tomorrow morning to pass the only agreed bill that will allow them to come out of the financial crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u30	Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u31	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose not to consider today and in general, until we decide on the anti-crisis measures, the ratification of international agreements. Why? And because we haven't yet figured out which direction our activities are -- they're public or they're secret. And here, when I looked at, let's say, the issue of ratification, this is all about sharing and protecting classified information, classified information. It's in a crisis situation that's very serious, and we can't look at it this way until we define certain, so let's say, the directions today and the ways that we're going to go out of the crisis that we're going to have to, let's say, hide in which directions, so let's say, act together with which states and so on. I suggest you, your honor, understand that this is a state, not a village. And in this case, we have to first make a decision that has to do with anti-crisis action and only then consider it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u32	You don't have to touch the village. Catherine Timofievna Vashchuk
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u33	It's true, Arsenia Petrovich. Dear colleagues, the Supreme Council has just begun to work more or less constructively. We don't need such big debates and arguments right now on the eve of making very responsible decisions, to some extent contributing to Ukraine. Today, the committee worked until 3 p.m., just technically, a lot of things we haven't been able to do. And such a law will be passed, studied. The Finance and Banking Committee has also shown a desire to consider and has such a commission. But Arsenija Petrovich, in order not to be held hostage to the formation of the day-to-day faction council, we have a mass of unadopted laws to prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u34	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u35	Here's the deal. We have a lot of very strong unadopted laws and we can all view them as anti-crisis because they relate to economics and production. Therefore, the daily routine is not to be narrowed down but to be prepared much wider so that we can work as long as we are not prepared for some radical and very important laws. Others we can accept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u36	Dear colleagues, once again, I am back on the adoption of a bill to prevent the consequences of the financial crisis. The bill was drafted by the 68 - page committee. There is no final decision because the committee of Teryochin, Tsakchenka, and Azarova is working. If you do so to overthrow the bill, you have to bring it into the hall right now, and it's going to be successful. If it is necessary to make a decision, and this decision has really helped the state and people out of the crisis, by tomorrow morning they are working again in the same difficult mode that they were working today — practically overnight and all day long. Second, when it comes to speaking to individual colleagues. If individual colleagues want to raise their own discounted rating at the expense of others, this is not the best place to do it: in the Supreme Council. Please, there are other places: press points and everything. I suggest we move on to the agenda: 0069 - ratification. After the ratifications made by Peter Mikolaiovich and denied, please discuss the bill. Before considering the bill, Viacheslav Anatoliyovich, did you have a replica, do you need to give a replica or not? It's not necessary. The second question. After the ratifications, I propose a reduced procedure. Is it accepted? I'll bet you a reduced vote. [[16:50:54]] For 230 Thank you. Decision taken. I'm announcing Bill 0069. Please, Natalia Eugene Boycun.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u37	Five minutes, colleagues. In view of the changes we have made in the orderliness of the subject, the reporters will be arriving for five minutes. . In the meantime, Hanna Mikolayevna asks for her words. Please, one minute. Turn on Hanni Mikolayovni from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u38	My fellow Members, have you seen any Parliament in the world where over 400 deputies are waiting for one clerical office just because the Head of Parliament cannot provide normal work and that the Cabinet of Ministers has absolutely nothing to do with the Ukrainian Parliament? I think this is shameful, and I think that this practice makes us think seriously about changing the senior head of Parliament again.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u39	Hooray, comrades! I support this idea, Hanna Mikolayevna. As a national MP, I ask you to make a decision, to make a deal with my faction that I can't make a deal with for a month, release this Parliamentary Head to the end! You can have this place, you can have order. Please, Boycun, report. Natalia Eugenyevna, I wanted to start with this question: would you please say, please, this is normal, that the Deputy Minister of Economics is waiting for, well, not 400 deputies, here, God willing, 250, but God be with him? Is that a normal thing? Tell me, are you a government official, did I work in government, did you work in government? Well, I'm sorry, that's not how it's done! Well, we have degraded completely as a public service, as a power! That's what's going on, people! That's what I'm Where else should you be invited to come on time? Who Should Invite? Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u40	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, honourable deputies! I'm sorry. There was a warning. I work at the Lviv Square, so as soon as I was informed, I met you very quickly. I'm so sorry, everything. The charges are accepted. Even one MP should not wait for any government representative. Believe me, we have great respect for the Supreme Council. Excuse me again! Dear National Deputies! The draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Albania on trade and economic cooperation has been developed with a view to implementing the internal procedures necessary for the entry into force of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Albania on trade and economic cooperation. In accordance with the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts, the treaty is subject to ratification by the Supreme Council of Ukraine through the adoption of the law on ratification. The adoption of the Act is a necessary prerequisite for the entry into force of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Albania on trade and economic cooperation, which will form the legal basis for stable trade and economic cooperation. This agreement strengthens the provision by the contracting parties of one of the most favourable regimes on exports and imports of goods originating in the countries of the parties in accordance with the WTO principles. Each of the contracting parties will provide goods originating in the territory of one of the contracting parties or assigned to the territory of another contracting party with a non-discriminatory regime regarding the use of quantitative restrictions and the granting of licences. The adoption of the law will contribute to the development of bilateral economic relations, the revitalization of the business circles of both countries through the exchange of visits by delegations and businessmen, the organization of fairs, and the holding of exhibitions. Please support the draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Agreement.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u41	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u42	Please support the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Albania on Trade-Economic Cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u43	Please sit down. Oleg Grigorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u44	Ladies and gentlemen, there is a postulate in the theory of diplomacy: if a diplomat is one minute late, he is forever late for life. Let's not be late. The Committee on Foreign Affairs reviewed the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Albania on trade and economic cooperation and made a recommendation decision to ask the Supreme Council to approve this international agreement. The reporter reported. There's all the support we need. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council also considers it appropriate to ratify this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u45	Two in, two in. Eugene Kirilchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u46	Thank you. Eugene Kirilchuk, faction of the Timoshenko Yulia Block. Although Albania and a small country are known to buy valuable goods in Ukraine. I believe that if we are not to have a big discussion, we need to support this agreement.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u47	Andrew Parubius.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u48	Papuy Andry, faction "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense". After a long discussion, the committee unanimously supported this bill, and the faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” supports the ratification of this project, so we urge everyone in the Hall to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u49	Colleagues, let's move on to the voting procedure. I am betting on a vote on the adoption on the basis and the whole of Bill 0069 of the Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Albania – giving consent to the obligations of the international treaty. Please vote. Attention, colleagues, we have a vote. Enough votes, enough, colleagues. [[17:03:13]] To - 228. Decision taken. Bill accepted. The factions, please show me. Region Party – 1, Yulia Block Timoshenko – 154, "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" – 53, Communists – 0, "Block of Lithuania" – 20. Next bill, 0073. Please come to the rostrum. Come out, come out, I don't know you by name, just imagine who you are. There's a lot of you in Kabmin. So, what's the bill, number? 0076, Edward Ivanovich? 0073, please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u50	Thank you. Dear Arseny Petrovich! Dear National Deputies! Let me start my speech with gratitude to all the National Deputies for supporting the 2008-2012 National Space Science and Technology Programme and to assure you that the people of the country's missile and space sector will continue to make every effort to ensure that the authority of our high-tech state is at a worthy level in the world. This is confirmed by your consideration of the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Framework Agreement between Ukraine and the European Space Agency on Cooperation in the Use of Space for Peaceful Purposes. This agreement, signed on January 25, 2008, is the first of three steps to Ukraine’s accession to the European Space Agency and has an extremely important political significance. Like all European Space Agency nations, Ukraine has recognized as an important and powerful participant in space activities in Europe and supported the signing of this agreement by the European community. The advance to this agreement was quite a long one. The first step on this path is recognition in the third year of the White Paper of European space policy headed by the European Commission, that Ukraine is a powerful player in European space. After that, agreements were prepared and signed on cooperation with the French space agency, on participation in the Galileo project. Ukraine has become a participant in a number of European projects, including seven scientific projects, and is involved in the creation of a small European Vega missile. Our cooperation is not a raw sector, it's a high-tech sector. Over the course of five years, a number of institutions in the field led by the Scientific Research Institute of Architecture have been working to create a European Collegiate. This is true of the flexible printing of a microcable for colloquial communication connections. These works are scheduled for 2015. A number of scientific conferences, symposiums, exhibitions of space technology in European countries have been held by the National Space Agency, the International Seminar on Space Law under the auspices of the United Nations, attended by more than 22 countries and a number of institutions. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u51	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u52	All of this contributed to the preparation of the named agreement between Ukraine and the European Space Agency. Honourable National Deputies, the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement for the Purpose of Acquisition, will enable joint action and initiatives with the European side, which have mutual interest in scientific and technological, industrial, innovative activities that meet the national interests of Ukraine. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u53	Please sit down. According to Vladimir Mikolaiovich, Evening. Please, Vladimir Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u54	Dear Head, honourable national deputies, the bill that you are proposing is extremely important for Ukraine because the ratification of the treaty will create a legal basis for cooperation between Ukraine and the European Space Agency and its members in the field of exploration and the use of space for peaceful purposes. The agreement defines a list of areas of cooperation between the parties: space science, solar system research, environmental monitoring, disaster prevention, telecommunications, satellite navigation, launch rockets, etc. The agreement provides for a mechanism for its implementation, as well as principles for the exchange of information and data that regulate the issues of privileges and immunities, exchange of staff, dispute resolution and responsibility. The agreement is a framework, so in each case special implementation agreements will be made. In the framework of cooperation, the agreement provides an opportunity to exchange experts, to hold joint conferences, seminars, to facilitate the exchange of information and the joint implementation of international space projects that will contribute to the development of the space sphere in Ukraine, and to raise its status as a space State, in the broad context of the adoption of the bill, will contribute to greater scientific and technical cooperation between Ukraine and the European Union. The Committee on European Integration considers it appropriate to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the approval of the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the European Space Agency on cooperation in the use of space for peaceful purposes. The committee's decision is in line with the conclusion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u55	Thank you. Two-for-two-again. Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u56	Vladimir Yavorowski, "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko", city of Kirovograd. The Yulia Timoshenko bloc, in its entirety, is voting in favour of ratifying this agreement, especially since it has asked the Supreme Council very much to support this bill of mayor of Kiev, Mr. Chernewicki, the space program to support it, he likes it very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u57	Ivan Stojko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u58	Thank you. The “Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense” faction also supports the bill. He is fully in favor of Ukrainian interests and so I ask our Chamber of All Deputies to support this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u59	Anna Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u60	A party of regions has always supported all innovation projects, all projects that benefit Ukraine. And this time it will also support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u61	Colleagues, are voting on Bill 0076, draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the European Space Agency on Cooperation in the Use of Space for Peaceful Purposes. Colleagues, please vote in favour of consenting to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a basis and as a whole. Vote. [[17:10:56]] For 380 Personal “thank you” Hanni Mikolayevny for space. 0073, Shandra Volodymir Mikolaiovich, please. You see, things began to rectify after the destructive criticism of Parliament’s leadership and government officials appeared. Thank you, Vladimir Mikolaiovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u62	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! International experience has shown that the elimination of the consequences of emergencies, both natural and technological, often requires the mobilization of not only one country but also the involvement of other nations. The proposed ratification agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Uzbekistan sets out the principles, forms and mechanisms for cooperation in the field of emergency prevention and the elimination of the consequences of technological and natural emergencies. The agreement is aimed at implementing the following tasks: Providing mutual assistance in dealing with the consequences of emergencies; communication between the competent authorities of the parties; Organization of conferences and training visits by experts; research programmes and expert training programmes, including exchange of teachers from relevant educational institutions and specialists who are trained at the request of one party; Joint planning, development and implementation of scientific research programmes; the exchange of information as well as technology in the field of emergency prevention and the elimination of their consequences. Ratification of this agreement will enhance the effectiveness of dealing with life - threatening issues, health, property, or environment, the consequences of a natural disaster, a technological accident, or an international disaster. The bill is considered on a profile committee and is recommended for approval by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u63	Thank you, Vladimir Mikolaiovich. Please sit down. Oleg Grigorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u64	The Committee on Foreign Affairs has considered the bill and considers it to be very important, indeed, to determine the principles, forms and mechanisms of productive cooperation in the field of prevention of emergencies and the elimination of the consequences of technological and natural emergencies. The adoption of this law and its implementation will not require additional costs from the State Budget of Ukraine. The Chief Scientific and Expert Administration considers it possible to ratify the Agreement. Please support the committee's recommendation decision to ratify this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u65	Thank you, Oleg Grigorovich. Two in, two in. Crnowil Taras Viacheslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u66	Dear colleagues, there has been enough experience between Ukraine and Uzbekistan in the old days when our emergency services have been working together within the Union. Today this experience can be used. We can do the right things for both countries. There is also mutual assistance in the case of environmental threats, which we also have a lot in common and therefore have a request from the committee, it is absolutely beneficial for Ukraine on a mutually beneficial framework signed by the Agreement, a request from the committee to support the ratification of this treaty.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u67	Anatoly Matvienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u68	The Sobor Party, the faction "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense". I think that the natural cataclysms and technological challenges that we face because of the wear and tear of ground and underground communications require a serious conversation from the Supreme Council at all, in terms of how we can predict, not to allow, or even more, to eliminate the possible consequences. I think it's an important step towards uniting efforts with other states, and that's why the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" suggests ratifying. But at the same time, we stress that we have to plan this subject separately, obviously, to discuss it more comprehensively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u69	Colleagues, vote on acceptance as a basis and as a whole the Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers and the Government of the Republic of Uzbekistan, Bill No. 0073. Please vote. [[17:16:14]] For 372 You see, the employee left, the colleagues left. 0075, Natalie Eugene, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u70	Dear Arsenia Petrovich! Dear National Deputies! The draft law is designed to implement the internal procedures necessary to establish the validity of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Paraguay on trade and economic cooperation. It was signed on February 12, 2008 in Kiev. On the Ukrainian side, it was signed by the Minister of Economy, Bogdan Danilishin, from Paraguay’s Foreign Minister, Paraguay Ramirez. In accordance with the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts, the treaty is subject to ratification by the Supreme Council of Ukraine through the adoption of the law on ratification. The adoption of the Act is a necessary prerequisite for the validity of this Agreement, which provides for the development of trade and economic cooperation between the two States on the basis of equality and mutual benefit. Implementation on a mutual basis of the regime of greatest support in all matters of trade and economic co-operation following the entry into WTO. Giving, promoting the participation of Ukrainian and Paraguayan companies in performances, presentations that take place in the territory of the States of the Contracting Parties. The adoption of the law will allow the status of the agreement to be implemented, and this will in turn contribute to the development of bilateral economic cooperation, including through the development and exchange of technical documentation, technology, other intellectual property products, the provision of technical services through exchange or training of specialists. The agreement also provides for the creation of a joint intergovernmental commission of economic, industrial and technical cooperation. The implementation of this law will not require additional expenditure from the state budget. Once the agreement has been ratified, the impact on the expenditure may only be achieved when meetings of a bilateral intergovernmental commission on economic cooperation are held. This will be done at the expense of the budget programme to ensure bilateral cooperation between Ukraine and foreign states and international organizations. Please support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u71	Thank you, please sit down. Oleg Grigorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u72	The Committee on Foreign Affairs has also considered this framework document and requests the Supreme Council to ratify the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Paraguay on trade and economic cooperation. I think it's very important for Ukraine to expand external markets, including with countries in South America such as Brazil, Paraguay, Uruguay, where, by the way, a large Ukrainian community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u73	Thank you. Colleagues, two-for-two-against, are there desires? You won't? Then let's move on to the voting procedure. I'm betting on a vote on acceptance as a basis and in general bill 0075, granting consent to an agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Paraguay. Please vote. [[17:20:05]] For 235 Thank you, colleagues. Parliament works, works as a Swiss watch in the Ukrainian Corps. 0079 -- pass, next bill. This is the ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan. Mikola Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u74	Deputy Head of the Galactica Security Service. Dear Head, honourable deputies! You have before you a draft Ukrainian law ratifying the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers and the Government of Kazakhstan on mutual protection of classified information. The specified international agreement is designed to carry out the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine with the aim of creating legal frameworks to enhance cooperation between Ukraine and Kazakhstan in the areas of defence, economics, science and technology, external relations of state security and the protection of the rule of law. The agreement was signed on May 30, 2005. The agreement is fully in line with international practice. In accordance with the provisions of the Ukrainian State Secret Act, the agreement to enter into force is subject to ratification by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The draft Ukrainian law on the ratification of the said international agreement was accepted without notice. According to the Ukrainian Ministry of Justice, the draft law is consistent with the Constitution. There is no expenditure from the State budget on the implementation of this law and agreement. Thus, the agreement after it became effective could enhance the effectiveness of Ukraine’s mutually beneficial cooperation with the Republic of Kazakhstan. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u75	Thank you. Please sit down. Oleg Grigorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u76	The Committee on Foreign Affairs has carefully considered the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Kazakhstan on Mutual Protection of Secret Information. And he believes that this ratification has indeed become necessary to create the legal framework for the protection of classified information between the parties in the course of political, economic, military, scientific and technical cooperation within the framework of the important contracts that are growing between our two states. He who owns the information owns the world. This is even more important today. No additional spending is foreseen from the state budget because it's a bill. The main Science and Export Authority supports ratification by believing that it will meet the national interests of Ukraine. The National Security and Defence Committee also recommends ratifying the treaty. Please support the committee's recommendation decision to ratify this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u77	Thank you. Two in, two in. He's stoned.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u78	Kamchatny, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko”, Kharkivščina. Of course, the “Julia Timoshenko Block” will support this bill, because it is important for us to continue to deepen our relations and strengthen our relations with the Kazakh people, including in relation to the secret exchange of information. But we do have a question for a representative of the Ukrainian Security Service. Is it time for you to apologize to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, perhaps even in your relationship with Kazakhstan, there was some treason on the part of the Prime Minister of Ukraine in which you accused her? When do you apologize for these baseless accusations of the Ukrainian government's betrayal of Ukraine's interests? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u79	Thank you, colleagues. We don't have the right questions, the answer is the shorter procedure. We move to the vote on Bill No. 0079 on the adoption as a basis and in the whole of the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers and the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan. Please support the Cabinet of Ministers and Kazakhstan. [[17:25:01]] For 240 My colleagues, thank you. Please show by factions. Region Party – 6, "Timoshenko Yulia Block" – 153 – I am not cooperating, "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" – 61, Communists – 0, "Litvina Block – 20. Thank you, colleagues. Next bill 0081. Please, Mikola Mikolaiovich. Mikola Mikolaiovich, let's go to 0078 -- Agreement with Pakistan, and then we'll go to the next deal.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u80	Ladies and gentlemen, you have before you the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan on mutual protection of classified information. The specified international agreement is designed to carry out the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine with the aim of creating legal frameworks to strengthen cooperation between Ukraine and Pakistan in the area of national security and the protection of the rule of law along the lines of counter-terrorism, drug trafficking, international crime groups and military and technical cooperation. The agreement was signed in November 2006. The agreement is fully in line with international practice, ensuring a purely equitable, partnership-like relationship between the parties obliged to take the necessary measures to protect the information received or jointly created in the course of secret information cooperation. The draft Ukrainian law on the ratification of the said international agreement was accepted without notice. According to the Ukrainian Ministry of Justice, the draft law is consistent with the Constitution of Ukraine. There is no expenditure from the State budget on the implementation of this law and agreement. In this way, the agreement after it becomes effective will contribute to enhancing the effectiveness of Ukraine's mutually beneficial cooperation with the Islamic Republic of Pakistan. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u81	Thank you. Please sit down. Oleg Grigorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u82	The Committee on Foreign Affairs has also considered carefully the draft Law 0078 on the ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ukraine and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan on mutual protection of classified information and considers that such ratification is necessary to create legal principles for the protection of classified information and to promote political, economic, military, scientific and technical cooperation. The State budget can't bear any extra expenses. The main scientific and expert office supports ratification, considering it to be an appropriate national interest of Ukraine. Please support the committee's recommendation decision in foreign matters on the ratification of this agreement.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u83	Thank you, Oleg Grigorovich. Colleagues, no wishes two "for, two "against"? Is it? Please sign up. He's stoned.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u84	Kamchatny, "Julia Tymoshenko Block", Kharkushina. Certainly, the issue of the exchange of classified information between Ukraine and Pakistan is extremely important, and when we vote with responsibility, we will address this issue. But the second time I'm talking to this Mr. Galambi. I'm an officer of the Ukrainian Security Service in stock, formerly. As an officer, I call you. If you're an officer, apologize to the Prime Minister for asking you five minutes ago. This is a disgrace to you as an officer.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u85	Thank you, fellow Kamchatny. Let's move on to the voting procedure. Dear colleagues, vote on the adoption as a basis and in the whole of the bill 0078 – ratification of the agreement between the Kabmin and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan. Vote please, colleagues. Stop the voting! [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm going to put the question to the vote again. I'm sorry. And you vote, and then you come into my office, and then we'll do everything. All right, dear friends? Colleagues! I'll meet you in my office: Comrade Kamchatny, deputy head of the Security Service, our colleague Galamba, and all the officers of the U.S.S.A. are active, those who were, and those who will be. I ask you to vote for the bill. Ivan Grigorovich! [[B in m in s a l in]] Ivan Grigorovich! I'm asking you, I'm putting a bill to the vote. I'm betting on the vote on Bill 0078. Please vote. Pakistan has nothing to do with this. Please vote. And then you'll come into my office. [[17:30:40]] For-103 The decision is not taken. Oh, my God! Come on, God, mind! Oleg Grigorovich, turn it on. Well, you're not in your place. You want words, get up. Please, on the basis of the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u86	Dear colleagues, my dear BJTs, “regionals” and “Ukrainens”! We're not at the opera theater with you, we're with you at the highest authority in Ukraine. What will the Islamic world say and think about us, Pakistan, where we're looking for our trading and economic partners, if today's information is about this scandal, is not provoked? I urge you not all to play with the great nations of the world, because we also need to ratify our bills in their parliament. I was in Turkey, and I was working very hard to ratify six bills by the Turkish Parliament. Please go back and take this bill seriously.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u87	Dear colleagues! Andrew Anatolyovich, I know you as a wise man. As the former Foreign Minister, I ask – then we will find out all the relationships – but the non-ratification of this act will have very serious consequences. That's all I'm saying. I ask my colleagues to return to the vote. Yes, Andrew Anatolyovich. Turn on Andrea Anatoliovich Cosemyakina’s microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u88	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues! Oleg Grigorovich, we will vote in favour of this bill just because you asked us to. Today, it represents the Ukrainian Security Service, at which time Mr. We'd like to see this man in the rostrum at least once. Today Mr. Galamba came, a man who is really quite important, who is leading the entire counter-intelligence in Ukraine. You know, this counterintelligence -- it works against spies. And including them, this unit, this unit has been developing and testing information about the so-called spy scandal with the Prime Minister. We'd like to hear some words, they're not there. They're gone and they're gone. That's bad. That is why our political power, for example, is leading us in this situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u89	Dear Andriy Anatolyovich, I think we will definitely consider this in a separate way. I'm informing you that I'm performing whose duties as head of the Security Service are in Donetsk for the JCC. There is a general meeting of your colleagues, Andriy Anatoliyovich, a general meeting. So I ask you to vote back on the issue of ratification. Colleagues, I ask you to vote. [[17:34:13]] For 234 I am now voting on the adoption as a basis and as a whole of Bill 0078. Please vote. [[17:34:35]] For 237 Thank you personally, Andri Anatoliyovich, to you and all your fellow deputies. Let's go to the next bill, 0081. Mikola Mikolaiovich, please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u90	Ladies and gentlemen, the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Kingdom of Norway on the Protection of Information with Limited Access. An international agreement has been drawn up to carry out the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine since 16 December 2004 with the aim of creating legal rules for the exchange of information with limited access in the course of cooperation between Ukraine and Norway. The agreement was signed in September 2006. The agreement ensures a purely equitable partnership between the parties, obliges them to take the necessary steps to protect the information they have received or are jointly created in the course of their limited-access cooperation. The draft Ukrainian law on the ratification of the said international agreement was accepted without notice. According to the Minist draft, the law is in line with the Constitution of Ukraine, and the State budget for the implementation of this law is not foreseen. The ratification of the agreement does not entail the adoption of new or amending existing legislation in Ukraine. Thus, the agreement after it has become effective will contribute to enhancing the effectiveness of Ukraine’s mutually beneficial cooperation with the Kingdom of Norway. Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u91	Thank you, Mikolayovich. Oleg Grigorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u92	The Committee on Foreign Affairs reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam on Mutual Protection of Secret Information, document 0082. The ratification of this agreement is also due to the need to create legal principles for the protection of information that is exchanged between the parties in the course of political, economic, military, scientific and technical cooperation. The state budget does not bear any additional costs. The main science-expert management supports ratification as one that suits national interests. The National Security and Defence Committee also recommends that the Supreme Council ratify the treaty. Please support the committee's recommendation decision in foreign matters and ratify this agreement.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u93	Thank you. Colleagues, shall we proceed to the vote? Two "for", two "against". Let's sign up. Bondarenko Volodymir.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u94	Dear colleagues, distinguished Arsenija Petrovich and distinguished listeners! The incident that has just taken place in the voting room should all of us understand the same thing: we are not opposed to ratifying any of the acts that are being proposed today. This is a specific situation that has arisen as a result of the fact that these projects are reported by a person who is a substitute for the executive headship of the BSS and who has apparently developed or led the operation by discrediting the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Yulia Timoshenko. So the reaction from our faction in the hall is absolutely negative for its appearance in this rostrum. And that's why we don't mind working with Pakistan. We are opposed to people who hold high rank as officers dishonoring their officer’s honor by developing such discrediting materials. So that we don't go back to 37 in Ukraine, so that the image of Barry doesn't pop up on the Supreme Council stand and stuff. So the question was asked. I made this explanation consciously, knowing that some did not understand why the vote was made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u95	Taras Chernobyl, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u96	Ladies and gentlemen, I would be very grateful if we could take away from the subject of international ratification policy a completely internal policy. I just need to read international contracts. This agreement clearly sets out the procedure. What are these terrible secrets that we share? Any political stuff, anything else? No, we exchange information on criminal matters. And this is confidential information. It's written for that. We exchange information where interstates prepare contracts, confidential information goes. If it comes out, the losses will be for both sides, including Ukraine. We exchange previous plans for visits, for the safety of those who, for example, take part in visits, and for the vast number of other things. This law does not even define the circle of things. There are topics that in one country and in another are defined as confidential or classified information. And it's in the law that the contract provides for how information is transmitted, which persons are directly involved, how they are eventually marked with classified envelopes. How can we turn all of this into politics and demean it somewhere in an international relationship? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u97	Thank you, colleagues. Oleg Grigorovich, I would like to remind you once again that this is about ratifying the agreement with Norway, 0081. Colleagues, the bill is based on a total of 0081 ratifications of the agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Kingdom of Norway. Please vote. [[17:41:13]] To 239. Please show by factions. Region Party 3, Timoshenko Yulia Block - 154, Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense 62, Communists - 0, Litvina Block - 20. 0082, please. Mikolo Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u98	Ladies and gentlemen, you have before you the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam on the mutual protection of classified information. An international agreement has been drawn up to carry out the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine since June 12, 2000. The agreement was signed on October 21, 2005. The agreement is fully consistent with international practice, ensures a purely equitable partnership between the parties, commits to taking the necessary measures to protect the information received or jointly created in the course of secret cooperation. The draft Ukrainian law on the ratification of the said international treaty was accepted without notice. According to Minyutst, the draft law is consistent with the Constitution of Ukraine. The cost of the State budget for the implementation of this law is not foreseen. Ratification of the agreement does not entail the adoption of new or amending existing legislative acts. Thus, the agreement after it becomes effective will contribute to improving the effectiveness of mutually beneficial cooperation between Ukraine and the Republic of Vietnam. Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u99	Oleg Grigorovich. Please. You have already reported to Vietnam, so if possible, briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u100	I've reported this agreement, but I want to make it clear to the heads of government that this treaty, like many others, has been going through the ratification procedure for 3.5 years. And there are agreements waiting for ratification after six years. In a normal state, that's not normal. Let's put order in our contractual practice. The Committee on Foreign Affairs requests the Supreme Council to make a ratification decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u101	Thank you. Colleagues, do you have a desire to express yourself? None. I am betting on a vote on acceptance as a basis and in general on Bill 0088, ratifications of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam. Please vote. [[17:44:05]] For 237 Decision taken. Thank you. And the last bill. Please, Mikola Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u102	Ladies and gentlemen, you have before you the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Albania on Mutual Protection of Secret Information. An international agreement has been drawn up to carry out the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine since March 18, 2003. The agreement was signed on February 5, 2008. The agreement is fully in line with international practice, ensuring a purely equitable partnership between the parties. The draft Ukrainian law on the ratification of the said international agreement was accepted without notice. According to the Miniust, the draft law is consistent with the Constitution of Ukraine. The government budget expenditure does not require the implementation of the law. The ratification of the agreement does not entail the adoption of new or amending existing legislation in Ukraine. Thus, the agreement after it becomes effective will contribute to improving the effectiveness of Ukraine’s mutually beneficial cooperation with the Republic of Albania. Thank you for your attention. I'd like some backup.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u103	Oleg Grigorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u104	The Committee on Foreign Affairs has also considered this agreement, and it basically supports the positions presented by the rapporteur. But we should say that we have a professional discussion and that there will never be any comments from the Committee on Foreign Affairs. What's important is that this agreement is a framework, that it's signed with a country that will soon become important to us as a partner, though a small country, as it was said here. The state budget will not bear any extra burden. The Science Export Authority believes that it is in the interests of the national interests of Ukraine. The National Security and Defence Committee also supports the ratification of this agreement. Please support the committee's recommendation decision and ratify the agreement with Albania.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u105	Colleagues, are there two "for", two "against"? You don't? Yes, colleagues, please, we'll vote now. Ask two “for”, two “against”, let's write it down. Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u106	Please pass the word to Yuri Prokopczuk, deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u107	Please, the word Prokopchuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u108	My fellow Members, of course, all the bills, we're still important, we'll support them, but I apologize for having to announce in other questions what horrors are happening in our country and with energy that was once privatized and sold into someone else's hands. I say, literally a few hours ago, Koryatsky District Hospital was shut down from electricity. Now there are nine newborns, four people in a state of emergency and, of course, the leadership of the district and district administration, it's like a crime against the territorial community and against Ukraine in general. From this rostrum I make a request to the Attorney General and to the entire prosecutor's office, to make a proper assessment and accordingly to bring to justice those responsible. The people are innocent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u109	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u110	Turn on the light at the Korean district hospital immediately. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u111	Vladimir Alexanderovich, is there anything you want to say? Turn on the microphone to Javorowski and Kamchatny’s colleagues. Please don't worry, colleagues, we have plenty of time.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u112	Arsenius Petrovich, I love your humor. Perhaps no one likes it as much as I do. Yeah, we're clear here. I just wanted to remind you that Albania is really, really a very nice and showy state. Look at them. It would seem, well, a poor country, with their Cedenbal there, if I'm not mistaken. There were more monuments than Lenin. But for today. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yeah, yeah, it's Mongolia, yeah. Because of this, I am leading them to what they are today. There's no difference between them. But to this day they have long been in the European Union. They are actually already in NATO today. And this is because they actually have monolithic power, unlike us, and because of that, they are now accepted into all European structures. And we support this ratification because the Prime Minister was not in Albania and because I think Mr. Galamba was not investigating Albania on the Prime Minister's national treachery.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u113	Are you stoned too? Turn on Kamchatny's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u114	Thank you, Arsenia Petrovich. For some reason the button didn't work, although there had to be two "for" lights up, I pressed it. I won't mention Mr. Galambu, let him calm down, enough with his last name. I just want to talk about something else. I am the leader of the “Friendship” Group between Ukraine and Albania. I've been to this country and I want to urge everyone to vote in favour. This is really a small framework agreement, but I would like to draw the attention of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the fact that the tremendous potential is the development of our relations with Albania, and today there is not even our embassy in Albania. These functions are performed by the Embassy in Greece, Mr. This has to be done extremely quickly, there are many positive and promising things and themes in developing relations with Albania. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-30-m1.u115	Thank you, colleagues. The discussion is over. I am betting on a vote on acceptance as a basis and in general on Bill 0084, granting consent to be bound by an international treaty, namely: an agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Albania. Please vote. [[17:51:14]] For 237 Decision taken. We have an extremely active three factions today, and I would also like to thank the Lithuanian Block, our Ukraine-National Self-Defense and the Timoshenko Yulia Block for the fact that all the acts of legislation have been passed through the activities of these three factions. Now, colleagues, pay attention! I just had a few phone calls with the committee heads, the last one with Teryohin. So there's a comparative table for a bill by the President of Ukraine to deal with the consequences of the global financial crisis. Tomorrow at 9 a.m., the final meeting of the committee. At 9: 30 a.m., I invite the heads of three committees, factions and government. I would like to point out to the Ukrainian national deputies who want to work, but sometimes Parliamentary meetings are not open in time. We're going to open at the 10th meeting and we're going to have to work with faction leaders for an hour on the agreed solution. So, the table is ready, the committee meeting will be tomorrow at 9:30 a.m., and I have a meeting of factions and government leaders and committee heads, and we're opening meetings at 10:00 with an hour off, and we're going to be looking at the first presidential bill. Thank you. I declare a closed plenary session.
