ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:04]] Reported in the 405 National Deputies Session Hall, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear National Deputies! Let everyone on your behalf welcome to Santa Claus. Wishing to all, especially children, for health, happiness, faith, and victory. At the same time, the esteemed colleagues who are currently in the Ukrainian House for the children’s literature exhibition, which is published by the Ukrainian publications, can be purchased and handed over to children’s homes. I'd like to do that during a break. Let me also welcome on your behalf the birthday of the National Deputy of Ukraine Mikola Olegovich Schmidt. And wish him all kinds of good things. [[Applause]] Dear National Deputies! I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary meetings on 18 December 2008. There were 13 day - to - day issues, six of them bills, and 82 draft regulations. As a result, six laws and 79 regulations were passed. The consideration of the six bills has been postponed. Dear National Deputies! According to article 25 of the Rules, on Friday 30 minutes are taken to make inquiries. Allow me to announce the parliamentary questions that have come. Requested by the Ukrainian National Deputies: Vasil Gretzak to the President of Ukraine on the credibility of the existence in the higher levels of the Ukrainian State administration of a criminal group whose activities are aimed at causing significant losses to the State budget of Ukraine by lobbying the smuggling of excise stamps for gorillas and tobacco products and by misleading the President of Ukraine and members of the ORP of Ukraine in the adoption of the decision of the ORP of Ukraine "On measures to improve state control in the field of the production of forms of securities and documents of strict reporting, the development and production of holographic protective elements, documents and certain types of goods" since 07 November 2008 and the Presidential Decree of Ukraine dated 18 November 2008 No. 1054-38 T/2008 will result in significant losses of the State budget. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:04:25]] For 313 Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:04:46]] For 323 Decision taken. Oleg Shevchuk to the President of Ukraine on the irregularity of the issuance of Decree No. 523 of 9 June 2008 on the amendment of Presidential Decree No. 1871, on the development of social dialogue in Ukraine. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:05:24]] For 328 Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:05:44]] For 325 Decision taken. Oksana Bilozer to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the reasons for the opposition to the Supreme Council of Ukraine's review of Ukraine's draft Ukrainian Act on State regulation of gambling activities, resulting in the uncontrolled expansion of the gaming business, the emergence of Ukrainian citizens' dependence on the game. Valentina Matvieva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for a formal review of the parliamentary appeal regarding the financing of the urgent needs of the city of Cors Chernigiv. Grigory Smituha to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the terms and conditions of the International Monetary Fund's loan tranche to Ukraine. Edward Prutnik of the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Agriculture Policy of Ukraine, Minister of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine, Head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine, Head of the State Chamber of Alcohol and Alcoholic Industry, Director-General of the Chernigian Regional State Association for the Verification of the Facts set out in the address of the labour group of the state-owned enterprise Kriskovsky Spirit Plant of the Korop region of Montenegro, and the use of appropriate measures. [[The "Ukrispirt" concert.]] Oleg Zarubinsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on economic inefficiency and inadequacy to the national interests of Ukraine of the existing domestic electricity export mechanism. Paul Sulkovski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the theft of funds from the State budget of Ukraine by officials of the Plain State Administration, who have been allocated partial compensation for the loss of agricultural enterprises that have suffered natural disasters and the liability of those responsible. Sergia Kiwalova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the financing of the Odessa National Academy Theatre of Opera and Ballet. Groups of National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the salaries of budget workers. [[Komar, Mankovsky and others]] Groups of National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the provision of warm and hot water to the population of Ukraine. [[Komar, Mankovsky and others]] Basil Gretzak, acting as Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, U.S. Attorney General of Ukraine’s Procurator - General of the Procurator - General of Ukraine on the Prognosis of the Crime Group in Ukraine, whose activities are aimed at causing significant damage to Ukraine’s State budget by lobbying the smuggling of excise stamps for vodka and tobacco products. Vasil Gritsak to the Head of the National Security and Defence Council on the Probability of Existence in the Higher Levels of the State Authorities of the Criminal Group, whose activities are aimed at causing significant damage to the national budget of Ukraine by lobbying the smuggling of excise stamps for gorillas and tobacco products and by misleading the President of Ukraine and members of the RNB with the adoption of decisions of the U.N.P.R.O. on improving state control in the field of the production of forms of securities and documents of raw intelligence, the development and production of holographic protective elements, documents and certain types of goods from 07 November this year and the President's decree of 18 November 2008 No 1054-38 T/2008 will result in significant losses to the State budget. Dear colleagues! I would like to point out that the Head of the National Security and Defence Council and the President of Ukraine. Accordingly, we have already voted to the President in favour of a parliamentary request, so obviously there is no need to send two copies of the parliamentary request. I'd like the secretariat to take this into account. Gennady Zadirk to the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, the Head of the Council of Judges of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine for gross violation of the rights guaranteed by the Constitution of the citizen of Paul Tetretnikov, in particular the right to justice, the right to housing, the right to just reparation for the damage suffered. Gregory Smythuch to the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine regarding information on the provision of financial assistance to commercial banks on the credit tranche of the International Monetary Fund. Edouard Prutnik to the Minister of Transport and Communications of Ukraine, Minister of Fuel and Energy of Ukraine, Deputy Minister of Transport and Liaison of Ukraine of the State Department of Communications, Head of the Government of VAT "Kretelek", Head of the National Commission for Communications Management of Ukraine, Head of the State Enterprise "Ukrainian National Radio Centre" on the use of measures to resume radio broadcasting and verify the facts concerning the destruction of more than 200 radio networks during the replacement of power supply in the Korop region of Montenegro. Eugene Goodyak to the Head of the Ukrainian State Customs Service for the violation of the current legislation of Ukraine at the Jagorlic Customs. Mr. Mikli Jankowski, Acting Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the Society's illegal activities, with limited responsibility for the city of Kyiv. Mikoli Yankovsky to the head of the State Commission of Securities and Stock Market of Ukraine for an answer to a parliamentary appeal under the current legislation. Oleg Zarubinsky to the Minister of Agricultural Policy of Ukraine on the absence of real state programmes for the development of agriculture and practical measures against the threats posed by the Ukrainian agricultural producer. Alexander Shepeleva to the Minister for Housing and Utilities of Ukraine for the purpose of verifying the validity of the apartment salary increase in Kiev. Alexander Shepeleva to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine to prevent an increase in unemployment in Western areas. Stepan Kupil to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine on the failure to execute a court order and the illegal inaction of employees of the Second Department of State Executive Services of the Lutsky City Administration of Justice. Jury Karmazin to the Minister of Health of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, on the verification of official falsifications, on the gross violation of Ukrainian legislation on education and on higher education by the Rector of Bukovin State Medical University, Vasil Pesak, expressed in violation of the latest pattern of economic activity and led to the disorganization of the university's scientific and educational process, the use of appropriate measures to respond and bring the guilty to justice. Jurya Litvina to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine, on the involvement of police leaders in the commercial activities of a private company called Auto Transport Company Progress. Vladislav Kaskov to the Attorney General for the possible abuse of office by the management of Melnice Podilski District Municipal Children's Home of Ternopil Region. Jury Karmazin to the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, Head of HeadCRA, Head of the State Committee for Technical Regulation and Consumer Policy, Attorney-General of Ukraine for the verification of the facts published in the media, regarding the possible gross violation of Ukrainian constitutional rights by citizens of the telephone conversations and confidential information, the rights of consumers who use mobile and cellular connections, the abuse of the position of individual officials of the Ukrainian Security Service and, personally, by Valentin Ombudsperson for the use of their listening devices against the interests of the service, the purposeless use of budgetary resources for the acquisition of specified techniques, resulting in an unwarranted reduction of the corresponding salary to the regular employees of the BSS, the possible use of counterattacks in connection with cross-border responses. Vladimir Bondarenko to the Attorney General of Kiev, the city’s head, for not allowing for the destruction of the subdivisions of anti-removable underground works in Kiev. Vladimir Bondarenko to the Attorney-General for the concealment of the authorities of the Prosecutor's Office and the Chief Executive of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in Kiev of the facts of the gross violation of financial and economic discipline by the management of the Kyivenergo Share Energy Company, which was expressed in the untargeted use of more than 24 million bracelets that were envisaged for the introduction of house appliances for thermal energy and hot water supply. Vladimir Pilpenka to the Attorney-General for the removal of a criminal case in connection with a bribe by the President of Ukraine in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Peter Olijnik. Gregory Omelchenka to the Attorney-General for the submission of the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, supported and brought to the Supreme Council of Ukraine by the head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, for the approval of the arrest and arrest of the judge of the Lviv Administrative Court of Igor Zvarić. [[Taken under guard]] Gregory Omelchenka to the Attorney General's Office on the application of the Attorney-General to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for consent to the arrest of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Bogdan Hubsky, and the reasons for the withdrawal of this application. Catherine Vaschuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on raiding businesses, violating the rights and material interests of Ludmila Dmitry and Sergey Sek and fabricating a criminal case against them. Kirila Kulikov to the Attorney General for the criminal offence of the Kiev City Head and deputy of the Kiev City Head – Secretary of the Kiev City Council – Olesia Longogo, whose actions contain signs of crime, for which criminal responsibility is foreseen under part two of article 351 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code. Oksana Bilozr to the Attorney General on the use of criminal liability measures by Sergei Schwetz, deputy of the Kyiv District Council, founder of the Galicinabud private enterprise, who failed to fulfil contractual obligations to investors in housing construction at: m. Kyiv, ul. Lauruchina, 4.8. Stephen Kurpil to the Attorney General on the legality of the conduct of bankruptcy of the Volin State Forestry Association. Andrija Pavlovski to the Head of the Kiev City State Administration on the unjustified increase in passenger fares in city passenger transport in Kiev. Irina Bellousov to the prosecutor of the Mikolai district for the verification of the legality of the construction of the instigation area on the street of the Red Majovczyk in Mikolayev. Thus, all the parliamentary inquiries that have come and been properly formulated have been made. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to the issue of December 19, 2008. A report by the Provisional Investigative Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the situation and the fact that Ukrainian military equipment has been shipped to Georgia is in violation of Ukrainian legislation and international law is under review. Reported to the head of the interim commission of inquiry, Konovaluk Valérie Ilchi. Please. Just a minute. From this point of view, five minutes to consider. Sign up, please, you'll have the opportunity. Five minutes from the hearing procedure. Please, Anatoly Gritsenko, faction of "Our Ukraine People's Self-Defense." Yes, Alexander Stoyan, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u2	Please give the word to Ephraim, the word of Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u3	Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov, microphone, please. Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov, turn on the microphone, please. Check the card there. It's not working. Alexander Sergiyovich, it could be here then.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u4	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Given the size of the material that the Commission may present today, which has considered the issue and the significance of the matter itself, and the facts that will be presented, we would very much ask you to give the rapporteur, not 10 minutes as a rule, but 20 minutes. And, Vladimir Mihajlovich, if there is a good agreement of the entire room, I ask you to support this question and put it to a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u5	National Deputy Hrapov, Communist factions. Alexei's gonna be here, right? Please, Alexei's microphone. Please turn on Alexei's microphone. Check the cards, maybe not the card. Well, please tell me from the rostrum. Please.Oh, my God! Dear colleagues, the computer is temporarily dependent on our productive work, so from the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, given the importance of the issue, I support the colleague of Ephraim, who will be hearing today and who has already come to know the draft regulation that the Special Commission of Inquiry is proposing on this very important issue for the credibility of the international State and in general for the development of the country. Please support the question of the responsibility of officials, in particular the Minister of Defence of Ehanurov, as a result of your will, as a result of hearing the report of the Chairman of the Commission, to support the adoption today of a draft decree on the expression of mistrust and withdrawal from office of the Minister of Defence. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u7	Alexander Efraemov again. Microphone, please turn on Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u8	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Thank you very much. Only that the draft ruling was registered because of the matter that our colleague Alexeiev was talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u9	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u10	Our faction also supports the consideration of this issue if the commission proves the actual guilt of the Ministry of Defence and its leader in this fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u11	Thank you. Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u12	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! We are considering a serious issue today, as it is also the involvement of our members of the Armed Forces in the hostilities in Ossetia on the side of Georgia, and the fact that weapons have been sold at incomprehensible prices and it is not clear where the money from the sale of weapons is today. And we must, because this issue has already acquired a huge public resonance, we must consider very seriously, fundamentally, at least 20 minutes, not 5 or 10 minutes, or at least 20 minutes, or even half an hour, to give a film to society, people, MPs, to see and learn the truth. And we could have made an objective decision as a result of our consideration. Do not tempt today's consideration of this disturbing problem for society.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u13	Anatoly Kirilovich Kinach, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u14	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Respectable citizens! The report of the Interim Investigation Commission on the supply of arms to the Georgian-Ossetian conflict region touches on a very large number of issues, starting with the national security of our nation, the implementation of the Constitution and legislation and international authority. So the faction of the Party of the Regions calls on the report to consider this issue as a matter of great national importance, regardless of the political color of one faction or another, including the task of strengthening parliamentary control, and we would very much like to know why there are no principals in the government's bed who are responsible for this area of work, including the Minister of Defence of Yehanurov. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u15	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u16	Vladimir Mikhailovich, the point is, before anyone reads it, we would have had an opportunity to get to know it earlier and today if you read it, it's just scary. If you don't give us God's help, if you publish it in the media or if you put it in people's hands, it might make a terrible impression on our President and, in general, the entire security system of our Ukraine. We're talking a lot about the Ukrainian army, we're talking about going on a contractual basis, you see when our weapons, the latest weapons, were being distributed at no cost -- it was a common criminal crime. That's why I'm supporting, maybe an offer, maybe you'd like to ask someone for your commission, why there's really no one in the boardroom who's in charge. I'm this man, who is he, I think, the senior flagman, who is he? Three stars like that. I can't see him from afar who he is. It's bad he's the only one here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u17	Dear colleagues, the time is up, I ask you not to insist anymore. The proposals that had just been discussed were about this. The first is to step away from the Rules and set up, please! – and set up as he suggests, and were offered by the speakers, and as the head of the Temporary Investigation Commission suggests to report to the head of the TSK – within 20 minutes, for answers to questions, within 20 minutes, for representatives of the MPs – within 15 minutes, for discussion and decision-making within 3 minutes. Therefore, I am voting on the proposal that we withdraw from the Rules and adopt the procedure proposed by the Commission, or time for consideration. Once again, for the report, up to 20 minutes, answers to questions, up to 20 minutes, for representatives of the MPs, up to 15 minutes, discussion and decision-making up to 3 minutes. Please vote. [[10:26:14]] For 266 Decision taken. With regard to the second question of the invitation of representatives of the central executive bodies involved in this matter, an appropriate proposal was addressed to the Cabinet of Ministers from the temporary commission present in the consideration of this issue Vorobyov Hennady Borisovich, the first deputy chief of the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine. At the same time, taking into account your suggestions, the invitation and responsibility of the Head of the Security Service as well as the Secretary of Defense are now being extended. Therefore, we have every reason to start his consideration. The chairman of the interim commission of inquiry, Valérie Konovaluk, has the floor for the report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u18	Honorable National MPs, Honourable Volodymyr Mikhailovich, Honourable Citizens of Ukraine, Voters! I am convinced that today is the day when we must speak the truth. I believe that for the Interim Investigation Commission, which was created under the authority of the Supreme Council, we have done everything, regardless of the tremendous pressure, that this is a very dangerous issue, but we have learned today what is the state of arms exports that have actually been taking place in recent years, when Ukraine provided for Georgia with arms and military technology, how a system of corruption was formed under the roof of the President of Ukraine and the Secretary of the President of Ukraine, in which the state suffered huge losses to the state budget and the damage caused to Ukraine's national interests, national security. I want to begin our speech right away, a report from you to demonstrate how Ukrainian weapons were used in the conflict in South Ossetia. We're going to avoid any kind of politics, because this is a testimony personally recorded on the video devices of the Georgian soldiers, who clearly identify how this weapon was used against the civilian population and the Russian peacekeepers. We need to pay your attention only to the fact that during this conflict, and Ukraine was the largest supplier of only the last years of offensive weapons, the deaths of peaceful people, the deaths of Russian peacekeepers. So please include us. I'm going to comment on everything else, so we can see how tanks, artillery systems were used, how M-21 rockets were used to fire the "city" in order to understand how the firearms were used. I'm sure there's no audio escort to make sure that there's no doubt that someone's trying to engage in propaganda, and all we have to do is the truth, just the truth. The next commission, which was set up during those events in Parliament on September 2, was meant to really figure out what really violated not only the number of Ukrainian laws, but I am convinced that this was a major issue, but Ukraine as a member of the OSCE, a State that signed an agreement to adapt the Treaty of Conventional Armed Forces in Europe had to refrain from supplying weapons that exceeded the needs of the defence of Georgia. We had to understand that this could cause military conflict, which could cause the loss of civilians and endanger security for other nations. Therefore, the reference of the numbered officials, which is within military and technical cooperation with Georgia, within the framework of documents and international legal acts that allowed the supply of arms, is not enough today. We're talking about the Georgian army being provided with a gun that was actually supplied by Ukraine. You've seen the incandescents of Tskhinval's rockets, which have also been installed by Ukraine by 40,000. You saw the heavy armoured equipment used against the civilian population on August 9th in Tskhinvala and BTR-80, which in Ukraine was supplied as surplus assets and so on. You know, I'm convinced that there's not only an opportunity for us to testify to this, but also to bring this truth, a sufficient bitter truth to Ukrainian citizens and to the world community. We are convinced that in the activities of the officials who then ruled the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, Ukrespecexport, the Ukrainian Security Service, there have been certain violations in terms of the damage that has been done to our nation's national security. We must say today that a rather complex political situation was created during this conflict. Today we have destroyed technical cooperation with the Russian Federation, and today we have found that Ukraine, as a state, could be involved in bloody political adventures. We do not realize the danger that really prevailed over our Ukraine at that time, but it will be in order. I would like to point out that our commission of inquiry approved the decision unanimously. You see a draft regulation and materials signed by all the members of the commission. We've really been looking into all the issues, avoiding any kind of politicization, we've had eight meetings, we've been there, and there's been an exit meeting in Tskhinval, in South Ossetia, we've actually been in Losovia, where 61 military arsenals exploded. So for us, I'm sure that's evidence that Ukraine pushed this aggression, unfortunately, the Georgian side that we were actually not aware of in terms of our national interests by supplying this weapon. So under pseudopatriotic rhetoric and democratic rhetoric, we ask one part just to hide specific crimes and avoid responsibility. I am not surprised that today there is no minister of defense of Yehanurov, who is responsible for the Ukrainian Security Service, because they have virtually ignored every invitation to a meeting of the commission. We've, you know, pushed against such fierce resistance that it was very difficult to actually conduct an investigation, to get some answers to the questions that we asked those officials. The Commission sent 34 requests and received only 12 answers. And that's why we've had to comment and bring to the public the things that are 100% for us, the facts, the evidence that today accuses specific senior officials of the illegal acts that have really led to such violent consequences. I want to tell you that the arms export system was actually based solely on what was happening under the "secret" clause, that it had a certain roof of the presidential environment and the damage the state suffered -- you have to think about it! – which, in four years, Ukraine put up arms, total exports amounted to $2.5 billion, and, by the way, the government budget went up to $200 million in four years. I'm going to show you all of this, specific patterns of money laundering that were done by specific officials who made decisions to destroy national security and the Armed Forces in Ukraine, and how this was paid and what bribes were received by specific officials. You know, for me, there's a major part of what we've been trying to do not only to figure out the violations, but to show that we need a state-wide arms export control system. We need to understand today that the state needs only those issues and I want to give the next slide that relates to providing the Armed Forces with specific military technology. Now, believe me, in the sense of the Ministry of Defense, there's an excess of weapons. This weaponry is not enough in our military forces today. These weapons, I can tell you, account and approximate price levels, that the firearms are machine guns, machine guns, these sniper rifles were given at the average price of the commission for 547 dollars; the ATR today cost $7,000; the T-72 tank under the commission's contract was $44,000, and so on. We must note today that today the whole arms supply situation was that Georgia was preparing for military aggression. Here's the next slide. On June 28 the ship Eugenia N from the city of Mikolai in Batumi sent a ship with ammunition, blasting and blasting shots in huge numbers. Any expert expert will tell you that it's only for the preparation of the next operation. Here's another slide. What is more deeply concerned about the active President Yushchenko. This is a document that shows a specific pattern of crime when two divisions of Buk-M1 were removed from the bay. I'm asking you to show this division, this facility, which is today the most modern anti-air defence tool in Ukraine, which has actually been handed over to Georgia for no price, and another division has gone to join the Balaklus repair plant. You know, this document, on which the phrase “secretly” was actually applied, “in secret”, does not in fact show that Ukraine has not accepted the supply, it is recorded in the United Nations registers, it is recorded in other international monitoring organizations that identify the supply of arms. Only “secretly” was used to conceal the illegal activity of the President, the defence minister of Grycenk and the head of Bondarchuk’s “Ukrespectexport”. By the way, they had the common sense to write in a letter by the name of Yashchenka that “the removal of the division of military rotation would cause great damage because it covers state objects”. And this, I'm sure, is more frightening than anything else, and I want to show this letter to Ukrespectexport, which predicts that this terrible situation may arise, and Ukraine will have some problems with national security. You know, I'm convinced cynicism is that over the years with Rosobronexport, the issue of providing Ukraine with some documentation of spare parts, technology, and Ukrainian enterprises to modernize this complex has been discussed. I can tell by the price: Georgia received this complex for 28 million dollars. dollars is three times less than the world price. So far, Georgia has not calculated with Ukraine in its entirety for this complex. And what do we have final? We have what's called the 223rd zenith regiment of three years in a state of non-performing. Three years! Think about it! So this documentation that we've been given, and you can see in the documents that we've been distributing, that the correspondence with Rosobronexport was ongoing when this criminal decision was already approved. On December 11th, a letter was sent to Ukrespecexport to ensure modernisation and further sale of these complexes, part of Pakistan, and at the expense of those hundreds of millions of dollars, to modernize the rest of the weapons. You know, it's a pity for us that this is a fact and a testimony to an anti-government position. I am convinced that the relevant authorities, the Attorney General's Office, will provide not only an answer but also specific conclusions. Please tell us how "Ukspecexport" was used today. Please use the next slide. You see, by the number of our divisions, their state of resilience and what Ukraine will be left with in three years, think, three years from now, without cover, without air cover, and we're going to have a serious problem, a serious problem, because in order to rearm this complex, we're going to need at least half a billion dollars. But the question is, how was the money distributed? That's the most interesting thing. Please use the next slide. The Ministry of Defence actually ran a clear scheme of how to wash the surplus, let's say, the security of that price that was obtained from the sale. Think about it! The Ministry of Defence is handing over, selling this 37 million dollar complex to the Balkan State Enterprise of the Ministry of Defence in open trade on the Kiev Agro-industry Stock Exchange. Then this money to fix and what. We finally sold it for 144. They were directed at businesses, and Ukrespecexport created a number of businesses in most of the efficient ones that were actually transitors, and every enterprise that didn't even have a license to do any other activity actually kept 40 percent of the envelope. We've discovered a sufficient number of fictitious enterprises that were actually created solely to provide certain financial envelopes and to wash some government money. The sums of the firms, please, on this diagram everything is and everything looks very clear. I'd like to say. In the documents, please note that the Ministry of Defence of Georgia, after receiving the technology from Ukraine, has not really been fully calculated. What was actually in between. In the relationship between Yushchenko and Saakashvili? Why are we today faced with a situation that really determines how government property was being disrupted? And when we asked the Ministry of Defense of Georgia, we actually didn't get any answers. We tried to make a trip not only to Tskhinval but also to Tbilisi, but to our numerous requests to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Georgia, we only received a negative answer and an assessment. So I would like to stress that there is clear Ukrainian legislation that defines the legal regime for the alienation of the assets of the Armed Forces; there is legislation that defines international law. State control over the transfer. international transfers of military supplies and dual use; there is the Anti-Corruption Act; there is the BAF Act; there are laws on external intelligence and so forth. All of this has been gravely violated, and we have not only witnessed that the state has lost a huge amount -- and I ask another slide -- but also suffered enough damage with regard to national security and defence. This is a scheme that was actually created by Ukrespecexport to leave the Ministry of Defense only for these operations without 80 million dollars. Please tell me when the talks are under way, and Yehanurov says there is nothing in the army to feed the soldiers. I think that the moral level of these people, their official activity, is not only a surprise, but what they said not so long ago in the election campaign. I'd like to draw your attention to a very interesting document. [[Another, please, letter]] The State Treasury of Ukraine, which in fact provides evidence and information on how much money is included in the State Budget. It is very interesting that the State Treasury determines: “In this regard. There is no information in the State Treasury regarding the arrival of funds from the sale of military and special goods to Georgia during 2004-2008.” In fact, we have, you know, a system of corruption that's been created that's left by the state. And on this graph, on this table, you can see that in four years, Ukraine only got a billion dollars in money -- that's $200 million -- and weapons were sold for $2 and a half billion. So let us be clear about the moral obligation of the State to its own people today, to those who today receive a meager salary, a pension. Please, another slide. We've been looking for other verifications of Victor Yushchenk's personal corruption. And, you know, we're surprised that, for example, in the scheme that Ukrespecexport used with regard to IL-76. I want to tell my colleagues on the case that there are still a few planes in Ukraine that can go up in the air. First of all, when the plane is paid for 5 million dollars, the plane is paid for 5 million dollars of Ukrespecexport. Cross-speciesport seems to be working on this plane for another 5 million dollars, and then for 30 million dollars, it's given to China's China Company. For 30 million dollars. And those 30 million go to two armored Mercedes last year, which is now being visited by President Victor Yushchenko of Ukraine. [[please go to another slide]] You know, it's very hard to compare the plane "IL-76" and the two armored Mercedes because it's stolen about, in my opinion, millions of 20 bracelets. You know, maybe that's the amount that would be enough to account for the Somali pirates and free our citizens -- 17 Ukrainian citizens who have been captured, by the way, for three months now in the eyes of the whole world, after that powerlessness and so on. You know. Another slide, please. You know, we also pointed out that the President of Ukraine had two armored silver - colored Landrovers jeeps. It was three years ago that I was testified to by journalists that the president repeatedly went out on them. And we have full information that these jeeps were received in the calculation plan for the supply of weapons to Georgia. I want to remind you once again of the 6th article of the law on the legal regime of property in the Armed Forces, where all the property that is sold, the arms, it has to go back to the state budget and the Ministry of Defense's accounts for the assets. So I have a question for you, for those of you who are trying to cover up this criminal activity today. Say, please, how much money does Ukraine have to have for all of this to be enough for us today to provide the socio-economic benefits that every citizen today has to worry about? You know this facility, it was very important to Ukraine. And for three years, the whole unit is actually a skyscraper. No one was responsible for this. And when on Independence Day -- August 24 -- we see such a pompous parade in Chrystec, where 30 percent of the technicians are completely unfeeling, where the planes flying over Krestletik have navigations and they can't take part in any minute of today's battle, you know, it's very strange for us. So I want to point out the last thing that we really felt the pressure, we've seen that this is not just about official crime and the corruption that caused the state enormous damage, but we've seen the state of Ukrainian society. We've seen how security services are being used today, how the pressure is being exerted on the commission today, how the hearing is going, how the MPs are being watched. We don't want to be, you know, an outright last resort today, but we have to give judgment to this authority, this criminal regime today. Ukraine was not the first time in.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u19	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u20	Ukraine remained, not for the first time in these arms scandals. And believe me, we have the first opportunity not only to name specific names and to say what these officials have done, but also to hold them accountable. That's why I'm from this rostrum and your address, and Victor Yushchenka's address, me. They say I'm targeting the President's Secretariat, that responsibility cannot be avoided. And we call on all the national MPs to realize the situation in which Ukraine today has become, how much we have lost as a nation, and what the consequences still await us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u21	Dear colleagues, the report is complete. We have 20 minutes for questions and answers. Please register with the national deputies for a question. Please put your names on the board. People's MP Mironenko, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u22	Please Chechtov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u23	Basil. Who's he telling? No, Chechtev. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u24	Dear Valery Ilich! Literally from the early days when the ruling Saakashvili call unleashed a dirty military aggression against the peaceful free-loving people of South Ossetia, in the media and foreign and domestic media, information about the involvement of Ukrainian military forces in hostilities on the side of Georgia, known as both the army and the family. Of course, our ruling regime began to deny all of this. But we do know that our orange power must be trusted to the contrary. We've heard from the authorities for a year that we're all good, and everything's fine until we're covered in the deepest financial crisis. Is that how our soldiers fought on Georgia's side? Yes or no? And who has decided to engage our soldiers in hostilities on the side of Georgia against.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u25	Thank you, Mikhail Vasilevich. You know, for us as the commission, it was the most difficult moment in the investigation, and we realized that it would cause a tremendous political resonance. But we are convinced that this was not of a mass nature, although certain military professionals were certainly involved in the military conflict, Ukrainians. We got all the data, all the lists, and we know what they were doing there. Most importantly, the power that denied it from the first minute was also actually trying to cover up the fact that Ukrainians, Ukrainians, were in the conflict in Georgia. They were evacuated only on 14 August by a transport aircraft of the Ministry of Emergency Situations. That's why we're all handing these over to the Attorney General's Office, because people are scared, people immediately gave a letter of non-disclosure. And I am sure that an objective investigation will clearly show who, with what mission, was there. But the fact that this is contrary to the law, including the Ukrainian law and has some standard in the Code of Criminal Procedure, is a fact. I'm sure this will be a good lesson for all those who do.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u26	Allow me to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u27	In fact, it seeks to build on these adventures a policy that is now categorically condemned by the Ukrainian people.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u28	Revoslav Piscoon, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u29	Dear Valery Ilic, please answer such a question. Have you addressed, and when you have addressed, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Military Prosecutor for the shortcomings that have been identified by you? And what answer did the prosecutors give you on this issue, and are criminal cases brought? And I have a personal impression that they won't release the hostages on Faina, they're waiting for the pirates to blow up the ship, they're going to sink that weapon that's in there, and the ends are going to fall into the water. Please answer these questions for me.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u30	We have been actively cooperating with the military prosecutor's office since day one. The departure to Lozow led to results, since we discovered that Ukrinmash vehicles were loaded on the day of the fire, which is the daughter of Ukriseksport. And we understand that the ammunition nomenclature that was stored on this arsenal is in fact the basis for fighting, for the weapons that Ukraine had previously supplied. So all the stories about the 700 meters of fire being crossed somehow, I don't think there's a confirmation of anyone, not just the lawyers, but even the members of the commission and the ordinary citizens. I think that the Attorney-General's Office, which will receive irrefutable facts and evidence, will have to make a legal assessment. In the draft decree, we also request the Attorney-General's Office to give a legal assessment to Ehanurov, Átivajchenko, Bogatyreva, Bondarchuku, as they have since the first day ignored the parliamentary commission's investigation. Since the first day, they have dealt exclusively with provocations and information diversions. But that's not the point, you know. The main thing is that this report now appears in the Parliamentary Chamber and.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u31	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u32	And the Ukrainian people are all witnesses to this criminal activity of the Ukrainian top officials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u33	People's Deputy Mojcan, faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u34	Pavlov Mokchan, "Club of Yulia Timoshenko". After listening to you and looking at the slides, I came to the conclusion that it was Georgia that occupied Russia and arrived, and stopped four kilometers from Moscow. This raises questions for me. It's not about a technical installation that doesn't make sense, except for one thing that they did. And who provoked and how the slaughter started, you know that. In this regard, I have a question about the cynicism with which you report today, in fact, an anti - state matter, you are making it public worldwide. In my opinion, what you are doing is nothing more than confirming the rumors that are spread both in the press and everywhere that you are directly associated with the FSB. Give me an answer, is that true or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u35	You know, I want to answer you in English. You first ignored the commission, you actually called off the faction. That's the first one. This is evidence of the attitude toward the investigation initiated by the commission. You must at all costs cover up the activities of Yashchenk and the Ukrainian President's environment in order to hide, say, the real face of this criminal regime. I will tell you frankly that President Saakashvili of the Parliamentary Commission has testified that Georgia has really started this aggression. We don't place or give political evaluations, we showed you how the weapons provided by Ukraine were used, how many people were killed by this. You don't care. You know, morally, morality refers to the fact that six years ago, a so-called “Colchug” scandal was forged in Iraq. You wanted to destroy the situation in Ukraine, bring Yashchenka to power back in 2002. In fact, the Yushchenk community, which actually turned to all countries, stopped, froze financial aid, we stopped the Euro-integration process.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u36	Let me finish my answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u37	But Ukraine didn't supply any "Kolchugs" in Iraq. And neither you nor Yushchenka nor all those involved in this provocation had enough conscience to apologize to the Ukrainian people and Ukraine. So let's do it this way, you've shown your own face and that's enough for all of us to see how you're now rewarding and protecting those people who did and did serious damage to national security, to the national interests of Ukraine. And the FSB, you first decipher this concept and you tell me.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u38	Paul Sulkowski. Dear colleagues! May I have your attention, please? Since there are a lot of questions, I would like to have both the answers and the questions within one minute. Please, Paul Sulkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u39	Mr. Acid, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u40	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u41	Dear Valery Ilich! I have two questions for you. Question one. The Commission found that the air defence complex “BUK M-1” had been removed from combat duty on behalf of the Ukrainian President's team. This is a clear example of the country's defences. Do you not personally and the members of the commission feel that this should be the responsibility of the High Commander-in-Chief, President Yushchenko? That's one question. And the second question. Given that the Commission had provided data here in the report, where weapons had been sold for 2.5 billion years and only 200 million had been received. Why don't you ask them here to listen to Cross-Specsport and ask them why they're continuing to sell weapons, return to hand over weapons to Georgia, while they didn't count for what they got before.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u42	Thank you. I would like to say that it was precisely according to the instructions of President Yushchenko of Ukraine that everything was done to influence the investigation of our investigative commission. You know in any democratic country, in a normal European State, such facts, even a fraction of those facts, would lead to the voluntary resignation of those officials. But a person who today has a 4 per cent confidence rating in the country, who has actually brought the country to bankruptcy, to the despair of the people, the citizens of the country, is doing everything today to preserve power and thereby avoid responsibility. I am therefore convinced that the enormous funds lost by Ukraine are concrete evidence of the corruption of individuals. And however they are being burned today, I am sure that the position of our faction and of the people's deputies should be one: to bring them to justice. I do not rule out the creation of an investigative special commission on these materials, which will indeed be able to bring to justice those who today use official powers and block the investigation. [[That's enough to begin the impeachment procedure of President Yushchenko.]] In fact, they are carrying out a specific order.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u43	National Deputy Olijnik, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u44	Please give the word to the colleague Prokopchuku Yuri Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u45	People's MP Prokopchuk, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u46	Dear reporter, dear colleagues, well, I'd like to put some of these here, they say, moments. We put a lot of emphasis on the illicit arms trade and all that. So this article makes a profit to many countries. And even though that's where the leaders are: The United States, Germany, Russia and so forth are not prohibited from running arms trade. But I fully agree with the fact that our state's ability to defend itself has been undermined with knowledge of the BUK complex in Stru. It really is. And so here's the question. Against the background of what's been going on. That's what people are behind. From the fighting warehouse were the “BOUCHS, ” which were placed in Stryu, and what became of the individual’s composition? How are they provided with housing? Are they calculated? That's the question. Because it's really a parade and it's a waste of money.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u47	Let me finish the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u48	We've got no payment today, no first payouts, in the Armed Forces. And so, of course, by giving an assessment of these actions, I want to say that we will insist, with the personnel of the military, which are, including in our faction, that, indeed, the investigation will be completed and little certain result, because otherwise we will just have holes in all of our country's PPOs, not rust, and the entire squadron, the regiments will fly over Ukraine, and no one will see them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u49	Thank you for asking. You know, I want to say that Ukraine's military-industrial complex today has led to poverty. And in fact, the Malishev factory, a world-renowned enterprise on the verge of bankruptcy. The southern engine factory is actually on the verge of a stop today and so forth. We must today ensure the implementation of real military and technical cooperation and engage in high-quality modern weapons, first and foremost, in order to secure our own Armed Forces. Over the past four years, but we have, you know, faced the fact that in the course of the investigation we see numerous abuses in the Armed Forces, earth-scrolling, military property, using budget money. By the way, your deputies from your factions have sent a request to the Attorney General's Office regarding the purchase of a huge amount of fuel, oil and oil materials for the Armed Forces at an overpriced price. The state lost 56 million dollars on this arm. This was done under the control and roof of Euchanorov. So there's a lot of questions. I'm pretty sure that in this unit, in this part of the circle, people were just reduced.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u50	Irina Heraszczenko, faction “Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense”. Yuri Karmazin, “Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u51	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense”. My dear reporter, I am most certainly saddened by what I have heard. But I want to ask you two specific questions. First. I've heard a lot of judgings, which may not have been necessary in the report of the commission. But don't you think the commission went a little beyond the task that was set out, because the task was to establish the facts of violations of international law and law, that is, the points. And the second. How do you think that there's another secret thing that we have left in the state after these materials that you've just talked about all the supply schemes and everything else, except maybe the undergarments or the colors of the state's leadership? What else do we have in secret because the cross is placed on all military secrets? Tell me a secret, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u52	You know, Your Honor, the color of underwear is better for you to know, you meet the President more often than we do. That's the first one. The second. I understand that this is unpleasant for you to hear because these are direct facts of the criminal activity of senior officials. We tried to, you know, conduct the investigation quite tolerantly, properly. But when the President signed a decree on the dissolution of the Supreme Council on 9 October, it was to stop our commission too, when, in fact, there was no meeting between Yehanurov and Nadjajchenko and other officials who had to actually cooperate with the commission to provide information. What should we do when we see how the situation in Ukraine is taking place today? So I'm convinced that, you know, criminal acts today actually characterize the situation that Ukraine is in. I'm sure the truth will be brought to an end. And Ukraine will not suffer like the state and our society from what we will say about specific officials. I apologize when I say that the violated, gravely violated several dozen Ukrainian laws, including.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u53	Thank you. Dear colleagues, since this question is complex and sensitive, I very much ask you, let's be tolerant both in questions and in answers. Please. Next question, National Deputy Turmanov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u54	Please pass the word to Smith.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u55	Please, the microphone of your fellow Smudge.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u56	Smythuh, Party of Regions. Dear Valérie Illich, I have two questions. As you've said in your report, terrible facts about national security and the defence of Ukraine, all the more the abuse that you've made on the side of the intelligence that deals directly or directly with this topic. But in view of what you said about the commission’s review of the materials, in principle, and taking into account in four years, we know that from February 4, 2005 to December 19, 2007, the Ministry of Defence led our colleague, Gricenko Anatoly Stepanovich. Please ask the first question: Was Grecenko Anatoly Stepanovich present at least once on the committee, or was he giving an explanation as to his activities at this time or not? And the second question is, if the missile complex was removed from the hold, please tell me who was giving the command directly to remove the emergency command, and whether it was at Yehanur's, or if it was at his side.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u57	I've shown specific documents. This is the order of Yehanurov, the first item in which he is, which also caused some resistance to the active authority, is the order of January 13, 2006. First item: Defence to organize until the first February withdrawal from the military force of the Armed Forces of Ukraine one star division “BUK-M1”. Although two divisions were produced, one was to be staffed and in a factory in Balaklia to create a modern-day division capable of giving Georgia back. You know, I was surprised when the invitation didn't respond and the head of the Committee on National Security and Defence of Gritsenko, all the more, is on every document of his signatures. And we realize that the basic supply of weapons, of modern weapons, was at a time when he was actually the secretary of defense. So I'm sorry, when, you know, individual officials, instead of being responsible, are they talking and thinking about how to create a political party today? I can advise both Grizzen and others: form a party.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u58	National MP Alexeyev, Communist faction. Once again, my fellow Members, let's talk about things, not about specifics.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u59	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Honorable Valérie Illich, now in line with the Ukrainian Armed Forces, stands at 51,000. 800 families of officers and flags. You gave me a figure in the report, you gave me a figure of 2.5 billion. The price of sales and discounts in the state budget is 200 million. The difference of $2 billion is $300 million. For this money, I figured out right now, you could build an average of a thousand dollars per square meter of 38,000 flats of 60 square meters. Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u60	Thank you for the questions, but the comments here are unnecessary, because we understand that if there was another policy in the state, if these officials didn't care about their own pockets or their own ambitions, we understood that today the state of the Armed Forces is complex enough -- a very large amount of social problems, and in general today the army is demoralized in Ukraine. They were trying exclusively for a very tight deadline to turn the army into NATO standards, to destroy everything that could be done, and thus to ensure, you know, a political decision on joining NATO in such a way that Ukraine has no one to protect, it needs NATO with their capabilities and protection. I am convinced that it is a key issue for us to stop the abuse that is taking place today. And you know, about 300 meters from the Supreme Council is the Central House of Officers, that's, you know, a symbol for many military personnel. So there's a huge area of land that's most expensive in Kiev, and it was actually traded into 19 apartments, which is what Grizzenko did. Not at 119, but at 19! The profits he was making, it's hard for me to say as well as when he was passing on a axle.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u61	Please, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u62	When a military-transport airline was being transferred for no price to rent. When we have airplanes today, helicopters serving certain UN operations in Africa, and we don't have a rental salary that could give Ukraine over 100 new helicopters and so forth. And that's why I'm convinced that these acts are criminal, and today they're testifying to the state in which our Ukrainian people are.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u63	One last question. Mishchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u64	Thank you. Please pass the word to Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u65	Turn on Pisarenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u66	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like to put my accent on the table, so you don't need to talk about whether you need to sell weapons or not. You have to! If there's a demand for it, we need to sell weapons. Indeed, the question is where to spend the money and what money we will receive for the weapons. Well, that's really not the point when we get two Mercedes for the president on the plane. It is really no matter that the Ukrainian Security Service and the Ministry of Defense do not participate in the commission’s work. And, you know, from this point of view, I have this question to you: why did you choose such forms in your report that you don't even insist on the responsibility of the head of the Ukrainian Security Service or the minister of defense if there are facts? Well, by the way, there aren't that many facts. I want your commission to get to the bottom of this. But, indeed, what is already in this report raises many questions to our very Hall: why does the Supreme Council today not respond to such criminal formations within the authority, such as that of the Ukrainian Security Service today. And that's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u67	I fully agree with you that we must give a political assessment today and bring to the responsibility of specific officials. We tried to make, you know, a more neutral draft decision, realizing that the factions in the speeches would insist on making further changes. I am sure, and I will tell you in a responsible way that I will personally insist that the Supreme Council resign Yehanurov today and express my mistrust to him. I will insist that we resolve the issue with the Ukrainian Security Service, which has become an exclusive tool today for the political struggle and service of individual parts of President Yushchenk's environment. I will insist that we not only vote this decree with you, but also admit that today we need to deal with the situation around the vessel Faina so that we can continue the work of our commission of inquiry and actually express our position on the creation of a special commission of inquiry, the approval of the law and the overcoming of the veto. This is necessary for the country. I'm sure the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko will support us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u68	Honorable colleagues, despite the fact that there are so many willing to ask questions, are running out of time. So please, Valérie Illich, sit down. [[Applause]] Yeah, yeah, don't forget your guns. Dear colleagues, we now have speeches by representatives of the MP factions. Please, microphone to the head of the Regulatory Committee. We've approved the regulations.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u69	Vladimir Mihajlovich, I understand that we are not in full violation of the Rules. But logically, after that, he would listen to the statement of the Ministry of Defence, because he might have his own arguments in this regard.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, since we have already approved the regulations and there is a proposal, it should be voted on. Otherwise I can't put it. That is why I am voting on the proposal to hear the explanation of the first Deputy Chief of General Staff of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, Gennady Petrovich Vorobyov. And ask questions if you have any questions. Please vote, there's a vote coming. [[11:13:15]] For 386 Please, Hennaday Petrovich. How many minutes do you need? Dear colleagues, please note that the First Deputy Chief of the General Staff has requested five minutes to report. Ten minutes for a question? [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, come on, please. In accordance with the Rules, 5 minutes for the report and 10 minutes for the question. Well, here you go. It's a co-report, but we can't put it in at the same time. Please. That's what I'm trying to say.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u71	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u72	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u73	Dear comrades, national deputies of Ukraine! At the beginning of my speech, I would like to emphasize that the Armed Forces are doing everything they can to protect the sovereignty, territorial integrity and integrity of our state. With regard to maintaining the level of readiness of the Armed Forces, I would like to say that, according to the State Development Programme of the Armed Forces for 2006-2011, there is a certain military contingent of the Armed Forces in line with the weapons and technology that should remain at the end of 2011. The rest of the arms, technology and property were transferred in 2006 by the relevant Department of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine for further action. With regard to the technology and weapons that was properly implemented in Georgia, I would like to say that this implementation has absolutely not affected the military's military readiness, because in the technology of air defence, I would like to say a certain number of divisions, i.e. the anti-aircraft complexes, which should be at the end of 2011. At present, we have much more in the battlement of those divisions, and accordingly, the units that are now carrying out tasks in peacetime to cover up important objects and, during a special period, are ready to cover up certain or other connections, parts of the task. With regard to the division that was spoken of and located in Stryu, I would like to determine that in 2006 the technical condition of the division was such that it worked its operating term, and in 2006 it was transferred for repair to the Balakli factory. As for the withdrawal of him from the military force, I would like to point out that the basis and basis for the conclusion is the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers that it was. And accordingly, he was removed from the battlement. But this did not result in a reduction in the military readiness of the military forces. As for the involvement of the military forces in the conflict, I would like to point out that military personnel were not involved in the conflict. During the conflict, I would like to prove that, in line with the plan of long-term cooperation between the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Defence of Georgia for 2008, signed on 16 November 2007, according to international cooperation measures, 15 military officers of the Armed Forces took part in the training centre on 27 July and took a course in the programme “Partnership for the Peace of Mountain Training”. As soon as the conflict arose in connection with the outbreak of hostilities, the educational process was halted, and as soon as possible, representatives of the Ukrainian Armed Forces arrived in Ukraine on August 10 on a special plane with a foreign minister’s deputy. They also took the same course in winter, i.e. the course takes two periods – winter and summer. Report completed.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u74	Dear colleagues, the report is closed. Please sign up for the question. There's a recording going on. Please show me on the board. The People's Deputy of Paris, the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u75	Dear Mr. Vorobyov, before us, we heard a representative from the Party of Regions speaking, who was actually a propagandist for the purpose of blacking out the Ukrainian state, the Ukrainian authorities and the Ukrainian army. I want to say that in this report we have heard a great deal of information that is of a purely anti-Ukrainian nature, because it is known that weapons supplied by the Ukrainian State were supplied to many countries of the world. At the same time, it was supplied not only to Georgia but also to the Russian Federation. Motors for airplanes, submarines built in Ukraine. Unfortunately, the commission led by Konovaluk did not say a word about the supply of arms by Ukraine to the Russian Federation, which was actually an aggressor and a participant in the conflict. Can you answer whether the Ukrainian State is at the same level and is supplying weapons and supplying weapons to the Russian Federation, and is that, as in Georgia, legally? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u76	Thank you for asking. Honorable national MPs, the Armed Forces, according to their function and tasks, are not involved in the provision of arms, implementation and disposal. That's why it's not the General Staff's jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u77	Ivanenko, the faction “Blocca timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u78	Please give the floor to the People's Deputy Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u79	Pisarenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u80	I have a question for you. You're here today to report on such an important subject, and you're saying you can't answer these questions. Then I have a question to ask the head of the Supreme Council as well. Why don't we have Chief Genstab here today, why isn't there a Secretary of Defense here today who should be talking about these issues? We're losing the defense of the country, we're being approached by a man who says I don't know anything. What are we talking about? Dear colleagues, we need to enhance our respect for Parliament. What is it that we do not report to the head of the branch office for which we are conducting our conversation today? How many more military men are going to lose the power of the state today, to what extent? Until an African tribe comes with arrows and bows and captures Ukraine? Please tell me, how are the Ukrainian Armed Forces being updated today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u81	Thank you for asking. The upgrade of the Ukrainian Armed Forces is being done according to the allocated costs, i.e. the defined budget, which, well, is not enough to update, for, first of all, there are several ways. The first way is to keep what's in a fighting state. The second way is to continue the technology that has emerged, the weapons technology that has served its term of exploitation. And the third is buying, purchasing new weapons and technology. With regard to the maintenance of technology, it is also the responsibility of the Armed Forces, the Chief of Staff, the respective commanders and commanders. As for the extension of the resource, it goes according to the allocated cost. Of course, they are not enough for the plans that we have set before us regarding their renewal and the continuation of the resource. The purchase is virtually limited because the allocated funds do not allow what we wanted. For example, during this year we bought one.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u82	Allow me to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u83	only 10 tanks “Bulat”, although we wanted to have the battalion to. In formation of the company, battalion, according to units. Report completed.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u84	National MP Gretzak, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u85	Please give the word to the general of the Kuzmuk army.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u86	Alexander Ivanovich Kuzmuk, please, your microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u87	Dear Hennadia Petrovich! I'm very surprised by your presence on the rostrum of the Supreme Council. Because the General Staff and you, as superior to the leadership of the Armed Forces, rather than the Ministry of Defense, have no bearing on the events that are being considered today. It's a matter of the Ministry of Defense. I admit that my initiative was to create a civil defence ministry, but I find that neither the state nor those who have worked in the Ministry of Defense in recent years have grown up. Absolutely. That's why all the problems are. The Ministry of Defense considers the development of the Armed Forces and the security of the state only as it does.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u88	Dear colleagues! May I have your attention, please? Give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u89	The question to you is how military: the accumulation and saturation of Georgia with heavy weapons: tanks, high-power artillery, Pion nuclear artillery, combat helicopters, planes, has this led to disproportionate use of force against South Ossetia?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u90	Thank you for asking. Honorable national MPs, a loving increase in arms and technology, it always affects the proportions between the parties. I can only answer that, if we add a corresponding increase, it's corresponding and it affects.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u91	Dear colleagues! Let's say that the first deputy came and stood before the Supreme Council of Ukraine, let's not break up the man, because Army General Kuzmuk Alexander Ivanovich said that the first deputy chief of the General Staff had nothing to do with this. But the war came and stood before us, and this honor does so to him. Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, Communist faction Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u92	Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear General, we will hear many more political thoughts, but it is important for me to hear your opinion and, if possible, your honest opinion as an officer and as a general, your honest answers to two questions. How do you, as the first deputy chief of the General Staff, appreciate the fact that you've been decommissioning the most advanced combat equipment, as far as possible? And the second question is, please tell me, how will you look into the eyes of tens of thousands of homeless officers after my colleague said that, for the money that my colleague has provided, it would be possible to build 38,000 apartments by 60 square meters, that is, two-room apartments, how will you look them in the eye after that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u93	Thank you for asking. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the first question, the issue of decommissioning, I'd like to look at it in the following order, we have a certain cyclicality in carrying out combat rotations of all divisions and combat, according to missile complexes, and they are carrying combat rotations at some point. No fighting division will be removed from the fighting sequence, but we have a state program: we have a certain number of divisions by the end of 2011, for the sixth year and even for 2008, we have a much larger one now. So getting out of the fighting force of that division, it didn't have any effect on rotation and resilience. As for the second question, I would like to say that, of course, the housing problem is a painful problem of the Armed Forces and the money they got at the expense of the sale, again, well, it's not the competence of the Armed Forces, you know. Sell it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u94	The question is asked by National Deputy Karpuk, the faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u95	Vladimir Karpuk. Your Honor, General! Unlike members of the Temporary Investigation Commission, we were in Georgia in September and saw traces of cluster bombs and broken houses in the city of Gori. And when we were on the Russian blockpost, the captain of the Russian army asked us, "Who are you and why did you come here?" We said that parliamentarians from Ukraine. He said to us literally, “Why do you want to come here, you’ll see it to yourself.” So I'm asking you and I'm telling you with responsibility that our country's defence will not be at a sufficient level as long as the anti-Ukrainian Parliament. When it comes to dealing with issues that are aimed at destroying the security of our country. I'm asking you as a military general, please tell me if you're satisfied with the financing of the Ukrainian Armed Forces of less than one percent of GDP and from there all the questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u96	Thank you so much for asking. Dear National Deputies! Of course, the funding that has been and is planned for the Armed Forces in recent years is completely unsatisfactory. It only allows us to maintain the Armed Forces and provide for maintenance, and we have virtually no money to develop.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u97	Dear colleagues, time for questioning is up. I'm asking you to sit down. Now, dear colleagues, please sign up for the factions. We agreed and voted in 15 minutes. So 15 minutes goes by. National MP Gretzak, faction of the Party of the Regions. The right to speak is given to Anatoly Kirilovich Kinah. Dear colleagues, we voted for 15 minutes of the speech, if you insist, we will be able to continue our work. Ivan Aleksandrovitch, the Supreme Council has made a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u98	Ladies and gentlemen of the national council, honourable citizens! The issue of export of specialized personnel and weapons is an integral part of the national security of Ukraine and the international authority of our nation. So it must certainly be considered without emotional and political charges, only on a high level of government, a highly professional system. The export control system for specialized weapons and technology was created in Ukraine in the mid-1990s and met international standards at that time. But in the last period of connection with unprecedented destruction, the politics of the authorities in Ukraine, including the National Security and Defence Council, Ukraine’s Security Service, poses enormous risks and losses to Ukraine, both international authority and financial results. It is important to note that the world today has a growing conflict between the people’s right to self - determination and territorial integrity. And the tragedies of Kosovo, Abkhazia, South Ossetia confirm how serious world co-operation must seek a peaceful way out of the situation. But by taking a unilateral position of engagement, politicized, personal, with regard to Georgian-Ossetinian events, Ukraine has unfortunately lost the chance to be an effective subject of shaping world-wide collective security on the basis of implementing international norms and, of course, peaceful ways. It is very serious that the defense of the country has suffered another unfortunate blow. Today, virtually all state programs have been destroyed, starting with the development of military reform, the production of technical equipment, and weapons. And what happened in the supply of weapons to Georgia, the removal from the fighting rotation of the "BUK M-1" complex, is a matter that needs to be addressed, including, at the level of criminal responsibility. Unfortunately, we have lost the chance to engage the next upgrade programs "BUK", "M-1.2", "S-300", "Aviatics", "Corvet" and many others. As a result of this issue, the security of the issue of financial loss is clearly the most plausible. The faction of the Party of the Regions calls on all factions, regardless of political colour, to support the draft ruling prepared by the Interim Investigation Commission and all, regardless of their positions, must be punished. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u99	Alexeiev Igor Viktorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u100	Thank you. Alexeyev, the Communist faction, the deputy head of the commission, still a reserve colonel. These facts are, in fact, in a normal country, the reason for the beginning of the President's impeachment procedure. Where the BAF position, the Military Prosecutor's Office, is, in fact, the facts listed can be classified as national betrayal. I want you to think, the state structure and decisions on similar criminal adventures are impossible without the intervention or decisions of the Commander-in-Chief. The question is, Who is breaking the system of personal enrichment of Ukraine’s top? Do we know all about the supply of weapons to Georgia, since Georgia’s weapons were politically and even geopolitical in nature? I do not rule out that Georgia’s weapons were accompanied by secret, unknown protocols and covenants and obligations of a certain nature. The second conclusion. The sphere of national security and defence must go under strict parliamentary control. The questionable deliveries to the countries of Asia and Africa associated with this corruption charges against prominent businessmen from Ukraine, politicians and criminal circles, today's Faina scandal has not yet been completed and is related to the threat to the lives of our sailors and fellow countrymen, all of which requires a review of the President's authority and the area of national security and defence to be fully under parliamentary control. Communists believe that the President's position as a source of internal and external threats needs to be eliminated altogether because the results Frg_01727*001*039&lt;11:34: 39&gt; The activities of all three Ukrainian presidents clearly support this principled position of the Company. The third conclusion. Yushchenka’s foreign policy is devastating and dangerous. The supply of high-tech anti-air defence systems, such as BUK-1 and the City, has caused the damage to Ukraine's and the Russian Federation's KPC cooperation. It was Yushchenk’s fault that, as commander - in - charge and leader of the NPB, Ukraine lost its chance to modernize the air defence system, which could ensure its security as a neutral state. Moreover, there is serious reason to say that the promotion of Ukraine's participation in the US AO system in Europe is the price that Yushchenko paid for the actual destruction of the country's defence system in 2005-2008. I'm saying that the questionable American umbrella at the expense of the destruction of the National Armed Forces is a crime before Ukraine and the people. And the last. Since 2005, Yushchenko's almost key policy direction has been the rapprochement with the Saakashvili regime. The obvious reason was that they were drawn closer not only to the handiwork or the way they had broken through to power but also to the service of one guardian. Yushchenko has constantly tried to make practical sense of a completely ineffective GUAM. And this questionable association has even tried to transform into a military-political bloc. We will therefore require Ukraine to withdraw from GUAM and to denounce all agreements within the framework.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u101	Tereshuk Sergey Mikolayovich. Grenevetsky Sergey Rafailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to start by saying that working on a commission as a secretary gives me every reason to believe that the quota principle of power-building, especially the politicization of power and law enforcement structures, leads to irresponsibility, total corruption, and leads to the limit at which the loss of statehood is to be achieved. This is confirmed by the formal bureaucratic receipts, the superficial, and sometimes the lying materials that came to the commission's address. But for the sake of objectivity, I also want to mark the professional approach in some structures, such as the Head of State and the State Treasury of Ukraine. I would like to have the distinguished colleagues and the TV set, the radio audience, listen carefully to the document that came to us from the State Treasury of Ukraine, as we are concerned about the security of our country. I quote. “According to the Ukrainian State Budget Act for the year in question, the costs of the implementation of excessive military and special equipment, other property of the Ukrainian Armed Forces and other military formations formed under the legislation are accounted for in the accounts of the general and special state budget funds opened in the State Treasury of Ukraine. It should be noted that the recalculation of the costs of sales of military and special purpose products was carried out by: DC “Ukrespecexport”, DP “Ukreinmash”, DP “Ukroboransservis”, DP “Progress” and other enterprises. The information contained in the payment orders, which list the expenditure recorded for the state budget accounts, does not allow us to determine where and for what purposes military and special purposes have been sold. In the field of payment assignment, payment orders usually indicate the number and date of the agreement according to which the cost was recalculated. In view of the information given above in the State Treasury, there is no information on the revenues from the sale of military and special goods to Georgia during 2004-2008.” Dear colleagues, I think this is the key. Above all, we need to understand that there is the Law on the Legal Regime of Property in the Armed Forces of Ukraine, article 6 is called “Exception of Military Property”, which clearly states: “Costs received from the implementation of military property are included in the State Budget of Ukraine and used exclusively for defence purposes according to the Treasury of the Ministry of Defence.” Here's all the answers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u103	Yavorovsky Volodymyr Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u104	Microphone, please. Vladimir Yavorowski. I am happy to give the floor to Colonel General, the recent commander of the U.S. Army, Mikola Petrukowa, BUT.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u105	The honourable chairman, the honourable national deputies, from the very beginning when the commission began to work, I was on my way to the questions that were being considered, and where we were to conduct investigations so that these issues would not be politicized, this is first. Second, when the commission worked, there was a principle in the military until the work of the commission was completed, and all of this was publicized. But it went the other way, of course, so the question arose that the commission should continue its work. And that's not right from the start of the commission. No one saw me in front of the cameras when the investigation took place, and it would have gone much deeper if we had followed these principles. That's the first one. The other one. On the issue of investigation, I put the question first, and what we should pay attention to, and what the law enforcement authorities should pay attention to is that there is a crime that is the wrong removal of the anti-aircraft division from the armed forces of Ukraine. So, Gennady Petrovich, you've gone rogue, I respect you as a colonel general, but I've served 41 years in the army, and I'm no less understanding these things, that's it. The second question that needs to be asked is what you should listen to. Arguments? It's all on the surface like a military. If I have an airship division, I can use it either in combat gear or he can prepare for combat rotation and stand in shelters. [[B in m in s a l in]] The second question. To what should attention be given, and where should law enforcement work? This is the technique that was removed from the Ukrainian Armed Forces, the second question, and the technology that had been removed from the Ukrainian Armed Forces had to be sold at the price it deserved. So the Armed Forces at all times, I don't say for the technology that was being sold to Georgia, all the time the Armed Forces were getting from selling brittle technology, and so the Armed Forces are in such a pitiful state at this time: and there are no apartments, no technology upgrades, no technology upgrades and all that. So I'm reminding you once again, two questions: subverting combat readiness for air defence and selling technology that was removed from the Armed Forces. The rest can be thrown away. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u106	Olga Gerasimük, faction "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense". Anatoly Stepanovich Grizenko, please. May I have your attention, fellow officers?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u107	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I would ask, Vladimir Mikhailovich, not to limit my time, because three times my last name was mentioned, and I would like to give the opportunity to repeat it, too, so that I don't go out. Dear colleagues, I understand that there are many people in this room.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u108	Anatoly Stepanovich, I'm sorry! Dear colleagues, since Anatoly Stepanovich is a member of the faction and is the head of the committee, give five minutes if there is no objection. And the name was mentioned. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u109	Thank you. I understand that many people in this room do not like the President or the Prime Minister or a specific minister, but I would like us to calm down now and get inside the essence of something to make a balanced decision. I want to stop for six moments. The first is an ethical moment. I think it's a shame when there's no defence minister in this bed right now, the heads of the U.S. Department, the foreign minister, and the colonel general. [[Applause]] That's the first one. I think that part of this disgrace should be taken over by the head of a commission who through the secretariat did not even invite them. But even if they didn't, they have to sit here. That's the first one. The other one. I would like, let's say, in a delicate form, to say that if the Party of Regions were to head the committee, there would be no clowning and there would be no humiliation of Ukraine from this very delicate and important question. Why? Well, it sounded from the rostrum that Grizzenko was not present, giving no explanation. I testify and my head will be confirmed. Deputy Head of the Commission and others: there was no reference to Grycenk with a list of questions to be answered. I was invited at 4:00 a.m. by fax to familiarize myself with the report, and I could answer a lot of questions. If they do, I'll give them to you. I mean, the head of the commission didn't ask me to explain. Next. It's a very important question. Unfortunately, slides with secret documents are being presented. I'm paying attention to the Chief of the Supreme Council! And the head of the commission against basic ethics, when there is no decision by the commission and a report approved, across all channels -- Ukrainian, Russian -- gives comments on these very sensitive issues, which are only for the benefit of competitors. And not just Russian in this sensitive market. Unacceptable! Let's not let this happen! The second moment is legality. I respect the people here, but there's no crime. You can talk about responsibility, but the President is the Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces. He himself approves of the strategic plan of application. It determines the location of the military forces. He approves the warehouse as he sees fit and responds personally. Yes, you've seen documents that were displayed, including my signature. Yes, I reported personally and orally, and in writing to the President that, in my view, the Minister of Defence was not adequate to provide the “BOUC M-1”. It's about debilitating, and it's about complicated relations with Russia. I didn't support it, but the President -- I admit -- has the right to make that decision, and he has the responsibility. And it's not a matter of breaking the law. No law was broken. The only thing I insisted, being a minister, is that after I left my post, Chief Genstab would not be put in jail for the government to decide to withdraw from the military. Why the Government? Because he has these powers and, secondly, the government is the one that approves the list of objects that the army should protect from the air. So that the government would know what the consequences of this would be by pulling out of the M-1 Battle Force. But once again, there was no violation of the law here, and the government's decision is absolutely legitimate. With regard to other violations of the law. Our committee, with the participation of the heads of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Euro-Atlantic Integration, met in mid-August when there were vacations but there was war. I thank the deputies who have arrived. And that's when both Ukrespecexport and the State Export Control Service were immediately heard: what we provided over the entire period, whether we supplied against the law, or in accordance with the law. And after that, in writing, this material is located in the First Office of the Supreme Council, to the knowledge of the three heads of the committees, which clearly shows the full list of everything that was provided, according to the signatures of the people who answer, and it is also absolutely clear: no law, no international treaty, Ukraine has violated, supplying arms to Georgia. Legally, no law has been violated, no international treaty. And neither the United Nations nor any of the partner countries can blame us, let's be honest about this. [[B in m in s a l in]] The third question is the military aspect.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u110	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u111	The chairman of the commission said that our military was involved, including in military service and so on. That's a lie, that's not true. And just as General Vorobyov reported, and I checked this data back then, in August with the authorized deputy minister of foreign affairs of Elisha. There were 15 of our military personnel who, according to plans approved a year ago, were preparing, in a short time, at the centre of the mountain training that was built in Georgia by NATO partners, including Russia, Belarus and everyone else. It was a plan as soon as the war started, and they were brought out. No military was involved in this. The fourth question is whether citizens participated.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u112	Give me a chance. Dear colleagues, do you mind if we continue the show? I'm asking you to give us a chance to finish the speech. Come on, please. There's no objection.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u113	Thank you. Whether or not civilians were involved. At a committee meeting in August, we heard that we did not. Some names are listed here and it says that the information is being verified. She's been checking in for a month. And there's not going to be any data that the Russians or the Tshinvali showed in the videos of some of their phones that they've confirmed, that you've been able to verify for a long time through both the Minister of Internal Affairs and the Deputy, who's a Communist, and so on. This data is not available. Let's not take this on. And last of all, as far as the draft decision is concerned. In such a way, the draft decision to vote is not an appropriate one. But he needs to be voted for, and then I'm ready to vote. Suggestion: The first paragraph is the report to be accepted, the attention given to everyone, the respect of the law – yes, must be accepted. Second, transfer all the materials to the Attorney General's Office for investigation. And pay particular attention to the economic issues that have been raised here. Because there's no Mini-Defense in this attitude. I don't know where that money went, but if the Treasury says there wasn't a penny, we need to check it out. Third, giving a legal assessment is a yes. Fourthly, fifthly, against the fact that the commission under such headship will do nothing further, especially on other issues. The sixth is for, to be published in the Voice of Ukraine. And last of all, it's about the responsibility of Minister Yehanurov, as spoken here. There is no reason to record Yuri Yehanurov for this. I'll tell you more, Yuri Yehanurov has something to shoot for. And our committee meeting on Wednesday ended with a proposal to create a TSC in order for him to answer for the fact that 16 of our helicopters are not in the Army right now, and they are flying in the wrong direction, and it is not clear what tasks they are doing. You can shoot for that, and you can't film Yehanur's for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u114	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I beg you, let's make a deal like this until you manage me. In accordance with the Rules, he is entitled to a final word. And without your advice, I know what to do. Please give me 3 minutes for the closing word of Konovaluku.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u115	Respectful colleagues, apparently, are left only to remember the Scriptures and to say that righteousness exalts the people, and impunity is dishonor to the people. This disgrace is precisely for people who, with their direct understanding of their participation, and for Gritsenko to be an accomplice to all these criminal acts, and to say that no one has invited them is cynical. In fact, we have repeatedly invited the Secretary of the Commission of Inquiry to serve as the first Deputy Head of the Committee on Defence and National Security in which Gritsenko presides. Clearly, then, it is difficult for you to speak now about the specific abuses you have committed. You know, we remember three governments, you were made up of three governments, when, in fact, you gave Yushchenko compliments every day. When he left you behind, you were actually his main critic. That, unfortunately, characterizes you. You know, when the head of the Ministry of Defence makes a decision, he signs this document. The secret of this document, believe me, lies solely in the fact that it is already illegal. Grizzenko signs it knowingly, consciously. [[Here's your signature.]] Instead of reacting, speaking and saying that it would cause great harm to the country. By the second document, here's the resolution you're making, you're signing the document for cooperation with Rosoronexport. Do you know what your essence is? And here are people like you who have brought the army to its full destruction and destruction today, the demoralization of the Armed Forces! You, your deputy, are in charge, he's collecting officials, we've tracked down all the telegrams that have already covered the removal of two "BUK M-1" and many others from combat duty. You know, as head of this commission, I've had to put my family in a safe place and take away the dirty accusations and accusations that you, with the silent consent of the pseudo-democrats, have done to me. But I want to tell you one thing: The truth is alone, and the responsibility will not pass you. It will not pass on the responsibility of the President of Ukraine, who has actually caused tremendous damage, material and damage to national security and defence. Finally, I would like to point out that we will insist on the inclusion in the draft regulation of a separate order to vote on the responsibility and resignation of Minister Ehanurov. And you don't have to judge me today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u116	Ladies and gentlemen, the commission's chairman's closing statement has been made. Since the name of the Ukrainian national deputy was mentioned, and I would like to ask, dear colleagues, not to blame each other, we are all colleagues. You'll be proved officially, then we'll be charged. Please, let's be tolerant. Anatoly Grizzenko. Turn on the microphone, a minute on the line.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u117	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm not going to call you names. But the person who just spoke, I'm just going to give the facts. She served in the Armed Forces of the Soviet Union for four years. She began her post as platoon commander and was released. The military knows who has served for more than two years -- absolutely unsuspecting. The other one. From the Russian army, the man was expelled, ordered by the commander of the Siberian military district for inadequacy with the moral qualities of an officer of the Russian army. I think the rest of the comments. And I'm sorry that the Party of Regions of the Stronger Head didn't appoint this important commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u118	Dear colleagues, calm down. Once again, I want to say, there are no honorary colleagues, there are no lines on the line. It will be endless. So, Alexander Kuzmuk, he's going to make you all at once, who knows all the military problems. One minute and we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, I really don't want to answer to anyone, but there's something for all of you I'd like to clarify. Yes, the Chief of Staff makes decisions, approves plans for the General Staff, makes decisions, and is responsible. But I don't see any responsibility here. Two divisions of combat rotation were taken off, which were to cover the wartime cover of chemical objects and other tasks, not a secret, but in peacetime to cover up terrorist attacks from the air. There's nothing to close them for. What does this lead to? A few years ago, military forces were dismantled in Bolgrad, Crimea, and now they are being reinstated, spending huge amounts of money. How, then, can we speak of responsibility? One year we're going to delete, the second year we're restoring resilience. There's no reception.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u120	Yes, Your Honor, the discussion of this difficult matter is over. Let's move on to making a decision. Dear colleagues, if we are to put these decisions to the vote and make them immediately, there are many details that need to be made in each paragraph. That's why I have this offer. In order for it to be correctly formulated, the legal administration has now looked at and there are laws of such a legal, technical nature. So I have this proposal -- let's now take it as a basis if the Supreme Council accepts it and then in every position. There's, well, for example, if we approve the commission's report, there's no need for her to continue her work, right? Obviously, this is a preliminary report then to the commission or an interim report. If we are writing “to pay attention to the heads of public authorities”, it is obvious that “the relevant authorities of the State” should be written down. So these are some adjustments that have to be taken into account. So if there's no objection, I'm now voting on the proposal. By procedure of what? Please sign up, now let's do it this way -- let's continue our session until we're done. I do. I'm going to take a break. The other one. I'm going to ask you, dear colleagues, after we've completed our consideration of this issue, that we vote and, in summary, consider other issues, it's New Year's Eve celebrations, children and so forth. That's why now, please, five minutes is enough? Please sign up. Please put your name on the board. Lilia Grigorovich. Lilia Stepanovna, please, your microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u121	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Today, we seem to have tried to talk about national security and its threat. So today we have witnessed that the greatest threat to national security today was in this rostrum in a person released for lack of morale of the lieutenant. In a person who protects the national interests of anyone but Ukraine. In a person who uses paper that's worked in any office, but not in Ukraine. And when the critical mass of such immoral lieutenants that came out of one nest, from one university, or from one college in 93, reaches critical numbers in the Ukrainian Parliament, that is the greatest threat to national security. I call upon all those who bear Ukraine's passport and the testimony of the deputy of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to reject the pianist of this immoral lieutenant for the benefit of the neighbouring state and to work for the Ukrainian national.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u122	National MP Smithukh, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u123	Pass it on, Konovaluku.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u124	Please, National Deputy Konovaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u125	Dear colleagues, I am truly surprised at the lowliness and distaste of people who are still trying to represent themselves as such pseudopatriots in Ukraine. In 1991, I served in the Western Group of Forces and when the Union broke up, the question was simple: either Ukrainian citizenship or military career in the Russian Federation, I chose Ukrainian citizenship. And I chose this nationality not to look at what is happening today with the country, with the ignorance and to what you have led the State. And fight against the crimes that you commit and cover them up today. So my conscience is officer-clear, and believe me, more of the lowliness and dirt that you're expressing, instead of giving yourself an assessment and your President, you're not doing well today, you're just trying to avoid responsibility. And I, Vladimir Mihajlovich, want one person to consider draft order 3507 on Ehanurov, which is the requirements of our faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u126	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u127	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, I am not a professional military officer, although I have faithfully served in the ranks of the army, but even I realize that apparently such things as were said today would have been said in a closed regime. Not because this is about breaking some publicity, for example, I have heard and apparently people who are not Ukrainian citizens today have heard which objects in Ukraine today are not protected, for example. Think of the country that would allow such hearings if everyone today knew what objects in Ukraine were unprotected, including terrorist attacks. As for the procedure, I would like to support and encourage the Head of the Supreme Council that we today could vote on the basis that the decision would be perfect, that there would be no legal colleges and any counterversive issues. Clearly, then, we should vote today.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u128	Andrew Shkull, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u129	Thank you. I would like to emphasize, first of all, that let's at least stop this talk, let's stop insulting the military and the Ukrainian army. Because we have all the instructions, all the tasks before the army and all the orders given by the Commander-in-Chief. The army obeys these commands. And to make me guilty I don't know the minister or the deputy minister, it's easy in this situation. If they are guilty, let them be handled by the appropriate military prosecutor's office and put all the dots above the "and". Now in this discussion we have really crossed over. We started to insult the military, we started to insult each other, we insulted each other. I don't know, Lieutenant, it's an honor. And the lieutenant, and the captain, and the colonels, and the generals, if these titles are deserved. So I would like to emphasize that. In search of truth, we must not seek any reason to offend the entire nation, the entire army, and ourselves. So I call on everyone to be tolerant at least. Of course, it would be a good offer to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u130	Yes, Yuri Carmazin, faction of "Our Ukraine People's Self-Defense."
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u131	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Protectors of the Motherland "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense". Dear National Deputies! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! We are now witnessing that we broke the confidentiality regime when the classified information was published in an open session. It's now printed in us with you, all the schematics are open, everything. The consequences of the lack of professionalism of the Security Service leadership, of the Ministry of Defense leadership, we'll be out of business a long time later. But I have an offer. I have a proposal to stop the commission of inquiry, to state that the report does not fully comply with the Supreme Council Rules and to return immediately to the adoption of the Law on Deputies Commissions. It's got to be the law. Absolutely everything. And those.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u132	Dear National Deputies! We exchanged thoughts on the procedure for dealing with the matter. I want to say this, I accept the observation that Anatoly Gristenck made, from Yuri Carmazin regarding the materials, but the materials that you're given, that they don't have any griffin, you can pass them on. [[I've been told by the management of the apparatus.]] What was shown on the slides is obviously what we all need to figure out so that we can have a solution that will ensure that the public's interests and the protection of state secrets are respected. I told you. Now, dear colleagues, this is a proposal: to adopt the draft regulation as a basis, after which, after each item, the amendments that I propose to you, not my rights, but the remedies proposed by the legal administration, to vote. What is supported will be supported, then put to the vote in general. Why do I propose to make a decision today? Otherwise, we will humiliate the country and discuss the subject again for the next plenary week. We need to make a decision that would be the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. For no reason, the honourable colleagues have already voted. May I have your attention, please? We were just looking into the questions. So let's finish this discussion as soon as possible. I am voting on the basis of the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, registration number 3451. Based on the base. [[12:06:10]] For 261 It's been decided. The factions? Please. May I have your attention, please? The Party of Regions - 172, "Club of Yulia Timoshenko" - 44, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" - 0, Communists - 26, "Clocus of Lithuania" - 19. Now, honourable colleagues, regarding the name of the commission. May I have your attention, please? Dear colleagues, not the report of the Temporary Commission, but the previous report. Right? So I'm putting this proposal to a vote. The name of the ruling “On the previous report of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine”. Please vote. [[12:07:01]] For the 250. Decision taken. Now let's move on. First point. The factions? Please. Region Party – 174, Block Timoshenko – 32, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" – 0, Communists – 26, "Block of Lithuania" – 18. Now the proper name of the decision. In the first paragraph, write the following: “Preliminary report of the Temporary Commission” – and then follow the text. And where it says, "Pay attention to the heads of public authorities", write in this way: "To pay attention to the leaders of the relevant authorities" – and follow the text. I'm voting on these amendments. [[12:08:03]] For 264 Decision taken. The factions, please. Party of Regions – 172, Block of Timoshenko – 46, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" – 1, Communists – 26, "Block of Lithuania" – 19. In the second paragraph of the “Temporary Investigative Commission to transmit the investigation materials to the Attorney General’s Office of Ukraine”, here “their study and” I propose to delete, not to be passed on to them, of course, for study, “to respond accordingly”. Dear colleagues, the Attorney General's Office is governed solely by legislation. Please vote on the second paragraph. [[12:09:05]] For 272 Decision taken. In the third paragraph, your colleagues, you just have to write down an interim special commission, as required by the legal technique. What? Dear colleagues, now that we're in, let's vote on technical proposals, because now every proposal, we're not going to make anything. Given that, what, what? I read: “The Attorney General of Ukraine gives a legal assessment of the actions of the Minister of Defence of Ukraine Yehanurov, head of the Security Service of Ukraine, the Secretary of the Council of National Security and Defence of Bogatirov, the Director-General of the University of Bondarczuk, aimed at blocking and ignoring the temporary special commission, preventing the performance of its functions.” That's the offer. All you have to do is decipher it. I'll put it to a vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:10:25]] For – 229 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, let us take a look at the composition of this commission. So this is a report of the work that we've been asked to do. Whether he likes it or not, that means we're working badly. Dear colleagues, by factions, please. Region Party – 171, "Timoshenko Yuli Block" – 31, "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" – 1, communists – 26, "Litvina Block" – 0. Dear colleagues, here's to point four. This is not a way to write the fourth paragraph. That is, as it is written: “According to the fact that the situation in the Caucasus region remains tense, explosive, and in accordance with the requirements of legislation on State control over international transfers of military and dual-use goods, it is necessary to suspend the supply of military equipment and arms to Georgia temporarily.” We can't evaluate what's going on there. Therefore, since the Supreme Council voted on the basis, and with respect for the Supreme Council's decision, it is only correct to write: “It is necessary to suspend temporarily the supply of military equipment and weapons to Georgia” and to continue to “the Cabinet of Ministers to take the appropriate decision on this matter”. And no more. No more of that. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please sign up, dear fellows! Three minutes, please sign in on the board. But you can't write what's proposed. National MP Smithukh, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u133	Please pass the word to Kiselov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u134	Please, Kiselov's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u135	I think we should vote on this, put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u136	Peter Simonenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u137	Simonenko, the Communist faction. I think we should support the proposal made today or now, Vladimir Mikhailovich, and thus we will make a responsible decision that Ukraine, as a state that respects peace and peace in all peace, which today respects all nations, will never be the State from which weapons are provided that kill the peaceful population. I think we should draw some conclusions from the fact that the Ukrainian weapons sold by Yushchenko and his gravel were killing pensioners, the elderly, killing mothers with children, the night of the gastro-fire system "The City". I believe that such a question must be put to a halt in the provision of military equipment and the appropriate decision must finally be taken by the Cabinet of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u138	People's MP Pisarenko, faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u139	Dear colleagues! With that logic, we need to stop supplying weapons to all the countries that Ukraine is trading with today. You know, let's not stop our foreign trade relations today. And the faction of Yulia Tymoshenko certainly does not support the fact that there was such a point, because that is why we are violating our external obligations to other countries. So let us not now say things that will not normally add image to our country today in the world arena. Moreover, Ukraine is not the last one on the arms market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u140	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u141	Dear colleagues, there are two options, either to throw this item out in the first place, or the second option, maybe it's the one that holds most of the hall, could be what Vladimir Mikhajlovich suggested. The point is that the subject of this ruling is not our assessment by the Ukrainian Parliament of the situation that is in the Caucasus region, whether explosive or not, it is explosive. Therefore, if the Hall agreed, it would be possible to vote without the first one, considering what was left, and only the second one was left. Or another option, if you throw this option at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u142	Jaroslav Kenzier, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u143	I ask you to pass the word, Vladimir Mikhailovich, Anatoly Grizzenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u144	Anatoly Stepanovich Grizenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u145	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's be consistent, the war in the Caucasus was fought by two countries, if Georgia was banned, and Russia was banned, but that's not in our interests, and that undermines the image of our country. So the proposal, delete paragraph 4. Saakashvili has already concluded for himself and the rest have done for him, just like the Russian Federation, but we will not lose any jobs or technology or undermine our prestige in general in other parts of the world. Delete paragraph 4, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u146	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say again, because we voted as a basis, and in order to find a way out, such a compromise formulation has been proposed. But the speech of colleagues Pisarenko, Anatoly Grizzenka, they have logic. Therefore, according to these suggestions, we will put the matter to the vote. Thus, there is a suggestion that it is necessary to suspend temporarily the supply of military equipment and weapons to Georgia, the Cabinet of Ministers, in this regard, to make the appropriate decision. It may have a negative impact on work and supply, on the basis of the contracts that are and the second was, the proposal to delete this item altogether. So as these proposals come in, I put to the vote the first proposal proposed, Frg_01727*001*056&lt;12:16: 50&gt; Frg_01727*001*056&lt;12:16: 50&gt; The commission considers it necessary to suspend the supply of military equipment and weapons to Georgia temporarily. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine will make a decision on this matter. Please, Your Honor, determine how to vote with respect to the interests of Ukraine. Please. [[12:17:17]] For-195 According to factions, the offer is not supported. Region Party - 169, "Timoshenko Yulia Block" - 0, "Our Ukraine-People's Self-Defense" - 0, Communist faction - 26, "Litvina Block" - 0. I now put the second sentence to the vote. Delete what? Dear colleagues! Just a minute. Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk gives me the right hint – pay attention! – that if this paragraph is not voted out, it is deleted. Oh, no? No, it's not. Okay. Come on. Dear colleagues! Please don't shout all of them together. In order to make an impeccable decision, I am voting on the deletion of this paragraph from the draft decree. Please vote. [[12:18:24]] For 237 Decision taken. The factions, please. The Party of the Regions is 1, the Yulia Block of Timoshenko - 155, Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense - 62, Communist faction - 0, "Litvina Block" -19. Now, here's the next question. This is the fifth position. “The work of the Interim Investigation Commission continued until June 2009 and entrusted the Interim Special Commission with the task of investigating circumstances related to the provision and transportation of military equipment by the Faina cargo ship, captured by Somali pirates. Here, honourable colleagues, in this project, which was voted on as a basis, the commission's mandate is expanding -- that's the first proposal. The second proposal came from Yuri Karmazin in general. Frg_01727*001*057&lt;12:19: 19&gt; So I'm going to put the motions to the vote in order. The first proposal for a temporary special committee is put to the vote. This is paragraph five: “The work of the Interim Investigation Commission to continue until June 2009 and to entrust the Interim Special Commission to investigate the circumstances related to the provision and transportation of military equipment by the Faina cargo vessel captured by the Somali pirates.” I'd like you to determine how to vote. [[12:20:04]] For 199 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues! Well, it's automatic, if this item hasn't passed, so what are we talking about? Next. Paragraph 6: “The Interim Investigation Commission’s findings are published in the newspaper Voice of Ukraine. ” Dear colleagues! Well, please, you're denying it, and we're putting it all to the vote. Dear colleagues! Please! I'm voting on this proposal. I'd like you to determine how to vote. We've already set things straight, let's keep working. [[12:20:57]] For 199 Dear colleagues! Another point must be added: “This Order takes effect from the day of its adoption”. Please vote. [[12:21:27]] For 325 Dear colleagues! Let's not have any binomials, we have to vote now, but we didn't support the commission's continued work. We must vote in favour of cancelling this paragraph. Well, they tell me here, let's put it to a vote now. Frg_01727*001*058&lt;12:21: 48&gt; delete the fifth paragraph on the continuation of the commission. Please vote. [[12:22:06]] For 231 Decision taken. Now I'm putting it to a vote. I now put, honourable colleagues, to the vote on adoption in general by deleting the words “previous report” because they have not continued their work. That's why the motion for a draft decision as a whole is put to the vote as a decision to delete the words "previous report", just what we'll consider to be a report. [[Registration number 3451]] Please vote. Dear colleagues, we're going to put you in a dead end, please vote. [[12:22:54]] For 282 Decision taken. Question completed. Dear colleagues, there is a request, perhaps we are now voting in favour of -- I beg your attention, not to break up -- so that we do not announce a recess, under a reduced procedure, we have considered those issues that are extremely urgent. I'm putting this motion to a vote so that I don't advertise breaks and consider all the issues under shorter procedure and finish them at the morning plenary. Please vote. [[12:23:39]] For 244 Decision taken. A draft Law on Strengthening Responsibility for Indemnity of Payment or Unjustified Failure to Pay Wages, Fellowships, Pensions, or Other Legally Established Payments is under review. Reporter: Minister of Labour and Social Policy Ludmila Leontievna Denisov
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u147	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, today in Ukraine, despite the adoption of a series of laws, the state of social protection for workers cannot be considered satisfactory. Thus, the results of State inspectors ’ checks show that almost 90 percent of employers violate labour legislation. Most of the violations occur in the area of pay. According to the State of Turkmenistan, on November 1, 2008, the debt to pay the salary amounted to a billion and a quarter million dollars. During the nine months of the current year, 311 inspections were carried out by government labour inspectors of enterprises and organizations regarding compliance with labour legislation. As a result of these tests, 22,000 715 reports of violations of legislation or 66 percent of them have been filed and transferred to the courts. Five thousand 79 test materials have been handed over to law enforcement agencies to draw the guilty to criminal responsibility. Three million 800,000 fines were imposed on 13,000 officials. The courts issued 17.6 thousand decisions on administrative charges. However, the measures taken did not improve the situation of compliance with labour law, so how can they affect when the state inspector may impose fines for failure to comply with the legal requirements of the officials of the State of Employment ranging from 17 to 238, and the courts may impose fines for administrative infringements from.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u148	Please finish, we've got a two-minute cut.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u149	A thousand 700 bucks. Therefore, this bill, which increases administrative fines and reduces criminal liability, is proposed for your consideration. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u150	Have a seat, please. Please, two for, two for, one for, one for. National MP Bondarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u151	Dear friends, I would like to ask you to adopt this document in the first reading. He may stop the agitation policy pursued by the head of a virtual government in Ukraine, promising to bring thousands of people to Kiev in 90 days. Let him lead them to the premises that are occupied and occupied today, and not to the dwellings, the oligarchs that are part of this faction, who have already driven thousands of people into the streets, pay them no wages in their metallurgical combinations and so forth. I think we need to stop this vachanal of pressure on the government by the oligarchs who have exported billions and tens of billions of dollars overseas, and today they're scaring the government by pushing it and demanding payments from the state budget to the people they've worked so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u152	National MP Matthews, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u153	Please hand over Simone Peter.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u154	Dear colleagues, I would like to invite you to consider the following approach when considering this bill. In fact, if we look at it in isolation from what is happening today in Ukraine in the face of a crisis, the Communist faction will vote in first reading, but it does not resolve the fundamental contradictions that today in the context of the crisis are caused by this situation. The main contradiction is, of course, between the work that our simple labourers are making and the capital that is actually making exploitation more difficult today in these specific circumstances. Exploitation is reinforced by the fact that: some are on unpaid leave; others are simply expelled from work; and the third, so to speak, are deceivingly saying, “You now sign a statement of your own”, and then it is not put into account in the Employment Fund; and the fourth, today, the wages are reduced twice. All of this is translated into simple labourers, including budgeters through the same system of State and local budgeting. We must therefore understand today that radical measures must be taken in times of crisis. What are they supposed to be? First. They're driving the workers out of work today and obviously because they're unjustifiably expelling them because the State has refused to ask the owners why you're driving them out of work. A decision must be taken if workers are to be removed from their work, and they must be taken from the owner and returned to public property. Next. We are saying that today we must put order in place and the State must first support the development of productive forces in our country, not destroy productive forces. So today, we must look at the role of the banking system in the complex, and return to take steps to ensure that the mafia is ultimately accountable to the law and to the interests of the State. Today we must clearly understand that only then will there be working dreams and wages when we give up today the programme imposed by the International Monetary Fund, the World Trade Organization. So the faction of the Communists once again draws your attention to the need to look at the conditions of the crisis in the complex, and this is simply a blur.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u155	Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u156	Thank you. Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, this is a very important bill. And I'd like to explain to you the essence of this bill. The bill proposes to increase financial sanctions for late payment of salary and, at the same time, to soften the criminal’s wages. So in order for you to figure out what the sums are, I want to remind you that for today, the untaxed minimum of citizens' income is 17 dollars. And now I want to draw your attention to some of the precedents. On 4 December of this year, the Prime Minister of Ukraine signed a telegram in violation of the rules of all existing laws in force in Ukraine, which allows the payment of salary without contributions to the Pension Fund, to other social insurance funds. In this way, in this way. Today, we still have a pension deficit of 14 billion dollars, next year we expect 40 billion dollars of pension deficits, and the problem is on the inside. It will be necessary for the second reading to ensure that the Prime Minister does not violate the rules of the current legislation of Ukraine, to make changes in order to complete the “declaration of wages” where the “work pay” is written. And one more thing. Today, there is an increase in debt on wages. Let me give you an example. Dnipropetrovsk oblast: The largest wage debt is paid by a closed shareholding company with foreign investment – the industrial and financial “only energy systems”. For many years, the salary debt has been $4 million,971,000. I am calling on the Prime Minister as the authority in this area to have the Prime Minister take measures of State influence in order for the "One Energy Systems" Corporation to finally pay off its payroll debt and pay contributions to the Pension Fund in order to enable Ukrainian citizens to receive their pensions in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u157	The discussion is over. I am voting on the adoption in the first reading of draft Law No. 2473 on the increase of responsibility for non-timely payment or unjustified non-payment of salaries, scholarships, pensions or other statutory payments. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:33:12]] For 240 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, in the morning, when the parliamentary requests were made, there was a request for technical reasons, and I will announce it with your permission. This is a request from National Deputy Sergey Koshin to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the illegal construction of a heat treatment plant with zinc metal structures by a limited-liability “Sarnin factory of high-voltage resistance” in the Plain region. I'm asking the camera to correct that request. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Dear colleagues, after the commission's report, we have a draft law on the association of local governments. Today, the head of the Ukrainian President's Office has sent a letter stating that, at the request of the President of Ukraine, we request you to postpone the consideration of the bill to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the next week. Since this draft law is incorporated into the agenda by decision of the Supreme Council, we can transfer it only by the will of the session room. I, with your permission, am putting to the vote a proposal or a request made on behalf of the President by the Head of the Secretariat to move the matter to the next plenary week. It's time to figure it out. [[12:34:51]] For 221 The decision is not taken. So we have to look at this bill. [[B in m in s a l in]] What, you don't understand what this is about? Please repeat, there is a request made by the head of the Ukrainian Secretary on behalf of the President of Ukraine for the transfer from today's plenary session to the next week of the draft Law on the Association of Local Self-Government Authorities. I ask you, please, to vote on the return to the question that we have just voted on. [[12:35:51]] For 249 Now I'm putting to the vote a motion for a transfer to the next plenary week of this bill. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:36:12]] For the 250. Decision taken. So this bill will be considered in the next plenary week. The draft Law, I'm sorry, is being announced, the draft decree on the introduction of a moratorium on the closure of general educational institutions in rural areas, number 2227. Report to the head of the Committee on Science and Education, Ms. Polodimir Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u158	Dear National Deputies! Allow me to remind myself that the Ukrainian National Deputies Polocholo, Lithuania, Sparrow was introduced in March with a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the introduction of a moratorium on the closure of general educational institutions in rural areas, and the project does not contain regulations. The Committee on Science considered an appropriate decision at its meeting. The draft resolution and unanimously, unanimously, by consensus, and in our committee, the representatives of the 6 political parties, adopted, considered the bill on both the basis and in general. And I'd like to say a few literally things. Everyone knows that today we have a catastrophic situation in the rural area of public schools. I want to say that, starting in 2002, I've been paying attention, honourable national MPs, this is also a national security issue -- 727 rural schools have been closed down, or 90 percent of all those that have been closed down in Ukraine. Every year 120 schools in the country are closed. It is clear that the adoption of this regulation requires adjustments in the plans for the implementation of public policy to improve the general secondary education system, taking into account changes in society. We're having a sharp natural decline in population, but at the same time, I'm stressing. I would like to point out that, unfortunately, local government administrations and local self-government agencies, instead of organizing targeted systemic work to ensure balanced policy in this direction, simply banally shut down schools. There is this notion of "optimisation", and this optimism means that schools are breaking up. So this is the decision that she had. [[Lithuania, Robotics, and Polochal]]
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u159	Allow the completion of Vladimir Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u160	The first is done in May. I'd like to ask all the national MPs to support this as a warning against this non-systemic policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u161	Thank you, Vladimir Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, we have voted that we are considering a reduced procedure and so please sign two in favour, two in opposition to this decision. Vladimir Ivanovich, thank you. Sadly, you do not have the opportunity to answer questions. There are three of us who want to. I invite Pavlovsky to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u162	Please give the word to Mr Kravchuk, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u163	Dear friends, learn to push buttons. Cowchuck, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u164	Vasil Kravchuk, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko”. You know, you used to appreciate how the word lives by such indicators: what is the fertility of the farm, how much is produced per acre of grain, which is the head of livestock. Now, in my opinion, we need to approach whether the village lives or is not alive. I mean, how many students are in school? If there are children in rural school, then the village has a prospect, the village has a view of further development. If there are no students in school, then there will be no village. So now, because of the economic crisis in rural areas, it's easier to cope with economic and financial difficulties. And people are going to go back to the village because there's always, there's been, there's going to be work, and there's going to be a better time in the financial and economic period. The Timoshenko’s “Blank of July” faction will necessarily support this law. And the fact that we're not going to let the schools close is going to give us a chance that we're going to save our Ukrainian village. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u165	Thank you. I'd like to introduce you to Gordian, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u166	Sergey Gordienko, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Respectable citizens of Ukraine and respected colleagues! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the current power in Ukraine is not opening anything but simply closing. Therefore, MPs are forced to initiate decisions that prohibit the closure of rural schools. I would like to tell all Ukrainian citizens that this is not because there is no money in Ukraine, not because Ukraine has survived some major war itself, but because it is being done purposefully just to save money for absolutely free, nobody needs the initiative. I refer to all citizens of Ukraine, especially the famous Poltava region. We all know in Ukraine that it is from the initiative of the Poltava Governor of Osadchi and his supporters that the idea of establishing a monument to Karlo XI and Mazepi is behind us. The cost of building and asking them to allocate 1.7 million dollars to the district budget. At the same time, the district government is offering what is called network optimization and school closure in the areas and maternity wards in the Orsick and Cheruchin district. Even the German occupation authorities did not think of it. The faction of the Ukrainian Company will never support this, but will vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u167	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask us here more properly and more tolerantly with regard to the local authorities. Karpuk, Our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u168	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine". I want to make one point, first of all, that, in terms of the fact that today's authorities are shutting down everything and schools, including. The previous government, the Soviet authorities, destroyed thousands of Ukrainian villages and this crime that has not yet been punished. And thousands of villages thought that they were unsuspecting, that people were being taken out, that they were being taken out, that houses were being destroyed, and that's something to be said about. And yet, what I'm saying is that just putting a moratorium on closing schools doesn't solve this problem. It's much wider and much deeper. When there are 3-4-5 children in rural school, when all the classes are taught by one teacher, when there are no computer classes, it's a school that doesn't provide enough knowledge. Therefore, this problem needs to be approached with greater balance, with the community, along with the local authorities. Because if there are, in fact, a few students there, there is no prospect for such a school. But at the same time, we need to consider not destroying such schools to preserve them because the demographic situation in many villages is positive. And so we need to go back to this question, but clearly, just accept it. There's no need to impose a moratorium, there's no need to impose a moratorium on closing schools. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u169	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we'll take stock. Vladimir Ivanovich Polohalo. Please, as a reporter, give me a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u170	Dear colleagues, I was unable to say within the Rules that this was before the beginning of the year, so there is a need to make changes. Three words, add. Instead of “it was set for a certain period of time before the adoption of the Ukrainian State Budget 2009 Act”, I propose, in paragraph 1 of the regulation, the word “implementation before the adoption of the Ukrainian law”, i.e. the introduction by the end of 2009 and the adoption of a decision as a whole. Because that's when she loses her mind. “Implement by the end of 2009,” and the adoption of a decision in general, for the transcript.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u171	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there was an offer of all who would support the whole decision. I'll just say, there were warnings about the firmness of the ruling. There is no categorism; we only propose to amend the Education Act, where the reduction in the border number will reduce from five to three persons. So we are now tasking the Supreme Council Committee to make changes to this law, and today this is 5 people. Although, let me tell you, I've also checked more than one school, and I think that if we take changes to the law, we should understand that we don't even have local self-government here, and our chief advisor is our parents. Parents have to make decisions because I checked several of these rural schools and there was a case where parents were behind bars because so few children stayed in school, which was not really a systematic, normal teaching. Hence, when we make changes to the Law, we will obviously consider what the local government decides and according to the parent’s consent. Second position on the school bus, what Vladimir Ivanovich said. I would like to welcome the governors mentioned here. We have this money, and I've analyzed the situation, and there are about fifty to fifty on the school buses. Fifty is a state subsidy and fifty percent are subsidies to areas. All right, I checked. The vast majority of areas because of district administrations have either spent these costs or other needs, or they have not started the bidding and purchasing of school buses at all. So it's very important, and I think we need to go to the Ministry of Education and District Administration to make use of these funds. So, given that Vladimir Ivanovich has made proposals, let us then vote on the basis and listen to the suggestions, the amendments. Please support the Supreme Council Order on the introduction of a moratorium on the closure of public educational institutions in rural areas. Please vote. [[12:48:14]] For 236 Decision taken. The factions, please. The Party of Regions – 2, "Club of Yulia Timoshenko" – 152, "Our Ukraine" – 37, communists – 26, "Clocus of Lithuania" -19. Please have suggestions. Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u172	Yury Karmazin Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear National Deputies! I point out that in paragraph one we should write: “It is unacceptable to close public educational institutions because of the lack of funds for their maintenance. Enter into acceptance. “Implement” and the words “before the adoption of the State Budget Act” are deleted in general. “Implementing a moratorium on closing public schools”. I mean, when we're a moratorium, we're always setting it up, that's the first. The other one. Second item. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on science, education and so on and so forth. And in the end, look what we have to offer, we have a cabinet of ministers to make appropriate changes to the laws, although it only changes the Supreme Council. I mean. Then we write: prepare projects for the changes. And all they can do is prepare projects, and we'll take the changes with you. So this is just a mistake that needs to be corrected.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u173	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich, for understanding the position. I think there's no doubt in the second position here, because it's clear that as long as we wait for the Cabinet of Ministers to pass, we'll make some changes to the law. So we really need to move this item and give it to our profile committee to do it. And as for the budgetary clarification that Vladimir Ivanovich Polojolo also said Yuri Anatoliyovich, of course, because the decision was prepared much earlier. So, dear colleagues, with these two warnings or regulations, I'm voting on the whole decision to impose a moratorium on closing public schools, rural schools, please vote. [[12:50:39]] For 244 The factions, please. The Party of Regions – 1, "Club of Yulia Timoshenko" – 154, "Our Ukraine" – 45, communists – 25, "Clocus of Lithuania" – 19. What procedure? The question is solved. Procedure, if for reasons, please for motives and. It's just a bunch of motives. There's no procedure anymore. For reasons of vote, he may explain why the Party of Regions did not vote, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u174	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters, our opponents live in principle, if there is no feat, it must be invented. This was already the case when you voted for the impossibility of privatizing the pipe, which was still impossible to privatize. What's the problem? The closure of any school is a cross in the village. No rural school can be closed, nor can there be a problem that does not exist in your decision, nor is there a problem that does not exist in your Government's attention, including the problem. Therefore, we believe that it is necessary not to produce empty mythical decrees, that real money is needed for social and education first!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u175	Thank you. I think that because the Party of Regions here fully supports us, only it does not vote, and we take decisions and protect these schools. I am announcing for consideration the Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Exemption from Taxation of Money, which is aimed at holding New Year's and Christmas holidays for children and on the purchase of children's Christmas gifts, Bill No. 2295, reports National Deputy Suhi Jaroslav Mihajlovich. [[on the cost and duration of the purchase of gifts]] Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u176	Dear colleagues, I'm very brief. The national deputies of Ukraine do not remember at all. Once the Head of the Supreme Council said, the Supreme Council may be singing everything and in the song "everything can be done" and politicians can do anything, fortunately, we cannot cancel the New Year, the New Year inevitably mandatory will come, remember, we have once canceled the Cabinet of Ministers decree, in 2001 in this room we passed a law that exempts us from taxes the costs that go on to buy New Year's gifts. But since then, the situation has changed, and 17 dollars for a gift for such money will no longer be bought. Thus, the bill proposes to attach the cost of a child’s gift to a working person’s subsistence minimum of 8 percent per living minimum, which is about 51 bracelets today, and will continue to vary depending on the subsistence minimum. One note for the stenographer. Dear colleagues, the bill was written a long time ago, but because of the different circumstances in the room it was not considered when it was needed – the “road to lunch” money for children's gifts has already been counted with those payments that would not be necessary. But the following year, in the final positions, paragraph 1 should be amended: “This law takes effect from 1 January 2009 and will be in force in 2009 until 2010. This, by the way, refers to that bill about living minimum that I reported yesterday and someone said it was a thousand percent. This law will apply from 15 August 2009 to the 2010 budget, and so will this bill. So I propose and I ask you to support this bill, which for the following year will determine the child's gift of non-taxation for almost 51 bracelets. The cost of this bill from the budget, according to the Ministry of Finance, 96 million dollars, I don't think it's that kind of bracelet.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u177	Thank you, Jaroslav Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, co-reporter of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u178	Thank you. Honourable deputies, honourable chairman, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Tax and Customs Policy at its meeting held on 13 May 2008, discussed the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Law on the Exemption from Taxation of Money, the funds for the celebration of New Year's Christmas holidays for children and the purchase of children's Christmas gifts. Regarding the cost and duration of the purchase of gifts, there is a registration number submitted by Ukrainian National Deputies Harrah, Suhim, Stoyan. The bill proposes to increase the cost of a child's gift, which is given to a child on a New Year's Eve holiday from 17 December to 8 percent of the cost of living for working persons for the 1st week of the tax year. And we also support the Dry One's proposal to extend the terms of this law. In the course of the discussion, members of the committee noted that according to the findings of the Ukrainian Ministry of Finance, the total cost of the State budget at the time of adoption of the changes would amount to 96.7 million dollars compared to 30.9 million dollars as a result of taxpayers' tax duties in 2007. But adopting these standards will help to eliminate the effects of inflation on the value of a child’s birthday gift. In view of the above, the Committee unanimously recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Exemption from Taxation of Money, which aims at the holding of New Year's Christmas holidays for children and the acquisition of children's Christmas gifts, on the basis of and vote today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u179	Thank you. Dear colleagues, if only we had shown and not discussed the matter, because I see that there is a willingness of the Supreme Council to vote both in the first and in general. There's no objection. Since no one has given any warning, there is a proposal for this bill with a clarification, which Jaroslav Mikhajlovich Suhi has announced that in the “Final Positions” we define: “This law takes effect as of 1 January 2009” – a proposal to vote in the first, second and overall. Please vote in favour. [[12:57:47]] For 367 The law was passed in general. Let us consider that the Supreme Council has thus welcomed today, especially our children, on the day of Santa Claus. The draft Decree on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Presidential Decree on the appointment of Durdinc as deputy head of the Ukrainian Security Service, head of the Directorate-General for Combating Corruption and Organized Crime, is under review. Number 3486. Reportedly, the first deputy head of the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption, Gennady Hennadyovich Moskal. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u180	Dear colleagues, the Constitution proclaims Ukraine a democratic and legal state that defines and enforces the rule of law. The President of Ukraine, on the basis of and pursuant to the Constitution and laws of Ukraine, issues decrees and regulations that are required to be implemented in Ukraine. The court’s decisions are approved by the courts in the name of Ukraine and are also mandatory for enforcement throughout Ukraine. According to article 19 of the Constitution of Ukraine, public authorities and their officials are obliged to act only on the basis and within the limits of their powers and in the manner provided for in the Constitution and in the laws of Ukraine. The President of Ukraine, who is the guarantor of compliance with the Constitution of Ukraine, has once again shown total disregard for society. And it's not a one-time thing where the President's Secretariat doesn't defend the Constitution, it's a violation. Yes, on October 19, 2007, the President issued decree No. 985, appointing Tiberius Durdinz to serve as deputy head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the head of the Directorate General for Combating Organized Crime and Corruption. This decision was taken by him in grave violation of the requirements of the Ukrainian Law on Organised Crime. In particular, article 10, paragraph 4, of the Law provides for a mandatory prior agreement with the Supreme Council Committee on the fight against organized crime and the corruption of all human resources decisions regarding the heads of special departments in the fight against organized crime. Three times: in December 2007, in January and September of this year, the Parliamentary Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption at its meetings considered the situation that resulted.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u181	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u182	Presidential decision. We spoke on several occasions, including the Supreme Council's decision to address the President with 387 votes. However, no decision has been taken. I'm asking you to support this motion, it's supported by all the members of our committee and the Committee of Sweden on legal protection. The order is illegal and is to be repealed.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u183	Thank you. Gennady Hennadiovich. Dear colleagues, there is no need to discuss it? I then put to the vote the Supreme Council's decree to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the President's decree on the appointment of Durdinc as deputy head of the Security Service, head of the Directorate-General for Combating Corruption and Organized Crime. And I want our radios to understand what they're talking about. The text of the ruling reads: “In view of the requirements of part three of article 106 concerning the grounds for the issuance by the President of Ukraine of decrees and part five of article 124 of the Constitution of Ukraine on mandatory enforcement of judicial decisions, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides to invite the President of Ukraine to repeal the Order of 19 October 2007 on the appointment of Tiberius Juryovich Durdinz as deputy head of the Security Service of Ukraine, head of the Directorate-General for Combating Corruption and Organized Crime.” Please vote. [[13:02:19]] For 366 Decision taken. I am the only one to say that I think the Ukrainian Parliament wanted to say by this decision that the Ukrainian Security Service should protect Ukrainian citizens and the state rather than listen to politicians and engage in procurement. Dear colleagues, we have successfully carried out the order of the day, just as it was supposed to be almost exactly up to 13 hours. According to our decision, we have an hour on the "Variance" from the 13th to the 14th. I'd like you to sign up for a statement from the Supreme Council's rostrum, please. Welcome to Alexeieva, the faction of the Communists of Ukraine. to prepare Davidenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u184	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! Last week, I informed from this rostrum about the poor arrangements that are being implemented in the Skull of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine and the National Council for Television and Broadcasting. I spoke of a letter from the Minister for Foreign Affairs addressed to Mr. Shevchenko, President of the National Council for Television and Radio, on television channels in Ukraine, about the promotion of the “peace-loving” and the NATO smoking block as a social advertisement. [[& Tiles]] I would like to stress that the letter of 412/185290 was addressed to the National Council on 27 November, and the reply from the National Council to the Minister for Foreign Affairs came out on the same day at 412/185290 without consideration at the Council meeting. The position of the absolute majority of Ukraine, which does not support Ukraine's accession to the NATO bloc, will thus not be covered on national television screens. I would like to emphasize that in a letter that was sent in response to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' request to qualify these roles as social advertising, the National Council responds: “This way, the videos you provide can be placed in the electronic media as a social project.” I would like to emphasize that prices are about everyone who knows about commercial advertising on Ukrainian television channels on the most popular and observable channels, which costs about US$ 500 to 600 per second, political advertising during the period of particularly electoral campaigns and other political campaigns for several purposes. That is to say, the public account qualifies video materials as a social project. Once again, I would like to stress that the social recognition of advertising that aims to promote certain goods or to take steps to promote the health of our citizens, to address other social problems, and that all of this is classified as social advertising. I would like to refer this rostrum formally to those leaders who are leading the public authorities and who are in fact violating the law, and we will make a request from the AntiNATO association. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u185	Thank you. I would like to invite the national deputy John the Rabbit. Davidenko, a national MP, gave him the opportunity to speak. Considering that John Alexanderovich is also listed, he has the opportunity to speak for up to six minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u186	John Haretz, Ukrainian People's Party, faction “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense”. Ladies and gentlemen, the economic crisis is growing, people are poor, they are losing their jobs. Why is this happening? I think there are two reasons. The first is that the authorities have looked at the world crisis, and the second is that they are already taking action to deepen this crisis and create conditions for it to unfold. The thing is, we haven't produced a comprehensive crisis response system to this day. We're only doing one thing today, just a very small measure. And as a result, we can't take and overcome this crisis, especially in the financial sector. The fact that a camel’s bracelet to such unheard - of heights means that people have been impoverished on several occasions today, they lose hope. What steps did we need to take to stop this crisis? I'll remind you that we've already voted in favour of the draft anti-crisis bill for the submission of President Viktor Yushchenk, which suggested limiting the use by residents of foreign exchange by introducing its mandatory sale in the inter-currency market. However, the Supreme Council then rejected this proposal from Mr. President. And today it is clear that one intervention by the National Bank cannot reduce the exchange rate. Today, it is necessary to stop the flow of currency from Ukraine abroad and, on the other hand, exporters today have to sell the currency, turn it into a bracelet. It's not there. We have to do this. We also have to shorten the time of the currency return. We have 180 days of legislation. It takes at least 90 days. It's not like that. We have a decision to make today: when the National Bank refinances commercial banks at some rate, so the commercials have to lend that money. Well, at least twice, no more than twice this bet. We have, once again, full of vachanals. On the one hand, the National Bank for Refining at Floating Rates, and on the other hand, commercial banks, on the other hand, are giving these funds to the unknown, which is a very high, very high rate. It's just as bad. Because here we see speculation. It is clear that these costs today, which the National Bank is providing to refinance commercial banks, are not being used in the real economy. There are no mechanisms today that would force them to invest in very specific programs. That's why these funds went abroad, or they went to buy currency, or they went to the speculative market. So I suggest that we have a mega-regulator that simultaneously, centralized at the state level, regulates all the activities not only of commercial banks, not only of credit companies, but of other financial institutions. Because today, in fact, the National Bank does not carry out such a complex administration and all of this is spread out among many, among many structures. And so the left hand doesn't know what the right hand does. So we need to lower the bank's refinancing bill -- that's the obvious thing. We have a very big problem with bank liquidation. We've already seen that banks are being eliminated when not only their own costs are lost, but customers and investors are already lost. You can also talk about the low level of oversight. On the other hand, there is also a need to talk about the fact that no one really sees the process. It's the same thing for us, and we have a task to do. You can also describe a few steps that are directly knocked on the door. We have to make decisions that would drive us away from the market of speculators, those who act on fictitious contracts. And there's a lot of them. Now it's about getting the money out of the country. It's been said for a long time now that the inclusion of funds from abroad under consumer credit is definitely going to come back to that. The kind of crisis we're going to have. So banks have to include these costs from abroad no more than the amount they own in the middle of the country. And these costs need to be involved again, just like direct investment, not just taking these costs. I think there's still a problem getting the dollar out of the financial market. And here, once again, it takes a lot of action to finally stabilize the bracelet. Because when there are two currencies in the state, that's two logics of behavior, that's two scenarios of development, that's climate or that's the basis for any abuse. So, honourable national MPs, we need to be more professional about this problem and develop a system of action, not think that we will save our lives by means of separate measures.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u187	National MP Gordijenko gives the word to Kaletnik, a faction of Communists in Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u188	Igor Kaletnik, Communist faction. Dear voters, dear colleagues! Earth is perhaps the only thing left unsnapped in our country by various oligarchic clans. It is no secret that a total redistribution of property is taking place today. The factories and factories have already been stolen. The furthest piece remained — the land that was rightly called the national wealth of Ukraine. However, despite the current moratorium, skilled merchants and crooks, at the hands of penmen, are the owners of tens of thousands of acres [10 thousand ha] of Ukrainian Blacklands. At the same time, most citizens cannot exercise their legal right to privatize the land. The standard answer to a man who turned ten hundred for gardening is one: “There is no free land”. Usually it's not for strangers, and it's always for its own, not 10, but 200 hundreds. It is for the relatives of the city and village heads, for the B.S.A. and for the prosecutor’s office, for the district and district authorities. Another common scheme is privatization on grounds. My documents show that hundreds of students have become millionaires by receiving free gold suburban land. What is the generosity of officials or the concern for the younger generation? In fact, it's 150 dollars in exchange for a copy of the passport. In Ukraine a whole army of landowners was formed to learn only from law enforcement officials about fraud. In particular, in November of last year, 28 citizens were granted permission to file documents for 56 hectares of property. Who are the happy owners? The residents of Barish? No, it's not. The village of Frostbite, near which the land is distributed? Neither did I. These are the inhabitants of the Lviv region, who first learned of the design of land in their name. In the Basilk district, 81 areas of one hectare each were formed for the direct participation of the district authorities. In the village of Biogradka Kyivo-Svetoshin district of Kiev, 26 lands were allocated to the National Pedagogical University of Dragomanova. Illegal equipment with land has grown in virtually every region of Ukraine, especially in Crimea, Odessa, and Kyiv. Yes, in the middle of 2008, more than 3,000 hectares [3,000 ha] of land were illegally leased in the Odessa region. It's a little bit of a surprise that there's no public prosecutor's response. Not surprisingly, we have recently witnessed arrests for bribes by the heads of the Parthenite Rural Council — five million, heads of the Brewery Administration — of $42 million. There are several other heads of administration in the Kyiv region. The facts show that organized groups have been established in our country. At the conclusion of my speech, I would like to address the law enforcement agencies and the President with a request to stop the disorder and decommissioning of national wealth. The land must belong to the people of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u189	Thank you. The People’s Deputy of Pudov conveys the word to the national deputy Volodymyr Yavorowski. Get ready for Stishenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u190	Dear voters of Ukraine! I'm authorized by Yulia Timoshenko to read out our application. “ On December 9, this year, a coalition was formed in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The period of inactivity of the legislative body has ended, the political and parliamentary crisis has been overcome. It turns out, fortunately, that Parliament, regardless of the color of party flags and ideologies, has the majority of deputies who care about the fate of the state. During one sessional day alone, 102 acts were adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, significantly exceeding the number of decisions taken by the Supreme Council throughout the year. Regrettably, the creation of a coalition in the Supreme Council and the beginning of its effective work have led to violent opposition from individual representatives of the Ukrainian politics. And today, all Ukrainian citizens have seen what politicians really want to overcome the global disaster that has come upon us in connection with the global financial crisis, and those who speculate on the scourge, on the human mountain, and rejoice in what is getting worse because of it. It's an evil blasphemous position. Coalition and government opponents are trying to accuse BUT of pushing the issue too hard, such as joining NATO. In our programming documents, the Coalition Agreement clearly states, "entering NATO – solely as a result of popular will". All of it. Period. Stop the speculation. In dropping baseless accusations, it is worth mentioning that the leaders of the opposition faction Viktor Janukovich were quite recently prepared to renounce any promises to the electorate, sign any commitments. Unlike you, Victor Fedorovich, the Yulia Block Timoshenko: (a) didn't sign the Universities and the Memos; (b) I didn't plan on jumping into NATO as you planned to do in the first half of 2008; (c) I didn't deny my voters, I didn't vote as a faction of the Party of Regions for sending our boys to Iraq. Respectful Opposition! Analyze your actions yesterday and do not count the number of our coalition. Count your own sins and your mistakes, because Yulia Timoshenko has power for ten months, and you're ten years old. Today, the opposition of Viktor Yanukovic and the State Head Secretariat are united into an organic team. The command that works against the Ukrainian state, the same financiers, pianists and the same strategy, are a common family united with one goal -- at any cost to burn down the Timoshenko government. However, they burn down their home, the Ukrainian state. These two forces are responsible for the chaos in the financial market today, the disaster that took place with the bracelet. In a few days, we will publicly call the structures, the banks, and the names that have been consumed by the financial crisis and the woes of the people. Today, the President’s Secretariat, together with the Party of Regions, is pushing the people down, seeking to lead a trade union on the street. So they're doing everything they can to add public opposition to the financial crisis. We say with all our responsibility, we will not let them do this. It is especially cynicism that has recently been expressed.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u191	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u192	[[Because it's an official statement.]] . He is particularly impressed by cynicism by the recent statement by the head of the party “Our Ukraine” Yushchenka about the need to punish those deputies who joined the coalition. We will not let fair politicians and decent deputies be dealt with. “Julia Tymoshenko’s bloc” guarantees that no member of the coalition will be affected by the adventurous actions of politicians who would not hold high positions.”
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u193	Alexander Steshenko, a faction of the Yulia Tymoshenko Block, is invited to the floor. To prepare Vladimir Matthew, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u194	Thank you. Statement by the faction “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear fellow countrymen, during the last two months, Ukraine has been experiencing a deliberate destruction of our nation’s national currency. To date, the trust of the population and economic entities in the national currency has been completely destroyed. What is happening to the bracelet is artificial processes that are not related to the objective state of the economy of Ukraine and to the world economic crisis. The main reason for the unprecedented rate of collapse of the bracelet is that it is not effective, not transparent and without a systematic approach and common sense of operation of the National Bank of Ukraine and its management, Stelmacha. It is the National Bank of Ukraine, under the patronage of the President and several other banks, that is carrying out a methodical, purposeful policy of total discrediting the national currency for the sole purpose of masking the shadow criminal operations that provide profits for a limited circle of high-ranking officials and their stockpiles. A whole system of large-scale speculative operations has been created with the price of bracelets. The management of the National Bank is not interested in the real economy of its problem, in the socio-economic situation of the working population of Ukraine and in the stable support of socially vulnerable populations. The government budget was also held hostage to these massive speculative operations next year. The government cannot draw up the main financial document of the country on which the incomes of the most vulnerable people depend, the livelihood of the country’s economy. The established foreign exchange policy endangers the purchase of natural gas, which threatens Ukraine’s actual energy collapse. In this regard, the responsibility for possible irreversible consequences for the Ukrainian economy and the total poverty of the Ukrainian people have fallen in line with the Constitution of the President and the National Bank. Because it is the National Bank of Ukraine that has been given extraordinary powers that no central bank in the world has. According to the Constitution of Ukraine, the National Bank defines monetary and exchange rate policies that are actually accountable to the President of Ukraine. At the same time, it ignores the comments and suggestions of the government and the Supreme Council of Ukraine. To this end, the faction initiated the creation of a temporary special commission with the sole purpose of providing the citizens of Ukraine with an answer to all these painful questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u195	Thank you. I invite you, Vladimir Josephovich Matvieva, a faction of the Communists of Ukraine. Get ready for Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u196	Dear voters! Dear Supreme Council, who is still here! I would like to congratulate the citizens of Ukraine and the Supreme Council on Saint Nicholas Day! And since children are given gifts on St. Nicholas Day, and the Supreme Council is sometimes our little child, I would like to present to the Supreme Council a book related to Saint Nicholas Day called the City of St. Nicholas and his airliner.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u197	And you're not the Supreme Council. You're adults. Well, I would also like to remind those who have little memory of history that 220 years ago, on this day, a Turkish fortress of "The Fathers" was taken into quite a frost. [[more than 20 degrees]] And then in the south of that territory, which is now called “the sovereign Ukraine”, first the royal capital, then the capital of the bourgeoisie-bearing capital, and then the labor and national wealth of the people, then the power of the Russian fleet, then the Soviet fleet, and the shipbuilding plants. But what was the power, I just want to say that there was the largest shipbuilding complex in Europe that was the only aircraft in Europe that could build. And the last aircraft to remain in Russia today is called the "Admiral of the Soviet Union of Kuznets". What am I talking about? Yesterday, back yesterday, the Nikolai people could see how the President of Ukraine, coming to the Ocean Shipyard, where his truth waited for four hours for journalists and frozen like puppies, and the children who were prepared to welcome him with national flags, were also frozen. He said such a thing, or, let's just say, outright stupidity. He said, “The building is developing steadily.” You know? It is either by subverting a lie or by knowing a man what he does. This has to do with the fact that the construction in Ukraine is “legislable” and “delivered to death”. It's the president's fault. Because his pre-election promises stated that he would return the Black Sea Shipbuilding Plant to the property of the State, and he failed to do so. Today, former factory owners, one of whom sits in Serbia with a prison, must not only pay wages, but should have about 70 million bracelets in the Pension Fund and in the local budget. And none of them are anything now.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u198	Thank you. I invite Yuri Carmazin, the faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense." To prepare Yuri Gnatkewicz, faction “Bloka timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u199	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Ladies and gentlemen of the Ukrainian people, I welcome you to Santa's Day. May this holy one bring peace, peace and harmony, and understanding to our leaders. Especially with regard to the question that I want to address, I want to make you aware that what was said, what abuses are taking place in Ukraine with the land, is no better than in the Odessa region, where it was illegally leased and owned only this year over 3,000 hectares [3,000 ha] of land. All Odessa seems to think that Mrs. Andrejko Olena, who doesn't go to work, fakes documents, stays abroad at work, and is covered by someone very, very high. I don't know, they say, whether it's the Secretariat or the Cabinet of Ministers, I propose and turn to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, I appeal to the newly appointed head of the State Committee, Oleg Mikolaiovich, to open this secret and to restore the rights of the people who have been illegally violated there. I would like to remind you that two years ago, a court decision was made that an illegal person was released from this office from the Odessa branch of the Ukrainian State Land cadastre. Maybe there wasn't what was going on in the Odessa region right now. I would also like to draw attention to the cultural disaster zone, the extraordinary situation that has taken place in Kiev’s life as the cultural capital of Ukraine. We have lived to see the extraordinary congregations of the public “Ukraine — A Zone of Cultural Disaster”, as it is now called. And they find that from 1991 to 2008, seventy bookstores have been closed in Kiev. What are we doing? When we have four hundred bookstores in London. There's no 40 in Kiev. What kind of nation do we make? Kyiv became the second city after Lviv in Ukraine, where they decided to perpetuate the memory of the destruction of the bookstores. The book was created in the memory of Kiev’s bookstores. That is why we also know about the intentions of the city authorities to sell the Theatre “The Wonderful Castle” to Svetošino, the Theatre “Koleso”, the movie theater “The Yellow” on the Podola. Well, I want to state that both the Party of Fatherland Defenders and the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" understands the important work initiated by the public to preserve cultural infrastructure in the capital, advocates state support for overcoming this catastrophic situation and advocates the control of local Kiev authorities. And I'm turning from this high rostrum to Leonid Mikhailovich. Mr. Černovecki Leonide Mikhailovich, you have been in this room a lot, I ask you to remember that you are a cultural person and allow people to be cultural, allow them to develop bookshops and..
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u200	Thank you. I invite you to join Yuri Gnatkević, the “Julia Timoshenko Block”. Dear colleagues, don't make any noise, because there are so many people working in Parliament. Yuri Gnatkevich “Block Timoshenko”, prepare Michael Chetcheva Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u201	Dear colleagues, I would like to give my written address to the Prime Minister. “In the city of Equino there is the University of Kiev Institute of Law. This institution was founded 12 years ago by Dmitry Mikolaiovich, I emphasize, Mikolaiovich Dinovski, who is leading it now. He is an active member of the BUT faction in the Plain District Council and the head of the Self - Government Commission. During the last year, the Rector of Kyiv University of Law, Yuri Bosicki, has been conducting activities aimed at the liquidation of the branch office of his University of Equine and the removal of Dinkovsky from office as director. This becomes quite evident from the facts and documents available. Bosic pursues two goals. The first is political, because he is a kind of Carpathian, and he used to like to brag about his close relationship with Balogya. The second is business, selling or renting the branch office in Reveny. Today, the conflict is heating up right around this room. It now legally belongs to the Ravenna District Council when the institute itself is governed by the Kyiv University of Law, which in turn is formally subordinated to the National Academy of Sciences. The rector of Bosicki wants to transfer the premises to the university, and Dinkowski wants to make his institute a legal person and get his legal and financial autonomy. The head of the Ravens ’ District Council, Alexander Danielchuk, and a group of national deputies from the Plains had asked Patton to reorganize the Plains Institute into a legal entity. [[Shershun, Sulkovsky, Prokopchuk, Gnatkevich, Doncak, Koshin]] But the question remained unresolved, and the answer to his statement was not awaited either by Danielchuk or by the national deputies. However, the director of Danovsky expected that his deputies and accountants had been summoned to Kiev to Jury Bosicky and had set up a specific task: to find a compromise to remove Dmitry Dinowski from office and then to eliminate the institution. I am well aware of the importance of the institution in my homeland. I also know Dmitry Dinowski as a person, as a director, and as a public figure. That's why I asked Julius Volodymyr to reorganize the University of Kiev's Plain Institute of Law into a legal person and stop Bosick's Rector in his struggle with the University of Equality branch of law and bring peace back to his collectives." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u202	Thank you. I'd like to invite Mikhail Chechtov, Party of Regions. Prepare Victor Terrence.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u203	Mikhail Chečetov, Party of Regions. Respectable voters go back to the history of 2008. The orange power is not enough that Ukraine has fallen asleep in the grip of the severe financial and economic crisis, so it has not even responded to our approach in the spring and to the warning of the global financial and economic crisis. The musculoskeletal ascension and constant disdain for power within the orange coalition has led to its collapse and total loss of State sovereignty. Therefore, in order to gain legitimate authority and to restore governance as soon as possible, we supported the idea of missing politicians through the purgatory of the people and holding early parliamentary elections on 7 December this year. We were convinced that the people in their sleep were only patient, but very wise, so for the third time, they would not come to the orange rake. But the completely deluded orange power also understood that the people, twice deceived by it, would simply cast it out in the elections of the entire orange brother on a political stand. And when they feared their people, they took another lie: by refusing to vote, they quickly quarrelled, not with the constitutional coalition, but with the Communist nationalist majority. Such a grumpy mix of political alliances in Ukraine had not yet been known, the communists Simonenko, social populists Timoshenko, nationalists Yushchenko and now they want to build social-populist, nationalist communism in Ukraine together. Of course, the parties of the regions with this communist-nationalist group are not on the way. We don't believe in their adventure plans. A party of regions in opposition will exercise strict control over power. As it is said, there is also a knocking in the river, that the plague should not sleep. We will make these orange carasses float in the fairway of public interest. The following year will be a turning point and a fate for Ukraine, since the Ukrainian people, as the main source and holder of the Constitution, will be able to determine their own destiny and fate in future presidential elections. Having thrown the ballot paper into the ballot box, some populist politicians, liars and losers will send it into political ruin, and the palm of primacy and power will indeed hand over to the people's President Januković, who, along with you, will join you, dear friends, unite the country and consolidate society, remove the economy from the crisis and ensure its dynamic and economic growth, and increase social standards for people's lives on this basis, and will restore us all to a long-awaited stability and tranquillity. I believe, no, I'm deeply convinced that that's what's going to happen. In conclusion, I would like to congratulate everyone on the coming New Year 2009 and wish everyone health, well-being, faith, hope and optimism. We will protect the country with you and the future of our children and grandchildren from orange-and-white-hearted political adventurers. But Pasaran, he will never pass. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u204	Welcome to Victor Terrence's word. Prepare Oleg Belarus. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u205	Victor Terrence, "Timoshenko's Yulia Block". As far as the culture of the previous speaker is concerned, I'm not going to say it, but it's very interesting. That Mr. Chechtov's rhetoric is absolutely repeating the rhetoric of the President's Secretariat. It was all in the same place. But I want to talk about something else. I want to say that, unfortunately, under the Constitution, the government has no authority to influence the exchange rate of the bracelet. Today, it is the collapse of the national currency in Ukraine that is in everyone’s mouth. I want to say again to people very clearly. The stability of the monetary unit is solely the responsibility of the National Bank of Ukraine. Then why does the bracelet fall? The answer is read on the satisfied face of the National Bank's head when he, the Ukrainian Hero, returns again from the President's Administration, where he received the consultation, and until this Ukrainian Hero comes from the President's Office to the bank, the bracelet will fail again. So the process of dropping the bracelets is planned, and everything is happening as in the famous film: “Boss, we will act on a re-approved plan.” According to the “reconfirmed plan” – the fight against Julia Timoshenko. But let's essentially do it. Since the first October of this year, the National Bank of Ukraine has been conducting a monetary issue. I want you people to know that more than 40 billion bracelets -- blank paper -- have been printed. This money was given to individual nearby commercial private banks. And just so you know. For example, more than seven billion have been donated to the “Nadra” bank, which belongs to the owner of the “Rosukreenergo” Firthash. Next. Having received funds from the National Bank, what do private banks do? And private banks for this issue money, I repeat, began to buy real dollars in Ukraine for blank printed papers. And so the demand for dollars has risen sharply, and the bracelet continues to devalue. And so on. The bought-in dollars are being shipped offshore, and Ukraine is running out of currency, which is the banal unprecedented robbery of the country and the population. And who is behind this affair? Of course, the National Bank stands directly. A hero of the Ukraine of Stelma. But to remove or appoint the head of the National Bank, neither the Government nor the Supreme Council can, because under the Constitution this is the President's exclusive right. But the president's sending out clear signals, Mr. Stelmacha, not to touch. In other words, the President is “breathing” Stelmacha. So on the ice, people are being robbed of the country, and there's going to be huge sums that I repeat are going off-shore and that I think are also going to accumulate for future presidential elections. And the last. There, maybe, uh, 10 seconds to add. Yesterday, a special commission of inquiry was set up in Parliament, which I think must investigate criminal acts by the National Bank.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u206	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u207	Another nuance. It becomes clear why the President wanted new parliamentary elections so badly, and so he wants there to be no coalition, there to be no parliament, because then there will be no control, then there will be any thefts, any illegal things, and no one would say a word. Fortunately, Parliament is working, and I want to think that the efforts of the Ukrainian Parliament alone will end the loss of the bracelet and put an end to the unprecedented robbery of the Ukrainian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u208	I'd like to invite Oleg Bilorus, the faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Be prepared for Paul’s. I'm sorry. Yuri Anatoliyovich, then after the performance of Belarus, a minute for you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u209	Dear citizens of Ukraine! Recently, on the initiative of the BUT faction in the Voice of Ukraine, the Universal Patriarch's address to the Ukrainian people was published on the occasion of a sad tragic date – the 75th anniversary of the Holocaust in Ukraine. And this is not the highest international recognition of the sacrifices that our great nation has made. Today, on behalf of the faction, I would like to personally congratulate all citizens of Ukraine on the day of Santa Claus and wish them the joy of life, faith and hope. I want to congratulate all the children of Ukraine. I want more in every family, village, district, and Ukraine. We all dream of Ukraine becoming a 100 million-dollar country, then we don't have any internal or external threats. There will be a young, strong, active nation. Respectable citizens! Today, there is another unusual festival in Ukraine — the Day of Ukrainian Diplomacy. As a parliamentary diplomat today, as the first Ambassador of Ukraine to the United States, I appeal to all members of the diplomatic front to welcome and wish to defend the sacred national interests of Ukraine in the international arena, to protect all available measures, actively, strongly and effectively. We're going to finish our difficult high school year 2008. A state-of-the-state analysis, an assessment of the prospects of a total world crisis, is now an urgent task for the Heads of State and Parliament. And I would like to focus in 2009 on addressing the most important strategic issues that will determine the new role and place of our great European state. It's also international competitiveness, it's also a resource for independence, especially gas and oil, it's also the need to fix Ukraine's financial system and independence from the dollar, because total dollarization is going to kill us.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u210	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u211	Finally, it is necessary to develop the principles of internal and foreign policy, the national development strategy of Ukraine by 2025. I believe that Parliament, along with you as voters, will deal with these great challenges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u212	Thank you. Yuri Karmazin's replica, one minute. After that, Andrew Pavlovsky. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u213	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. I am very sorry that there is no one in this huge party called “Regions”. You see, one segment, well, one “regional” sits in the area of Communist responsibility. And I say that under these flags, which is actually a nice bubble, like their presidential candidate. Yes, the coalition has now assumed responsibility for the state of affairs in the state. Yes, this coalition has prepared this program “Ukraine for a harmonious development”, a programme of activities of the Cabinet of Ministers during a crisis and post-crisis period. Yes, we are today stopping the theft of your Krennergo, the theft of what went into the Nadra Bank, the poverty that you are now suffering because a few billionaires have now exported everything. It was you who voted against denunciation of the agreement with Cyprus to continue dumping billions there. You didn't get that for privatizing 8 billion without letting us change holdmain's head. So, Your Honor, I think you're going to pop like a nice bubble and the truth will come out on the rose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u214	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like to pay attention. What we do in the regime is that the presence of MPs is optional, and factions have delegated to their national deputies who make their parliamentary requests and their proposals. That's why I'm filming criticism here at the faction address. It's the right of factions to delegate specific people here to represent the faction's position. Andrey Pavlovski, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. Prepare Sergey Krautov, faction of the Communists of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u215	Good afternoon. Andrew Pavlovsky, "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko", the city of Kyiv. I, using the Parliamentary Chamber, want to address our President, the Attorney-General with a question that concerns millions of our citizens, with a question about the situation regarding our national currency -- the bracelets and about that poor person, and I am counting on the criminal policy of the National Bank's leadership. What's going on? The National Bank gave more than 40 billion dollars to commercial banks, which were to lend to the real economy -- industrial enterprises. Instead, these banks stupidly went to buy a dollar, thereby lowering our bracelet. And who's ahead of these banks? The largest amount -- 7 billion 100 million -- was awarded to Nadra, which, at a cost of 45 million, bought the owner of Rossukre Energo, Mr. Firtash. Feel the difference: I bought it for 45, I got it from the National Bank for 7 billion. What kind of money is that? No, it's not. I think there's a corruption ground here, and that's why we need to look at the D.A.'s office. And this is Firtash, who is the main sponsor of both the Party of the Regions and the Secretary of the President. So think about why he got this money. And we hear from other bankers that in order to get this help, you have to submit bribe management to the National Bank, from 3 to 10 percent off the amount. I would also like to point out that these actions of foreign exchange that are profiting from human misery lead to the fact that they will go into our pockets to all of us, ordinary citizens. And it's time to give it hard to these currency speculators. We need to act quickly, quickly, and effectively. Then we need to be able to bring the system in order. And why would it seem that way? Because there's a roof in the President's Secretariat, and Mr. Yushchenko won't let us deal with the National Bank. And what's interesting is that among those banks that are close, most of them have a political roof or are owners that refer to the Party of Regions. So the question is, What is it that unites such different political forces and people? What unites them is ideology? No, it's not. They are united by more than ideology, united by a common family business, starting with the Rosukreenergo criminal tools, and ending with the shelves of our Black Sea. We need to get to our president, and if he's still a patriot, we need to take hard steps, get him settled.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u216	Thank you. The word is given to Sergey Snrapov, a faction of Communists. To prepare the Holy of Olives.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u217	Respectable voters, respectable colleagues! For four years now, chaos and lawlessness have continued in our country. President Yushchenko's orange power shows complete incapacity. In the face of the global economic crisis, our country is forced to suffer twice as external problems are addressing the internal political and economic crisis. In such circumstances, the collective body protecting the rights of workers and trade unions could not remain indifferent, and on 18 December it held the first stage of the all-Ukrainian protest. During rallies throughout Ukraine, trade union leaders protested and protested the inactions of President Yushchenko, Prime Minister Timoshenko and the Supreme Council of Ukraine in overcoming the economic crisis. People were interested in the extent to which the power would be involuntarily watched as bankers displayed cynicism and hypocrisy profited from the common people, constantly playing in exchange rates and loans. Today, a teacher or a doctor, a worker or an engineer cannot feel safe and calm for his property, because in the capitalist system, unfortunately, money is not governed by the law. Therefore, for today, only by acting together, in principle, one for all and all, workers will be able to force capitalists to change their attitude towards those who create their work a billion dollars or to return privatized enterprises to the property of the people. Billionaires fear trade union activists, those who, as unrepentant, defend the interests and rights of their colleagues. A strong example of such fear is the persecution of the leader of the trade union of Dnepropress, a member of the regional council from the Aleksei Simvolocov faction. He is being tried to fire for giving a press conference in which he clearly and truthfully described the situation at his firm. And that, despite the fact that the professor of the factory did not give consent to dismissal. Dear voters, today only the Communist Party of Ukraine protects the interests of ordinary citizens. For example, in early December, Peter Nikolaevich Simonenko and I were sent to the Attorney-General of Ukraine for illegal dismissals from the Dnepropetrov region. Communists call on all citizens to take an active position to protect and defend their rights. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u218	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to join us in on this, Mr. Oliynik Svetoslav, the BUT faction. To prepare Paul Sulkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u219	Honourable citizens of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine today supported the appeal to the President of Ukraine for the immediate release of the deputy head of the Security Service of Ukraine, Mr. Durdinz. I would like to remind you that this decision is based on a direct violation by the President of Ukraine of article 24 of the Ukrainian Law on Organised Crime. Such a violation is established not only by the Supreme Council of Ukraine but also in the judicial order. However, the appointment, contrary to the requirements of the law of Durdinz, is far from the only violation of the law in the activities of this office. For almost two years now, a person with ununderstood biographic data, Valentin Nastavajchenko, has been calling himself temporarily acting as head of the Ukrainian Security Service. The Ukrainian Constitution and laws clearly establish the procedure and order for the head of the Ukrainian Security Service to be appointed. These requirements of the law are not met, and for a long time the country does not have a legally appointed head of the BSS. Upon my personal request, citizens of the Republic of Lithuania officially reported that he had been assigned to the temporary service of the BSS on the basis of article 60 of the Ukrainian Armed Forces Statute. According to this standard, the commander of the military and ship when leaving the garrison appoints an officer. So there's an obvious absurdity when the head of the Security Service turns into a commander, namely the BSS into a ship. It is not surprising that such obvious disregard by law has led to systematic, deliberate violations of the law and the body itself, and the activity has actually been transformed into a farce. The absurd, slanderous charges against the people's deputies, obstacles to the work of the parliamentary commission of inquiry, pressure on businessmen and harassment are unfortunately the main features of the BSI's activity in the last period. As it was known, as a result of the parliamentary activity, including the response to a request from Deputy Karmazin, Mr. The concealment of this fact became a sign of official falsification when an autobiography was provided by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in which there was no data on education in the school of the KGB, and instead it did not work temporarily. Based on this information, it raises a legitimate question, on which Valentin Nastawajchenko is actually working, in whose interests the state is ruining Ukraine’s national security and discrediting the state’s authority. Convinced, the answer to this question will come soon, along with the legal evaluation of the adventurer’s activities. In the meantime, on behalf of the people's deputies, I would like to welcome Mr. Nadwiczynko and his professional festival, which he is about to celebrate, with FSB Day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u220	Thank you. Paul Sulkowski is invited to the floor, since the Peacekeeper’s national deputy gave him the word and it is also recorded for the talk, which is set at 6 minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u221	Thank you. Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! Dear citizens of Ukraine! Paul Sulkowski, faction of the Party of the Regions, Ravenshkin. According to the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers for No. 1010 of July 27, 2008, 20 million dollars were allocated to the rural enterprise as a result of the disaster in the Plains region. I learned that the distribution of funds in the Plains region was carried out with gross violations of legislation. At my request, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Court of Auditors of Ukraine, carried out a review of the use of these funds. The results of the review confirmed that budget allocations did not really ensure compliance with valid legislation. As a result of this, 40 non-State-owned companies, the head of the Machuk Viktor Josephovich Plains administration, who is the head of the “Our Ukraine” party in the Plainsland, have allocated public funds that have led to the loss of a state budget of 19 million, 564 thousand, says the conclusion of the Ukrainian Court of Auditors. And this criminal order was agreed upon by Matthew V.M. Deputy Minister of Finance, Romanyuk S.A. First Deputy Minister of Economics, Melnik S.I. The deputy minister of agrarian politics, thirty - one enterprises that have received partial damages, have been profitable for more than five years. A test of the correctness of the damage calculations showed that virtually all the enterprises had made unobjective calculations of the damage they had suffered. This indicates that government officials, rather than control and prevent lawbreakers, misuse of power has contributed to the receiving of budget funds that are unclean to officials in the area. And these ministries, the ministers, were removed and replaced. I believe that this approach to monitoring the use of budgetary resources is unacceptable, and it is damaging to both the general public and to discredit the authorities of the state in the eyes of Ukrainian citizens. Let me give you just two examples. The property of the name Volovicov Goszczanski district, which is taken care of by the first deputy of the head of the Yury Blagodir Observatija, is a member of the Party of the People's Party of Lithuania. It's got 2.3 million of this relief farm. Our Ukraine is almost half a million dollars and a number of others. In the absence of time, I can't count all of them. And farms that are really very difficult to grow, they're always living in difficult conditions, they're growing crops in the Western regions, they haven't got any money -- they're like: Rokitniński, Zagodenski, Dubrovicki, Koratski, Sarninski, Kostopilski, and a number of other areas. In view of the foregoing, I appeal to the Attorney General of Ukraine to investigate and to bring to justice those responsible for violating the legislation and to abuse the authority of officials. This is a crime, especially when Ukraine is experiencing extremely financial and economically difficult times. The faction of the Party of Regions demands that the President of Ukraine and the Prime Minister of Ukraine immediately be released from office without waiting for the conclusions of the final Attorney General's Office, according to the Court of Auditors of Ukraine: the head of the Equality District State Administration – Matchuk Viktor Josephovich and his first deputy – Thank you Yuri Anatoliyovich. These officials don't belong in executive power. Shame! Dear citizens of Ukraine! The second painful question. I have been approached by numerous appeals from mothers who have given birth and raised ten or more children on the question of the assignment of the honorary title “Mother Hero of Ukraine”. The legal basis of this issue is fully established in the state and there are no obstacles to assigning the honorary title of mother-hero to mothers who have given birth and raised up to the age of eight five or more children, creating favourable conditions for children to receive education, develop their creative skills, develop high and moral qualities. But the President of Ukraine and the Ministry of Ukraine, I can't blame the President directly, but it's his team, the Secretary of the President and the Ministry of Ukraine in family affairs, young people and sports, they're creating a train for this honorary title. Even on my appeal as a national deputy of Ukraine, I receive only notes on how documents should be drawn up. So let me give you an example. The Kuzmich Tamari Kirilovna family, who lives in the village of Vežica in the Rokitni district of Ravenna, raises their ten children with their husband, Kuzmich Valérie, and eight of them with disabilities, even from Kiev three children and their father brought up under Belarus alone and care for the family.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u222	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u223	And I can do it today, it's just heroic people. As a national deputy, I am helping this family to the best of my ability. I count on one thousand a month to help keep these people with disabilities. [[That's 18 kids! 10 and 8 people with disabilities are still on hold.]] This woman's material on the assignment of the honorary title of "mother hero" back in the seventh year in the past, since 2007, has been under consideration by the President's Secretariat. And this family can't get these benefits once, 6,000 if it had this star. And to this family, I read to hear both the Secretariat and the Ministry of Family and Youth. The old village of the Rokitni district also, which has ten children, has three or two years of work to date: Kowalec Galina Ivanovna, Kovalec Uljana Vasilovna, Pavlovich Nadija Kuzmovna, Grebenevich Maria Fedorovna, Lisovec Olga Kirilovna, Sulkovska Galina Makarovna, Lisovec Maria Fedorovna, Krupic Galina Alexandrovna. And the village of Drozdin, five mothers: Krupich Tetjana Kuzmovna, Lisovec Nina Mikhailovna, Pashkevich Love Nikiforovna, Ogeyevich Hanna Karpovna, Ogeyevich Hanna Anatoliyovna. They're just the ones who came to see me. So I'm going to conclude immediately with the President of Ukraine, and I'm going to give instructions immediately for a few days to give these legal mothers who have shed blood for ten or more children, and who are only benefiting Ukraine, and immediately give these 6,000 of them one-time aid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u224	We're practically out of time for our work. I give the word to Vladimir Kaplanka, the BUT faction, and we'll finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u225	Good day, dear colleagues, good day to the radio audience, the TV set! You know, my address today is probably not to you, but to my colleagues on the job, the national deputies of Ukraine, the representatives of the authorities of the state car inspection and their administrations. You know, we passed the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts on Improving the Regulation of Road Safety Relations a month ago. During this month, I watched a “5 channel” yesterday, and it is said that the state received 109 million additional sums for fines on one or the other, but by opening up the relevant data, information about the coming of Ukraine's State budget is the same money that is posted on the Ukrainian Treasury site that this figure is much lower, i.e. forty million dollars and the corresponding question, where sixty million dollars are lost this time. But that's not the point. The aim of the bill was to fill local budgets, the State budget and at least reduce road accidents. But unfortunately, today, as I am, as an auto-lover, I find that this has led to a significantly increased level of bribes on the roads, that is, at this time Inspector DAI is offered 50-60-70 dollars. The other one. It's a significantly reduced amount of traffic, really, has come, but we still have a big confusion where to pay these fines and actually people who, those auto-lovers who got it, get the appropriate protocols for committing a crime or one or the other, they don't know where to pay the fines. I'd like to prove to you that, at this time, 11,000 606 accounts have been opened by the State Treasury in all local authorities at the level of villages, villages, cities and so forth. And in fact, the DAI inspector who stops the offender, making up a protocol, does not indicate where to pay the money. And this violator doesn't know where to pay him. What does this lead to? This leads to a person not getting an explanation without paying the money, but in a year’s time he will be forced to sell the car in order to pay the fines. I'm, you know, missing questions like where to pay for a place to live, where the car is registered, where the DAI is registered, where the crime is committed, or, for example, what to do with those citizens who are not Ukrainian citizens, where to pay them? That's why there's an offer. Offer one. I think it's first. We need to review the Road Safety Act because it urgently needs appropriate work.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u226	We can see that because. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u227	What can be done today? I think that immediately the DAI administration should start not only monitoring, but also counting the fines that our citizens have. Because, in fact, DAI officials do not say where to pay the fines, do not monitor them, do not turn to the executive authorities, do not draw the money accordingly, and actually let them go alone. The other one. Immediately the DAI should set up an order for payment of appropriate fines, or you and I, colleagues, should make changes to the relevant law. Next. The fines have to be paid, in my opinion, into the state budget for a single treasury account to move away from the problem that we now have in the form of 11,000 606 bills. And the last. I think I'm going to make appropriate changes to the relevant laws: to impose criminal liability for delay and abuse in the drafting of the correct protocol, and to obtain appropriate bribes from the employees of the State Automobile Inspectorate.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-19-m0.u228	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we will conclude today's session. First of all, I want to inform the radio audience that the Supreme Council is working next week. Here some national deputies welcomed the New Year. Early in the New Year's Eve, we'll be working for a week and we've got enough work to do. And since it has been repeatedly pointed out in their speeches that the Supreme Council has responded to the situation in the currency market and the National Bank's decision to create a special commission of inquiry, I am convinced that our colleagues working on the commission of inquiry and on the weekends will work to ensure that we are confident and guarantee a change in the situation that is today is not controlled. Unfortunately, even the National Bank Board can't support the information on which the funds were paid, the banks were recapitalized, why did some get that amount, and others the other banks? So next week we're going to be looking at this issue, looking at a series of other socio-economic issues, a series of anti-crisis bills to stabilize the socio-economic situation. So I would like to assure you today of Parliament's active work next week. So on Monday 22 the Conciliation Council will hold its 11th hour, and on Tuesday 23 at 10 a.m. a plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will take place. I announce the closure of the work of the Supreme Council and the closure of the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine today. Good for you.
