ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-09-m0.u1	Ladies and gentlemen of the National Council of Ukraine, please register in the session hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[10:03:24]] There are 414 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is public. Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, we are about to begin a faction leaders' meeting. I think this meeting is going to take a pretty long time, no less than an hour and a half. Today's short workday, in fact, we have some questions to consider before lunch and break up. We don't think we're going to get out of this together today. If we do come out in a common position, with the agenda only for tomorrow, as tomorrow is a full-fledged plenary day. How do you see that you go to work at the committee and we go to work in the hall. [[B in m in s a l in]] Will you support me? Thank you. Dear national deputies, in that case, if the order of the day is agreed upon, after. Colleagues, pay attention! In that case, if the agenda is agreed upon after the faction leaders meet, we will return to the session room. I'm asking you again not to say it. (U in m in s a l i) Vote? One minute, this question is not voted out. You want to vote, no problem. We went to the faction leaders' meetings -- sit in the hall, wait. Dear friends, be quiet! Mr. Taras, come on. Colleagues, this is Victor Fedorovich Janukovic's birthday. I would like to welcome Victor Fedorovich to his birthday. [[Applause]] Colleagues, I think today's plenary session of the Supreme Council should be closed. Tomorrow will be with the agreed order of the day.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-09-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, at the suggestion of faction leaders, each faction manager wants to take a stand after the negotiation process for three minutes. Let's start with the largest fraction. Nothing, we'll turn it on. Alexander Sergiyovich, take your seats. Should we turn on the microphone without the card? Well, there's no cards. Well, let's get out of the rostrum. Sure. Is there no objection? Come on, Alexander Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-09-m0.u3	Respectable colleagues, respected journalists, respected TV and radio audiences! We met for a long time with Arsenia Petrovic in the form of a faction representative. The position remains unagreed. The Coalition remains of the view that they insist on voting for the budget as a matter of priority and see no other voting format. For our part, we have suggested that the report of the Government be reviewed and that, in our view, it is logical to identify the issues that exist in the State and then, on the basis of this report, to consider the budget by amending and supplementing the version that is presented today and that is in the hands of our deputies. Given that there is no agreement, the Party of the Regions remains in its position: we believe that Parliament must work, that we must consider and have a sufficient package of bills that can be considered and adopted this week. And if our position prevents the coalition from making a decision on the budget, we do not rule out the possibility that we can grant such a right and we do not see why the rostrum is being blocked today. If our presence interferes to some extent with the adoption of the State document as a budget, we are willing even to leave the room and grant the coalition the right to vote in favour of those bills that you consider necessary to vote on. If you believe that we should vote, then we ask for a question on the Government's report and based on a decision to be taken on the Government's report, we are prepared to continue to participate in all matters, including the budget. But one thing remains fundamental: we do not see why the Supreme Council is being blocked today; we do not see any basis for blocking the Supreme Council, especially at the end of Parliament's work. And we believe that we have the opportunity to effectively complete Parliament's work at least this week, so we offer our services. If you need our vote, presence, then we'd like an initial report from the Government. If not, we grant the coalition the right to vote in favour of those documents that you consider necessary to vote on, and we promise you that we will by no means interfere with your vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-09-m0.u4	Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-09-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters, respected journalists! A slight correction to what a colleague of Ephraim said: this is not a 2008 budget, this is a change to the 2008 State Budget Act. And this document is no longer a government document, and when it's transferred to the Supreme Council, it's already our product, our work. Therefore, today the draft Law on Changes to the State Budget 2008 is being considered by the Budget Committee. This is an essential procedure. And we very much hope that, given that changes to the law are the product of the agreement of all the political forces in the Supreme Council, it is the law that must unite the hall. To this end, there are representatives on the budget committee of all political powers. And in an open session, the committee can participate in any of the MPs, and not only, but the public -- that's the way the budget committee has always been. We are very insistent and we ask that we work together on this document, take into account the proposals of the State's regional structural units, take into account the industry's proposals, take into account the social work of all the factions in the Supreme Council. And we want it not to be a coalition document, not a coalition document. A coalition document is a budget, and that's a budget change. We'd like to get a lot of support in the hall. This consolidates the Supreme Council as a legislative body. Taking into account all the interests that are here, they can be reflected in the State Budget project and the voting in the room to confirm that. To demand that you stay in the coalition room and vote, and once again demonstrate whether we are or not. Once again, there is a simple procedure: it is not accepted by the Supreme Council, article 14 of the law, the surplus of funds is distributed by the government. We don't want that. We want to vote in a transparent, honest, frank way in this room so that both the political forces and the interests of the constituencies of the electorate population that we represent in this room. So, really. Sadly, we did not reach an agreement. You see, there are nuances that don't allow us to come to a common goal. That is why we remain in our positions. By procedure of the budget committee, we ask him to consider both the first reading and the second reading and the introduction to the hall, he made the only proposal voted: to vote by parliament final. [[It's either Thursday night or Friday morning.]] First and second readings and final changes to the budget. Please, after that, we are ready to consider any laws, laws, social, economic, political -- we are ready to consider. First of all, we have to give society 30 billion dollars that are made by the economy that is made by this government. And this government has to distribute them and give them to society. And then let's deal with our political divisions. We have to let the economy work on these 30 billion. And once again, one third goes to help regions, prepare for winter, state-run capital investments go there, subsidies, subsidies, small cities -- over a billion -- there's never been any such thing, and many things: roads, preparation for the Euro, development budget, shipbuilding, aircraft building, space sector, especially agriculture, especially what it needs. I've got dozens of letters on my hands and you've got dozens of rings and social organizations, the public, the regions, the appeal to support this budget, to support the entire hall. And a third only goes to our social payments, taking into account the tariff grid introduced since September 1, taking into account the pension increase of one and a half times the end of the year against this year. Dear colleagues, we urge and ask the Hall to consolidate efforts, after the Budget Committee to vote on the amendments to the 2008 State Budget Act and continue to work as much as we can with you in order to adopt social laws to adopt economic, laws that determine the conduct of the euro and so on. As long as we're on this rostrum just to accept what society needs, not politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-09-m0.u6	Kirilenko Viacheslav Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-09-m0.u7	Dear colleagues, I would like to propose that we take a closer look at the situation in which we have come. And the basis for analysis should be estimates that simply need to be recognized in order to make the right conclusions. First. All Ukraine is now witnessing that certain representatives of the nationalist political forces in Ukraine have deceived voters. [[And I'll make it clear.]] That's the first one. Secondly, the Supreme Council has become a hostage in the analysis that is now being carried out directly in the orange team. This is the second starting point. Third. What goes on is the fiercest struggle for power and property, and here the electorate has no full interest. That is the basis of what is being done in Parliament. What should we do? First. In order to avoid further development of negative trends and processes, not only in Parliament, but especially in society, Ukraine, we need the first orange team to confirm that there are enough votes in the coalition to carry out your constitutional duties. Second. We must understand that the responsibility of the electorate and the willingness to take responsibility for the organization of work, and that today the representatives of the orange team, having no grounds whatsoever, occupy public positions, namely, the full Cabinet of Ministers, the local authorities, use the State Budget not for purpose, you have in fact seized power, not from the electorate, because you are lyingly in these positions today, and thus have usurped power. I believe that if you don't confirm the coalition's presence today by the number of votes, you must be criminally responsible for everything that is going on in your country. Next. If we are talking about what is being considered in Parliament today, and what should be noted, our couple, the Communist Party, are categorically opposed to the policy imposed by the orange team since the 91st year, and to the practical implementation of that policy. We are prepared to participate in the consideration of the resolution of mistrust. But we are also addressing our colleagues, including the Anti-crisis coalition, the Party of the Regions, today to understand that a vote on the resignation of the Cabinet of Ministers will be the right approach, because if they do not recognize what the coalition does not have, we must, in practice, legally confirm this right after considering the responsibility of the Cabinet of Ministers, and thus, we, the distinguished colleagues of the Party of the Regions, must understand that whether we are practically deciding that power is going to go completely to Yushtenko, and thus the negative processes that it is actually carrying out in the country today, which is the rehabilitation of the Fascist Assistants, this humiliation of our national dignity, these are issues that relate to NATO, this exacerbation of the relations of the Slav peoples, and many other things will accelerate. Therefore, we must make it clear, and I am addressing my colleagues — the Party of the Regions — who will in fact be responsible for the failure of the orange team to manage the country, i.e. whether it is possible to create a new coalition. I believe that this should also be the subject of very serious discussion and discussion. Agreements. Therefore, comrades, we also understand that, unfortunately with the Party of the Regions, we do not have the possibility of creating this coalition, with the Company. I also, on behalf of the Company, declare that never with our nationalists will the Company create a coalition. This is also the principled political position that we take. I therefore point out that today the real country faces the threat of usurping power and establishing a nationalist dictatorship by Yushchenko and his Secretariat, and here the truth is that the coalition itself understands what the threat of today by the Secretariat and the Yushchenka personally to the country, as well as to those political or financial-political forces that are part of the coalition. [[significant part or individual factions]] I propose that our efforts be focused on truly overcoming the situation that has taken place today in Ukraine and freeing the people from the political forces that are experimenting against the people. It's like in a famous literary work, the Gorinitch Snake has to cut off all its heads. In order for us to understand that this is the only way today — the removal from power of the orange team — will enable us to have real positive results for the country. What should we do? I am deeply convinced, and I have repeatedly talked about this, just as we have had the problem of creating an anti-crisis coalition. I have also said today that it is necessary to continue the political process of reform through the creation of a new constitution and to complete the political reform that has begun because this situation today, which is developing in Parliament, is the main task of the Secretariat in fact to destroy the results of the 2004 political reform, that is what we know. Not all of us will be understood by our constituents, because many aspects need to be explained. What'd you do, respectable orange team? Either you just don't understand how you're being used or you're an eyewitness and a direct participant, in fact, today's destruction of the democracy system in the country. I therefore propose that a special commission should be established to formulate proposals for the Constitution, that negotiations should be concluded immediately on the establishment of this commission, that the text should be drafted — and that a very serious process should be resolved — of the conflicts of interest of large capital and oligarchs in the Supreme Council in order to exclude the use of the Supreme Council only for the sake of large capital. And unfortunately, today the Supreme Council has forgotten that there are voters and there are people of Ukraine. Here, in fact, Ukraine is drinking finally and moving away, touching what has not been touched. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-09-m0.u8	I would like, my fellow Members, to contact those who are listening and watching us, to inform you of the negotiations that took place at the Conciliation Council meeting with the faction leaders, the Chief of the Supreme Council, in order to convey our position. But before that, I would like to remind you of the fact that recently the Supreme Court of Italy has made a decision that allows women, married women, not to tell the truth about their extramarital relationships. This was motivated by the need to preserve the family and preserve the woman’s dignity. Well, obviously there's a motivation to lie, in other words, to lie. And the question is, why are we lying to each other? Why do we have this happening in the Supreme Council? And it's happening in the Supreme Council that they want to win each other, that there's a tough political struggle for power, but it has to be conducted in a civilized way, it has to be conducted within the framework of the Rules, at least temporarily, of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I mean, yesterday we offered our vision of what we needed to do. I understand the ridicule that sounded, I understand the reluctance to accept, because we don't want to think about the long-term perspective, because today there's a practice: take everything today, today, no, take it now, because we don't know what's going to happen tomorrow. If you don't get it, we'd like to hear what we're proposing in return: and instead of voting for that decision, we're going to block the rostrum. I'll say, your honor, it's a strange question to ask when the rostrum is blocked for no reason. Why is the rostrum blocked, when we're offering, we're small, but we're proposing, let's look at the laws that you've proposed, come on? Why don't you want to look at them? And I'll say you don't want to look at them because you don't need a budget. You don't want to consider them because you don't want to vote for the Presidential Bill on Sudokustry. You don't want to do anything, so you blocked the rostrum. It is surprising that the authorities are blocking themselves. They sounded on the Conciliation Council of Proposals: To close the Supreme Council, he said, to gather in 1.5 months, perhaps to come to our senses, and then to some denominator. No, you understand very well that we're not coming, and these 1.5 months are going to be used to prove that the Supreme Council, and you don't have to argue here that this is a meeting of absolutely villains who don't care about the Ukrainian people who only think about themselves. Please tell me if you say you're blocking the rostrum in order to adopt the budget, today the budget committee is probably going to make its decision, obviously it's going to make a positive decision. Let's take the first question tomorrow to consider the changes to the budget. Please consider, but. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm asking you, do you know what a little dog is barking at? Because she doesn't know what she had. And let me tell you, I'm listening very carefully. So what I'm saying is, dear colleagues, why block the rostrum if you could consider the laws you proposed today. But we suggested to you, let's consider the Wages Act, let's look at the Law on the State Status of Officials, Teachers, Medicalians. Why don't you support it? Why don't you support what we say we're doing about social laws? You want to prove, not your truth, your truth. And we are absolutely against it. Yes, we don't play a decisive role here, but we are definitely against locking and hanging the castle on the Supreme Council. We need to take this path and make the right decisions. But I'll tell you when the budget changes are made and you count the income and expenditure portion of the budget, and the difference between them is the budget deficit. The government wrote it down for 18 billion, and when you subtract it for 15 billion. Please tell me, what is the approach to document-forming? Is it that the Supreme Council should be a cover-up? You and I are supposed to be undercover? Is that respect for the Supreme Council? So obviously we should tell the Supreme Council the truth that we've been working on this document since March, and now you've been dumped, buried in it, and then we'll spend it! Have you ever read this document? Did you even watch it? If you were reading and watching, why didn’t you make the appropriate comments? So we suggest this way: The Supreme Council doesn't close. Come on, or else. We'll work. Today, I understand, there will be no more work. Tomorrow, I'm going to look at the budget. There will be no decision to make – we must have a serious conversation then. I want to tell you and everyone who listens and hears us that we're not applying for any positions, but we say, let's figure out how the country is going to develop. We suggested, let's say, a budget. This year has already been lost so that the budget for the following year will be built on a priority basis to forget that there are elections. If such suggestions do not work, make other suggestions. To the government's program of activity. We sent our six-page proposals to the Cabinet of Ministers. There was no answer. How can we talk about cooperation if we don't want to say anything at all, but just the pressure method: we'll stand in the rostrum until you accept the budget. I want to say, come on, raise all the country's budgets as they were voted in, and you'll see who voted, who didn't vote. So today we have to give the opportunity, I'm convinced, a coalition to work, not to block power itself, and to make decisions, because I'm convinced that this will have a negative impact on all of our social lives. Nor should we engage in this political and verbal deception. At least we're open to any conversation, for dialogue, at least we've never blocked or blocked the rostrum. And you stop this practice. We're looking at the budget tomorrow. Please, if anyone is bothering you, we can wait in the lobby. If you want a normal document, let's remove what the Constitutional Court requires. Making changes to laws, and let's take changes to the budget, not changes to laws, how we want to do it to share what's in the country, not think about how to live our lives. Thank you for your attention. Read it, take the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-09-m0.u9	It's a brilliant offer, yes. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The first is the draft Ukrainian Act amending the State Budget Act. I had a conversation with the head of the Budget Committee, and I insist on an immediate review of the draft budget committee. Parliament, as the only legislative body, has all the means and means to take account of the interests of all political forces and all regions when adopting this budget. This is no longer a document of the Cabinet of Ministers, now it's a document of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. First, we are able to vote on the second reading and thus ensure the fulfillment, including the election promises. There's something to share. And so let's try this as a consolidating idea to talk and consider the draft of the State Budget Act. Clearly, the Party of Regions does not withdraw its position on the government's mistrust resolution, but I think we need to look at today's situation from something else. I'm a firm opponent in political demagogism. Well, you know, she's already kind of fed up with us as parliamentarians, and the bottom line is, she's already fed up with the people who chose us. What's important right now is that this political crisis that exists in the Ukrainian political elite is within and within the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament, that it's not radicalized, and we haven't brought society into this stupid and unsuspecting dialogue. The analysis of the situation is very simple: all are political. And until we get out of the political path, this room is going to be empty, Parliament is going to degrade, and there's going to be a variety of speculations, demagogies and everything. So what I'm seeing right now is that it's more likely that the work of the current session of Parliament is very and very hazy. So I'm not going to stop the dialogue and I'm going to meet each and every faction manager separately, with every political leader to try at least in a less dignified way to complete the current session. If this does not work, we will preserve the political path and the situation for a long time and inexplicably how to get out of it. So we'll continue our political consultations by 10 a.m. tomorrow. I declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Thank you.
