ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u1	Good morning to all, the country's distinguished deputies. Please register. [[10:02:25]] There were 447 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Please sign up for the announcements, the messages, the proposals of the people's deputies. Jemilev Mustafa, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. He's handing it over to Vyezovsky. Please, Viziewski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u2	Dear Ukrainians, on April 10, 2008, the Supreme Council ratified the Protocol on Ukraine’s Entry into the World Trade Organization. Thus, a long, complex process has been completed, including negotiations with WTO member countries and the adoption of a series of legislation on the adaptation of Ukrainian legislation to the GATT WTO standards and principles. On February 5, 2008, U.S. President Viktor Yushchenko and World Trade Organization CEO Pascal Lamin signed a protocol on Ukraine’s entry into WTO. Now, after the ratification of the protocol, Ukraine will become a full member of the organization during the month, where 184 countries in the world now account for 96 percent of the world’s trade. Although the process and introduction began early in the decade, only with the coming to power of President Viktor Yushchenk of Ukraine has he acquired a purposeful and specific character. Ukraine's introduction to the WTO plays an important role in the development of the national economy, the liberalisation of foreign trade, the creation of a predictable environment for foreign investment, which is in line with Ukraine's national interests. President Viktor Yushchenko's appeal to the Ukrainian people, noting the importance of this event, stressed that Ukraine, without this step, lost billions of dollars a year because of anti-dumping investigations from around the world. The introduction to the WTO increased Ukraine’s income by 10 percent from trade with other countries, and the Ukrainian producer will have more access to the world market. He will not be afraid that his goods will suddenly be arrested, subjected to humiliating tests, and subjected to further trials. These are also big opportunities for Ukrainian business, finding new partners in other countries, these are additional jobs, wages, and pensions. Noting the importance of Ukraine’s accession to the World Trade Organization, it should be stressed that Ukraine has many problems in its civil progress that need to be addressed both at European and at world level. It's a security issue for our country and Euro-Atlantic integration, it's a solution to the energy problems of mining, building civilized and equal relations with all our neighbours, both in the West and in the East. We are convinced that with the acquisition of WTO membership, the Ukrainian government provides for more jobs. The introduction of other states into the WTO, including the Russian Federation, in this way harmonize customs tariffs, the problems of trade in individual goods and progress, the rules of movement of labour must be based on the principle of Ukraine’s national interests.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u3	Mikhailo Kosov. Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, on behalf of our faction, I would like to make a statement regarding the situation in Ukraine. Our faction has been courageously silent in recent months when it hears allegations of government activity by the President’s Secretariat. Our faction has remained silent for the last months when it listens to the Council’s allegations. [[Congrats]] to the government's address on behalf of the National Security and Defence Council. But after the President of Ukraine has defamed the Ukrainian government in the last month, we think that this is a disgrace not to BET and not to Timoshenko, it is a disgrace to Ukraine. [[Applause]] So, from the situation that has arisen, we would like to go to the President and tell Viktor Andryovich: if he thinks today that his government is the Secretary of the President's Secretariat or the PNB, where ministers from the opposition government of Yanukovic go every day, he has to speak boldly and candidly to the Ukrainian people that he doesn't trust this government, let him resign the government of Timoshenko and work with the new opposition government of Janukovic. If this is not done, we would like the President to say otherwise: he is working with the government and the day-to-day councils in a three-hour regime, when giving direction to the district administrations and the district authorities not to follow the direction of the government when instructions are given to ministers not to follow the Prime Minister's instructions, they may end badly for the Ukrainian people. I think it's also worth mentioning today that there is no mystery that the drafting of the new Constitution is about to end, which will be submitted to a referendum, which will include a bicameral parliament with an upper chamber of oligarchs, where there is an increase in the power of the President. And once again, I want to state the faction's position, we'll do everything we can to ensure that the constitutional process does not go beyond Parliament. There will be no Constitution beyond Parliament. Third position. We are surprised that everyone in Parliament is afraid and disturbed by the bill on the abolition of the benefits of national MPs. Everyone's looking after the Ukrainian people and no one wants to start the process of eliminating the benefits, and our faction asks the question as follows. Today we are looking at 1408 -- the elimination of the MP's benefits, and we are ready to submit our bills to both the Secretariat and the PNB, and other structures to optimize their activities, and to reduce their powers. Once again, our faction of homage, whoever it comes from, will not suffer. We can protect ourselves and protect our government.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u5	Kirilo Kulikov, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, a statement from the faction "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" about the events that took place in Kiev. The Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine published numerous allegations of abuse and crime by the active Kiev authorities. According to a report by the Ministry of Internal Affairs, we have completed a third dozen of these criminal cases, which are handed over to the Public Prosecutor's Office. At present, the documents are being falsified and Mr. Mukhovicov, who headed the land department of the Kyiv City State Administration, is now dismissed. After falsifying the documents, they obtained Czernovecki's license, sold the Family Children's Camp for a hundred million. This is another powerful evidence of the correctness and consistency of decisions regarding the holding of the early elections of the Kiev City Head and the deputies of the Kiev City Council. The most cynical in this situation was the attempt to replace the traces of the crime that is being carried out under the patronage of today’s Kiev city chief Leonid Czernovecki to anyone who tells of the profession of his team. At the same time, as soon as he smelled hot in the air, he removed the head of the Land Administration, cynically stating that Kiev needed a new honest leader and his chiyans would give the “Cernovetsk's Block”. At the pre-election company in 2007, our bloc made a clear commitment that we would bring the order to Kiev and we made the elections. We are convinced that the solution for Kiev could be to elect a new city head instead of a corrupt minister, Leonid Czernovecki. At the same time, we need to determine, this is our position, the only candidate for democratic power that can defeat the team and the mayor of Kiev himself. We remember that such a candidate from the democratic forces is the only one who can win. Each of us is aware that in Kiev there is a need for a serious change of power, that the capital authorities will not be able to play the role of land distribution through incredible bribes, this victory will be the best gift for all the Chinese on Kiev Day. Support the only candidate!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u7	Maruszczenko gives the word Stretovich. Strutovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u8	Addressing the “Christian-Democratic Union” party to the compatriots. “Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Honorable compatriots! Dear Brothers and Sisters! The “Christian-Democratic Union” as a political party that unites the faithful various Christian churches and is based on Christian values, taking into account the prayerful stand in the previous years of our independence and their saved consequences for our State and the Ukrainian community, recognizing its responsibility as Christians for the spiritual condition of our people, longing for God's blessing for our Ukraine and all its citizens, calls upon all fellow countrymen, and, above all, the Christians of Ukraine, regardless of their religious affiliation, to spend a few days before Easter in prayer Repentance and a substitute prayer for our people. We recognize the importance of repentance as a prerequisite for God’s forgiveness and blessing, and we understand the need to overcome the spiritual consequences of perpetuating ungodly ideology for many years. We believe that the country’s progress is only on condition of internal change in the hearts and souls of all citizens, especially the rulers. Without this internal change, both the “holes” and the “road maps” and other programs would lead us to new developments. Repentance is an act of voluntary renunciation. It is a pity that sins committed in the past and acceptance of the obligation not to sin in the future. Repentance is an internal, loving act, a transformation of the soul. The outward manifestation of repentance is the confession of one’s sins and the change in the conduct of a repentant person. To repent is to feel genuine regret over past sins, to renounce sin, and to strive to live by God’s commandments. The Scriptures contain many examples of both personal and surrogate prayers. Prayers of God’s people for their people. The result of repentance is internal cleansing, a change in conduct, God’s forgiveness, and a blessing. Let us therefore bend our hearts and our souls before the Lord, that he may be faithful to his promise: “Where two or three of you are gathered together in my name, there I am in your midst.” But when we confess our sins, he is faithful and righteous, that we may ask for our sins and cleanse us from all unrighteousness, our Creator has forgiven us all our transgressions before him and before others. In honoring the memory of the victims of famine, of Soviet repression, of countless martyrs for the faith that perished in Communist executions, let us pray that Jehovah forgives us for our free or arbitrary participation in the ungodly system of the totalitarian regime. Remembering the words of the Savior that you have done to one of the least of my brothers, you have done to me. Let us pray for ourselves to be righteous in further action, so that the Lord may forgive us our indifference to the problems of those who are with us and who suffer without our help. Let us pray that Jehovah will forgive us when we are guided in our actions by a beneficial account, not by the good of our neighbor and by our selfishness. Let us pray that the Lord will forgive us our indifference to our country." I inform you that the initiative has been blessed by the leaders of a number of leading Orthodox, Catholic, Protestant churches in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u9	Alexander Popov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u10	Dear colleagues! Although our colleagues from BUTT resent the criticism of the Government and its leader. I must say that in a lot of criticism there is an objective situation today. And when the Prime Minister spoke from this rostrum, it seemed to me that she was talking about another country, because the virtual well-being that had been told about in real life had no basis. I want to draw your attention again to the problems that exist today in housing and utilities. After all, the inflation of 3.7 per cent in the first quarter is equivalent to the fact that 160 million bracelets have been removed from our population's pockets to pay for residential and utility services. Last week, the Government adopted a new Cabinet of Ministers decree recommending new gas prices to be delivered to domestic consumers and utilities. I have calculated the value of this regulation and today I can say that additional pockets of people will be seized in favour of NAC Naftogaz Ukraine, about 3 billion grevens. And I have a question: where is the conscience of those who claim that victory in the gas market must cost our people such a price? That's not true, it's a very difficult situation today. In such realities, it would seem necessary to invest money in housing and utilities. I must tell you, no such funding has been made from the State budget to date. It is not enough that the policies adopted by the Cabinet of Ministers today have led to the indignation of all regions and local governments in these ways that it is not possible to secure the money provided for Ukraine's budgets for this year in the housing and utility sector, and that they must be reviewed immediately to allow such investments to be made. Dear colleagues, the heating season in Ukraine ended yesterday and officially ended. You may have noticed that there were no special incidents in the country. That's what he's talking about. This indicates that last year's policy by our Government, the Government of Viktor Fedorović Yanukovic, which allowed the adoption and investment of more than 3.5 billion bracelets in the industry of JCC to upgrade the core funds, has enabled the introduction of new modern energy-saving technologies to stabilize the situation. And we've been through this year well. But today, as a specialist, I can say that the problem of the next heating season in this policy is very serious on the scale of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u11	Thank you. Kiselov Vasil Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u12	Thank you. Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to draw your attention to how the vice president of the Regulatory Committee has recently shown that we have a tendency and a system in the work of the Supreme Council to violate the Rules and the Constitution of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. At a time when the Head of the Supreme Council declares that he will not allow violations of the Rules and the Constitution, we see that he willfully or willfully does not. So I'm giving examples, or we wouldn't let our colleagues in Africa today vote, that's Koval, Scybinetsky and Belarus. So I insist that the votes of these deputies and ten other colleagues who were not in the hall yesterday be excluded from the vote. Then it will be right, Arsenius Petrovich. And secondly, several times, and you've talked about it in person, it's documented by the transcript that the "Council" system, unfortunately, is failing. And that was the reason for the vote to change when we chose. When you chose the Prime Minister of Ukraine. And we agreed, we agreed that there was such a prime minister, but after that, we agreed on a regular committee, at the suggestion of, by the way, our colleagues, that all of the personnel release or appointment issues, as the MPs would insist on, would be carried out by hand and by video camera. Personally, this applies to the appointments of human resources mayors, heads chosen by the city’s communities. And I insist that if such a question were ever to be asked in this hall about the removal of a city head, it would be held under a video camera, with the hands of voters to see who was ignoring their conscious choice. And I can't help but stop at one more serious, I think, problem, and announce my personal vision of the problem. Yesterday, in Moscow, the foreign minister of Ukraine, Ogryzko, allowed himself, on behalf of Ukraine, to say that Ukraine had made a conscious choice, and that choice was the way to NATO. Who gave him the right to make such a choice, to make such a statement? He also stated that this would not affect the relationship between Ukraine and Russia. It's an exaggeration of its authority, and that's what you have to be responsible for. The people of Ukraine did not give them such authority. No referendum was held. That's why we're going to insist on a referendum, and then you can claim that if the people give you that right. And what he has said is confirmed by the two instruments that I have in my hands: the NATO Statute, as well as the Treaty of Friendship, Cooperation and Partnership between the Russian Federation and Ukraine, where article 2 states: “High Contracting Parties, in accordance with the UN Charter, respect the territorial integrity of each other, affirm the inviolability of the borders between them”. Therefore, once they have withdrawn the treaty, these issues will unfortunately be raised in Ukraine. Therefore, I call upon all of you, colleagues, to think that you speak on behalf of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u13	Petrov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Sulkowski, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u14	Paul Sulkowski, faction of the Party of the Regions, Ravenshkin. Dear Arsenija Petrovich, distinguished colleagues, once again for 10 days I have to appeal to the government again today, to the President for more than 2 billion dollars to date. The government has only partially started funding since March of this year. In the first quarter of the current year, only 11.9 percent of budget expenditure is available when the government of Viktor Yanukovitch provided 52 percent of budget expenditure in the first quarter of last year. Farmers sow practically free of mineral fertilizers, and today they have practically reached the price of more than six bracelets. More than six bracelets, think of it, distinguished national MPs! And when Ulysses Volodymyrovna Timoshenko’s supporters at the filling stations shouted that Yulia Timoshenko’s petrol A-95 was no more than three bracelets, today more than six bracelets were inflamed! So where are those screamers who spoke to Ukraine that would be practically good under the leadership of Mrs. Yulia Timoshenko? There is a threat of a collapse of the government’s food supply programme due to a lack of stable funding. Costs on these things, on this program set up in the general budget and have questionable sources of coming. The loss of meat resources in the first quarter of today has reached the largest extent since Ukraine’s independence. Namely, in the first quarter of this year, the VOC was reduced, cut out more than 30 percent to the first quarter of last year, by 60 percent. Where is the National Security Council? Mr. President, why do you see such a catastrophic situation? And at this time, when it is necessary to take urgent steps to support price policies for animal production and to take measures to stabilize and develop animal production under extremely negative conditions in this area in relation to the price situation in the grain market, the deputies of the Yulia Tymoshenko Block and the communists yesterday submitted a draft quota law of more than 350 thousand. Ton of meat to allow foreign countries of the world to be imported into Ukraine! It's practically a disaster and a crime to its own manufacturer. Once again, we urge the government to convene a government immediately.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u15	Another one of the Gods, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u16	Ukraine and Ukraine! Today, we heard that BUTT had stated that he had been silent for a long time when he was insulted by the President. But this government is shamefully silent of all the issues that are of great importance to the Ukrainian people. He's silent when our boys are killed in Kosovo. He is silent when it is discovered today that even the infamous events did not begin when our boys were thrown under a bullet in Kosovo and no one even wants to start the test. On March 20, we heard a statement from the minister of the interior that he would do anything to start checking our boys' illegal release into a special operation and punishment of the guilty. Today, UN officials claim that this test has not even begun and that no official request has been received from Ukraine. This is a disgrace to all the Ukrainian people. This government is silent because it deals solely with its beneficial interests. He's hiding his head in the sand when, today, even Georgia is pulling its troops out of Kosovo, and we're leaving our boys there. He's silent, this government, when a Canadian military expert makes a statement across Europe that a plan has now been developed for the involvement of a Ukrainian-Polish special operation in Kosovo to clean up Serbs, when again our boys will be thrown against Serbs, when again our boys will arrest Serbs, they will be violated. This government is silent. He is silent because only the election, only his own authority, is interested in him. He is silent when hundreds of thousands of Ukrainian children are now unable to enter the barracks because testing is illegal, and he has 10 percent of the wrong answers. And today, all the university professors are beaten into pieces, which is just a shame, that even the date of adoption of the Declaration of Independence of Ukraine is mistakenly defined as the correct answer. And this government is silent. He is silent when people in three months lost 10 percent of their income and had 10 percent less money left in their pockets. He is silent when in two weeks, the dollar actually fell by 10 percent. Once again he hides his head in the sand because he waits for only one: when he gains absolute authority and will be enriched as he is used to getting rich. We want to urge all of Ukraine to remove the pink glasses. This government is a criminal government, this government is a government that degrades our pride with you, which puts Ukraine not as a third world country.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u17	Makienko, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko”. Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u18	Vladimir Bondarenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Yesterday, Ukrainian President Viktor Andriyovich Yushchenko held a meeting that, for example, surprised me and I think many people. He wondered why no one in Ukraine was fighting corruption, why we were in the worst positions in the world. I think Victor Andriyovich may have quit and now I just realized that the policy of neglect, not the real fight against corruption, has led to the state that is today. So I'd like to tell him and recommend that we read the manual of the Cabinet of Ministers, a few volumes where there's enough, well, for a year, two jobs for the law enforcement authorities, and there's not enough prisons in Ukraine for those who have committed these violations. Where is the President's reaction to the reports we're reporting from the Interim Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council? Where is the help of the same Vasjunika, who headed the commission created by Baloga to cover up the city’s Kiev head and the crimes that are here? I would like to say that there are many other questions. In particular, I note that all cases that could have been dealt with on the basis of court decisions and five decisions of the Kyiv City Council have been cancelled and returned to the community 428 acres [428 ha] of land from those famous 17 decisions, which were distributed 18,000 hectares [18,000 ha]. Why did Blaživsky’s prosecutor not break criminal cases with regard to those who allowed it? Where was the criminal case against Korotchin and Lavrov’s deputies of Kyivrada and Obolonsky’s council from the “Chernewsky Block” who took bribes? These cases were broken, gone. Where is the case of the savage slaughter of John Granzev, the lawyer, the son-in-law of Chernevski and the deputy of Kyivrada Komarnick? Where's all this going? Why is this all sinking and shutting down? I understand why, because both in the Attorney General’s Office and in the Kyiv City Prosecutor’s Office, there are major corrupts. Dozens of land in Kiev came from the hammer, sold and sold to various building structures and investors. I was reporting an address on the street where the Attorney General's Office got the land for housing and sold or reselled the office-goat complex. What kind of office-hotel complex does the D.A. need? I'd like to draw attention to the fact that construction work began today on the 14th line of Desert Waters, where 10.7 hectares, which were run by various prosecutors, including environmental ones, are now going to do construction work. I point out that the discussions about corruption led by the President of Ukraine are neither giving nor giving. It would be worth it if we could stop piling up our country and the government of Ukraine abroad and figure out in our own, if you'll excuse me, the problems created by this inactivity. So what I'm pointing out is that it's not to say, it's to act in this way, and the President has to be at the beginning of this fight, not to cover up corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u19	Landik gives the word to Shershun Mikola Haritonovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u20	Dear Mr. Head, honourable colleagues, distinguished voters, I would like to draw your attention to the future of our country, to the young, that is, to its problems. Young people, as a special social group, are constantly focused on research by sociologists, because it is an audible indicator of the changes that are taking place, and it is generally a potential for social development. If we fail to understand and resolve our problems, we will not reveal the future of our country. So, first of all, after the changes to the Policy on Long-Term Credits to Young Families for Building and Acquisition of Housing, approved by the relevant Cabinet Regulation, it became impossible to lend mixed loans to borrowers, i.e. at the expense of government and local budgets. Costs provided for this purpose in the district budgets are not sufficient to lend even to one borrower. Yes, to implement the 2003 - 2012 district housing program, the district budget provides for more than 2 million dollars each year, but credits can be granted to no more than ten families that are associated with the high cost of housing. Since October 1, 2007, the Ministry of Construction, which is typical of almost all areas, has set the average cost per square metre of about 3.5 thousand dollars. Notice, this is not for Kiev and Kiev. Second, as a result of increased media coverage of the cult of permissiveness, violence, tobacco and alcohol advertising, the negative impact on the moral and spiritual level of the young generation has increased. There is a particular need to improve the field of gaming licensing. Gambling machines have taken over all cities and are installed not only at train stations but also near educational institutions. It is therefore necessary to amend the relevant legislative acts, including by expanding the list of places where gambling is prohibited and should be carried out outside the cities in general. Thirdly, public policies in the field of education and further employment for young people are unbalanced. There is a significant imbalance between the quality and quantity of specialists who are released by the unions of all forms of ownership and labour market needs, resulting in most university graduates turning to employment services. That is, the State spends not only on training young professionals but also on retraining them and paying for unemployment benefits. There is a significant shortage of skilled workers. It is therefore necessary to renew the prestige of the working professions so that young people understand that honest and conscientious work is a decent way to build themselves up in society. Dear colleagues, please listen to the voice of the future and do our utmost to ensure that this future is cloudless and dignified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u21	Ladies and gentlemen, the time for the performance is over. With your permission, I'd like to comment on two things that have to do with the order of the meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and to address those national MPs who require the blocking of the National MP's card. Unfortunately, it is impossible to do so. And people who know the provisional Rules are perfectly in possession of article 218 of the Supreme Council Rules, which foresees the only moment when a chairman can block the National MP’s card. This is in the case that there is a national committee that has not been authorized and is working in the executive branch. All of it. There's no other reason for the chairman. Everything else is illegal and will violate the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People’s Deputy. That's why I'm calling on the regulatory committee, when drafting the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, to give the chairman the opportunity, first, to block the cards of the people's deputies who are not present at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council. The second is to enable the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine not to sign acts of the Supreme Council of Ukraine that have been adopted with violations of the Rules and the Constitution, namely, which have not been personally voted by the Ukrainian people's deputies. And then we're going to end up putting a dot on this. On the other hand, we must act exclusively within and in a manner defined by the laws and the Constitution, article 19 of the Constitution of Ukraine. The second is about the formation of the agenda. Dear colleagues, despite the fact that we sometimes have a skeptical attitude towards the so-called coalition agreement, I would like to point out that the coalition agreement is part of the legislation. According to the Constitution, the formation of a coalition and the order of its organization and activities are governed by the Rules of the Supreme Council. In accordance with article 63 of the Supreme Council’s Rules, a coalition agreement is in order and is binding on Parliament and coalition. In view of this, I am addressing the coalition once again with regard to the formation of the order of the day. First. I call solely for unity in the ranks of the coalition. And the second. Before the coalition agreement is implemented, which is signed. And the coalition agreement determines the order of day formation by the coalition. Read: paragraph 2, 4, 7, 3 of the coalition agreement. Developing a common position for coalition entities, for the legislative activities of the Supreme Council, and for the formation of the agenda. Preparation and proposal of the agenda of the High Council on the basis of proposals from the Government and the Committees of the Supreme Council.” Thus, we form the order of the day according to the Rules, and to the terms of the coalition agreement, the letter and the letter, as recorded in the relevant acts. Therefore, I ask for discussions on the rightfulness or wrongfulness to be based solely on the law, not on politics. Dear colleagues, I announce Bill No. 1312 – Draft Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. [[second reading]] [[new editor]] Reportedly, the deputy head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, Klukkowski Yuri Bogdanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u22	Honorary colleagues, the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government created a special working group to prepare for the second reading of the draft Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The working group included representatives of all factions, five factions, members of our committee, as well as representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Secretary of the President of Ukraine and the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine. The working group has worked hard enough, the results of its work have been reviewed by the committee in the correct places, and this product of our work is now being offered to you. The result of the committee's work is shown in the right column of the comparative table and, in principle, we are ready to consider the amendment of this bill. I just want to say that the committee is proposing on the basis of the second reading to adopt this law as a whole. I'm ready for work.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u23	Yuri Bogdanovich, please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u24	I reported, I'm ready for repairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u25	Let's do some repairs, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u26	I don't know if I'm ready to lead a meeting. All right.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u27	Yuri Bogdanović, according to the Rules, raised the issue of consideration in the second reading of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers. I'm asking for an amendment. We have a hundred amendments, come on, God, remember.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u28	Three hundred and seventy.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u29	No, no, no. I'm saying on a number of pages. 126 pages of amendments. Let's go.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u30	So the first amendment is rejected. Is it insisting? No, you don't. Amendment two. What I want to say right now is that its content is partially reflected in other articles.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u31	Please, a word. Yuri Bogdanovich, can we do what we used to do? So, first of all, the amendment of the people's MP Lavrinovich. In the first, in the first article, one excludes the words “Government of Ukraine”. Alexander Volodymyrovich, do you insist on discussing all the amendments and voting? I have to ask you, according to the rules. Give me your word, Lavrinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u32	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, I have made adjustments that are certainly in response to our Basic Law. But in this case, I don't insist on any of the amendments, and I propose that we now vote on this law as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u33	Please log in. All right, give Matthew's word according to procedure. Matvienka, we're all going to sign up now, Peter Mikolaiovich. Matvienko, Simonenko and Chechtev.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u34	Ukrainian Republican Party "The Council", "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" Block. Arseny Petrovich, we've had enough practice. You call the amendment on the page and we move. If the author has no warnings, we do not stop. Therefore, there is no need to ask everyone, and even more so, you should comment on the amendment. If the author insists, he goes to comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u35	Please, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko and Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u36	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, you and I are witnesses that the coalition has now begun to sabotage the organization of the work of the Supreme Council. And clearly, it's a wasteful waste of time looking at this project, which is very important from the point of view of the organization of vertical power, especially the executive branch of power. We see a fierce struggle for power, not for responsibilities toward the people of Ukraine. And that's exactly what it is today that is destroying the principles of parliamentaryism, just a coalition that has practically left the hall, is not going to consider this law. I propose that every amendment be considered in accordance with the Rules because every amendment has been made to improve this law, not to allow a few national deputies who, as part of the committee, finally determine the further fate of this law. So once again, I stress that the coalition sabotages the work of the Supreme Council, especially the consideration of this draft law.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u37	Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u38	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues! Indeed, the law has been implemented, almost all the amendments made by the President have been taken into account. I think that the BUTT will now vote in favour of this magnificent balanced law. But in order not to delay the time and at the same time to take into account the rules of the Rules where the people's MP refuses to amend it, there is no point, let us say, that there are two tens or three tens of these amendments to vote, but that law must be adopted as quickly as possible, as the country waiting for the President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u39	Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u40	Viacheslav Kirilenko, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense". Honorable Colleagues and Honorable Voters! We are even far from the idea that the "Timoshenko Yulia Block" comes out of the coalition one by one. We think it's just an unthinkable position that will be of concern to the voters who support the democratic coalition, but it won't lead to the collapse of the coalition. We continue as members of the coalition to work in the plenary. Moreover, our colleagues in the morning claimed that there were three governments in the country, and they wanted him to be alone. That is why the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, provided for by a coalition agreement, needs to be passed immediately, so that in Ukraine one government is finally established and legally defined. That's why we're asking The head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will go through the whole procedure. If someone does not insist on amendments, someone else will insist on them and then decide on voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u41	Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u42	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear Arsenija Petrovich, yesterday morning I warned that a new outturn was beginning to destabilize the work of the Supreme Council. I think there are some cures for pseudo or super-ambition and Napoleonism -- this is work. We have a huge table. I personally made more than a few dozen suggestions. Part of it's taken into account, part of it's different, part of it's rejected, which I'm obviously going to be able to discuss today. I propose to the Supreme Council to work without considering destabilizing it. And there are other drugs -- a little bit less this component of politics in the work of my colleagues, and to mention that the Supreme Council is, above all, a legislative, legislative body. Let's do this and we'll do this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u43	Dear colleagues, I propose that the Rules continue to deal with this issue. This is paragraph one. Item two. If someone thinks that Parliament does not think that Parliament will not work, he would like to say: not with their happiness, Parliament will still work. [[Applause]] In view of this, I continue to hold a plenary meeting, and I am considering the issue of the agenda in accordance with the Rules. Yuri Bogdanovich, let's go. National MP Lavrinovich, Honourable Alexander Volodymyrovich, could I ask you a global question? You have a lot of amendments that you have made directly. In accordance with article 116, paragraph 1, of the provisional Supreme Council of Ukraine, everything is in your hands. If the subject of the legislative initiative insists on considering and discussing these amendments, we will follow each of your amendments. If not, we can generally agree with your position not to consider the amendments. Please turn on Alexander Volodymyrovich Lavrinovich’s microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u44	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, understanding the essence of the project that was put forward today, considering amendments to the State Building Committee, I understand that today was the coalition's desire to adopt this particular edition. In view of this approach, I do not insist today on any of my amendments, and I ask that this law be put to the vote now as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u45	The position of the subject of the legislative initiative of the national deputy, Lavrinovich, Alexander Volodymyrovich, was understood. Thus, when considering the comparative table of amendments made by Alexander Volodymyrovich, they are neither discussed nor voted on, nor are they rejected by the Supreme Council’s profile committee. Let's move on. Let's move on to all the amendments, comrades. Let's move on. Another repair. National Deputy of Ukraine Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich. Turn on Petra Mikolaiovich's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u46	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this Act on the Activities of the Cabinet of Ministers must be based on the perspective of the functions that are entrusted to the Cabinet of Ministers, the organization of its work, the establishment of the Cabinet of Ministers. And my proposal is to move the constitutional provision right here so that we do not have one reading the law and not looking at the Constitution, the other reading the Constitution and not looking at laws or other laws. It's about my amendment. We must immediately point out that the Cabinet of Ministers forms, reorganizes and eliminates, in accordance with the law of the Ministry and other central executive bodies, operating within the limits of the funds envisaged for maintenance. And the second part to add that it is developing a draft of the Ukrainian State Budget Act ensures that the Supreme Council of the State Budget is implemented, reports to the Supreme Council on its implementation. So I urge the nations to amend, and I believe that it is the constitutional situation that must be incorporated into this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u47	Thank you. Yuri Bogdanovich, your comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u48	Peter Mikolaiovich, your proposal was discussed in detail in the working group and on the committee. We came to that conclusion. Only the specifics are rejected. The content of this proposal, not the substance of the proposal, since it is also the authority to reorganize, create, eliminate all these ministries under the law, other bodies provided for in section 9.1 116 of the Constitution, which are detailed in this law. And secondly, the budget process, the budget authority of the Cabinet of Ministers are also assigned separate articles. Moreover, your amendment is actually taken into account, although the table wrongly states that it is rejected. These are related to the introduction of appropriate standards in accordance with the budget code.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u49	In view of the demand of the National MP Simonek Peter Mikolaiovich, I am voting on the rejection of the amendment of the National MP Simonek in article 2 to re-create the position of article 116, paragraph 9.1, of the Constitution of Ukraine. So in order to take this amendment into account, there must be 226 votes from the Ukrainian national deputies. Please vote. [[10:53:00]] For-49 The amendment of the national MP Simonek was rejected. Laurinovich’s correction is overlooked in connection with Lavrinovich’s position. Correction of the People's Deputy Bodnar. Is there a national deputy Bodnar in the hall? There is no National Deputy Bondar in the Hall. In view of this, this amendment is also being removed. It's counted by committee, and I'm asking if she has any suggestions for accounting or not. Correction of the People's Chamber of Pisarenko. Is there a national MP, Pisarenko? None. Thus, in connection with the absence of a deputy, it is being removed. The next amendment of the national MP, Lavrinovich, is being withdrawn. Correction of the Zarubinsky People’s Deputy Turn on Zarubinski's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u50	Arsenius Petrovich, if the committee has taken my amendment into account, obviously I will not object. Maybe we should look at what's rejected, or at most where it's elsewhere, where the national MP can express dissatisfaction. And in this case, I'm completely satisfied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u51	Why did I ask because the Rules provide that the discussion may be both considered and unaccounted for? Therefore, comrades, all according to the Rules. Next amendment, which is partially counted. Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko. This is amendment number eight, part one, article three. Please turn on Simonek's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u52	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, note that in the first part of article 3, the principle of the position that relates to the organization of the work of the Cabinet of Ministers is not defined as the professionalism of the organization of work. And the word that I propose to include, just to add the word “professionalism” is, in fact, the professional level of preparation, the work in this field, in certain positions, it also provides that, according to political only, let's say, a proposal that is today, well, written in the law on recommendations for a minister's office, is expected to have an appropriate level of preparation and experience of the organization of work. Because today we're dealing with the fact that the government is gaining a god, they're only doing what they're doing as manager of certain oligarchic clans, not in the politics of industry, business and state development. So I suggest that we include this position.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u53	I see. Yuri Bogdanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u54	Thank you. Peter Mikolaiovich, precisely from the motives from which we partly considered your amendment, except for the word “democracy”, which is unknown in this context, we could not include the word “professionalism” which in this context means anything. I would like to remind you that when the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers was adopted, it was decided that the posts of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine refer to political positions, I stress: political positions. I'm sorry, I don't know any teaching facility that prepares members of the Cabinet of Ministers, so there's no way to talk about professional training here. These are political assignments and therefore are not professional assignments.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u55	Again Petra Mikolaiovich's word.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u56	Dear colleagues, I think there's a lot of people sitting here with experts who've been working, and not just, I'm sorry, so let's say, declared some statements. So when we talk about ministries like, let's say, the Ministry of Coal Industry, right, the political office, that's a political power that's got voter support, it has the right to recommend the position of expert minister. Well, then let's say we assign a coal minister to someone who doesn't even know what a mine is. Then we face the fact that we have, in fact, today's minister is not the kind of politician that provides the public interest in developing the energy base of our state's independence. Or let's say we take other areas of industrial policy. There will be one who does not understand at all, so let’s say that there is an industry in Ukraine today. Whether the Ministry of Agriculture will be working there, not the one with education, a professional education. Let us understand, however, that the word “professionalism” provides for the responsibility of certain political forces, that there will be professionals working there, not just the person on the street.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u57	Dear Peter Mikolaiovich, we have come to understand that in modern democratic Ukraine what you're talking about is self-evident and the practice that used to be applied by the Communist Party when the footage was being transferred, if necessary, to culture and, if necessary, to agriculture, today there will be no repetition in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u58	Do you insist on voting, Peter Mikolaiovich? You insist. Sergey Rafailovich Greenewecki, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u59	Thank you. Dear reporter, I have one question, please tell me what you are putting into the term “collegiality and solidarity responsibility” and “discovery and transparency”? How do they differ: “collegiality and shared responsibility” and “revelationship and transparency”?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u60	These are totally different categories in my mind, and I think that both in the sense and subject of the legislative initiative and the authors of the first draft of this law. I want to draw attention to the fact that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is a collegiate body that only works together, only at its meetings and only by making decisions. Thus, it differs, for example, from a ministry that is not a collegiate body but is an organ with one-person subordination. And there's the head of the one-man department, the minister. As far as transparency and openness are concerned, these are the characteristics of the democratic process of exercising power, and this means that this is not done in secret and with access to information about this to all those who have a desire to do so, except in cases limited by law.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u61	Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u62	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! When I ask about the inclusion of rules on the professional training of government officials, first of all, I mean what every law provides for, first of all, legal responsibility for the performance of one or another function. And if we're going to write in college today, in solidarity, it's all clear, so to speak, this position regulates the work of the Cabinet of Ministers. And this is about how the Cabinet of Ministers is formed, of which persons. And here is the right-wing deputy Greenewecki when he asks questions, and what do these norms predict that they write? And relative to transparency. Oh, no. I understand that this needs to be ensured, but this rule does not need to be recorded, because the Cabinet of Ministers has the possibility and the need to address in a closed state-level regime and the enormous importance of any or all of the other issues that concern the State's security, the independence of our state. And that's exactly how we're going to reveal everything so that then, using this law again, it's practical.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, there's a proposal, I'm putting to the vote the amendment of National MP Simonnka, amendment number 8, this is part of the first article 3 after the word “collegiality” to add the word “professionalism”. Please vote. [[11:01:13]] For-57 I didn't get the required number of votes, rejected. Laurinovich's correction, we're missing. The next amendment is the Zarubinsky People's Deputy, which is rejected. Exclusion of part three of article 3. Turn on Zarubinski's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u64	Dear Yuri Bogdanovich! You are well aware that part three of article 3 refers, not to the principles of activity, but to the organization of the Cabinet of Ministers. In addition, this question is already settled in part two of article 43 of this project. I can't even insist on voting again. And I stand for the purity of the legislative field. In this case, it doesn't exactly fit my understanding as well as I want you to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u65	I would like to draw the attention of my colleague Zarubinsky to the fact that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is a unique body in the system of executive power, in the sense of its collegiality. I don't know virtually anything else, except for a little bit of college executive authority. In general, the administrative system is based on the principle of one superior’s subordination. Thus, this feature of the Cabinet of Ministers is one of its principal features.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u66	Next amendment by Zarubinsky’s colleague is 12. Zarubinski's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u67	The deletion of the first two sentences is the fourth article, the third article, which I propose is that these norms do not specify the principles of openness and transparency, but reveal the meaning of these principles. So let's say we agree on different things. Moreover, if there are certain legislative rules that regulate the characteristics of decisions with limited access, and such standards are, you know, inappropriate to see the existence of a second sentence of this part. Will we in law repeat in some what is in other laws? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u68	I want to point out once again that this is about the principles of the Cabinet of Ministers' activities. I specifically did not refer to your proposal when I answered your colleague Greenewecki's questions about understanding the principles of openness and transparency. Because even though you suggested writing these principles down, you denied opening their contents. I don't know any more about these principles than I've suggested here. So I see no reason to accept your offer, your amendment. The committee accepted that position.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u69	What proposals, colleagues. Should we put it to a vote? Let's go. Next Amendment No.13. Rubinsky, microphone, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u70	Part 1 of article 4 I suggested that in my amendment I be removed, since the meaningful load is the same as part 2 of this article and part 2 of article 3 of this project. If the committee doesn't take this approach when I don't have to duplicate the same things in different articles, I can just give up the discussion about the amendments I've made. If so, you tell me I won't take up time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u71	No, not in part, we agreed with your suggestions elsewhere. It's not even a matter of duplicating the position of the other articles, it's almost literally a copy of the Constitution. However, please note what the article is called, the legal principles of activity, and not to repeat this norm in an article that defines the legal principles, we have simply concluded that it is not appropriate.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u72	Do we miss it? The 14th amendment is taken into account with editorial details. Zarubinski's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u73	Here I can agree.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u74	15th amendment counted. The 16th amendment in the second edition is taken into account. Coming through? 17th Amendment, People's Deputy Triduce. Is there?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u75	Counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u76	Is there a national member of the Triduce? None. Taras Stacks. I'm missing the Laurinovich amendment, which is counted, and Lavrinovich, I'm stressing again, I've removed all my amendments. Bondar, Pisarenko's gone. National MP Taras Stacks, 19th Amendment. Turn on Steckov's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u77	Ladies and gentlemen, the essence of my amendment is to limit the upper limit by the number of vice-premiers. In the first edition, there was a strict rule that the government should have four vice-premiers. I propose to write down four vice-premiers and an explanation here is quite obvious. In any coalition, there is always a shortage of positions in any government and there is a temptation to tear apart the number of vice-prime ministers that complicates the governance structure. So it would be logical to write that there could be up to 4 Deputy Prime Ministers in the government, i.e. not more than 4. And in general, vice-premier is the rudimentary of previous management systems, they only complicate the situation. So I'd like you to count it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u78	We've been discussing this for a long time, and the different positions have been expressed at the end of the committee finally came to this position, really, is the problem of dispersal of government positions, but we agreed that there is no need to limit the number of vice-premier positions, which can be determined by questions of relevance. At the same time, it was decided to preserve the limits of the number of so - called ministers without portfolios only to two, thus limiting the dismemberment of the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u79	Anatoly Matvienko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u80	I want to comment on this amendment, including what Taras Stacks said. If we limit the number of ministers without portfolios, it is logical or logical not to limit the number of vice-premiers, because the vice-premier is essentially the same minister without a portfolio and a member of the Cabinet of Ministers. I think that this amendment regulates the norm, and what's now written in the right column even worsens what was in the first reading. I don't understand why we're going through the decommissioning and employment process that was demonstrated by the previous Minister's Office when there were deputies and there were eight vice-premiers, obviously that's insane. And that's why it's proposed to support Mr. Stecky's amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u81	I want to point out that there are four vice-premier positions in the government today, but one of them is vacant and the government is working successfully. I think it's a question of really relevance.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u82	Sergei Greenewecki, then Peter Simonenko and Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u83	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Indeed, this question needs to be discussed. But we have a valid Constitution, 114 articles that clearly define order. And I'd like to support the reporter here in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u84	I agree. The Constitution does not really set such a limit. I agree with what could be established, but I can't see. Well, I want to emphasize again. The committee suggests that we do not restrict ourselves. In the end, either agree, or reject the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u85	Peter Simonenko. And then there's Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u86	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues! Of course, the number of vice-premiers cannot be limited. Because, depending on the specific situation, the specific task that the Government undertakes on a public order is determined by the functional number of the same vice-premiers. That's the first one. Secondly, in this case, the financing of the Cabinet of Ministers is the limitation. And within the scope of the funding of a certain budget law, it is determined, let's say, the possibility of the Cabinet of Ministers for a certain period of time, for a specific task of defining the mandate, that someone is acting as Vice-Prime Minister. Therefore, I believe that in principle we cannot be restricted. Yes, the Constitution does not provide for restrictions on the number of vice-premiers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u87	Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u88	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues! Here both Greeneweck and Peter Simonenko spoke of the Constitution. I want to go to the Constitution again. Before the constitutional changes were made, the Constitution clearly limited the number of Vice-Prime Ministers. First Deputy Prime Minister and three Deputy Prime Minister. Now in the Constitution, they deliberately went for it. This warning has been removed. And so any deviation from the Constitution will be unconstitutional. And I think the committee did the right thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u89	No, the only thing I can deny here is Adam Ivanovich -- today we can no longer compare the old and the new text of the Constitution. Forget about the old man. And just look at what's written in the new. No, that's why the Constitution was changed. But today there is no old text of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u90	Yuri Bogdanovich, I understand that the discussion around one word “up to four” or “four”. That's right. Or should we not limit it at all? Here, you know what the situation is. As a member of the government three times, actually, I'll tell you that if you don't limit the device at all to everyone who hasn't been set up. They'll raise ministries, committees, vice-premiers, God knows what's going to happen. We've been through this before. And there was a pure decentralization of the government and a negative impact on the government itself. So I think it would be very appropriate to limit it anyway.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u91	Arsenija Petrovich, the point is that it is always possible to create additional ministries of the Cabinet of Ministers. This is his constitutional authority. And there's nothing you can do to limit him to that. So if there's a need to blow it up, they'll blow it up anyway. But once again, I want to emphasize. We came out of certain assumptions. In particular, we came out of the presumption of intelligent government behavior. If the government acts foolishly, I think it won't work for long.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u92	Well, in any case, if it's a minister, it's not that simple to create a minister. Because there is a need for a professional to be responsible for something. And the Vice Prime Minister is between the responsibility and the Prime Minister. So, you know, there's a specificity in the Deputy Prime Minister. Are we voting on the Steckov amendment or are we not voting? Vote? Let us put to the vote the amendment of the national deputy of Ukraine, Taras Stackova. Amendment number 19. Please vote. [[11:13:07]] For-29 Can I not announce? Rejected amendment. People's Deputy Robber. Number 20 repairs. Turn on the microphone, Workman. Yeah, that's right, that's right. Let's move on. National MP Roman Zvaric. Roman Mikhailovich, where are you? Turn on the microphone, please, Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u93	I don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u94	Roman Mikhailovich does not insist. 22 revisions. The Zarubinsky People’s Deputy. Turn on the Zarubinski microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u95	You know, dear colleagues, this time I ask you to be very careful about this amendment. First of all, my belief is that the law should set a limit on the number of governments or at least the possibility of taking voluntary steps to increase their numbers. And so according to the legislation in force, the government can unwarrantedly change the number of ministries at any time. The amendment therefore proposes to set both limits on the number of ministries and the procedure for changing their number and direction of activity. And this novel, I think, is very fair in view of what is being suggested that this should be done through the Government's Action Programme, which, according to the project's standards, should be approved at the same time as the Prime Minister's appointment. So there should be a number of ministries under the Government's Activity Programme, which are ministries, not the other way around. If you would like to express yourself on this point.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u96	I would be happy to respond to your invitation to make a statement on this subject. I want to emphasize once again the constitutional mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers to create, reorganize and eliminate ministries. It is not limited in the Constitution of Ukraine. The government comes out of the question of relevance. It is limited procedurally by the fact that each ministry is enshrined in the State Budget Act of Ukraine as the chief budget officer. Therefore, the creation of an additional ministry is a rather complex procedure, which also requires changes to the Budget Act inadvertently. That is why the government will never be able to do so without the approval of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This limits his procedural ability enough. But to say that there are 20 ministries, and 21 no longer exactly is necessary, I think it would be a little bit confident. With regard to the government’s activity program. Yes, it is approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, so it has a legal effect. During the year following the approval of the program, the Supreme Council cannot initiate distrust of government. But beyond that, the government's agenda remains a political, not a legal document, because the same Constitution stipulates that it should be adopted with the legal consequences of Ukraine's social and economic development programme for every year. And these documents already have legal consequences. So in this case, I see no reason to believe that the Cabinet of Ministers programme should restrict the reorganization or unification of ministries.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u97	What are we doing? Do we miss it? Klukovsky's accounted for. Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich. 23 counted, 24. Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u98	Simonenko, the Communist faction. I propose that in the second part of article 6, the words “that are not covered by legislation on public service and labour law” be deleted. What is it? This section says that the position of Kabminu members is political and does not extend to them legislation on public service and labour legislation. But then I want to hear the answer, and what will they be responsible for when the same minister signs the financial documents, the same minister accepts and releases people, the same minister provides employment arrangements, including a working day? I would like us to understand, but we can't have it on the unsettled content of a minister, because it doesn't fall under any of the laws that we're talking about. In this way he will violate legislation, labour, with regard to those workers who work in the ministry, financial discipline, but will not bear any responsibility. That's why I'm proposing to exclude these words and bring them in line with.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, we have taken this proposal into account in part. There's no mention of law enforcement here. Moreover, the law proposes some things to be settled by reference to the State Service Act, for example in terms of social security for members of the Cabinet of Ministers. However, can it be considered that full-scale labour legislation is being extended to members of the Cabinet of Ministers? I would like to remind you that this issue was discussed here yesterday at our meeting when we discussed the draft Ukrainian Labour Code. And so once again, I want to emphasize, my deep conviction, and the committee shares this position. In cases where appointments and layoffs are carried out in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine, full-time labour legislation cannot extend to such positions. Are they bound by any law? They're tied up. And that's the law. This is a status law that defines the status of the body and the status of the members of the Cabinet of Ministers and their basic powers. Will only this law be determined? No, we are awaiting the adoption of another status law – the central executive authorities, which regulates the mandate of the minister as the head of the Ministry - the central executive authority, and will also establish appropriate powers, methods of action and responsibility. So we didn't see the need to mention labor legislation here.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u100	Peter Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, right now they're saying that there's going to be some kind of law going to be passed, and when this law is signed, there's going to be an immediate relationship. So what law will we then refer to if we are to protect the rights of the same workers who work in the Ministry, who are subordinates to state-run enterprises, are subordinates and dependent on the position of the same minister? I'm sorry, but it's just vachanalia being born then, irresponsibility. And by no chance do I ask the question that in the part that needs to be predicted, let's say, from the point of view of responsibility, labour legislation is necessarily spreading to the minister, and the Law on State Service is also spreading to the minister of the same thing. I ask you once again, Your Honor, to support this, because we are creating very serious problems in the organization of the executive branch.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u102	Peter Mikolaiovich, first of all, you mentioned the employees of the Ministry. I'm sorry, but what's with the Ministry's employees to do with this law? They are covered by the Law on State Service, and they work in harmony with this Law. As for labour legislation regarding the minister. Can you please tell me who he's signing the contract with? Who hires him?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u103	No one.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u104	Can you identify the subject who is in charge and takes him to work? And labor legislation provides for that. Sorry, the minister doesn't work for the Supreme Council. That is why this is an illustration of one case that cannot be extended to such positions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u105	So we're answering yesterday's question about political positions and regulating the rules of the KPCP in this question. That's very good. Aren't we voting, Peter Mikolaiovich? I don't vote. All right, well, why are you so insulted right now? Let's do it now. Let us put to the vote the amendment of Simonek Peter Mikolaiovich. Number 24. [[11:21:57]] For-44 No decision taken, Peter Mikolaiovich. National Deputy Traiduk Mikola Fedorovich. None. Once again, I would like to refer from the rostrum to the Yulia Block of Timoshenko and say that their presence at the parliamentary session is extremely necessary, and we would very much ask that the "Julia Timoshenko Block" return to the Parliamentary Hall, as after considering the issue of the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers, the question of the imperative mandate is being considered immediately. That is why I would like once again to call from the rostrum to return to the Parliamentary Hall and for today we will also consider the Law on Cabinet Ministers and the Law on the Imperial Mandate and then the MP's benefits. [[It's in one law.]] Klukkowski. It's counted here. Stetsky. It's taken into account in another edition of the 26th amendment. Tarasa Steckova, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u106	No, I don't object to partial consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u107	Okay. Roman Zvaric, 28th Amendment. You don't have to.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u108	I don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u109	Thank you. Bodnar's missing in the hall. 30th Amendment, Zarubinsky. And Simonenko, alternative.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u110	You mean the 37th Amendment?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u111	30 is coming to me. And that's the change in pre. “Part 4 of Article 6 delete”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u112	I got it. I don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u113	I see. Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u114	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I would like to invite you to consider that here, in this norm, the proposal is written: “You may appoint ministers of persons who do not run the Ministry.” And two ministers without their wallets. Well, we're a very rich nation. Let's say in the United States, the President of the United States has one official residence: Kemp David. The president of the richest country, Ukraine, has 12 residences! There's something to compare. And when we have the poor people, the President buys Ukraine planes for 350 million. Maybe we should feed the people. There will be two ministers running around the Cabinet who, without their portfolios, do not answer for anything, receive 20 or more dollars. Why pay them? Well, then, let's say we understand that these people are not responsible for anything, but by law, we have the Cabinet of Ministers to hold them. Why are we holding those who are not responsible at the expense of our taxpayers? That's why I proposed.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u115	Yuri Bogdanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u116	Thank you. Well, I'd say so. The argument reminded me of the Polish proverb: “. ” (). [[speak Polish]] In the Ukrainian translation, "What is the ratio of a feather to a windmill?" But in response to this observation, I say this: in each cabinet of ministers there will be at least one such position: the Minister of the Cabinet of Ministers. In this cabinet of ministers there is only one office, there were two in the previous office, and there was a minister in connection with the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In fact, given this possibility that some government might want to have a minister like this, we have left that limit to two such ministers. We can't cancel this at all, because the Minister of the Cabinet exists and he doesn't run the Ministry.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u117	Colleagues, the discussion is over. Everything? Oh, Matthew, Simonenko. Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u118	I don't understand, Peter Mikolaiovich, your amendment, if I may. On the one hand, you say it shouldn't be, but if you subtract a sixth, there might be a bunch of them, because then this rule regulates at least two. On the other hand, you don't limit it to vice-premiers. So be consistent, I'd like to understand where she is, this sequence in the logic of her amendments to the law you're proposing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u119	Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u120	I would like us to understand once again that the Cabinet of Ministers under this law is forming ministries and making proposals, i.e. the specific task of the Ministry is to manage a process. Here, it is proposed that two persons be appointed as ministers, and they are not responsible for anything by spending public money. We therefore propose that this rule be deleted. With regard to the vice-premiers. I think it was clear that, depending on the issue, it is the one who is in charge of the Government, bringing together the interests of several ministries, directions, bringing together, so to speak, inter-State interests. I mean, it's the vice-premiers. But also with regard to Polish experience, it is good that Polish experience has been studied, but only better look at Ukrainian experience and the need for Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u121	If so, speak English.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u122	Don't comment, I'll answer it myself. I didn't force you to talk about Polish experience. If you are a better learner of Polish, go there, head there, let's say, and manage. And this is Ukraine and the country of Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u123	Peter Mikolaiovich, here is not “the State of Ukraine”, but here is the State of Ukraine to your knowledge and you do not confuse these two things, and then study Russian experience in Russia, not here, if this is already discussed. And now, once again, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Minister of the Cabinet of Ministers is a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. He is responsible for an extremely important part of the work of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, but he does not run any ministries. I do not understand why such an experienced politician as Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko proposes that this position be abolished.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u124	Peter Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u125	Dear colleagues, I would like to know clearly what the Minister of the Cabinet will be responsible for, I mean, two of them? Not that there is, so to speak, one that determines the organization of the work of the Cabinet of Ministers, that is, the business process, the passage of documents, the preparation for the meeting is the same. But why are there two ministers then the Cabinet of Ministers? That's what I'm talking about. And I say, in a country where there is a crisis, when there is a need for order, the government provides. And that's what happens when government money is being thrown out and explained that it's a big innovation, and it's not clear what he's going to be responsible for.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u126	No, it's not a novelty, it's taking into account the experience of the previous Cabinet of Ministers, in which you, Peter Mikolaiovich, voted, and in which you were a minister in connection with the Supreme Council. So this is your experience we've taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u127	Correction rejected. National MP Simonenko insists on voting? Okay, we're voting for the amendment of the People's Chamber of Commons, amendment number 30. [[11:29:14]] For-40 The decision is not taken. I would like to welcome you back to the Parliamentary Hall of the Yulia Tymoshenko. Thank you. And to point out that no one is going to be able to break the coalition of democratic forces. [[Applause]] The next amendment, Lavrinovich, is off. Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich, 31st Amendment. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u128	I would like to add here in part one of the first article of the seventh after the words “who have a trial”, to add the words “not extinguished and not removed” in the order established by law.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u129	This is counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u130	Well. I'm sorry, but here.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u131	This is counted, look at the right column.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u132	Then, yes, I was wrong. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u133	That's all. Thank you. The national deputy Yavorowski. Is there a Vladimir Yavorowski? None. Vladimir doesn't insist. People's delegate to Traiduk. Has there already been an MP from the Future Trade?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u134	It's a readjustment.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u135	Nor does he insist. Taras Stacks, 34th Amendment. Steckov's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u136	My amendment dealt with the settlement of the issue, and what if a member of the Cabinet of Ministers failed to meet the requirements of incompatibility? And the amendment was that, in that case, the Prime Minister was obliged to file for his release. But I will not insist on it by following this principle, which was discussed on a positive committee. intelligence in the Cabinet of Ministers' activities.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u137	Yuri Bogdanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u138	But I think we're about to discuss this amendment in connection with the 35th amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u139	35th Amendment, Symphony microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u140	Simonenko, the Communist faction. I propose that the second part of article 7 be supplemented by a new paragraph of this content: “In the event that a member of the Cabinet of Ministers has not stopped such activity and has not applied for a resignation, the Prime Minister shall submit a release to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for a member of the Cabinet of Ministers.” That is to say, the rule is understood, which just provides that, in view of the fact that a member of the government does not comply with legislation and the Constitution, the Prime Minister should monitor the implementation of legislation and make this proposal regarding his dismissal. Because today's procedure presupposes first, in a court case, all of which, especially so, we say, which courts we have are delayed only with the consideration and violation of both the Constitution and the laws. So in the neighbourhood, we're just predicting a clear norm and I'm proposing to support this proposal by adding this text to part two of the seventh article.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u141	Yuri Bogdanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u142	We really understand that the situation of the unlawful conduct of a member of the Cabinet of Ministers may arise is that at least we are based on the principle of law enforcement, and the responsibility for breaking the law is laid down by other laws. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Prime Minister has the right to submit to the Supreme Council an exemption from office of Ministers for whatever reason. Including, not only for reasons of violation of the principles of compatibility. For example, for reasons that cannot work together, he does not fulfill his duties. So we thought that the norm was absorbing this and that there was no need to give that reason separately.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u143	National deputy of the Stacks, do you insist on voting? Don't insist. National MP Simonenko insists? He insists. We vote in favour of the amendment of the People's Deputy Simonenko, 34 amendments. [[11:33:21]] For-39 The decision is not taken. The following Amendment 36 is taken into account with editorial details. Amendment 37, Zarubinsky People's Deputy, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u144	You know, I took another look at my repairs, there's exactly 20 of them left, and about half of them are accounted for, and half of them aren't. I think the committee's been very constructive about my proposals, and I think 50 percent is a good coefficient of useful action. So, Arsenija Petrovich, please continue to ask me not to give the floor, I agree with the committee's conclusions on my amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u145	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u146	Thank you. Let's move on, fellows. Klukkowski. Counted, Klukkowski counts. Lavrinovich. I turned it down. National MP Pisarenko and National Deputy Bodnar? Amendment number 41. None. So it's off. The national deputy of Stacks is listed, Simonenko 43, partially counted. 44 In part, there are no objections to Matthew. Lavrinovich take off. And National Deputy Logwinenko, 45th Amendment. Is there an insistence on the people's MP Logwinenko? He's not in the hall, so he doesn't insist. Pisarenko is not in the hall or insisting. Lavrinovich Alexander Volodymir, filmed. National MP Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich, 47th Amendment, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u147	Simonenko, the Communist faction. 47 amendments are proposals for part 5 of article 8, which provides for the provision of information on citizenship. Well, it was suggested that this paragraph should be deleted by replacing the numbering of the following items. Well, I think if, let's say, today there's a situation that's somehow accompanying the consideration of this draft law and I see that, let's say, constructive work is not taken for consideration to justify every amendment and consider it. I do not insist on considering this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u148	Well, I think it would be strange if the prime minister's candidate was a citizen of another state, wouldn't it?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u149	The national deputy Bodnar is absent in the hall, so he does not insist. Zarubinsky, the national deputy, took off. People's delegate to Traiduk. Is there a Trajduk?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u150	Counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u151	Neither is it, then. It's been taken. It's counted here. Next. 51 Amendment of the People's Deputy Simonenko. Simonek's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u152	..and let's put it to a vote. It clearly states that the deletion of just 5 articles, article 8, paragraph 5.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u153	The fifth article was earlier.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u154	No, paragraph eight, paragraph eight.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u155	Eight, yes, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u156	And in other documents.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u157	It is a matter of not mentioning the existence of a trial in the prime minister's appointment. It seems to me that such an offer should be justified. We filmed it as completely inappropriate.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u158	Are you suggesting that we rule out any information about the trial? Turn on Simonenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u159	Previously on AMC's The Walking
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u160	Simonenko, the Communist faction. As we have heard, in the preceding amendment, did he insist that it be clearly recorded as to who could be recommended, whether there was a trial or, say, a summary of the case? All of this has already been fixed. That's why I suggested we take it off.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u161	Do you insist on voting?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u162	No, I don't insist on voting on this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u163	All right, let's move on. You have no right to insist. Only the subject of the legislative initiative, the respected Roman Mikhailovich, is entitled to insist. Read the regulations, only the subject. You have the right to insist, but we have no right to vote. Partially counted, Lavrinovich. I've got it, Trajduk. Partially counted, Zvaric. You don't insist, Roman Mikhailovich, do you? Partially listed 55th, Stetsky. Okay? Let's move on. Bondar, accounted for. 52nd, we're through. Does Matthews insist on 52nd? Excuse me, turn on the microphone to Matthew Anatoly Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u164	"The Council," "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense". I'm actually talking about the program that we're dealing with with with the appointment of the Cabinet and the Prime Minister. I think the program is a product of the Cabinet of Ministers. And so I will continue to make or comment on my amendments that only after the appointment of the Cabinet of Ministers can we hear a program from him as a product of the Cabinet of Ministers. In this case, it says what's coming out of the main position of the project program. Once again, the basic position of a project program of an organ such as the Cabinet of Ministers himself, Prime Minister, can only say what its principles and approaches are. I insist on voting, but in my speech, I would like to point out that in the future, we obviously have to count that this should be a product of an organ like the Cabinet of Ministers or something unknown.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u165	Well, actually, we know whose product. There's a program for the Cabinet of Ministers. Today, the Head of the Supreme Council mentioned the legal status of the coalition agreement. Open any of the three existing coalition agreements in Ukraine: maybe two in the fifth call, or a valid coalition agreement in the sixth call. Each of them has a section called the “Office of Ministers Activity Programme”. Thus, the Cabinet of Ministers’ programmes of action are a premeditated form of government, only by agreeing to the Constitution's political objectives and directions of action, the coalition is negotiating its creation and the formation of a government. So once again, the government's agenda is a premeditated form of government.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u166	By the way, it's a very important question. Dear colleagues, look what's happening to us. The government's formal legal program is divided into two blocks. First. The prime minister's candidate is speaking immediately in Parliament with the government's action programme, and then it is unclear that he is presenting the programme under the current law. [[Wait a minute, Yuri Bogdanovich, don't wave your fingers.]] By the law, I'm talking about a valid editorial right now. Under the current law, the prime minister's candidate is immediately speaking with the program. And that's the next situation. How can he present a program of activities of the Cabinet of Ministers that is not available. And here Anatoly Sergiyovich is absolutely logical and absolutely right. Now Yuri Bogdanovich, then Matthew and Stack.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u167	Then let me explain. I want to emphasize again. The coalition agreement consists of the formation of the Cabinet of Ministers, until the appointment of the prime minister. However, there is a section of the government’s activity program. Tell me, where did it come from? And in fact, because in accordance with the Constitution, a coalition is shaping it determines the main orientations of its activity. So this issue has been discussed for a very long time in both the working group and the committee. And we came up with this model. Under the law, in fact, the Cabinet of Ministers can make any program of activity. And I would like to remind you that the previous government has never brought to the attention of the Supreme Council its Programme of Action throughout its activities. Here in the draft adopted in the first reading, it was suggested that the program as a final document should be introduced by a candidate for prime minister. We came to the middle. Finally, the programme is submitted to the person appointed prime minister along with the submission of the composition of the government. This means that together with the formation of the government's composition, this document is being finalized, and after the appointment of the Cabinet of Ministers to it by the Supreme Council in a coalition, most of them give political guidance in the programme of its activities. This is the political task of the coalition, the Supreme Council of the newly created government. That is the procedure we proposed. Of course, the Supreme Council can accept any option, but we have not accepted the proposal that a newly created government should make a program within 30 days of its creation. We've come to the conclusion that in the first 30 days of its work, the government has something to do except write a program, and it has the task of starting work, of mastering the system of executive power. Then the program is postponed for a long time after approval of the Cabinet of Ministers. Finally, we have this situation today.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u168	Yuri Bogdanovich, I beg you to give me a brief answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u169	So to avoid such things, that's the option.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u170	Anatoly Matvienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u171	Dear Yuri Bogdanovich, I want to argue my position that nowhere in the law is the definition of a coalition agreement in which the programme is part, except for one, is the Rules. He now has a temporary norm and has no law. But even in the Rules there is only a software statement or a programming principle, but there is no program of external and internal politics. So that's why I insist on not taking unconstitutional steps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u172	I don't see any unconstitutionality here. I want to remind you once again that the coalition is formed on the basis of political reconciliation. And it's the coalition that's forming the government. So I don't see any unconstitutionality here. But eventually, the will of the hall is to accept any option.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u173	Please, John the Rabbit, Taras the Stack, Peter Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u174	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to support the position of the commission here on what grounds. The point is that it is given the right time to form a government for the winners of the elections. And that's when the Cabinet of Ministers should be running. They have to come for approval with the program. Moreover, the political forces conducted the electoral campaign and likewise had their electoral programs, which form the basis of the program. If we go that way, we will make it impossible to argue within the very Supreme Council of Ukraine that we are seeing today. When the program’s approval is a political technology: either the government saves or it doesn’t save. So I think it's a European practice for people to know what the political forces are going with in the election, and with the formation of the government, the creation of the coalition being determined and with the program, otherwise it's going to be very bad.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u175	Yuri Bogdanovich, Taras Stackov and Peter Simonenko Colleagues, let's go faster, or we'll look into it. We still have 110 pages left.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u176	Ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that the best time in this case would be for a candidate to be prime minister to make a software application for appointment. I mean, with a brief presentation of the basics. And later, invited ministers are working on this software application, and the program itself is already being approved. The committee estimated that a better term would be for the prime minister to present a presentation on the main provisions of the draft programme. So this is a matter of terminology. So it seems to me that we can accept a certain strain.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u177	Peter Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u178	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I think we should understand one thing: only then will there be a programme of activities of the Cabinet of Ministers when it is considered at a meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers, approved by the Cabinet of Ministers and then submitted to the Supreme Council. And in this case, it's probably more likely that with a software statement, that's to say the basic positions of those political parties that form the government and that came to the Supreme Council by creating a coalition. And after the government is formed, when it is approved at a government meeting in accordance with Article 116 of the Fourth Constitution, it develops and implements state-wide economic, scientific and technical, social and cultural development programmes for Ukraine, which is being submitted to the Supreme Council. So the most correct thing to do here is to have a formula that makes a software statement. Then it will correspond to the practical content of the process that is taking place in the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u179	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? This is an extremely important question, and it is not possible to disagree with Peter Simonck’s Lot. How can there be a program of action by the Cabinet of Ministers that is not approved at the Cabinet of Ministers? This is an act of government. So then it's not a program of action for the Cabinet of Ministers. Yuri Bogdanovich, well, I worked three times in the government. What is the logic of asking a question? A government is formed, a prime minister is appointed, ministers are appointed, they are formally meeting at the Cabinet of Ministers, they vote in favour of the government's programme of action, and they are introducing the government's programme of action into the Parliamentary Hall, because then we have a gap between the coalition agreement and between the government's activities. The coalition cannot define a government action programme formally and legally. For this there are members of the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u180	From my point of view, exactly the opposite. It's the coalition that defines the government's political agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u181	This is what we say about legal obligations, not political obligations.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u182	This document is political, not legal.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u183	I'm sorry, any legal logic is being replaced by political purpose.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u184	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u185	And that's wise. We need to vote on this amendment. I refer to regional colleagues, who have often been in government, as a wise amendment. Lavrinovich, by the way. Please, Roman Boiler.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u186	Dear Arsenius Petrovich! Dear colleagues! I don't really understand why we're spending so much time on this position. If it hadn't been said at all what the prime minister's candidate is doing to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the world wouldn't have stopped, that is, it doesn't have to. I also made an amendment, which accurately repeats Peter Mikolaiovich Simonek’s proposal. I don't insist on my amendment, where I also proposed a statement with a software application, because when I looked at how I put this position on the committee, I think it's a perfectly acceptable norm. So I propose not to waste more time, to make decisions on these proposals, and to move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u187	Colleagues, I'll put it to a vote. Yes, Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u188	Yuri Carmazin. I have the right to express my point of view on this amendment. Dear national MPs, the government that enters, which is being appointed, has no objective information about the entire state of finance, the economy, and everything else. This shows the life of our modern, it's all governments that started with what they were obsessing about and looking at that, what they were sitting on, what was the state of gold stocks, what was the state of inflation and so on. And that's why it's useless to approve the program right now. It's an absolutely reasonable suggestion from Matthew that the government only makes a software application and then works on it. Here I continue to agree with my colleague Klukkowski. That's it. That's what Stetsky and Zvaric and all the other colleagues talked about. So I'd like to support, I've understood, and Arsenius Petrovich's opinion is to now support the amendment of colleague Matviennek. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u189	Colleagues, I put to the vote -- I appeal to everyone -- the amendment made by national deputy Alexander Lavrinović, the faction of the Party of the Regions, the national deputy Matvienko, Orobec and Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich. [[“Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”]] [[“Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”]] [[The Communist Party of Ukraine]] I'm betting on a vote of 52. [[11:51:24]] For-84 The faction of the Party of the Regions refused to support the amendment of Lavrinovich. I'm sorry. Let's move on. Yes, 53-counted, 54-counted partially, 55-counted partially, 56-bondar-position understood, 57-counted, 58-booked, no Pisarenka, also rejected, Lavrinovich-turned, 60-counted, 61-counted, 62-Laurinovich-declined and he agrees, 63-Simonenko-declined, and he disagrees. Simonnka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u190	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! As the draft Cabinet of Ministers Act is being discussed today, it is clear that the Supreme Council is not going to adopt a law that must ensure the organization of work. And in this clown, I'm personally not going any further, and I'm taking my amendments off today. And I suggest that you put him to the vote as a whole, and stop the outrages that are taking place today in the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u191	It's too bad, because I personally support Simone's amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u192	Thus, colleagues, we have in fact: Lavrinovich, Simonenko – rejected, he takes the correction, Trajduk – counted, Lavrinovich – rejected, Logwinenko – rejected. Logwinenko, National Deputy Logwinenko. [[Peter Mikolaiovich, don't be the chairman, I'm asking you, 449 leaders, I'm going to execute all your commands.]] Logwinko, national deputy. The national MP, Logwinenko, is taking a copy of the amendment under the transcript. Next. People's MP Lavrinovich -- rejected, Lavrinovich -- rejected, Simonenko -- rejected, Bondar -- rejected. Zarabinski is the 71st amendment. And so did I. Trajduk is rejected, rejected. Me, 72nd. Don't yell. Including 73 - rejected, 74 - counted, 75 - rejected, 76 - counted, 77 - national deputy Matvienko in another edition, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u193	I agree that it is partly taken into account and that I do not insist on voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u194	After this amendment? I would like to vote in favour of the amendment of the people's deputies, Mathvienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u195	He doesn't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u196	Don't you insist? Okay. 77th is Lavrinovich, dismissed. 78 is rejected, Lavrinovich. The '80s is Trajduk and Klukkowski, accounted for. Next up, 81st is counted, 82nd is counted. 83 is rejected. Eighty-four, accounted for. 85th National MP Simonenko. I got it, I'm sorry, it's not Seminoga. The national deputy of Stacks, the 86th amendment, does not insist on the national deputy of Stacks. Lavrinovich. Colleagues, I'm going. I'm looking. So I don't read those national MPs who filmed these are the national MPs: Bodnar, Lavrinovich, Zarubinski, Steckov, Matvienko, Orobec Who doesn't insist? [[B in m in s a l in]] Simonenko. Matthewnko insists on individuals. Next, page 23, Klukkowski, Zvaric, Lavrinovich. Stetsky, 91st? Don't insist. And you can't insist, because it's not your amendment, Roman Mikhailovich, you had to make it. Read the Rules, reverends.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u197	89th.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u198	Oh, 89th, I'm sorry, Roman Mikhailovich, I'm sorry, your amendment. The word Zvarich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u199	Dear colleagues, including the previous 88th amendment made by Yuri Bogdanović, which states that a member of the Cabinet of Ministers has already been appointed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to take office since he took office. What if a member appointed by the Cabinet of Ministers by the Supreme Council of Ukraine does not sign an oath, so he does not take office. I made an amendment to the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to release such a member of the Cabinet. By the way, a similar offer was made by Alexander Lavrinovich. I will not insist on my amendment if the committee can explain what to do in such cases.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u200	With pleasure, Roman Mikhailovich. The committee proposed an editorial whereby the appointment of a member of the Cabinet of Ministers would take effect from the time he took the oath. An oath must be made on the same day that the person is appointed. And in the event that a person has not taken an oath on that day, it is thought that he has given up his office. And like that. It's written accordingly. Look at part four of this article on page 23. On page 21 the right standard is to enter into force of the decree, the 12th part on page 21. So this is settled in this way: until a person takes an oath, he is not a member of the Cabinet of Ministers. If she has not taken an oath, then she has renounced her office and this position is vacant.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u201	Roman Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u202	I'm sorry, Yuri Bogdanovich, but I can't agree with you or the committee argument. You wrote in part four that such a person had given up his office. Yet this is not in the list of reasons for exemption. There is no such category as resignation. I mean, a man is assigned, he's not in office. What should we do in such cases?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u203	Roman Mikhailovich, and I'll ask you in turn: Can you be excused from the position of one who has not taken office?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u204	That's very logical. That's very logical. I mean, Yuri Bogdanovich, under any circumstances, explain again. That's how.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u205	A mechanism is proposed: appointment to office, appointment to office takes effect at the time of the taking of an oath. The oath is made on the same day that the appointment took place. If a person does not take an oath on that day, it is considered that he has refused his office, the position is vacant. A special decision on dismissal is not foreseen because a person has not taken office, so he cannot be released from a position that is not yet in office.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u206	In fact, there is a procrastination when, without an oath, a person does not receive appropriate powers of government. Logic is normal. Do you insist on voting, Roman Mikhailovich? On what? Give the word to the cook, he's got something to say.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u207	Dear Yuri Bogdanovich, I don't see the norm you're referring to, that the appointment decree takes effect from the time of the oath.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u208	Please turn the page back, on page 21, 12 in the right hand column.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u209	This, but even if there is such a condition, it means that then, after each member of the Cabinet, every candidate for the Cabinet should be given a separate ruling by the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u210	Please read part 12 and see the answer to your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u211	Do you insist on voting or not? He insists. I'll bet you a vote on the amendment of People's Deputies No. 89. [[12:00:28]] For-53 The decision is not taken. Honorable People’s Deputies, 12: 00 p.m. Break, till 12:30.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u212	Dear colleagues, we continue our morning plenary session. I welcome Nestor Ivanovich's wish to work and assure Nestor Ivanovich that we will be obliged to work independently of any circumstances, Reverend Nestor Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, we are continuing our discussion. Yuri Bogdanovich, please read the page amendments, read every amendment, read the amendment number by which it was made, rejected, supported, as provided for in the Rules. We ended up on page 23 of the 89 amendments. 89 we're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u213	Dear colleagues, at the direction of the Head of the Supreme Council, allow me to continue to report. So, Amendment 90, take a bath. 91 Amendment, Taras Stacks. 92 amendment, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko. I got it. 93 amendment, Mrs. Olga Bondar, Bodnar. None. 94 counts. 95, Anatoly Matvienko. None. 96. Comrade Pisarenko. None. 97 counts. 98 counted in part. 99 refused. 100 amendment, Zarubinski. I got it. Thank you. 101, Stack, Pisarenko, Zvaric, Bodnar. None. 102 counts. 103 refused. 104, Stacks. None. 105 refused. 106 refused. 107, Workman. None. 108, Logwinenko. None. 109, Simonenko refused. 110, Stacks. None. 111, Matthew. None. 112, Jojik. None. 113 - Simonenko refused. 114, accounted for. 115, Steck. None. 116, Jojik, no. 117, Boiler, no. 118, Matthew, no. 119, accounted for. 120, accounted for. 121, Jojik, no. 122, accounted for. 123 - accounted for. 125 -- he refused. 126, Maw Maw Maw, no. 127, Stacks, no. 128, 129, 130. 131, Bodnar, no. 132, Maw Maw, no. 133. 134, Matthew, no. 135, accounted for. 136, I don't insist. 137, Zarubinski agreed. 138, Bodnar, no. 139, Zarubinsky, accounted for. 140, he refused. 141, accounted for. 141, Bodnar, no. 143 - accounted for. 144, accounted for. 145 - refused. 146, accounted for. 147, Pisarenko, no. Where's Pisarenko? Please, if you insist. Thank you. 148, accounted for. 149, accounted for. 150, accounted for. 151, accounted for. 152-- turned it down. 153, accounted for. 154 and 55, accounted for. 156, 156, negative. 157th, copy. 158. Pisarenko. None. 159, 160-- he refused. 161. Petrenko and Upper. Don't you insist? Thank you. 162. Carmazine. Partially counted. Carmazine doesn't insist. 163. Copy that. 164. Copy that. 165. Copy that. 166. Counted. 167. The scribe didn't show up? So he agrees. 168, 169. Pisarenko again. 170, 171, 172. 173. Marmazov. None. 174. Carmazine. Based on editorial refinement.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u214	Turn on Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u215	Thank you. I have no objection to this amendment. I thank the committee. All praise belongs to God. Another amendment, starting with Carmazin 162, 202, 207, 263, 290. I'll take the floor there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u216	Thank you. 175. Pisarenko. None. And 176. 177. Counted. 178. Counted. 179. Pisarenko. None. 180. Counted. 181. There's no Logwinenko. 182. Counted. 183. Copy that. 184. Counted. 185. Didn't Pisarenko show up in the hall? None. 186. Copy that. 187. Stetsky. None. 188, 189. Pisarenko again. None. 190. Counted. 191. Copy that. 192. Stetsky. None. 193. Stetsky. Edited. 194. Matvienko. Don't insist. 195, 196, 197. Stetsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u217	I'm sorry, Yuri Bogdanovich, I have to go back to the 162 corrections that have been made and it's just been forgotten. Please turn on the people's MP Carmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u218	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Your Honor Yuri Bogdanovich! 162. The amendment suggests that part two of article 18 should be added to paragraph 3 in the following editions: in the event of the release of a member of the Cabinet of Ministers from office for the initiative of the National Deputy of Ukraine. I refer you to article 85 of the Supreme Council's mandate: to release ministers and government members from office is the sole mandate of the Supreme Council. [[paragraph 12]] This law takes away the right of the Ukrainian National Deputy to initiate the release of any member of the government. You wrote, "on your own initiative." What is it? On their own initiative, who are the members of the government being received? Where, then, is the initiative of the national deputy, and which can be supported by 226 votes? I mean, I think it's the most important limitation on the rights of every national MP to the right.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u219	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u220	I consider this to be a restriction on the right of a national MP to make a legislative proposal, an initiative, including the release of a government that, according to the National MP, is doing some kind of activity that goes against the Program, the Constitution or the laws of Ukraine. We foresee this in the Constitution, please article 85, paragraph 12. We need to realize this very article. That's why I'm addressing all the people's deputies, this is not Carmazin's personal question, this is a matter of vitality and the exercise of the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u221	Dear colleagues, I have already had a discussion with Yuri Anatolyovich on this subject. I believe that there is little reason to identify the Supreme Council with a single national deputy. With regard to the editions of the third paragraph on page 43, it should be read along with part two on page 41: “It may be released from office by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on its own initiative of the Supreme Council”. And this corresponds to the wording used by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine in this year's decision on this issue. This is why we believe that the Constitution of Ukraine and the Constitutional Court have been respected. As for the initiative of a national deputy to release a member of the Cabinet of Ministers. Well, let's get to the auditorium. I don't see that possibility, but maybe the House will think that any national MP can initiate the resignation of any member of the Cabinet of Ministers. It's up to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u222	Dear colleagues. Yuri Anatoliyovich, you insist on a vote of 162. Deputy Carmazin insists on an amendment whereby the Ukrainian National Deputy, as a subject of the right of legislative initiative, may give Parliament an appropriate order to release any member of the Cabinet of Ministers, i.e. to initiate the release of a member of the Cabinet of Ministers. I am voting on Amendment 162, tabled by National Deputy Karmazin Yuri Anatoliovich. [[12:42:53]] For-40 The decision is rejected, more specifically not accepted. In this way we have deprived the Ukrainian national deputies of the right to make the appropriate submission.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u223	Dear colleagues, I lost a little bit where we were before.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u224	191st.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u225	191, thank you. 191th shot. 192nd, Taras Stack.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u226	Steck's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u227	Ladies and gentlemen, it says here that 192 of my amendments have been rejected. But according to the right column, it's counted. The point is that there can be no powerless central executive bodies that do not enter. leaders who are not part of the Cabinet of Ministers, that all their activities should be directed and coordinated by the Minister, properly represented. So as far as I've read, my amendment actually went completely into that line of paragraph four, which is in the right column. All right. It's probably not rejected, it's counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u228	Restored.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u229	Taras Stepanovich, your proposed text as a text of the law has been rejected. Thus, the amendment is rejected. And ideologies are included. 193 is included in editorial detail. The 194th Matthews rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u230	Anatoly Matvienko, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u231	The Ukrainian Republican Party “Cobor”, the “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense” block. I'm afraid I've missed 134 amendments, I don't suggest I go back to her. It is said that the government is granted indulgence within one year of approval of the program. I realize it's a constitutional norm today, and we can't just duplicate it in the law, but I just want to take this opportunity and focus on the fact that if we're going to make amendments to the Constitution, we have to rule out this rudimentary as long as we have a parliamentary republic today, a presidential republic, a coalition exists, and therefore there can't be any indulgence for some period of time after the approval of the program. And so I apologize to my colleagues, unfortunately I'm late, but I would like to say this and ask everyone to pay attention to this today's inadequacy of our structure of political power and the corresponding rudiments, including the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u232	Yuri Bogdanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u233	I understand that 194 amendments were accepted.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u234	You commented on 134, didn't you?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u235	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u236	Yes, you insist on 134?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u237	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u238	Don't you insist? Matthew's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u239	I don't insist simply because this rule is prescribed in the Constitution. And that's why we can't stop it from being prescribed in the law. I stress only that, unfortunately, we have a lot of problems in the Constitution that need to be corrected.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u240	Dear Anatoly Sergiyovich, this rule has in fact remained with the old Constitution. And now we have a contradiction of two legal norms. The first rule of law, which provides for the inability to resign the government in the event that the Cabinet of Ministers has approved the Action Program, over the course of the year. The second rule allows the government to resign if Parliament decides to resign, not the government, but the Prime Minister of Ukraine. That is, in fact, two mutually exclusive norms, on the one hand, if the Programme was voted out, the government cannot be retired for a year, on the other hand, is a constitutional norm that provides for the possibility of the resignation of the prime minister, who then carries the resignation of the entire Cabinet of Ministers. That's why we're changing. Absolutely, you've got it right. Therefore, in changing the Constitution, this matter must be brought to normal because everyone will read it as he needs to read it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u241	With your permission, I'll continue. 196 readout, 197 counted. 198 rejected. The sparrow. None. 199, Matthew, rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u242	Anatoly Sergiyovich Matviyenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u243	Dear colleagues, I would like to try this amendment to draw your attention to the search for questions. The answers to questions about why we are poor. Because we don't have professional authority. And as long as we don't have professional authority, we're not going to have it, and then we're going to be poor. I suggested that we finally take a bold step, divide the political positions and administrative positions, and introduce them. What do you call it? It's a different question. Such service as government officials who are subordinated to the Secretary of State, who come under competitive conditions, who make a corresponding long-term agreement and fulfill these requirements, in accordance with their profession. And so at least take a step towards entering such a position in the Cabinet of Ministers. I would like Yuri Bogdanovich to explain why it was accepted by the working group to reject this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u244	If we're talking specifically about this amendment, we're talking about the abolition of the Cabinet of Ministers. Once again, this is actually about ousting the Cabinet of Ministers. We disagreed with that amendment. With regard to the establishment of the State Secretary’s Institute in general, this issue was discussed. And we have come to the conclusion that this is not the subject of this law, but of the new edition of the Law on State Service and the Law on Central Executive Authorities. When this is resolved there, and according to how this will be resolved there, these things can also be regulated in the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers. Today, it is simply not possible to record such standards in the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers without resolution in the basic laws, and it is a failure of the system.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u245	Jury Bogdanovich, by the way, according to the coalition agreement, there is a clear point that everyone was obliged to introduce the office of Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u246	No, I agree with that, but I'm talking about how to do it. This is not the law that these positions are to be introduced.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u247	Anatoly Sergiyovich, we vote or we vote. Jury Bogdanovich's argument is accepted. Anatoly Sergiyovich's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u248	I agree with the argument. And since the 203 amendment is taken into account with reference to the next State Service Act, I do not insist on voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u249	Okay. Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u250	200th Amendment, Stack.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u251	Taras Stacks, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u252	Ladies and gentlemen, in this amendment of mine, it is proposed that the Ministry remove the post of First Deputy Minister. And I want to argue why. This amendment is directly related to the previous amendment by Anatolia Sergiyovich Matviyenka and to my own, which concerns the secretaries of the State. So my belief is that in the case that we take up the functions of state secretaries in ministries that take over administrative functions, the Ministry becomes a foreign minister's first deputy. And in the continuation of that discussion that just happened. I don't think I'm denying that the State Secretary's Service Act should prescribe a position. But in this law we can at least signal that the Cabinet of Ministers can introduce such an office in accordance with the State Service Act. So give us a signal that we are moving towards European standards, the delimitation of political and administrative positions. And I think in article 22, at least one place, it would be possible to give such a message clearly.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u253	Yuri Bogdanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u254	Well, two parts of the answer, one, ousting the position of First Deputy Minister. We've come out of a consistent position that everything about the interior structure of the ministry should not be in this law. This should be in the Law on Central Executive Authorities. And that's why this proposal was rejected. As for the secretaries' signals at all, well, I don't think such signals can be carried out legislatively. Such signals must be political. This thing has been declared, let's introduce the law, the new edition of the State Service Act, where state secretaries are foreseen. Let us introduce the Act on Central Executive Authorities, where there is a Ministry structure and a state secretary's seat in the Ministry system, not in the Cabinet of Ministers system. I think it's different things, except for everything else, I'd be very careful about these things, like signals, because one message from the secretary of state we've been through. And let's do it not with signals, but seriously and thoroughly.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u255	Stetsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u256	Well, there's still my 204, so I won't take my word for it. I'm only two remarks, the question is that we only foresee the right of the Cabinet of Ministers to apply for the post of Secretary of State, that's the first. Because then, when we adopt the State Service Act, we will be motivated by the absence of such a position that it is not in the Cabinet of Ministers Act, that is the first. And second, Yuri Bogdanovich, in many European countries, is the minister of the Cabinet of Ministers as a minister without a portfolio, and under him is the secretary of state as an administrative office. That is why such a solution can be.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u257	I don't deny it. The point is that the amendments that would limit the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers and the Secretary of State of the Cabinet of Ministers have unfortunately not been made.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u258	We're not voting? The national deputy of Stack, we vote for your 200th amendment, don't we? Steckova's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u259	I'd like to propose not to vote on my 200th amendment, but 204th.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u260	Now we're going to get to 204 and then we're going to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u261	201, Sparrow, no. 202 – Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u262	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Mr. Head, Your Honor Yuri Bogdanovich. I would like to draw your attention to what I propose in the 202nd Amendment, in paragraph 3 of the seventh part of article 22, which states that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine appoints and discharges from office the first representatives and representatives of the other central executives for the appointment of ministers to the sphere of direction and coordination of which belong to the central executive authorities, instead of the last words, to write "for the submission of the central executive authorities." It looks funny. The State Tax Administration, the State Border Service, the Service Manager, or the State Customs Service, does not even have the right to file documents on what he offers as a substitute. And if we ask him about the responsibility for the work of this body, you understand. Me.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u263	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u264	Thank you, Mr. Head. I'm told it's going to be settled in other laws. Dear friends, if we write this down now, you realize that only six months from now, maybe we'll come back to some questions. And you understand the pressure of those who are not interested, but is it better? Let us put ourselves in the place of this head of the central executive authority, who should be responsible for everything, and will be the “uncle” to offer him some nominations. It's completely frivolous from the point of view of common sense and functional performance. We've never had one of these before, we've had a little different. So we're changing the whole approach, we're just changing it, and without any explanation, we're rejecting this amendment. I'm asking her to support her, although I understand that the hall is not set up today at all for any amendments to support her, as is the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u265	Dear Yuri Anatolyovich, you're right about the change in approach here. The point is that today, under the current Cabinet of Ministers Act, this mandate does not belong to the Chief of Customs, but only to the Prime Minister. That's why we're changing it, thinking that a cabinet member can do it, Minister. But once again, I want to emphasize that this is not about the central executive authorities. Such a bill was introduced at the time, which offered to settle both the Cabinet of Ministers and the central authorities of the executive branch in a single complex. But he was not supported. So the question of how is the relationship between the executive director, who is not part of the Cabinet of Ministers with the minister, who coordinates and directs this body, is not a matter of this law. Yet, once again, I emphasize, we have come out of the fact that a member of the Cabinet of Ministers can make a contribution to the Cabinet of Ministers. The head of such a central body is not a member of the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u266	Following the insistence of National Deputy Carmazin, I am voting on the 202nd amendment. Please vote. [[12:57:29]] For-21 The decision is not taken. For 21. Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u267	203 revisions included. 204. Taras Stacks.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u268	Stetsky's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u269	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to support this amendment, because this is about what could be appointed by the Cabinet of Ministers as Secretary of State of the Cabinet of Ministers and also as Secretary of State of the Ministry. And there's a stalemate. That order is defined by the State Service Act. So this rule is starting to work with the adoption of the State Service Act. And by the way, in the Transitional Situations, you could also predict the terms of the adoption of this law. Therefore, the request is to be supported, and in this regard we will take the first step towards the introduction of a European system in the delimitation of political and administrative positions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u270	I've already argued the position of the committee on this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u271	Please put to the vote. Colleagues, many things that depend on the adoption of amendments, including factions of the Party of the Regions, Mikhailo Vasilovich. 204 Amendment of the People's Deputy Stetkova. I would like to vote in favour of this amendment for the appointment of the Secretary of State. Please vote. [[12:59:02]] For-29 The decision is not taken. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u272	205 repairs, Roman Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u273	Roman Mikhailovich Zvaric, 205 amendment to the Cabinet of Ministers Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u274	Don't insist. And 206, Boiler. 207 Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u275	Carmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u276	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Mr. Head, Your Honor Yuri Bogdanovich! The question is that in part eight of article 22, the specifics of the Cabinet of Ministers’ relations with individual central executive authorities can be determined by the laws of Ukraine. In other words, language is a special relationship with certain authorities of the executive government of Kabmin, which are not regulated by this law. What kind of unification are we talking about if there are special organs, if there are special relationships and features? So I'm saying, well, let's rule out this part of the eighth part of article 22 and let's say that we have the same relationship with all of us and all of us. Then everyone will make changes to the basic law, which is this, to the constitutional law that comes out of the Constitution. Unless, of course, the MPs are deprived of the right to even initiate the resignation of an unworthy minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u277	Please, Yuri Bogdanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u278	Dear colleagues, I ask you to look at the title of the article. It's about empowering the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in relations with the ministries and other central authorities of the executive branch. Can we claim that all relations with all central executive authorities are regulated by one article? Please see the Customs Code of Ukraine, where there are appropriate powers and appropriate relations, please see tax legislation, privatization legislation and many other sectoral laws, which establish certain features of the mandate of the Office of Ministers of Ukraine regarding the central authorities of the executive branch. So I think by excluding this from here, we're going to create a problem in the relationship between the Cabinet of Ministers and other central executive authorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u279	You insist, Yuri Anatolyovich. Give the word to Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u280	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Yuri Bogdanovich, how do you not understand that we are talking about the powers that are written both in the Customs Code and elsewhere, not about relationships and their specificities. So I just see that we talk in different languages. I'm talking about authorization, and they're really settled there, they're really predictable there, and these are not specific relationships. Relationships are all the same on the basis of the Constitution and the law. And, Mr. Head, Arsenija Petrovich, please don't put to the vote, don't waste your time, because I see that there is no constructive position at the reception today, I just can't do for unconstitutional things. They don't vote, well, that's their right. I've expressed my position, the time will come, everyone will realize that this is the wrong position that the committee is currently taking in the person of Klukkowski, but it will take a very long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u281	I can't help but answer that. I want to emphasize once again, the relationship between the Cabinet of Ministers and the executive branch is determined by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine in the plural, not by one law. Trying to limit it to just one law is unconstitutional. 208 amendment, Taras Stacks.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u282	Steck's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u283	Dear national MPs, the essence of amendment number 208 is to introduce a new article. When we say that the activities of the central executive authorities are directed and coordinated by the minister, there is obviously a need to explain what this coordinating and guiding role should be. I will not insist on this amendment because it was discussed in detail on the committee, but I ask Yuri Bogdanovich to explain why it was rejected. How can this be resolved?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u284	I'll tell you why it's rejected. The point is that article 116 of the Constitution of Ukraine contains paragraph 9, according to which the Cabinet of Ministers directs and coordinates the work of ministries and other executive authorities. This article discusses a different direction and coordination. We asked the amendment author: Is this the direction and coordination referred to in article 116 of the Constitution? The answer was no. And that means you can't create a precedent for understanding a term that has one meaning in one place and another meaning. This means that these terms must still be considered and suggested in a way that will be applied whenever the term is used.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u285	Taras Stacks. Next, Anatoly Matvienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u286	The Constitution is that the Cabinet of Ministers directs the activities of other central authorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u287	And coordinate and coordinate.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u288	executive power. Yeah? So the question is, does he do it directly or through a minister? Most of the committee thinks it's direct. I believe that such coordination and guidance can only be through a minister, and this does not conflict with the relevant article of the Constitution of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u289	No, this idea that the direction and direction and coordination of organs, the central executive authorities of the Cabinet of Ministers, through ministers, is put into the draft law. Here is another point of this article, which was suggested: What is the direction and coordination? And here we have found no common understanding, i.e. we have questioned the specific content of these norms, the specific understanding of the terms “direction” and “coordination”. Since no understanding of these terms has been found, they cannot be recorded in the law. 209 revisions were removed. 210th and 211th, Pisarenko. None. And 212 is Pisarenko and 213th. 214th shot. 215 - Logwinenko, no.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u290	Lavrinovich, not Logwinenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u291	216th. No, 215th Logwinko, 214th shot.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u292	214 Lavrinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u293	Got it, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u294	Yeah. Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u295	216th Upper, Petrenko. It doesn't, it does. 217th shot, 218th shot. 219, Pisarenko, no. 220 taken. 221, Roman Zvaric. Got it, right? 222 taken. 223 Taras Steckov Don't insist. 224 taken. 225, Sparrow, Stack.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u296	To whom shall I give the word, Yuri Bogdanovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u297	Don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u298	Don't you insist?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u299	226, as I understand it, it's been taken. 227 taken. 228 counts. 229 Taras Stacks.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u300	Steckova's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u301	Well, there was a long discussion here, just like with the secretary of state and direction and coordination. This is about how to understand the term “consignment”. And as a result, I can agree with the version that most of the committee has proposed, because there is a problem here, including not being very clear about this situation in the Constitution of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u302	Thank you. 231, Sparrow. None. Oh, no. Don't insist. 232 Logwinenko. 233 Lavrinovich. 234 Lavrinovich. 235 Lavrinovich, taken. 236, Zarubinsky and Steckov. No, there's two of you. I have to call. 236 revisions. Taras Stacks, don't you think? No, it's not. 237, Zarubinsky does not insist. 238, Roman Zvaric. Don't insist. 239, Zarubinsky, Petrenko, and Podgorny. Petrenko doesn't insist. 240 taken. 241 taken. 242, Pisarenko, no. 243, Stetsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u303	Taras Steck's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u304	Well, I'm not going to specifically insist on this amendment, although, given some political experience, we thought at the outset that it was necessary to write down that the Cabinet of Ministers is ensuring the implementation of the decisions of the MPO that have been taken within its mandate. Well, once again, we're coming out of this positive concept that illegal decisions of the PNZ can't be made.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u305	I don't, in principle, object to amendment 243 if her hall supports it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u306	Put it to a vote? Let's move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u307	244th, Robot, don't insist. 245, Roman Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u308	Roman Mikhailovich, don't you insist?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u309	Don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u310	Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u311	246th, Robot, readout. 47th, counted editorially. 248, Matthew, Pisarenko, Petrenko, Upper.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u312	Matthew's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u313	The Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, the “Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense” bloc. The point of my amendment was that this law, unlike the one in force, did not have unconstitutional standards. Unconstitutional norms were the norm in part two of this article that members of the Cabinet of Ministers responded to the Secretaryate’s request. And I protested that this standard should be deleted as one that does not correspond to the Constitution, and this amendment is my included, this article has been deleted, but another edition that I agree with is proposed. And that's why the word "refused" would be considered invalid, I would have to write "partially counted" because, in fact, the substance of my amendment is taken into account, but I really didn't propose a new edition. What I found, the task force and the committee supported, I agree. So I think that in this part, it would just be better to treat the amendment authors more correctly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u314	I want to point out that it was suggested that the second part of the 28th article should be deleted. It's not excluded, it's given in a different edition. So the formal amendment is out of the question, and part of the second part is only left in a different edition. 249, Zarubinsky, taken off. 250th and 251st. 252nd shot, 253 counts.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u315	252nd, Simonenko, copy?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u316	Well, I've heard so much of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u317	Yeah, yeah, he's not in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u318	254th accounted for. 255, Simonenko. It's been taken. 256, accounted for. 257, accounted for. 258, accounted for. 259, rejected, but Zarubinsky’s colleague agreed. 260, accounted for. 261 is included in the other part. Petrenko agrees. And 262.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u319	Two deputies are Upstairs and Petrenko. They insist on 261.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u320	They agree.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u321	They're getting along.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u322	263 - Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u323	Yuri Carmazin, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u324	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! Dear Mr. Head! I come out of the need to comply with the rules of the Constitution completely around, including the text of this constitutional law, of course. Thus, section 4 of article 42 of the Constitution states, literally from the Constitution: “The State protects the rights of consumers, controls the quality and safety of products and all types of services and jobs, promotes the activities of public consumer organisations”. [[Comma]] [[Comma]] This part of the Constitution, this part “will contribute, including promoting the activities of public consumer organisations”, is directly recorded in the Constitution of 42 articles, part four of which I have proposed to write. The committee did not listen, did not open an article of the Constitution, nor did it record, thus going beyond the scope of this article. I think it's absolutely.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u325	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u326	I believe that this was absolutely not a principle for the committee, but a principle for the State if the rules of the Constitution were to be implemented. Because today we're completely ignoring the rules of the Constitution on the grounds that someone doesn't like it, someone has little authority, someone has a lot of authority. And you just have to do it. And I call for this to be included, and beyond that, everything about the Constitution we have to abide by invariably in our legislation and in our application. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u327	I don't take charges of breaking the Constitution. Consumers are not the only category of citizens mentioned in the Constitution. I can also think of other associations of citizens, especially political parties, which are mentioned in article 36 and article 37 of the Constitution. But I would like to point out that my colleague Karmazin's accusation is at least unfair, because we've already written down this amendment to the Cabinet of Ministers and to the task of interacting with consumer organizations. Here we are talking about interaction with a broad category of citizens’ union. One category of citizens’ associations, I think, is incorrect, then all categories should be listed: both political parties, and public organizations, and professional associations, and charitable organizations, and employers’ union. To do so in this article, where the unifying term “unification of citizens ” was used, by the way, is constitutional, I simply did not see the need, and the committee supported it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u328	Do you insist on voting? It goes where you talk about consumer organisations. Amendment to 263?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u329	263rd Amendment. I would like to emphasize once again: It is about all of the citizens’ associations and, of course, including, not only.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u330	I'm betting on the 263rd amendment, please vote. [[13:15:06]] For-31 The decision is rejected, in-31. Next amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u331	264 is considered editorially. 265th shot. 266th counted. The 267th is partially accounted for. The 268th is partially accounted for.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u332	Taras Stacks.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u333	Ladies and gentlemen, in the second paragraph of article 44, we are talking about the relationship between the Prime Minister and the members of the Cabinet of Ministers. Here, in principle, the right step has been taken and it is written that the Prime Minister coordinates the activities of the Cabinet. In my opinion, our amendment has been broader and deeper written, which not only coordinates but also directs and controls. And this comes out of a special function of prime minister among the Cabinet of Ministers. Therefore, frankly, it is not clear why the term “coordination” has been taken and “coordinated and directed” has been removed. And yet I would like to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u334	Our proposal to reject the amendment is based on 116 articles of the Constitution according to the 9th point of which the direction and coordination in the work of the ministries is the function of the Cabinet of Ministers, not the Prime Minister. So what's written here is I think it's enough for the Prime Minister to be able to perform his functions and the First Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u335	Please, are you insisting on correction? The repair number again.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u336	268 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u337	I would like to vote on the amendment of People's Deputy Stetkova, number 268, to direct and coordinate the monitoring of the activities of the Cabinet of Ministers, please vote. [[13:17:11]] For-39 The decision is not taken. Come on in.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u338	269 amendment withdrawn. 270, Anatoly Matvienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u339	Anatoly Matvienko, please have a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u340	Ukrainian Republican Party "The Council", "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" Block. Yuri Bogdanovich, you remember that the reason why we should now consider this law is because today an active man who was adopted in contravention of the Constitution had practical standards and could be called that law, the prime minister's law. Because the principle of collegiality was ignored. He was Prime Minister, and the rest served him. My amendment was that there is a college body and it works, and the Prime Minister is equal to the first one. I realize that the first part could be agreed, for it is a constitutional norm that the Prime Minister gives ministers. But please comment on why we cannot record the Prime Minister’s decision to appoint the chairman of the Antimonopoly Committee, the head of the State Committee on Television and Radio. Why in this part we keep the principle of collegiality. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u341	The point is that this is defined in article 85, paragraph 12, of the Constitution of Ukraine, and in relation to the positions you have listed, it is also a direct text in the text of the Constitution. This is the Prime Minister's personal prerogative, and she, the Prime Minister, is doing this irrespective of the Cabinet's decision. It's a constitutional norm.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u342	Matvienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u343	Yuri Bogdanovich, I don't deny that the Prime Minister is in charge, but I'm in charge of the Cabinet of Ministers. That's why I don't violate the Constitution. On the other hand, you're not exactly commenting on the Constitution, because there's no release under the Maintenance Fund, there's no such rule. That's why we're extending this very article to the prime minister's mandate, and here you don't think we're violating the Constitution, and my amendments think it's a violation. I'm not changing the Constitution, I'm just moving through the adoption of the Cabinet of Ministers as a collegiate body and as the first level prime minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u344	I'm sorry, but I can't agree with this interpretation of the Constitution. From my point of view, the Cabinet of Ministers and the Prime Minister are different constitutional subjects, and if the Constitution says, "On the basis of the Prime Minister's submission", it means that one person should be submitted, and if a decision were to be made by the Cabinet of Ministers, the Constitution would say, "On the filing of the Cabinet of Ministers." Right, there's no place for the Cabinet of Ministers, which means it's the Prime Minister's personal mandate.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u345	What's the position? Once again, Matthew and John the Rabbit after Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u346	Well, I think that here we are in the understanding of the rules of the Constitution, we can only be judged by the Constitutional Court. But since the principle of collegiality has been enshrined as a fundamental principle and the absence of such a principle in the current law has moved us to change this law and to adopt it, practically, in a new edition. So I would suggest and insist on voting on this amendment. And I would ask Arsenija Petrovich to put her to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u347	I would ask my colleagues not to try to bend the Constitution by law.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u348	I support Mr. Matviennek and I think we need to spread this proposal in two parts. First, we have to ask the question: who makes the decision and the second question is who makes the decision. These are completely different things. You're saying that the Prime Minister's appointment is already for the appellants and that it's for the Prime Minister to decide whether or not to run for office. Nothing like that. Because he's signing papers on behalf of the Cabinet of Ministers and he's only doing this filing function. Otherwise, the very ideology of the collective body of the Cabinet of Ministers is being destroyed. If we want to move to the Prime Minister's Institute, then let's change the powers of ministers when the Prime Minister is essentially responsible, and ministers are advisory. So it seems to me that this is where dualism is based on the committee's proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u349	If I may have my last argument. Look closely at the proposed text. It is proposed that members of the Cabinet of Prime Minister's Office should be made by decision of the Cabinet of Ministers. So if we're talking about this amendment, let's say exactly what we're talking about and what we're going to vote on. The amendment is the one that it is introduced.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u350	The word Matthew, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u351	Yuri Bogdanovich, I wish you wouldn't twist my offer. And since the Supreme Council, now I'm going to make it up, I'm not going to pretend, I just want you to understand. After the first part, I agreed with you. I'm just proposing to leave this rule as decided by the Cabinet of Ministers only to the head of the Antimonopoly Committee, the State Television and Radio Committee, and the Heads of the State Property Fund, and vote only on this part.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u352	Please, Yuri Bogdanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u353	Well, I've already made all the arguments I could, for that matter. I ask you to see 85 articles, where the same is true of members of the Cabinet of Ministers, the Head of the Antimonopoly Committee, the Head of State Television and Radio and the Head of the Foundation of Holding. In one context: both the candidates for office of ministers and the heads of those bodies. How can we, using the Constitution, break up these submissions and interpret them differently, I don't understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u354	What is the position of the people’s deputy, Mathviennek? Put to the vote. The repair number? Matvienka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u355	270th.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u356	270th Amendment of the People's Deputy of Matvienka, paragraph 4 of the first part of article 44, add. Well, right now, Anatoly Sergiyovich, there's one small problem: that we failed the amendments of the national deputy Steckov to the idea of introducing the Secretary of State as such. Oh, your 270th, I'm sorry. Okay. I'm voting for Amendment 270 of the People's Deputies of Matthew. Please vote. [[13:24:55]] For-35 The decision is not taken. Please, 271-honorable.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u357	The 271-honored Matvienka refers to the State Secretary's Institute again.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u358	Turn on Anatoly Sergiyovich Matviyenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u359	Ukrainian Republican Party “Cobor”, “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense” Block. I'd like to because we've passed and discussed this rule – the State Secretaries – and that we're going to introduce them, as I understand the mood of the entire room, the Law on Central Executives and the Law on State Service, so I'm going to propose everything concerning State Secretaries, my amendments 271 and the following, and I agree that in this law it's worth rejecting and not putting them to any further vote and discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u360	Thank you. 272 corrected, 273 steckov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u361	Please explain, why is it rejected? As far as I'm reading the right column, it's virtually identical to my amendment. I mean.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u362	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u363	No, I'm sorry. The correction should be compared to the text proposed in the first reading. The difference in your text and in the text proposed in the first reading is the words “the draft decisions”. So the solutions are an unacceptable thing, and the rest is what was adopted in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u364	Taras Stacks. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u365	I don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u366	274th is rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u367	Turn on the mic, Stacks.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u368	I don't insist on this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u369	275th, 276th, take it off. 277 is a workman, not an insistent. 278. The secretary of state, we agreed not to look. 279th is counted, 280th is taken off and 281th and 282nd. 283 is Upper, Petrenko doesn't insist. 284th, copy. 285, 86th, taken. 288, Stacks, partially accounted for. 289, Stacks, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u370	Steckova's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u371	It seems perfectly logical to me to complement when you have agreed to formulate for other Central Executive Authorities and to complement “the government authorities”, especially since in other articles we do not have government bodies. This is about government authorities operating in the Ministry system. So maybe it's still worth adding, it's not making it worse, it's just, let's say, it's making the article better.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u372	It's partially accounted for. Please see the last paragraph on this page in the right column. Only included in a slightly different edition, such as a single paragraph or a separate paragraph. That's why it's partially accounted for. 290th is Karmazin and Matvienko. There's Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u373	The word Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u374	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! Dear Head! In view of the fact that the previous amendments have been rejected, I am asking that this amendment not be put to the vote, as it should have constitutional effect. I think that makes sense, so I don't want to talk about it, I don't want to take the time, I want to take the amendment, I don't want to put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u375	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u376	Anatoly Matvienko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u377	The Ukrainian-Republic Party of Sobor, the "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" block. Yuri Bogdanovich! I'd like to get before I can decide whether or not to insist on voting. The explanation, or interpretation of the reason for the rejection, is that it is obvious that the leaders, the representatives of the first and the representatives of the central executive bodies would have not only the minister under coordination but also the leaders of these central authorities. Don't you think it's worth taking into account, the opinion and the head of the central authority, not just the minister of the first deputy, the representatives of this central authority? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u378	I would like to stress once again what I have already said is the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers, not on the activities of the minister and the authorities under his authority. So this is about who's bringing the Cabinet of Ministers? We believe that this is the conclusion of the committee, which can be done by a member of the Cabinet of Ministers. The head of the central executive body is not a member of the Cabinet of Ministers, so he cannot be the subject of submission. The relationship between the head of this body and the minister, as the head of the ministry, is not the subject of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u379	Anatoly Matvienko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u380	Yuri Bogdanovich! I agree, but if we leave this rule now, which is the norm of direct action, then we will not be able to write in a law that we will continue to develop about the central executive authorities, about some authority of this central authority. I'm sorry, because then it's going to conflict with the law that we're still looking at. So whether it's worth it or not, I don't mind bringing the minister in, but it's time to write to the manager. Then, to some extent, we take into account the fact that this director is organizing the work of this body, and that he has nothing to do with the personnel matters of his first deputy, the deputy, at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u381	Your last sentence does not match the reality, and there is no such norm. I want to emphasize once again, this is about who's bringing the document to the Cabinet of Ministers and nothing else is settled here. Whether a member of the Cabinet of Ministers at the suggestion of a director or at his own discretion, this law is not regulated because it has no bearing on this law. This law on the Cabinet of Ministers is therefore defined from the point of view of the Cabinet of Ministers, who gives him the document. He can only be served by a member of the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u382	This is about 290 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u383	290.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u384	Anatoly Sergiyovich, what are we doing with the 290th amendment?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u385	I don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u386	Come on in.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u387	Thank you. 291 and that's basically the same content.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u388	Sparrow, don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u389	292th counted. 293th shot. 294th.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u390	Matthew Anatoly Sergiyovich's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u391	I don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u392	295th, Stacks, accounted for. 296th counted. 297th shot. 298th Boiler, don't insist. 299th shot. 300 doesn't insist. 301, Stack's.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u393	Stetsky's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u394	I don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u395	The 302nd Stack.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u396	I don't insist either.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u397	Thirty-three taken. 304 stacks.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u398	National deputy of the Stacks.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u399	I don't insist either.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u400	And the 305 stacks.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u401	I don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u402	306th, 307th shot. 308th Bodnar, no. 309th shot. 310th counted. 311 Stacks, they're state secretaries.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u403	Yes, this amendment is really related to the law on secretaries of State, and if it has not been made in other articles of this law, it is obvious that when we settle the issues of secretaries, we will also consider the position of this amendment that I have made.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u404	312. Welder. Is he insisting?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u405	Dear Yuri Bogdanovich! I understand your position, or the position of the committee more faithfully, that the issue of the Minister's work in his office, such as those, we refer to the Law on Central Executive Authorities and the Law on Ministries. Yet there are no such legal acts today. And in article 46 of this law, we just write out the minister’s mandate. And the minister should be able to create services and other organs that refer to his authority in his office. That's why I made such an amendment, you removed it. And now, Arsenius Petrovich, I am here with you, the next two amendments I will insist on applying part three and one-hundred-and-fifteen of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Provisional Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u406	Roman Mikhailovich, I'd like to say that the text of your amendment is rejected. But I would like to point out that the concept of service, inspection, agencies in the Ministry is united by the notion of government authorities. And the mandate to form government organs is given to the Cabinet of Ministers, and the appointment of ministers is given to the Cabinet of Ministers. And this is consistent with the ancient decree of President Kuchma, which is followed by such organs. Once again, services, inspections and agencies are only partial cases of government bodies.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u407	Roman Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u408	I don't quite agree with that argument. But if that's the case, we can solve this in the session room. But anyway, I would like to point out to you, Arsenija Petrovich, that after the next two amendments, I will insist on the application of the procedure envisaged in part three of the 115th article of the Provisional Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u409	The will of the People's Deputy for the Chairman, Roman Mikhailovich, is the law, and more so, the rule of the Rules. Yuri Bogdanovich, what are we doing with this amendment?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u410	To the judgment of the hall. What else can I say?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u411	Should we vote? I'll bet you a vote. The Welder’s microphone, the name of the amendment, and the change in the article.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u412	312th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u413	I've already said everything about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u414	I'm betting on the vote on the amendment of the cook. [[13:36:45]] For-49 The decision is not taken. Next amendment, the word Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u415	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues! In the text adopted in the first reading, part two and third of this article makes it possible for the minister to have four deputies and one first deputy. A committee of national deputies, Klukkowski and Lavrinovich, identified part two of this article, as adopted in the first reading. So I insist on the application of the procedure provided for in part three of the 115th article that requires that a proposal be put to the vote, which is included, but which is not contained in the text adopted in the first reading. In the case that the proposal does not receive 226 votes, we go back to the text adopted in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u416	The 115th rule of the Rules is fully read correctly. We fully and fully support it. Dear Roman Mikhailovich, make your proposal definitively. Give me the Rooster microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u417	I disagree with the proposal of two national deputies. So I insist that these proposals, which are not contained in the text adopted in the first reading, but which is proposed to be taken into account by two national deputies, be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u418	Please tell me the number. This is the 311th, 312th?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u419	313th and 314th repairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u420	Is it possible to make an argument about these amendments?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u421	And the 314th. You're allowed to speak, but we're going to vote anything.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u422	Thank you, of course you will. I want to point out that I want to take down two parts that regulate issues that don't belong to the Cabinet of Ministers. Because you will agree with me that the deputy ministers are not members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Similarly, the minister’s protective service is not made up of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. These two amendments have already been taken into account. The will of the hall is to decide.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u423	Thus, I read again paragraph 3 of paragraph 115: “According to the insistence of the people's deputies, a discussion may be held on the amendment proposed by the Main Committee and the following vote on its adoption, removal in whole or in part.” Now, pay attention! “In the same order, the question of the proposal for an amendment to the relevant text of an article adopted in the first reading but not proposed by the Main Committee may be raised.” So the National MP Zvaric says that. I know it's accepted in the first reading, but it's not available. In order for it to remain in the second reading, we need to get 226. Vote, Your Honor. I put 313 to the vote. [[13:40:20]] For 20 Thus, the honourable Yuri Bogdanovich, according to part 115 of the third, the appropriate amendment is such that it cannot be accepted in the second reading and remains an editorial voted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the first reading. Now 314 is the same story, Roman Mikhailovich? It's exactly the same story. So first of all, I'm putting to the vote 314th amendment, it's about the exclusion of part two of article 46. And in this regard, section 3, 4 is considered to be part two and part three. These are interconnected things. It takes 226 votes to type in and include in the second reading. We're voting on amendment number 314. Please. [[13:41:22]] For the 18th. This is no way to make a decision. So once again, I announce that these two amendments are made in an editorial that was voted by the bill in the first reading. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u424	315 then has to be taken into account and 316 has to be rejected, because the voted edition of the first reading. 317.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u425	Matvienko microphone, then Stack.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u426	Steck's earlier.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u427	First the Stacks, then the microphone. They must be voted on.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u428	Indeed, in view of Roman Zvaric’s offer and the first reading of the restrictions on the number of deputies remains, the need to vote on my amendment has failed. And it's really counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u429	Thank you. 319 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u430	It's a microphone. Stop. We haven't stopped at 317 yet.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u431	Excuse me. I thought it was 318.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u432	Ukrainian Republican Party “Cobor”, “Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense” Block. In view of what's left of the second part, the second part of this article, I still think that we should be guided, not by emotion, but by common sense. And so it seems to me that, really, the Cabinet of Ministers should determine the number of deputies, including the first. And my amendment is to give it up as a collegiate body of the Cabinet of Ministers that would have the right to make a decision accordingly, because we have all the ministries different. And obviously, if we're going to apply the same principle to any ministry, it's nothing more than thoughtlessness. So I insist that my amendment, first of all, Yuri Bogdanovich, be commented on in connection with the situation that has arisen. And the second. I insist that it be voted on. And it's obviously going to be, really. A civilized way out of the situation that has arisen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u433	Yuri Bogdanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u434	I can't comment on this amendment because it was rejected by the committee, today the situation has changed, so it has a room to decide.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u435	Anatoly Sergiyovich Matviyenko microphone
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u436	I think the norm that we've just left behind is that one first and four substitutes, and that's the same principle that's wrong. And that's why I'm talking to the whole room, to understand that we have to get out of this colossal. Not to regulate this norm is also wrong. It is necessary to give the Collegiate Authority, that is, the Cabinet of Ministers, the right to establish the number of deputies and the first deputy. This practice has already been confirmed. So I insist that Arsenija Petrovich that my proposal be voted on. Unfortunately, I regret that we are so poorly discussing a very important law and that many factions simply do not vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u437	Anatoly Sergiyovich, well, frankly, there is a logic in the text that was adopted in the first reading. Can I explain why? Because we've come to the absolute absurdity of the number of substitutes. We had 9 and 12 deputy ministers in the ministries, and they couldn't figure it out in three pines. And so the minister forgot the name of all his deputies. So if it's the right thing to do, one of the first and four other substitutes is enough. And if, God forbid, the minister starts to work, that's how it works. Well, I'm putting 317 to the vote. Mikhail Papiev's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u438	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would simply like to support Mr. Matthewnko as a person who has worked twice as a minister. Look, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, there are 170,000 employees in the Ministry system. And there are other ministries in which, well, if there are half a dozen people there is happiness. So I would like us to approach carefully, not all of us under one ridge. We need the Cabinet of Ministers to have the authority to determine the number of deputies in a separate ministry according to the position of the Ministry and the functions it carries out. I don't want to just call ministries, others, I think you'll respond with understanding, but I'm asking you, however, not to make sure that all ministries, such as the Ministry of the Family, Youth and Sports -- four deputies and the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, are also four substitutes, but they are completely different ministries and by the extent of execution.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u439	John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u440	Dear National Deputies! There's not one ridge here, because where the ministry does a small amount of function, there might be one first and two or three substitutes. And where the ministries are large there could be one plus four. And as you can see, there is no single ridge. That's the first one. The other one. If you think that a minister who has 11 or 9 deputies to manage is easy, you are deeply mistaken. Because the management sector is being broken down into such a large number of things that are losing a systemic approach, a systemic vision, you can't reach what a substitute is doing. So I think in the right organization, the work of one first deputy and four deputies is enough with the head. What's more, we have to raise, if we go through, we're going to introduce state secretaries, we're going to raise the mid-level status -- these are the departments that have to produce politics in such large units. So I don't think there's a need to increase the number of substitutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u441	Comrades! Let's put it to a vote. Here I'm just saying once again that the problem is not in substitutes, the problem with the minister, how he can build a job. And the problem is in the middle of the cabinet itself, because the director of the department of any department is nobody. And there must be a person who can sign the corresponding acts according to the distribution of functions and thus unload the deputy minister. But it's a question to the Cabinet itself, to the organization of the government's work. And there is nothing to bear for these intercessors, or so, best man, brother, the saints of all shall work. 317 The amendment of Anatolia Sergiyovich Matviyenka is based on his insistence on voting. [[13:48:29]] For-41 Thank God, the decision is not made. 318th Taras Stack. Stetsky's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u442	Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment is made up of three parts. Part one about the number of deputy ministers, it's already settled, I'm really not quite sure that it took four, no more, no less, that's all right. But there are some ministries where there are too many substitutes. But since it has already been counted, I will not insist on it. As far as part two and part three is concerned, I am taking them off today, although I am absolutely sure that the deputy ministers are also political positions. And it actually is now, but because there is no rule about secretaries of state, and this rule could be accepted when we introduce the Secretary of State in the Cabinet of Ministers and State Secretaries into the Ministry. So I take my second and third parts off, and I hope that when we consider the question of the establishment of State secretaries, we will also accept the rule that deputy ministers are also political positions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u443	Yuri Bogdanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u444	I understand that's how the amendment is removed.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u445	Overruled. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u446	319th Sparrow. Don't insist. 320th Tuck, no insistence.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u447	Roman Tuck, do you insist? Don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u448	321th Matvienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u449	The word Anatoly Sergiyovich Matviyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u450	Dear colleagues, Yuri Bogdanovich, I would like you to explain the motives behind the rejection of my amendment. The patronage service is assigned to an appropriate term of office, and my amendment is based on what's under the contract of employment because, I think, it doesn't aggravate the right and remove any claim then, and the possible harassment to leave, to continue, even incomprehensible. Therefore, if my amendment to the logic of the bill does not make it worse, the motivation behind the working group’s position is to reject the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u451	I'll take the committee's position with your permission. We came out of the unknown on which the minister is appointed. And in this regard, no, I apologize, he may still be released from office earlier, and what to do then with the protective service that is accepted for a certain term, and the minister is no longer available, and then the protective service remains. So it creates a certain kind of conflict. Yet, I would like to remind you, the very idea of a protective service means an easier way to get to work and get out of work at any time at the request of a person being served by a protective service.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u452	John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u453	Again, here's the situation that I want to support Mr. Matthews. The thing is, he's got the right idea. How in the right direction to formulate this idea. We have one or two of those problems with our consulting assistants. And so, our consulting assistants that we hire, they even sign a document that when they're released, they won't have any claims and so on. So there's a problem here, and this problem is going to have to be settled in one way or another. I really agree with Mr. Klukkowski that if we record that the patronage service is formed for the period of the minister's mandate, then we can come into conflict with labour legislation and those who do not work may again fail to exercise their powers and we cannot release them. So, Mr. Jury, we have to agree that Matthew raised this problem and there is this problem, but let's now get past it and solve it later.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u454	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u455	Anatoly Matvienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u456	I thank you for your answers and thank you, Mr. John the Rabbit, for your understanding. I think that, obviously, if we adopt a law on central executives, obviously we should think about how we can protect the rights of members or those who work in the protective service, because their invulnerability is also a little bit inconsistent with the logic of the protective service organization. I don't insist on voting, and I'm taking this amendment down.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u457	322 too?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u458	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u459	Matthew’s word goes on.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u460	332. I would like to ask you two questions, Yuri Bogdanovich, to decide on my proposal for this amendment. All ministers are equal, all members of the government are equal, there are no more equal and important. I'd like to ask you, and what is the difference between a minister without a portfolio and a minister with a portfolio that appoints a patron service, and why is the procedure for hiring a security minister without a portfolio much more complicated than the minister of a member of the same Cabinet of Ministers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u461	Thank you. This issue was discussed, and we received an explanation from the Cabinet of Ministers. The point is, as you can see, the patron service here is not part of the Ministry, because it's a minister without a portfolio, it's part of the Cabinet. In fact, in connection with this, the appointment of posts at the Cabinet of Ministers was maintained. It was the only explanation, and I don't know the other one. That's the explanation we got from the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u462	John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u463	I understand that logic when it comes to at least the minister of the Cabinet. There is indeed a permanent function of the Cabinet of Ministers, and it can be said that this service has, at least, an institutional memory to be long enough to work effectively. But what do we say then about the Cabinet Minister, who was in office for a certain period of time. So, really, this distribution on different terms, it doesn't, once again, contribute to the unity of the Cabinet of Ministers. We need to be on the same page. When it comes only to the patron service of the minister, and the niche is the case when it comes to the service that essentially serves as the ministry, that is, as with the minister of the Cabinet. So there's a big difference. So, I think that again this issue has failed to be resolved and, I think, we will not now make decisions that will fix this situation, but we always have to apply one principle.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u464	I can agree with that. And once again, I want to emphasize that we came out of what exists today, and once again, we're going to see the creation of the Cabinet Secretariat of Ministers, so we're going to use the appointment mechanism within the Cabinet of Ministers. But I don't mind any other mechanism. Please tell me, then, where will the patron service of such a minister be formed, in what structure if he does not have a ministry?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u465	Anatoly Matvienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u466	Thank you, Yuri Bogdanovich. I never got an answer, so I understand that you have your own doubts. If we record, more faithfully, my amendment, that's the problem with the Cabinet of Ministers and that minister. And there's no problem when an appropriate amount and budget for this patron service is allocated to the Cabinet of Ministers. That's it. Then, within this budget and within this number, the minister himself decides. And in this way we don't divide ministers into white and black. So my amendment is just going to be equal to all ministers. It's a question of the principle that we're putting with you in this bill. So I insist that I vote my amendment at least for the story that there is this problem and that we cannot divide ministers into one category and another. It doesn't make it difficult, it's not a problem, it's within the Cabinet of Ministers that the Prime Minister and Minister of the Cabinet will solve.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u467	322. The amendment of the people’s deputies, Mr. Matvienko Anatoly Sergiyyovich, is based on the vote in Parliament to be taken into account. Please vote. [[13:57:46]] For-69 In principle, the amendment support indicator is growing. I think if there were another 100 amendments, we'd get to 226.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u468	Unfortunately, there are only 50. Three hundred and twenty-three counts. 324, 25, 26, 27 taken. 328, Roman Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u469	Welder Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u470	Dear colleagues, we have called the principle of "collegialism" in law among the principles under which Kabmin is governed. The standard adopted in the first reading provides that only half of the members of the Cabinet should be considered to be valid. Imagine the situation when there are 25 members of Kabmin. In order for the meetings to be held in authority, only 13. And in order for them to make an effective decision, it takes only seven votes. So seven of the 25 members of the Cabinet can make decisions. So I suggested that the Cabinet meeting, which had at least two thirds of the membership of the government, should still be considered to be valid.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u471	Well, I can say that Roman Mikhailovich is a little bit misleading: decisions are made by most than composition, not by those present. And that's why this is the same approach that the Constitutional Court of Ukraine used in determining the mandated sessions of the Supreme Council. If there is sufficient time to make a decision, then the meeting is in order. So, Roman Mikhailovich, I would ask you not to be misled by the people's deputies here in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u472	Roman Mikhailovich, what do we do, are we misleading or voting? We're misleading, fornicating, of course. Roman Mikhailovich does not vote, does not insist on voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u473	329, Pisarenko, don't insist. 330th. There's a cook here, too, but it's counted here. 332th shot. 333rd, Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-16-m0.u474	Dear colleagues, Anatoly Sergiyovich! It's all over! Honorable Fellows, 2 p.m. We have 20 pages of these amendments left. That's at least half an hour. In view of this, I declare that in an hour we have parliamentary hearings on Chernobyl, tomorrow we begin with the completion of the consideration of amendments to the national MPs. I declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council closed.
