ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-01-m0.u1	Good day to you all, dear colleagues. I'm asking you to register. [[10:02:10]] There were 442 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. By order of the day, we have the factions of factions. So I'm asking you to sign up for the factions. Writing complete. Dear colleagues, the first to speak, “The House of Yulia Timoshenko”, Bodnar Olga Borisovna. Ivan Grigorovich, will you be speaking? Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-01-m0.u2	The Honourable Head, colleagues, respected voters, has spent 100 days in the work of the new government. More than ever, this event has not gone unnoticed for society, its politics, its media. There's a lot of talk about that. What is not said, and what is desirable? And the main thing here is that we've managed to start one that will ensure Ukraine's successful irreversible development for many years ahead? First and foremost. The government did start to put real order in its own home. An example. Only at customs due to the violent growth of shadow schemes, according to the President of Ukraine, did the state not keep 60 billion dollars in the budget -- an amount sufficient for corruption, not a single category, but rather the creation of an entire shadow empire, which placed the Ukrainian producer on the verge of survival. And that went on for years. In 2005, Julia Timoshenko had already launched the “Contraband Stop!” program, which showed impressive results in a few weeks. This program is now being restored and the same unique indicators have been reached in a hundred days. Within three months of the money laundering, the budget has doubled, and this is just the beginning. But we are convinced that the process went irrevocably because there is a strong political will to accomplish what is intended to be accomplished. [[And this is the second political conclusion]] Remember, in 2000, Timoshenko eliminated a barter that had already acquired Ukraine. She was not forgiven for such acts, but most of all, no one dared to return to barter schemes. And we are convinced that the same order at the Ukrainian border will not only be stated, and the shameful practice of smuggling will forever go into the past. Third. The government’s next landmark was the de facto removal of intermediaries from the resonance energy sector. The developed nations of the world who care for energy security have long been rid of questionable schemes in this area. The government has made it clear to all of society: any intermediary in the gas market is the fabric of corruption, huge shadow tools, and a constant threat to energy security. There is no doubt that in the near future there will be open transparent pricing principles and energy formulas that will be used by all future generations of government officials. But it's not that simple. The opposite is unbelievable. The fourth conclusion is that it is us, in Ukraine, that always happens: the more successful the government, the more successful its positive results, the greater the resistance and the inner resistance. They're just amazed at the screen of the sieves that are satisfied with life by so-called experts who don't get tired of saying that savings payments, pensions, wages are evil, and few people are interested in external factors. It's nothing compared to the inside. Society continues to be horrified by inflation, but somehow the fact that galloping inflation began last September, and then there was really no reason for price increases. As soon as the harvest was over, the harvest was gathered, in the heat of the vegetable season, feeding in bulk. Why, then, did they remain silent? Today, some want to use one stroke to stop all prices. Where for six months was the Antimonopoly Committee, which only yesterday discovered America: it turns out that the main factor in price increases is monopolies that are active both in the food market and in the oil market. Fifth. The key to the government's activity is actually raising wages, pensions, social benefits. This creates a rich consumer, who is the best investor for the development of a national economy in any state. What to talk about when prices have long been around the world and wages are 10 times lower than those of our neighbors in the West. Until recently, more than 10 million pensioners had received a minimum pension, and it was only this government that began to pay it off by taking into account the earnings, the internship, the profession, the specifics, or real pension reform. And that is rightfully the sixth political achievement, which no one is undoing. Scholarships for students and students have also been doubled. Overall, 2 months of growth in real population income, accounting for inflation, accounted for 23.4 percent. It's an absolute record in recent years. With this government, our nation has really had a unique historical chance to make a major breakthrough in its development. At the turn of the day of the completion of the WTO integration processes, the Euro-2012 event, the creation of a free trade zone between Ukraine and the EU, and much more. So our duty with you, fellow believers, to create laws that should strengthen the actions of our Ukrainian government, to expand its ability to work more effectively for the benefit of our people and state, because we have long been waiting for it, and we are really worth it. Thank you for your attention and look forward to further support.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-01-m0.u3	Thank you, Ivan Grigorovitch. Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich, Communist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-01-m0.u4	Dear colleagues! Respectable voters! Almost 100 years ago, Mikhail Gruszewski said about what is happening today in Ukraine: “It is not desirable for our country to acquire a generation of nationalistic narcissists, boastful and self-loving, who have lost all objectivity.” As these words today relate to those who, in violation of the will of Ukrainian citizens, despite the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, today destroy both the sovereignty and the independence of our country. Dear voters, I would like to bring to your attention the order issued by the President of Ukraine on the night of 28 March this year, which obliges Commissioner Sagač Igor Mihajlovich, head of the Ukrainian mission to NATO, “to sign an agreement between Ukraine and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization on Ukraine’s participation in an international security operation in the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan and the financial agreement”. Thus, this order shows that our soldiers themselves are sold as meat by the President to resolve conflict situations in Afghanistan. It is this order that gives us, the communists, a call today to support the action that began yesterday in the city of Kiev, a protest against Ukraine's involvement in NATO and, of course, against the arrival of the President of the United States on an inspection trip to Ukraine. Yesterday, in fact, we are witnessing today all those who are moving around the city of Kiev, that a curfew has been introduced in the city of Kiev in the capital of Ukraine with a ban on movement in certain places, i.e. in its territory. In doing so, we must take into account that, in fact, the capital of Ukraine has been occupied by 27 aircraft of more than 800 United States special forces to ensure the viability of the President of the United States on a controlled, that is, a protectorate, the territory of the United States of America. In doing so, the team, and it's cynically speaking from the television screens of so-called independent power, tells us that it is the American snipers who are allowed to kill Ukrainian citizens from the roof, if, God forbid, someone makes a mistake, they will approach the window and open the curtain, and even more so, if he, God forbid, he will still have bad eyesight and glare will appear to someone like the Americans in Baghdad did when they shot our very own citizen, the reporter of the Ukrainian news agency. This shows that there is, in fact, widespread treachery and national treachery. I believe that we must speak seriously about this and demand that we immediately call on the Supreme Council of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and let him know what is in view of when the President signs such things. I would like all of us to understand that in addressing you, mother of our Ukraine, you must understand that this order is accepted by the Americans before the elections in America. Because the German contingent refused to carry out operations, those connected in the southern zone of Afghanistan where the fighting was taking place. And in order not to send representatives there, Yushchenko sends our Ukrainian sons to kill them. Cynically and dirty people do it politically, otherwise these people cannot be said that those who change, in fact, national interests, surrender the political and economic sovereignty of our country today. I am convinced that NATO is the problem that really answers the question: who really is the patriot of the people of Ukraine? And who, while temporarily in a position, and in fact very simple, I think Yushchenko is preparing to be in a state after completing her duties and that's where to end her life. I am convinced that we must all rise today to fight against Ukraine's involvement in NATO and thus put an end to national treason and betrayal. I am convinced that this is the position and will be the civil position of all those who, on behalf of the people today, represent Ukraine's interests in the Ukrainian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-01-m0.u5	Vaszczuk Katerina Timofievna, “Block of Lithuania”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-01-m0.u6	Dear Head, distinguished colleagues, members of the factions of the “Block of Lithuania” are deeply concerned about the situation in the village. Now we need to knock all the alarm bells not only because of the abnormal prices of oil and fuel materials, mineral fertilizers, plant protection products, technology, but especially because almost no rural programs are being financed today. Here comes the soybean, the village left with no money. Even worse than Chernobyl, imports into Ukraine without the labelling of genetically modified products. Dear colleagues, there is yet another threat to agriculture. We're going to be proposing two bills -- a bill to amend the customs tariff, which predicts that import duty rates for meat and food will fall from 21.5 per cent to 13, to 10 per cent, and so on. But it's scary not even in these percentages, it's that combined rates of import are being destroyed. The past. The late Supreme Council has been protected by combined rates, which not only predicted interest, but in the euro below how many euros it is impossible to place import duties on agricultural goods. Such destruction of combined rates will reduce import duties on animal products dozens of times. This will jeopardize the competitiveness of our agricultural producers. Even in the most hungry years, the peasant kept the cow alive because he knew that there could be a hungry death, and now animalry is barely living in Ukraine. Over the years of independence, cattle have been reduced from 25 million to 5.6 million, cows from 8.5 million to 3 million. What do we do with these carousel rates? The production of meat and milk has been reduced, and although farmers are now providing food security, because 96 percent of the market is domestic goods, we are putting this potential of the Ukrainian agrarian sector at risk. Next, I want to talk about the unprofessionalness with which the WTO talks were conducted. All nations set a transitional period. What have we done? Now we're going to introduce lowering of the moment and not just the moment. There is a special export subsidy in the EU countries where Ukraine wants to. This makes their production very convenient in the market. There is a subsidy per hectare and a large one — from 200 to 800 euros. How do we encourage our peasants to compete in such conditions? That is why the Lithuanian "Block of Lithuania" faction in the Supreme Council calls on the President of Ukraine and draws attention, and urges the Cabinet of Ministers not to allow such decisions to be adopted. During the transition period, it is necessary to create a program for adapting the village to entry into the satellite. And the second bill is about the land market in Ukraine. The reader may point out that agricultural land is planned to be auctioned. What does that mean? Without restrictions on land in one hand, without a clear definition of who has the right to buy it. By doing so, we will be inclined to fortify our own peasant, and we can make sure that our land is not owned by us. This is a betrayal of Ukraine’s national interests. And "Block of Lithuania" asks MPs not to vote in favour of these bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-01-m0.u7	Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov, faction of the Party of the Regions
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-01-m0.u8	Dear voters, respected Arsenius Petrovich, respected colleagues! Ukraine faces a threat to a decision whose consequences may have an extremely negative impact on the fate of the present and future generations of the Ukrainian people. This will happen if our State joins the PPP at the Bucharest NATO summit. This decision would trigger millions of protests. There would be people on the streets of the cities and villages who would not be reconciled to ignoring their will. Such an all-Ukrainian protest would result in a deepening of the political crisis, the regression of the socio-economic development of the State and the deterioration of the lives of our fellow citizens. If the Bucharest Summit attempts to take a decision that can change the nature of Ukrainian-Russian relations from good neighbourly to confrontational, this will necessarily lead to a dangerous source of instability on the continent. The European Union must prepare for another potential regional conflict. However, unlike the existing conflict, it would not be local but could continue throughout the Ukrainian-Russian State border. The Party of Regions has repeatedly warned against such developments, but the President, the President of the Supreme Council and the Prime Minister have proved unable to act in the interests of their people. We therefore turn to the heads of State, members of the North Atlantic Union, in Europe and the ocean, and we must know that Ukraine is not ready to join the HRC today. Joining in contravention of the will of the Ukrainian people will mark the beginning of a new “cold war” between the East and the West. There will be mutual mistrust and hostility at the site of the common struggle against the threats posed by international terrorism, technological catastrophes and other challenges of the 26th century. In this disturbing situation, we hope that our voice will be heard. This vote is not one party, it is the voice of millions of our voters, who make up the majority of the population of Ukraine, it is the voice of hundreds of millions of citizens of other States who do not want to live in constant tension and uncertainty. The Bucharest NATO summit must come into history as an event that has strengthened the European security architecture has made the world safer and more predictable. We therefore appeal to the Summit to solidarity, with our attempt not to involve Ukraine in processes that do not at this stage meet its national interests. This is the only way for development and progress. Thank you, fellows!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-01-m0.u9	The faction “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense”, Kirilenko Viacheslav Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-01-m0.u10	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. Statement by the faction “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense”. The “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” faction declares its full support for President Yushchenk's efforts, the parliamentary coalition and the government aimed at joining Ukraine in the NATO Action Plan. Ukraine's introduction to NATO is defined by Ukrainian legislation as one of the main tasks of defence and national security. The task will be to bring Ukraine into the circle of developed democracies, which together provide peace and security on the European continent. First of all, joining the Membership Action Plan will have a positive impact on the improvement of the lives of our fellow countrymen. Because the main purpose of the plan is to build a democratic society, a modern system of government, and a developed economy. The great success of President Yushchenk and Ukrainian diplomacy is that the position of Ukraine has already gained the support of the vast majority of the member states of the alliance. Official statements by the leaders of these countries, as well as a government visit to Ukraine by the President of the United States, show that NATO countries are ready to see Ukraine as a reliable strategic partner. “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense” believes that under such circumstances and the question of Ukraine’s accession to the Membership Action Plan and its accession to NATO are only a matter of time. Our task is to make this important event as early as possible in the course of Ukraine's Euro-Atlantic integration. This requires, first of all, the consolidation of all Ukrainian politics, including the cessation of opposition speculations about the foreign policy objectives of our country, which are defined by national legislation. In fact, such action is an anti-State activity aimed at weakening Ukraine’s international position. The Ukrainian authorities, first of all the government, have to activate the educational work aimed at overcoming the cold war stereotypes that have led many citizens to misinterpret NATO. Myths say that Ukraine's NATO movement is directed against Russia, or that in Ukraine, as if foreign troops were to be deployed, should be refuted by providing true information to the Ukrainian public. Ukrainian citizens need to know that NATO is a territory of prosperity and democracy, that the alliance has provided peace and stability for half a century in Europe, that no NATO country has been the target of an attack by a foreign state during this time, that the population of all Alliance countries, including the Slavs and Orthodox countries, approve of NATO. Ukrainians need to know that integration into NATO will greatly increase Ukraine's ability to defend its national interests because of its impact on global and regional policies. “Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense” believes that joining the membership plan, and then joining NATO, will provide Ukraine with long-term guarantees of security and stability and contribute to raising its economy and the well-being of the Ukrainian people. We urge the Ukrainian politicians and the Ukrainian society to join forces to achieve these important national tasks. The completion of the statement. Now, a few words on today’s sinister situation. We can say that Ukrainians are peaceful people. But that is what has sometimes played an evil joke with us throughout our history. And so our desire for peace and constructive and creative work should be securely protected by a system of collective security. And certainly Ukrainians should choose the most effective system of collective security for themselves. The world has not yet given another effective system of collective security than NATO. And especially for the opposition. When we talk about the NATO Accession Action Plan, we're not going to be friends with anyone. But we urge Ukraine and the Ukrainians to take more care of their own national interests than of the interests of the fifth column that has been buried in the Ukrainian Parliament and has bewildered our people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-01-m0.u11	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the time for the performance is over. I'd like to make a few suggestions for your consideration, dear colleagues. Yesterday we held a meeting of the Conciliation Board, and the Conciliation Board was scheduled for today. I would like to inform you that, at my request, no appropriate decision has been made to date regarding the election of the First Deputy and Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Many of the performances that have just been released have indicated the need to intensify and improve Ukrainian-Russian relations. And I, at the invitation of the Russian Federation, the State Duma of the Russian Federation must go to Russia, tomorrow and tomorrow, and spend two fruitful days with Russian leadership to make the dialogue not in words, but in action. In view of this, there is a next proposal. First. The work of the Supreme Council should be systematic and if we interrupt for one or two days and then return to the session hall again, it will hardly add real efficiency to the Supreme Council. A number of bills to be considered, such as on Thursday and Friday, are related to Ukraine’s accession to the World Trade Organization and the implementation of land reform, so far as they have not been worked on committees and have not come from the Cabinet of Ministers. So there's a next proposal to move the current plenary week to the next plenary week and so we'll work two plenary weeks in a row. So it's not about any holiday. It's about having 14 calendar days in a row, and actually 8 working days where Parliament will keep working. Until now, we will be able to work out a whole set of documents concerning the urgent needs of the Ukrainian State. I hope that by that time the government will introduce the Ukrainian Act amending the National Budget Act and the State Economic and Social Development Programme, and we will consider them without delay, along with the Ukrainian Government's programme of action, the “Ukrainian Gap”. So I would like to look at this position and present the changes to the calendar plan to the head of the regulatory committee of Efraemov Aleksandr Sergiyovich. Alexander Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-01-m0.u12	Dear Arsenius Petrovich! Dear colleagues! As a result of the overwhelming majority of the views expressed yesterday on the Conciliation Council, as well as the factions which most of them also support this view, it is suggested that today, at our meeting, we will consider the compositions of the parliamentary powers in the Chamber, then move from today to the afternoon, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, the afternoon of Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, to the committees, and next week to make the plenary a working week here in the conference room. That is, in fact, a proposal for which I propose to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-01-m0.u13	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Please sit down. The only request, yet to vote on Decree 1359, is by parliamentary hearings on Chernobyl, because we're just going to miss it. Now, Peter Mikolaiovich, I'll give it all to you, I hear you. 1359 on Chernobyl and the cessation, the permanent suspension of the powers of the national deputies and the dismissal of those who have decided to be Ukrainian national deputies. Would you like to come in? Would you like to sign up? Please, colleagues, if there is a wish, five minutes, please register. Because Peter Mikolaiovich insisted. Sergey Petrovich Klovev. Andrew Petrovich Klovev. Turn on Andrew Petrovich's microphone, please. Tell me who? Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-01-m0.u14	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there were heated speeches from the rostrum during the discussion. But you know, there's a document that came to us. And if the logic of the document were to be applied, a number of outsiders could occur in the State during the visit of today's leader of a foreign State. You know that by the President's decree on the State Protocol and the ceremony, paragraph 20 is presented to the ceremonial honors of relying on the head of the foreign state of the crown to the Mogila of an unknown soldier in Kiev. We've taken the visiting program and unfortunately, there may be just an imprint on the visiting program, but there's a flower drop to the famine monument. There is no known soldier in this program to place flowers on the Mogila. I would therefore like to clarify, Arsenius Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-01-m0.u15	Matthew Valentin Grigorovich, Communist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-01-m0.u16	Please hand over Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-01-m0.u17	Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-01-m0.u18	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the proposal made by Arsenia Petrovich. It represents the political forces, in this case, which are part of the coalition, which is pro-American and anti-Russian in mood. We do not know what composition of the delegation will be headed by Arsenija Petrovich; we do not know what issues will be discussed, what agenda. Why am I talking about this? I speak because Arsenius Petrovich did not withdraw his signature under the letter that he wrote about joining NATO. This will naturally exacerbate the progress of the negotiations and will no longer contribute to a favourable solution. Therefore, we insist that, in the end, it be decided with what specific task, on behalf of the Supreme Council, Arsenija Petrovich is going to Russia, and that the range of problems he has the right to discuss on behalf of the Supreme Council, not on his own or.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-01-m0.u19	Kenzior Jaroslav Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-01-m0.u20	Jaroslav Kenzior, National Movement of Ukraine, faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. Arsenija Petrovich, I fully support the proposal to move the plenary week to the next to provide for the protocol events that are to take place today, and in connection with your departure to Bilokam of today’s Moscow. It is important that you visit Moscow and that the Kremlin should finally be explained that Ukraine is no doubt a sovereign state and is able to solve its problems on its own. And you will no doubt explain to Moscow's leadership that there is no threat, no intervention by Ukraine as a future NATO member, to Moscow. And on the contrary, Ukraine will be protected from the aggressive actions of Russia that we are.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-01-m0.u21	Kamchatny Valeri Grigorovich, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-01-m0.u22	Please pass the word to Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-01-m0.u23	Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-01-m0.u24	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, distinguished colleagues, of course, we can only express regret at the fact that we are once again a week in vain. I'd like to go to factions that aren't in the majority today. Dear colleagues! We just want to make sure that we keep our promise to you regarding the election of the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council so that we don't always be held hostage by any other -- political, other events. Once again, Parliament’s work is paralyzed, and the reasons are objective. You've seen hundreds of bills, which are urgent to the state in a social, economic, political, and so on. It's an unacceptable practice. We ask you to make a final determination this week. We will not support today's vote by moving the plenary to the next one. The voices, of course, are enough without us, but this is the last time we ask you to identify yourself. And, Arsenius Petrovich, we want to hear from you that today all three deputies will be revoked.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-01-m0.u25	Grenevetsky Sergey Rafailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-01-m0.u26	Thank you, Arseny Petrovich. Please pass the word to Volodymyr Litwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-01-m0.u27	Litvin Volodymyr Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-01-m0.u28	Dear colleagues, today’s situation can be described in a well - known way: There has been a lot of joy. Some celebrate what is happening in Ukraine, while others sneer at the fact that they can’t stand their ground. Yesterday we agreed that the Supreme Council would work on a break today and on Friday. We've just heard the news that we need to reschedule for next week. Our faction will support this week's work with a break for Wednesday and Thursday and next plenary week. And all that's happening is evidence of what's being arranged, there's no way they can agree on how to continue to dismember Ukraine. I urge you, on behalf of our faction, to stop this blasphemy and start working.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-01-m0.u29	Dear colleagues, once again I would like to mention to the voters that this is not about Parliament being given four extra calendar days of vacation. The point is that we just carry and form two weeks in a row. And in the current week, we are further working on the bills that only yesterday and the day before came from the Ukrainian government regarding the rate of Ukraine to the WTO and we are looking forward to a series of bills starting with the completion of land reform issues and ending with the changes to the State Budget. Thus, Parliament simply carries on one week and forms two consecutive weeks of parliamentary work. Nothing happened at all. Another question is what needs to be formed by the governing bodies of Parliament in order not to be really held hostage to political things. But let's do less political speculation in this respect, we'll do everything equally. The other one. That's what's going on in Russia. Peter Mikolaiovich, if you have anything to say to Russia, I am ready to convey your position because I have something to say to our friends from the Russian Federation. If you have any questions, please. Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote the 2304 Supreme Council Resolution on Peri. on amending the calendar schedule for the second session of the Supreme Council of the Sixth Call. The week from April 1st to April 4th. April 1st is the morning plenary session. April 2-4 is work on committees and factions. The week from April 7th to April 11th. 7th – Conciliation Council, 8th – plenary meetings and so on until 11th of April. I'd like to make a statement. On the basis and in general. I'm betting on a vote of 2,304. [[10:40:14]] For 228 Decision taken, my dear fellows. Thank you. So for the next plenary week, we're going to have a proper order and approach to work. Please show by factions. Next. Draft decision 1359. Colleagues, Parliamentary Hearing Order on "The State, Action and Prospects to Overcome the Consequences of the Chernobyl Disaster." Please, Mikola Haritonovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-01-m0.u30	Mikola Shershun, Lithuanian Block faction. Dear Arseny Petrovich! Dear National Deputies! Less than a month later, a sad date will come — the 22nd anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster. It is only natural that the Chernobyl theme is multifaceted. She is concerned about the public and will occupy the minds of its representatives, who are indifferent to the future fate of mankind. The search for rational ways to deal with the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster continues. On January 17th, the Supreme Council registered a draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings on the Status, Action and Prospects for coping with the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. On January 29, the profile committee made a proposal to hold these hearings on April 23. The project is supported by other committees. The second month has passed, and the question has not yet been considered, so far no decision has been taken. Not only is the government of Ukraine, but we are all with you: the MPs of all levels, scientists, public organizations -- we have moral responsibility for solving the whole complex of Chernobyl problems. Because it is about the welfare of millions of people, including children, whose future depends on decisions that are not made by them. Moreover, we are convinced that if we do not take decisive action to address the health, social, environmental, economic consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, the fate of the affected population will remain at the centre of every new debate on energy development in the future. Many initiatives in eliminating its effects can be used and used in many parts of the world, where people suffer from technological disasters, economic changes, and so forth. The consequences of the Chernobyl disaster remain unsettled. Therefore, it is suggested that they be discussed extensively at parliamentary hearings. People are waiting for us to make decisions. Dear colleagues, we plan to hold these hearings in the wake of the anniversary of the disaster, so I propose that we include a discussion of the holding of parliamentary hearings on the state, actions and prospects of overcoming the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster into the agenda and consider this issue in an unprecedented manner. Taking into account the changes made to the order of the day - to - day second session of the sixth call, please move the hearing date from April 23 to April 16. Thank you for your attention, and we look forward to the support of our colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-01-m0.u31	Dear colleagues, here's a proposition: I'm going to put the project on the ground first, and then, if we vote in general, I'm going to change it by April 16th. Therefore, the 1359 project on parliamentary hearings on "The state, measures and prospects of coping with the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster". I'll bet the vote on the basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-01-m0.u32	Attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-01-m0.u33	There's a change to make. Please. [[10:44:14]] For 431 Decision taken. Now, colleagues, there's a proposal to change the date from April 23 to April 16. So in general, I take into account the changes made by my colleague, Sherschun. Have the hearing on April 16th. Please vote in general. [[10:44:45.]] For 427 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-01-m0.u34	I am truly grateful.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-01-m0.u35	Dear colleagues. Thank you, Mikola Haritonovich. We've got a few important issues to discuss today. So it's a draft decision to release Kostusev from office as Head of the Antimonopoly Committee. Draft Decision on the release of Prutnik from office of Head of the State Committee on Television and Radio. Draft Decision on the permanent termination of Ukrainian National Deputies: Sivolski, Burjak, Korniyczuk, Levinsky, Krawczuk, Zródný, Food, Titenko, Ponomarenko, Cerkaski, Bogatirov. I'm in line for a vote with the relevant reports. In accordance with article 85, paragraph 12, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers has submitted an application for the release of Prutnik Eduardo Anatoliyovich from the post of Head of the State Committee on Television and Radio. What?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-01-m0.u36	Do you mind? We'll be right there. Please, two minutes. Sign up for whom you have not entered. Alexander Sergiyovich, please inform the Parliament about the Philippines, the People's MP of the Philippines, why is there no Philippines here?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-01-m0.u37	With regard to the Philippines, he did not submit an application for parliamentary authority. In accordance with our legislation, we have written a corresponding explanation in the committee to the authorities where it works. As soon as we get the official information from there, we'll ask the question. In the Committee, it will be considered and placed in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-01-m0.u38	Thank you. Vladimir Litwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-01-m0.u39	Dear colleagues, with regard to Victor the Philippines. Victor Philipisin made all the necessary statements, they are at the Secretary of the President of Ukraine. So I don't think there's any problem with that and that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-01-m0.u40	My colleagues, I would like to suggest that we have an official report from the chairman of the committee, Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov, which is why he informed us about these things. Stone Valery Grigorovitch, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-01-m0.u41	Please pass the word to Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-01-m0.u42	Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich. Won't you, Ivan Grigorovich? Thank you. Schmellow Svetlana Alexandrovna Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-01-m0.u43	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I would like us to act clearly in accordance with the Constitution, first of all, to set an example of the implementation of the laws and regulations of the Constitution. So I urge the faction, first of all, that we vote on issues that affect the disenfranchisement of national deputies in connection with their transition to another job, or executive branch of power. This is the first time. And secondly, I would like to draw your attention, Arsenija Petrovich, that when I suggested that we discuss here a delegation mission going to Russia, I first understood that the Supreme Council is a collective body and a collective body that operates from all the people of Ukraine, not just the pro-American and anti-Russian forces. So I ask you first of all to understand that you are the Head of the Supreme Council, not the head of an organization, but the head of a government organization, and to arrive on behalf of the President. So I urge you to urgently discuss the delegation's task of negotiating in Russia.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-01-m0.u44	Ivy Ivan Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-01-m0.u45	Thank you, Arsenia Petrovich. Arsenija Petrovich, I wanted to say, you said that there was no afternoon in the decree we voted on. That we're working on committees or plenary today. There's no project in there that we've just been handed out. And the second is about disenfranchisement. There may be claims, but the Rules provide for the submission of a regulatory committee. If there is no regulatory committee, of course it is not possible to consider. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-01-m0.u46	Shevchuk Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-01-m0.u47	Thank you. I'm making a performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-01-m0.u48	Thank you. Yavorowski. Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-01-m0.u49	Vladimir Yavorowski. Dear colleagues, dear Arsenia Petrovich! The “Julia Tymoshenko Block” suggests that if we vote in favour of resignation today, in favour of depriving national MPs of their powers, of voluntary dismissal, we should start the first sessional day, which, of course, will be with the taking of an oath by new national deputies. And the last thing I'd like to say is to the electorate first. The thing is, of course, the Supreme Council could be working very smoothly and productively this week. But you yourself realize that to this day, the Party of Regions cannot decide with its candidate to be the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council. Because of this, in fact, they are actually breaking up the work of the Supreme Council today with this uncertainty. And, Arsenija Petrovich, I am very much asking you to ask about the appointment of the Memorial dates, literally at the next meeting, so that we do not get tied up on partial dates.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-01-m0.u50	The time for the performance is over. I would like to point out once again that when a decision was made to change the calendar plan, it was stated under the transcript that the first of April was the morning plenary meeting. John Stepanovich, this was said in the vote. This will result in a “morning plenary meeting” with the thesis. So we're going to end it literally after the vote on the proper termination of the terms of reference. The other one. As far as the oath is concerned. The oath is included in the agenda without discussion, so the Central Election Commission, as soon as it receives today's decision by the Ukrainian Parliament to terminate the term of office, will gather and make an appropriate legal decision in accordance with the law. And the third. I'd like to ask you again not to speculate on the Russian question. If there are proposals for Moscow, I am willing to listen to them, dear Peter Nikolaevich. Please, it's in my office. Dear colleagues, I'm going back to the agenda. Order 1334. Draft Decision on the release of Prutnik Eduardo Anatoliyovich from office of Head of the State Committee on Television and Radio Broadcasting of Ukraine. Relevant submission to article 85, paragraph 12, of the Constitution. I'm voting on the corresponding draft of Decree 1334. [[10:52:34]] For 225 The decision is not taken. Order on the release of Kostusev Alexander Alexandrovitch from office as Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine The relevant submission has been submitted, the committee supports, and the committee of profile is here on economic policy. I'm betting on the vote of Decree No. 1330 on the release of Kostusev from office as Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine. Please vote. [[10:53:18]] For the 220. The decision is not taken. Please show by factions. Supreme Council Regulation No. 2186, on the permanent suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy, Cherkassky Igor Borisovich. I'd like to point out once again, it's all gone to the committee, it's all made up of decisions, both in the previous two decisions and on this. Please vote. Order 2186. [[10:54:15]] For 196. The decision is not taken. Decree 2184 on the suspension of the mandate of the People's Deputies of Ponomarenka Aleksandra Volodymirovic. 2184. Please vote. [[10:54:42]] For 214 The decision is not taken. Decree No. 2119 on the termination of the powers of Ukrainian national deputy Titenka Sergio Mihajlovich. Please vote. [[10:55:07]] For-54 Colleagues, I could go first to the faction leaders. We're going to a direct violation of the Ukrainian Constitution, part of the fact that we haven't released Prutnik and Kostujev and part of the fact that we're not stopping the powers of the national deputy. Let's get the hell out of here. In view of the fact that we need a seven - day deadline for the Central Election Commission to decide on the registration of Ukraine’s new national deputies. If this decision is not voted today, we will once again enter the political wedge in the walls of Parliament. I ask you to respond responsibly to the opposition, and the coalition in part, let's release both Kostusev and Prutnik, turn to this question. Colleagues, this is gonna be right. And let's go back to stopping all the national MPs from being authorized and putting a dot. We are defaming the Ukrainian Constitution! [[B in m in s a l in]] Please log in, three minutes out of the procedure. Vladimir Karpuk, “Our Ukraine”. Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-01-m0.u51	Vladimir Karpuk. Please hand over Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-01-m0.u52	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. Dear colleagues, I'm sure the approach should be the same for all the deputies who are now meeting their positions. We are surprised, therefore, when the opposition forgets to vote in favour of the release of the Head of Statecomteleradio, who is at the same time a member of the opposition faction and for the release of the Head of the Antimonopoly Committee, who is also a member of the opposition for the discharge. So I suggest, if we are now inclined to make such a decision, then we need to vote on all the issues that concern MPs, both opposition and coalitions. This will then be the implementation of the Constitution, the Rules, and the implementation of political agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-01-m0.u53	Illias Grigory Alexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-01-m0.u54	I give you my word to Shufresche.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-01-m0.u55	To whom is the word?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-01-m0.u56	Shufrik.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-01-m0.u57	Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-01-m0.u58	Thank you. Dear colleagues, it is certainly very sad that we are detaining our Chief of the Supreme Council for breakfast with Mr. Bush. If I'm not mistaken, breakfast should start at 11 o'clock in the 15th minute, I think you can make it if we work hard. But I have a request for the majority. Let's be honest. The dismissal of officials is, frankly, the authority of the majority. Therefore, you declare that you have 226, 227 votes. Where are they? We don't see them, although we're very, very closely watching. It's our constitutional duty, not our coalition duty. So I'm asking you to put it to a vote after you've removed your parliamentary powers, and with authority, you can figure it out yourself if you're capable of doing that, if you have coalitions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-01-m0.u59	Sergey Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-01-m0.u60	Sobolev, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko”. I'm really, let's be honest, really. Because what just came out of the previous faction was so insistent in previous parliamentary calls that there should be no complacency between the national deputies and those working in the executive structures of power. He even introduced a bill concerning the twenty days during which the definition of a position was to take place. True, this bill has now been annulled by the Constitutional Court, but this is what I understand does not change the position of all factions in Parliament as to what should be a clear and principle position with regard to all the national MPs who hold certain positions. That is why our faction will vote in favour of the full composition of all the national deputies who today fit in the positions of executive power. And that's the only way to make the right decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-01-m0.u61	Thank you. Colleagues, I would like to ask you to comply with the Ukrainian Constitution. The committees considered these questions. The decision of another cannot be like the release and termination of appropriate powers. Therefore, Ivan Grigorovich, Viacheslav Anatoliyovich, Alexander Sergiyovich, Peter Mikolayovich and Vladimir Mihajlovich, I ask that factions be determined as to the return to the vote on the issues defined by Decrees 1330, 1334, 2186, 2184 and 2119. That is, to return to the vote on the release of Kostusev, Prutnik, and the termination of the respective powers of the three national deputies. We will continue to vote in full on everything. I'm putting to the vote the question of return to the vote, please vote. [[11:00:44]] For 222 The decision is not taken. Simonenko, Peter Mikolaiovich is very much asking for the word, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-01-m0.u62	Arsenius Petrovich, Simonenko, Communist faction. I propose that, given the situation that has now arisen, the Communist faction will necessarily vote. We vote in line with the establishment of the powers of the people's deputies and the release from positions of the people's deputies who have expressed their desire to work in Parliament. And the Communist faction will surely vote. I want everyone here to take responsibility for the implementation of the Constitution and the Law of Ukraine. That's why every speculation has to be stopped. And I ask you, Arsenija Petrovich, to finally understand that you are the President of the Supreme Council, not to offer me what offer to negotiate with Russia, I can do without you. This is the role of our Parliament in strengthening friendly relations with Russia, and we must have a public policy, not a furry one, which you propose to engage in such conversations as you are conducting.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-01-m0.u63	Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-01-m0.u64	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear Arsenia Petrovich! Dear colleagues! You know, we're witnessing that two parts of the hall without the "Livine Block" about something that's all arranged for each other, unclearly, under the carpet, we agreed on something, we voted something. Your Honor, agree on everything, because if you're forming a new coalition, announce it, today's day-to-day vote for this week at a time when "Block of Lithuania" offered to work on this and the next week did not pass. Obviously, your arrangements have not yet come to a logical conclusion. Take your time, make a deal, and you'll be fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-01-m0.u65	Dear colleagues, since decisions are not made. So, once again, it's not a batch now, but I'm putting the 1330 vote back on the vote for the last time, because we're going to take only one mechanism, we're all getting laid off, we're all out of commission. On the return to the vote under Decree No. 1330. Please vote. [[11:03:28]] For 221 On the return to the vote under Decree No.1334 on the release of Prutnik. [[11:03:51]] For - 224. The decision is not taken. On the return to the vote under Decree No. 2186 on the termination of the mandate of the deputy of Cherkaski. [[11:04:16]] For 200. The decision is not taken. On the return to the vote under Decree No. 2184 concerning the termination of the powers of the deputy of Ponomarenka. [[11:04:39]] For – 215 On the return to the vote under Decree 2119 on the release of a deputy, on the termination of the powers of Deputy Titenka. [[11:05:01]] For – 52 Dear colleagues, I propose that we stop the circus and act on the Constitution. And then we have, you know, one part of the room is voting because it has its constitution, and the other half is voting because it probably has another part of the constitution. So the morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed until next week.
