ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-11-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, let's register. [[16:04:20]] Let me at least see, 291 people's deputies in the hall. I insist on the procedure for voting. The ballots are ready, the booths are set. I'm addressing Mikaly Haritonovich Shershun, if not Shershun, the first deputy to the relevant Counting Commission, please immediately assemble the commission, require a voting procedure. In that case, if there's no trust, we're closing the question. There's a lot of trust, we're also closing the question. Evening meeting. Peter Mikolaiovich, calm down. I'll tell you what, sit down. 291 deputies, meetings opened. Please calm down. Please, Alexander Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-11-m1.u2	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues, I do not think we should settle the issue of clowning. Arsenius Petrovich, you can get out of this situation completely peacefully. We're looking at your statement, if you wrote it in a joke and didn't mean to do it, then you'll call it off, and then we'll think about another way to do it with the Speaker of Parliament who's joking with the MPs. And if you have written a statement knowingly, please do not sit next to this ambush that you yourself have set up, but acknowledge that the deputies have the right to adopt and, in accordance with the Constitution, the Rules themselves decide how they will vote. Therefore, if you do not get enough votes, you will return to the vote by ballot. And now for the next moment. We all know that if we ever agree to vote ballots, we don't.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-11-m1.u3	Let me finish. Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-11-m1.u4	It takes at least some time for the deputies to be returned and physically present.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-11-m1.u5	Oh! Well, then! Well, then!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-11-m1.u6	Why is this surprising? And what is so surprising is that this is the normal practice of working as a deputy corps and all of you, respected colleagues, travel and not just work in a session room. But it's always been that we agreed if it's really a question. And to make a statement today, Arsenius Petrovich, that considering your personal statement is a coup d'état, is pointless and immoral. We therefore demand that you put to the vote a ruling and vote on how to vote on the consideration of your statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-11-m1.u7	I see. Who wants to make a statement? Paul Silent, please. You're from the rostrum, will you? Let's get out of the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-11-m1.u8	Dear colleagues! Dear Alexander Sergiyovich! First of all, my words to you. This question was put sporadicly on the Conciliation Council yesterday, and I thought it was just a joke, because the Chief of the Supreme Council has the right to withdraw it at any moment. And it is, Your Honor, that I would like to remind you that the Supreme Council of the Supreme Council has never sent it as you suggest in this procedure. Throughout my history of being in the walls of the Supreme Council, we had only one procedure, and I want to remind you how even this last procedure that was going on when we were choosing the Yatsenuk -- it was the ballots. And you remember how you did the obstacles. My dear ones, if there was such a procedure, it would be logical to do so, and there could be a conversion or elimination. That is not why this is your main goal.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-11-m1.u9	Colleagues, please. Well, first of all, I'm asking that the level of cynicism also be a little bit lower. So you have the votes, vote. The rules are provided for by ballots. I'm telling you again, if you don't want to vote with the ballots, let the Count Commission come together. There will be no meeting of the Counting Commission, I'll put a change of order to the vote. But at least do something about it. Count commission, I'm calling Mikaly Haritonovich Shershun, the first deputy, gather around. There is no decision of the Counting Commission. I, Alexander Sergeyevich, as opposed to you, would like to emphasize once again my responsibility for this matter. I'll put to the vote a change of order. If I say so, I do. A reckoning committee is meeting. If there is no counting commission within an hour, let's put the vote to a vote. In doing so, stop, in order to complete today's voting procedure, I ask you to vote in favour of the continuation of the sitting until the end of the vote. Please vote. [[16:10:27]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. You have an hour. Let's get out of here. Not an hour from now, you'll be voting with your cards. Assemble the meetings of the Counting Commission as required by law, not as someone wanted.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-11-m1.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, the Counting Commission held a meeting on the organization of a voting procedure for the release of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. There are exactly half of the members of the panel present at the meeting, 10 members, which are authorized in accordance with Article 17 of the Rules of Procedure of the other terms of reference. All decisions of the Counting Commission were taken unanimously by 10 votes. The decision of the commission approved the ballot for secret ballots: the blue ballot, the format of a half letter A4 with a defined voting question, namely: the ballot for the secret ballot calling off the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Mr. Arsenuk Arseny Petrovich. November 11, 2008. Two graphs: I support the other one, I don't support it. Signatures of the Deputy Head of the V.M. and the Secretary of the Chago Counting Commission E.P. Please proceed to the secret ballot procedure from 17.25 to 18 hours, as provided by the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council, since the session of the Supreme Council has not been resumed, the voting booths are ready. Members of the Counting Commission are asked to go upstairs to sign the seats during the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-11-m1.u11	I'd like to have a moment's attention, because under these unusual conditions, I have to go to you right now after that precedent that just took place in the session room. We've drawn your attention to that without any announcement. A distinguished national deputy came out on the rostrum without any authority to do so and made an announcement about the meeting of a reckoning commission composed of 20 Ukrainian national deputies. And in no way can the 10 national deputies of Ukraine pass a decision on behalf of the entire calculus commission for being present in the living head of this reckoning commission. I want to say that these approaches do not embellish the Supreme Council of Ukraine and those who are taking similar steps today, and who are giving the command to include the microphone to the national deputy, when in this case the issue is not being considered and there is no authority under the Rules to speak from the rostrum. In this regard, I would like to warn everyone that we can only act in the manner provided for by the Constitution of Ukraine and by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And any violation of the Supreme Council's Rules may be the reason why those who either organize or perform these violations, or are their conscientious performers, are, in accordance with article 29 of the Supreme Council's Rules, subject to sanctions, such as those relating to the right to hold plenary meetings. I think we should be able to find a way out of any situation and not try to make decisions that we can really like or need today, because nothing in life is permanent. And so that we don't create precedents that will then be ashamed of the people's deputies who are organizing similar actions themselves. I now ask Arsenija Petrovich to take up his post and to continue the consideration of the issue he has put forward, since the draft decree has been handed down to all the people's deputies, which foresees a change in voting methods as defined in the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. No ballot papers can, of course, be produced and distributed. And no vote can take place today by way of ballots.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-11-m1.u12	Protocol No. 2 to the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 11 November 2008. Attended: Deputy Head of the Vyezovsky Counting Commission, Secretary of the Chago Counting Commission, and 8 members of the commission — only 10 members of the commission. They were told that the conclusions of the secret vote on the appeal of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Yatsenuk Arseny Petrovich. On the basis of the results of the secret ballot, the Counting Commission established: First. The number of Ukrainian national deputies recognized is 450. The number of Ukrainian national deputies who received secret ballots is 109. The number of Ukrainian national deputies who took part in the vote is 108. The number of invalid ballots is 2. In accordance with article 88 of the Constitution of Ukraine, chapters 7 and 76, 77 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, the Counting Commission decided: Consider the secret vote to call off the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Yacenyuk Arseny Petrovich, to what has not happened. Head of the Counting Commission, deputy head of the Counting Commission. I'm sorry, there was no head. Deputy Head of the Counting Commission, Secretary of the Counting Commission and eight members of the Counting Commission. [[caption]] Just 10 signatures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-11-m1.u13	Thank you, Your Honor. The vote took place. I would like to emphasize once again that I am somewhat surprised at the position of the factions that initiated this question, why they did not take part in the vote. No one ripped out a ballot or ripped off, as was the case with the appointment of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. There was every possibility of getting a suitable number of votes. I don't think that's a question that's going to come out of the agenda. So you have to stop all the intrigues of knitting, and the affairs of counterfeiting, and the other way to do it is to get rid of the fool. There are 226 votes, let them make the decision. And that's going to be legal and right. The only task is to carry out a democratic and legal process. And the goal was to bury the Ukrainian Parliament and bury Ukrainian democracy with Parliament. Since we couldn't go to the next election, let's think of another formula. I think my colleagues are going to raise that question again tomorrow. Once again, I want to testify to the fact that, as I have acted throughout the year in accordance with the Rules, the Constitution, and the laws, so will I. Any question that is to be considered by Parliament will be legally introduced, and we will vote in favour of it. Dear colleagues, I declare the plenary session closed, as the work was not voted on. And Lavrinovich, by the way, I was hoping that he would vote on the decision to change the voting method, but neither was the vote. Thank you. Closing the meeting.
