ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:25]] The 435 national deputies registered in the session hall, and the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine declared open. Dear colleagues, allow me to provide you with general information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary meetings on December 11. Nine issues of the agenda were considered. seven bills and six draft decrees. Six rulings on the election and release of judges have been adopted; six bills aimed at overcoming the financial economic crisis have been adopted as a basis; two bills have been considered and removed as alternatives to adopted bills as a basis. According to article 25 of the Rules on Friday, we have thirty minutes to make inquiries. Allow me to announce the parliamentary questions that have come from the National Deputies: Vladimir Kaplienka to the President of Ukraine about the provision of unreliable information for the parliamentary address and the parliamentary request from the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Ivan Alexanderovich. I would like to vote in favour of the request to the President of Ukraine, please vote. [[10:03:04]] For 180. Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[10:03:29]] For 180. The decision is not taken. Alexia Kostusev to the President of Ukraine regarding the unjustified increase in house and house maintenance tariffs in Odessa. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:04:02]] For 204 Request supported. I now put to the vote the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:04:24]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Grinevetsky's Sergey to the President of Ukraine on violations of legislation in the course of a project to create a deep-sea Danube Black Sea. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. Please vote. [[10:04:55]] For 363 Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[10:05:16]] For 364 Decision taken. Groups of national deputies: Arjeva, Rybeki, Gigi and others, only 38 national deputies to the President of Ukraine for the release of Tiberius Durdinz from the BIS authorities for abuse of office, smuggling and corruption. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. I'd like to make up my mind. [[10:05:54]] For 387 Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:06:14]] For 391 Decision taken. People's Deputies Groups: Poljančiča, Zejnalova, only 15 national deputies, to the President of Ukraine for the cessation of violations of the current legislation by the State Press of Ukraine, the State Administration, in relation to the publication of the magazine “Ukraine”. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. Please vote. [[10:06:51]] For-126 The decision is not taken. Jury of Lithuania to the Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget, Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for funding from the State budget of Ukraine of the Kirovograd Mining and Enriching Combination of Acided ores in 2009. Boris Petrov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on measures to prevent the systemic crisis in the agro-industrial sector and to take account of the proposals made by Zaporozhye agrarians. Boris Tarasyuk to Prime Minister of Ukraine for financing the construction of the Ukrainian College in Sevastopol. Victor Sinchenk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for permission to use forest land for the construction of a road around the city of Kagarlik Kyiv. Victoria Demianchuk to the Prime Minister, the Head of the Secretary of the President of Ukraine, the Secretary-General of the RNB, acting as Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the non-use of legal protection measures to bring criminal responsibility to the organizers of criminal schemes for the import into the customs territory of Ukraine and the legalization of vehicles in the Winnitz region, resulting in losses to the State for more than 50 million dollars. Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister for violations of sanitary and environmental legislation by State-owned enterprises Sverdlovantracit and Lugansk-carbon-frefstructuring, as well as the inaction of public authorities in ensuring the environmental security of citizens and the protection of the environment in the town of Sverdlovsk Lugansk. Vladimir Sovkovic to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for not allowing the closure of the Medwin Regional Hospital of the Boguslav district of Kiev. Edward Prutnik to First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Ukraine for Emergency Situations and Protection against the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Head of Administration for Emergency Situations and Population Protection from the Chernobyl Disaster, on the transfer of local fire protection to the village of the town of Nornica for the maintenance of the administration of the Czernigian Authority. Igora Kaletnika to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the repair and financing of the road in the Winnitsky region. Igora Sharov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to take effective measures to prejudice the possible destruction of the Ukrainian health care system as part of the implementation of plans to counter the negative impact of the global financial and economic crisis. Igora Sharov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the negative consequences of the restructuring of the State Intellectual Property Department of the Ukrainian Ministry of Economics, which may cause a substantial limitation of the constitutional rights of Ukrainian citizens in the area of property rights to the results of intellectual and creative work. Catherine Vasuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the transfer of the state-owned enterprise “Victor” of the Volin Institute of Agricultural Production of the Ukrainian Academy of Agricultural Sciences to the administration of the Ministry of Agricultural Policy of Ukraine. Caterina Vashuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for amendments and additions to the Cabinet of Ministers Order of Ukraine from 4.11.1993 No.909 as part of the appointment of education staff as trainer-teacher of the children's sports school. Mikola Komara to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the employment of disabled people in the city of Dryrkowka Donetskie region. Mikoli Shershun to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on dissatisfaction with the reply of the Cabinet of Ministers to the parliamentary request for funding of rural health institutions from the 2009 State Budget Fund of Ukraine. Mikoli Shershun to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine for the use of special measures to prevent an increase in unemployment in the Ternopil region in connection with the return of migrant workers. Oleg Zarubinsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the protection of national interests by the Cabinet of the Ministers of Ukraine during the construction of the Danube Black Sea canal on the Ukrainian part of the Danube Delta. Alexander Kemenyash to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for the transfer of the terms of entry into force of paragraph 11 of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine Regulation on the cuttings of the letter forests of the Carpathian Mountains in relation to the need for appropriate technical resupply of enterprises. Tetjana Draha to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science, on the closure of rural education schools in the 1st grade of the Obuhi district of Kiev. Groups of National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the personal review by the Prime Minister of Ukraine of the restoration of the housing fund that was affected by mining work. Groups of National Deputies: Shpaka, Greenewetsk and others, to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, acting as Head of the Security Service, Attorney General, on unlawful actions to seize the property of the Hmelnick University of Administration and Law. Andrija Paruba, head of the State Information and Security Service of Ukraine, Director-General of the State Enterprise “Ukraine Special Systems” on the provision of information. Basil Gretzak to the Secretary of the RNB on the possible existence of a corruption group in the RNB and the President's Secretariat, whose purpose is to cause significant damage to the state budget of Ukraine. Vassil Gretzak to the Secretary of the RNB, the First Deputy Secretary of the RNB, the Deputy Secretary of the RNB on the facts that indicate that a group of officials of the President's Secretariat and the RNBP of the President of Ukraine may be misled by the decision of 07.11.2008 and the President's decree of 1054-38T/208 of 18.11 this year. Vladimir Yavorowski to the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Ukraine for the shameful fact of removal from the Ukrainian-Russian talks of military professionals who are capable of defending Ukrainian interests in the temporary stay of the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation in Ukraine. Edward Prutnik to the Minister for Environmental Protection of Ukraine, Head of the National Geological Service, Attorney General, on the verification of the environmental degradation situation of the village of Sagittarius of the region of Chernigiv. Irina Herashchenko to the Minister of Transport and Communications, the first deputy head of the State Television and Radio Committee of Ukraine, the first deputy head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, the state-authorized, head of the National Council for Communications Regulation of Ukraine, the head of the State Inspectorate for Price Control for Unwarranted Increase in Telecommunications Services, Radio and Television in 2009. Oleg Zarubinsky to the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine on Ukraine's response to violations of the Republic of Moldova's State Border Treaty, including failure to comply with its obligations to transfer to Ukraine the Odessa-Reni Road area in the area of the settlement of Palanka Republic of Moldova. Oleg Šepelívá to the minister of health regarding the use of measures to prevent the price of medicines from rising. Saint-Piscoon to the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Attorney-General on the criminal activity of the internal affairs bodies of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea during the illegal possession of property and the detention of hostages at the Furshet store located in the city of Simferopol on the street of the 60st anniversary of October,22. Sergey Gordinka to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, the Attorney General, on the need to investigate the inaction of the state authorities, which led to the uncontrollable embezzlement of material values and the cost of the Clara Tsetkin factory, which is located in the village of the city-type Reschetylovka Poltava district, and to pay wages to former employees. Stepan Kupil to the head of the General Directorate of BSS in Kiev and Kiev for the verification of the responsibilities of the head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Valentina Látvajchenko, for pressurizing journalists. Jury Litvina to the head of the State Tax Administration for non-execution by the State Tax Administration of Ukraine of the decision of the court to renew Vitali Gordijenko's work. Groups of National Deputies: Larina, Kolocya and others, to the head of the Supreme Audit Authority of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on gross violations of Ukrainian legislation by the health head of the village of Vasilkow district of Kyiv region. Groups of National Deputies: Sweden, Mališeva and others, to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine for the improper execution of a court decision by the departments of the State Executive Service of the District Departments of Justice of Kiev and the city of Donetsk. Vasil Har to the Attorney General of Ukraine on illegal actions aimed at the capture of the Federation of Ukrainian Trade Unions and its member organizations. Victor Oliynik to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the protection of housing rights of residents of Komarova Street, 37 villages of the town type Manievich Volinsk district. Vladimir Litvin to the Attorney-General of Ukraine for the verification of compliance with the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code when the head of the Vladimir Rural Council of the Herson district of Viktor Drigval was taken into custody and the criminal proceedings against him. Vladimir Pilpenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine for bringing to justice the responsibilities of the head of the Galician District Court of Lvov Oleg Jurkowa. Ivana Denkovic to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the non-application of measures taken by the Prosecutor's Office of the Lviv Region regarding violations of Ukrainian legislation by officials of the Vinnik City Council. Oksana Bilozer to the Attorney-General on the improper implementation of the Ukrainian Law on the Prevention of Domestic Violence by authorized state authorities, institutions and their officials. Roman Zabzaluk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of the terms of reference for a group of Ukrainian national deputies. Roman Zabzaluk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the improper examination of the parliamentary request and the provision of unreliable information by officials of the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine. Ruslan Lukyanczuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the dissatisfaction with the reply of the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine to the parliamentary hearing about the improper investigation by the prosecutor of Kiev of the circumstances of falsification of a criminal case against citizens: Igora Nikolayenka and Galina Rajevska – and the evidence in this case. Sergei Gordienka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the need for further thorough investigation of the case, with the participation of officials of the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, regarding the killing of a resident of the village of Rímarówk Gaddaecki district of Poltava district of Vadim Chrobk. Stepan Kupil to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the delay in the investigation of a criminal case overstepping the official authority of the Sokal Police Department in the Lviv region. Jury Karmazin to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the screening of information on the concealment of the head of the Ukrainian Security Service by Valentin Navejchenk of his teaching at the U.S.S.R.R.R. High School; Jury Miroshnicka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on violations of legislation in the use of technical means to obtain information in public. Groups of national deputies: Arjeva, Rybeki, Gigi, only 38 national deputies, to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the release of Tiberius Durdinz from the IBBB authorities for abuse of office, smuggling and corruption. Eugene Goodyak to the head of the branch office in Zakartat district for the verification of the involvement of the responsible headship of the Ukrainian Security Service, Valentin Nadvajchenka, in the pursuit of separatist movements in the Zakartat region. Alexander Schepeleva to the head of the branch office in the Donetsk region for the verification of the role of the head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Valentin Nadvajchenka, in the raid. Celebration of Olijnik to the head of the Dnipropetrov region’s BSS administration for the verification of the role of the acting head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Valentin Nastavajchenka, in the illicit arms and ammunition trade. Thus, honourable colleagues, made all the parliamentary inquiries that came from the national deputies of Ukraine. Yesterday, the distinguished national deputies, we confirmed the schedule for Friday. Then, a draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2008 and amending certain Ukrainian legislation is announced for consideration. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to inform you that the draft bill has been tabled on several occasions before a budget committee meeting, but there has been no quorum necessary for the meeting and the decision-making process. At the same time, 20 National Deputies, members of the Committee on Budget Affairs from 34 Committee members, are recommended to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to consider and accept this document and there are proposed amendments if we agree to consider this document, they will be presented. Dear colleagues, so I'm going to put to the vote the proposal to consider this bill without a committee decision, but there's a request from 20 committee members, right, it can't replace the committee's decision on the need to consider this document. These are extremely important things, especially with regard to providing the Pension Fund with a second-January pension. Then I very much ask you to vote in favour of the inclusion of this document. One minute, take off your vote. Wait a minute! Dear colleagues, we agreed not to make a decision. So there are no warnings, no appeals, and no lawsuits, so I'm going to put this to a vote without the committee's consideration. We will see the political will of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Signal vote, please vote in favour of this matter without the committee's decision. [[10:23:13]] For 252 Political will is. I am voting on the bill, registration number 3308 without a committee decision, but on the basis of the recommendation of most members of the committee on the need for consideration and adoption of the bill today. Please vote. [[10:23:52]] For 260 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the committee. No suggestions for the Rules? None. The rapporteur is Deputy Minister of Finance Anatoly Ivanovich Merkovsky, who is present. Responsible for the committee’s consideration of the matter, Head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Dr. Mikola Ivanovich. How much time do you need? How much? The reporter asks for five minutes and five minutes to ask questions. Ten minutes to ask? Ten minutes to ask, and the co-report how many there are, we're going to set five minutes, right? Three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u2	I will now ask the first deputy head of the Supreme Council, Alexander Volodymyrovich Lavrinovich, to determine the reason for the absence of a minister. Report.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u3	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! You are being reviewed by the draft Act amending the 2008 State Budget. This bill was submitted to the Supreme Council by the Cabinet of Ministers on November 11, this year. The point of change is I'd like to put it briefly. The first position we ask for support is to increase the pension fund's grants by 6.6 billion dollars, which are linked to the need to financially secure pension payments this year, including the adoption of the Ukrainian Mining Act. The second position relates to support for the financial situation of NAC Naftogaz Ukraine, which is expected to increase the transfer by 3.2 billion dollars at the expense of the special fund according to the financial plan approved by the Cabinet of Ministers for 2008. The third principle of position is an increase of 1 billion dollars in the transfer of the Fund to guarantee the investments of natural persons on the basis of the National Bank's targeted revenues from excess income over its expenditure in accordance with the adopted law. The bill also provides for changes to digital indicators. In general, we're increasing the income by 11.1 billion dollars and plus the funding is increasing by 2.2 billion dollars, and so the expenditure is going to be increased by 13.3 billion dollars. By sources of income, we have determined the excess of income from taxes on goods imported into Ukraine in the general budget by 6 billion dollars. As I said before, the coming of funds from the National Bank is an excess of revenue over expenditure. And the Special Fund's funds. In addition, the bill provides for a redistribution within the expenditure already defined in the law to the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Transport, by 36 million dollars and 13.3 million dollars. In addition, we anticipate an increase of 11.2 million dollars in the cost of holding elections to local councils. The bill also envisages reducing the cost of privatization by 8.3 billion dollars, in fact to the rate that we expect this year and to compensate for the increase in cash at the start of the budget period that we have in the Treasury. And we're also predicting 2.6 billion dollars to include the cost of a single treasury account in order to secure the financing of expenditures in 2008. We have considered the proposals made by the Committee on Budgets, and we generally support them. And also, Volodymyr Mihajlovich, I would like to propose a transcript, because the budget implementation situation changes every day, a balanced amendment, to reduce the income from the added value of domestic goods and to compensate for that amount by 4 billion dollars by contributing to the cost of a single treasury account. So the 2008 Bill is completely balanced, and if we adopt it, we can still, we have time to issue, if necessary, normative acts to the government and ensure its implementation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u4	Dear colleagues! The report from the Cabinet of Ministers has been completed, I'll ask for that amendment, your clarification, then send it here in writing to the Presidency. And, dear colleagues, please sign up to the reporter for a question. Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, the Communist faction, please, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u5	Please hand over to Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u6	Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u7	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear Anatoly Ivanovich! Please give me a specific answer to specific questions. First. You remember, and we remember very well that the Prime Minister said in the summer that the budget had reached over 32 billion. You're only suggesting we split 11 billion, where the rest of the 20 billion? Second question. How much money is there today in a single treasury account that you want to cancel by the new year? Question three. Why are there only a few areas, one, two, three, four, five, six, including Poltavska 1.2 million in this account?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u8	Thank you. I'd like to say that really by then, this was July 1, 2008, we were expecting an over-planned approach to a general, special fund, a budgeted, plus 32 billion dollars. You know, by this time on July 1st, I think you've made three changes to the state budget, and about ten billion have already been used. In addition, in these 32 billion dollars, we plan because it's a consolidated budget, a redefinition of income by local budgets, and it's about eight billion dollars. So given what we're now proposing to add 1 billion dollars, it's almost equal to 32 billion dollars. And I would also like to say that unfortunately, the projections that were planned for the summer have worsened today, and in general, we're going to have a smaller budget overrun.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u9	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u10	Yuri Carmazin. Party of Protectors of the Homeland, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. Dear Deputy Minister Anatoly Ivanovich! I'm sitting here, Carmazin's sitting here. I'd like to ask you two questions, in article 2.84 with the 4 badge, by the consent of the taxpayers, we kind of want the VAT not reimbursed to the payer during the defined terms, to swap on the bond of the internal government loan. So understanding that we're going to drive our businesses into an even worse situation if VAT doesn't come back and then what we're going to build is the first question. And the second question, you have written down in article 18, is: “In connection with the financial crisis with the purpose of providing financial resources, the budget expenditure, first defined in article 29, will allow the Treasury to include the costs of a single treasury account.” I have two questions to ask you about the cost that will then be spent for five years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u11	The tribune microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u12	Thank you. On the first question, we proposed this article exclusively on voluntary principles, and we wrote it “in agreement”. And secondly, I would like to say, until we release the Cabinet of Ministers' ruling, unfortunately, this article will be out of effect, because by the end of the year, there are 20 days left. I don't think in principle we're going to be able to activate this tool this year, purely technically. And on the second question, we're going to have a single treasury account of 2.6 and I'm going to add four more, it's going to be 6.6 billion dollars, and in general, for today, there's 18.2 billion dollars left. That is, there will still be funds that we will then recover for five years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u13	National MP Lukashuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u14	Dear reporter! First of all, I would like to thank the economic bloc of the government for the first time in the history of Ukraine that there is such a resurgence of 30 billion. And questions. Will the income part of the budget be executed, taking into account overturns, or will the deficit be fulfilled? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u15	Thank you. I think, given today's adoption, the government's income portion of the general budget is going to be 100 percent implemented. And we don't change deficits. We're not changing.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u16	People's MP Kulikov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u17	Thank you very much. Dear Anatoly Ivanovich! When we accepted the 2008 budget, I made a proposal to increase allocations for the salaries of IMF workers, which is the lowest of all law enforcement structures. The budget was adopted with this amendment, and this was promised by Minfin, which will increase the attachment to the IMF. This year, due to the adoption of the Road Traffic Act, it is possible to increase the budget’s income by 160 million dollars needed to pay pensions to former IMF workers. It's the social protection of people who are pensioners who are no less important than miners and others. Therefore, I would like to make an amendment to the Appendix to the First Act on the State Budget of Ukraine on the increase of other revenues in connection with the adoption of the Road Traffic Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u18	Thank you. So we can accept this proposal because it is balanced by the proceeds of fines and corresponding expenses. But there is a proposal to provide for an article in the law that clearly ties these revenues to the corresponding expenses. I can pretty much say what it's supposed to sound like. “To establish that the increase in the budget allocations of the Ministry of Justice this year, approved by this law, is ensured within the limits of the actual arrivals of administrative fines in the field of road safety to the State Budget General Fund since 17.11.2008, i.e. from the time of the introduction of the new law.”
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u19	Sebravsky Paul Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u20	Anatoly Ivanovich! Well, in fact, the budget committee has prepared its observations and it's very good that you've agreed with them, they're smart. But in addition, we agreed that the 61st Prime budget. The article has to be deleted, and in that case we vote. I'd just like you to sign a transcript to confirm this agreement.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u21	Thank you, Paul Ivanovich! I think we can accept the exclusion of 61 primes, because the time before the end of this year is near and will actually be difficult to implement.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u22	Stoyan Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u23	Dear reporter! First question. The minimum wage is now set at December 1, 605. Whether this will be translated into the first review of the tariff network for budget workers. And the second question that asked me to announce my colleague Slavuta. In the fields now 1.5 million unchosen corn, sunflower, sugar beet. Why? Because protected articles are not financed, no funds are given to the APC, so that they can raise this crop, and you haven't said anything about it. So please tell me if the budget changes are exactly for the financing of the APC. And the third, short question. Since the new year, 770 is a minimum of living, and the base you want for budget area 545 is already a government decree. For 300 bracelets, you reduce payments to teachers, doctors, and cultural workers. Who gave you the right to violate the 22rd article of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine on your own? Please answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u24	Thank you. On the first question. You know that the only tariff network is approved by the government, and what decision the government will make, will be implemented. On the second question. We finance the APC in accordance with the 2008 government budget schedule and the 2008 appointments within the limits of the commitments that will be entered into by the Treasury in accordance with Decision No. 1036 of the Minister’s Office will be paid on a recorded commitment. And on the third question. We are preparing an active budget in 2009, and there will be all the answers to your specific questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u25	Sushenko Alexander Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u26	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, please pass the word to a colleague after the Kaplanka faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u27	Thank you. I would also like to ask you a question of support for the question asked by the national deputy Karmazin. I would like to point out that article 18 of Part 5 introduces a change that allows the financial crisis to include the cost of a single treasury account of 6.6 billion dollars. In your response, you said that the only treasury account was 18.2 billion dollars, referring to the fact that the funds were supposed to be enough. I want to let you know that the cost can be much lower, and I want to tell you that there's a single treasury account that has the costs of the money managers, and that these costs are listed. So the state doesn't own these funds. I'd like you to explain how you can take money that doesn't belong to the state. And one more thing. At this time, as far as I know, the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u28	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u29	Let me finish the question. Anatoly Ivanovich, just a second, let him finish the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u30	Thank you. And one more thing. I'd like to remind you that today's total cash surplus in the state treasury account is negative. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u31	Thank you. I'd like to say that this cost is 18.2, this is fixed by the state of affairs of the past day, and these funds are constantly changing, the balance or the remainder of the funds, and now the government is making every effort to ensure that the revenue of the budget and the funds that are defined as the financing of the budget are spent. So we've had a series of negotiations, and I think we're going to do this whole revenue and purpose part, the purpose of the single treasury account is to provide full funding, and we need to temporarily invest the funds. And the point is, we have the right to do this automatically over the course of the year, and when we move on to another budget period, we ask that we support such a proposal in the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u32	Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich. There is no People's Deputy Papiev. Dear Anatoly Ivanovich, I'll have a question for you then. Article 84 provides that according to the taxpayer’s agreement, the VAT may be reimbursed by the internal government loan. And if there is no such agreement, is there a resource to return VAT, or will it continue to accumulate year after year and depress our production?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u33	Thank you. In fact, in article 84 we have already discussed this, by consent, that is, there will be no agreement, so we will not, in any way, offer, therefore, administratively, ensure the release of these valuable papers. It's about the resource. So we're proposing in these changes that we've given 8 billion dollars to increase VAT compensation, and we've got a law on value added tax compensation, the rules of law that define that we're going to have to do checks for 60 days to compensate for these amounts. So it's unrelated, there's no ban on the amount of compensation based on the amount of appointments, there's no such dependence in the legislation. So, regardless of whether there's not enough or not, we have to actually make reparations to the VAT regardless of the volume. And in principle, that's actually what's happening, we're adding 8 billion damages to the post-factum, that's the amount that's already being compensated. I'm zooming in on the plan.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u34	Thank you. Please sit down. Screamer Mikola Ivanovich, please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u35	Dear Alexander Vladimirović, distinguished members of the people! Ladies and gentlemen! Given the importance of the bill and the urgent need for its consideration by the Supreme Council, individual members of the committee have prepared proposals for Bill 3308, which is presented in my letter and distributed to you. Twenty national deputies, members of the committee, are proposing to the Supreme Council to adopt Bill 3308, taking into account such changes. Determine in Article 84 prime. The bill has a five - year term for domestic government debt, which will provide timely compensation for the added value of taxes. Editablely clarify a number of other laws on the transposition into a separate amendment to the law, Appendix 7 of the law and its alignment with the amendments to Appendix 3. In addition, the bill contains a number of rules that require adjustment. That is, clarifying the marginal size of the government budget deficit, taking into account the funds from the targeted deployment of government securities that are the source of the formation of the stability fund. Moreover, the bill as a whole is balanced with regard to the State budget. The main scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concludes that the first reading of the bill can be adopted on a basis, taking into account the comments and suggestions made. In the event of the adoption of this bill as a whole, it is necessary, as a whole, to provide the Committee on Budget Affairs with protocol, together with the General Legal Office, with the introduction to the text of the law and the additions in editorial and technical clarifications to the submission of the law for signatures. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u36	The questions, please, are in writing. Zibenko Peter Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u37	Thank you, Communist faction Peter Cibenko, First Deputy Head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons. Dear reporter, first of all, I'd like to support the draft changes to the State budget at least part of the grant to the Pension Fund, we do it every year, that's what we do every year. But I do have a second question. Please tell me it is more relevant here to the 2009 draft budget, but nevertheless the position of the committee on this issue. By the 2008 budget, the employment rate of Ukrainian citizens was 1.2 percent for each year of service and 1.35 percent for the 1st of October. This budget ends. The question is, what is this issue in the air, what is the position of the committee from this extremely painful and important social problem that concerns Ukrainian citizens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u38	Thank you for asking me this very important question. You know, until the bill is filed, it's clear that I can't answer the question. On the basis of the statements made by the Cabinet of Ministers, it will be submitted shortly. And we will consider this position carefully, given that this factor should be taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u39	Victor Andriovich Slauta, faction of the Party of the Regions. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u40	Thank you. Dear Mikolo Ivanovich, well, your faction is always, as it were, for the agrarian sector. Look at the situation. Protected budget programs are basic, for example, to compensate credit rates for farmers taking loans, compensatory money, for example. The big cattle, the pigs. They're people, simple people, hope, they've given up on processing animals -- they don't get the money, and so on. And there's corn, sunflower, and so on. What do these protected articles not finance? You can be the head of the Budget Committee to help the agricultural sector. That's where the ground needs to be reeked.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u41	Victor Andreevich, thank you for the very important question. There is a proposal by the Cabinet of Ministers on a number of issues, including repayment loans and payment for acquisition of equipment. But there are no conclusions for today. As soon as they do, we'll look into it. But this position has been discussed on a number of occasions on the Committee and is on the agenda today. There will be suggestions and conclusions, in which amounts, I am confident that the Committee will support them.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u42	Mikhail Papiev, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u43	Thank you. Dear Mikola Ivanovich, dear colleagues! I would like you, as chairman of the committee, to refute the argument made by the Ministry of Finance that this is the law, it's being adopted to finance pensions in 2008. I want to remind you, and the TV set knows that we have our pensions funded this month. So in fact, we now have more than 90 percent of the December pension paid to Ukrainian citizens today. As long as this law is adopted by the President of Ukraine, virtually all citizens of Ukraine will receive pensions in 2008. The State Budget Act terminates its operation on 31 December 2008. And I would like you to tell the truth that this law is being passed in order for the Ministry of Finance to have access to a single treasury account -- this is the main goal, no pensions, because pensions have already been paid in full this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u44	Dear colleagues, I can safely say that this is where the 2008 budget is thinned. As for manual management of the corset, I'm not responsible for it, you know, the budget committee. But as for verification, if you order, we will monitor how this bill will be implemented, and we are obliged to do so. We will monitor the budget committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u45	Yuri Karmazin, “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u46	Yury Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. Dear Mikola Ivanovich, I asked the Deputy Minister of Finance, but I still don't understand, we have in our treasury account the free funds that are being offered now that we're making changes to Article 18, or is it just going to be the air that we're sharing -- that's 6.6 billion? Because as far as I know, there are free cats in a treasury account that are not yet distributed in the state. Explain, please, because that depends on what we will share. If this air is coming in here, in article 18, we're planning it right now, we're setting it up; if not, say your position, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u47	You know that there is no such term for “free funds” in the budget. To date, there are such funds in the treasury account, provided for under a number of programmes. But, you know, a number of programs, if that's what you mean, may not have been implemented: someone did not check the contracts, somewhere the contracts were broken, somewhere the payments might not have passed and so on. Therefore, if free funds are already used, they may appear in the budget implementation by the end of the year. Yeah, that's right. And for today, there are reports of them. And they can't be called free.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u48	Thank you, Mikola Ivanovich. You're running out of time. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the bill. Please sign up for the performance. Please show me the names of the national MPs. Yes, National Deputy Hrapov, please. Oh, he's handing over Adam Martinyuk. Please, the Communist faction, Adam Martinyuk. Get ready for Mikoli Catherinechuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u49	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! At last, we were looking forward to a change to the State Budget. Let's think about almost last year's story. By adopting the State Budget Act 2008, we have committed the Cabinet of Ministers to submit amendments to the State Budget Act in March 2008. It's December already on the doorstep. I have made changes to the Cabinet of Ministers, but I have made absolutely no changes to the decree or the State Budget 2008 Act. At the same time, these changes need to be considered because they relate to matters that we, unfortunately, cannot avoid. And here, especially the faction of Communists is in the ambiguous. The situation. On the one hand, while we are in opposition, we cannot support what the government is proposing, but. But let's think about how to answer why you're not voting for an increase of 6.6 billion dollars in the Pension Fund. If there is no such change, the pensioners will not receive pensions from the new year, because as long as there is a new budget, it will take about two months to keep pensioners without pensions. So you want it or you don't want it, you owe 6.6 billion more to the Pension Fund. Please explain how you can not vote for 1.4 billion additional bracelets to implement the Law on the prestige of mining work? Especially those and we are represented by mining regions, we understand very well what it is. And the answers, why they didn't support 1.4 billion, are going to be very, very hard. How can we explain why we do not support the proposal to give an additional 1 billion dollars to the Citizens' Savings Fund, to support the savings that are now being dwindled, which, clearly, is a rather serious situation? How can 300 million additional subsidies not be supported to local budgets in order to pay the difference for heat, energy, water and so forth? So, unfortunately, even though we are in opposition and seemingly not to support government bills, we will be obliged to vote in the first reading. But we will take firm action against attempts to intervene in a single treasury account. It's a manual emergency management, it'll be a tragedy for the state. And in the second reading, we must definitely remove what is involved in the single treasury account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u50	Paul Žebrovsky, “Our Ukraine – the People’s Self-Defense” is invited to the presentation. Get ready for Kamchatno.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u51	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! In fact, the change to the Budget Act, as planned by the government, and as we made the decision, we never got it in March. And that's why we keep patching holes, and I think we're making the seventh or eighth changes to the Budget Act over the course of the year. This is certainly unacceptable, but if there is a crisis now, some adjustments would certainly need to be made. But what we've been doing over the year is wrong, it's not economical, it's not an integrated approach to solving budgetary policy in the state. But I would like to point out that these changes are needed today, and we must accept them. I'm talking to colleagues who are going to not vote today. You yourself have passed a law on the prestige of mining work in this room. Under the Budget Code, new expenditure can only be incurred from the following fiscal year. We've implemented them, these expenses, already this year. And that's why, by the law on the prestige of mining, 1.4 billion dollars is a pension allowance. This includes the miners, the law that we've passed, it's for the execution of our decisions with you. I mean, on the one hand, we're pianists, we're talking about how we love someone, we're adopting social laws, and then we're not voting, we're saying, anyway, turn around. Guys, you can't be half pregnant. I think today's law should be adopted in the first reading and taking into account the amendments that Mikola Ivanovich has proposed from the budget committee and the amendments that I have adopted under my transcript can be adopted as a whole. Adam Ivanovich, returning to the treasury account, does not have any other money, nor does the treasury money of a single treasury account, if it is provided for by the law on a budget to be directed solely to the payment of pensions, nor will it go to the other administrators, nor will it go to the other administrators. That's why, actually, I want to say that if you force the government to look, there is no other income. I mean, you can't be half pregnant again. We need to make decisions consciously. Are there going to be leftovers? They're going to be going through the leftovers, because the government itself has a lot of projects that have just been underfunded, and it's very clear why. Realizing that there was going to be a hole in some of the budgets and that's why he didn't finance, and all the years that he's been going through is less than 6 or 7 billion dollars in the treasury account, there wasn't less of that money. As a result, of course, under the control of the budget committee, you are the secretary of the budget committee for the distribution of this money. Let's control it, but let's accept it. Because if we accept today only in the first reading, give the god on Thursday in the second reading, then the President's signature, and we won't adopt this law by the end of the year. I realize there are enough questions, but actually.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u52	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u53	But it's less of an evil that could be. I urge you to accept today in the first reading and taking into account the amendments that I have mentioned as a whole. And taking into account the correction of Kulikov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u54	Dear colleagues, the Kamchatny People's Deputy, the "Julia Block" faction, is invited to the address. He's handing over to Pisarenko, the faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Baby, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, more specifically.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u55	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I don't call you Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u56	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u57	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Notice that the bill we are considering today, on December 12, 2008, was filed by the government early in November of this year. So for more than a month, the bill was extremely urgent for the country because of political circumstances. And that's why we put the country's pension system at risk, and that's why, at the point of bankruptcy, Naftogaz Ukraine, the interests of citizens, particularly investors, who have investments in Savings. What is proposed by the bill? I want to make it clear to the audience and the TV audience that those who did not vote in favour of this bill today, and those who, hopefully, will be far fewer, who will not vote in favour of it as a basis and as a whole, are the people who care less about the interests of the country and the interests of the citizens of the country. So this bill proposes an increase of 6 billion 600 million dollars to the Pension Fund. In particular, of these nearly seven billion dollars, one and a half billion dollars is to pay pensions to miners. It's, the respectable miners, about how there's a lot of people here who are yelling about how they care about your interests, how they really care about your interests, without voting that one and a half billion dollars were paid to you as pensions. Nearly 3 billion 200 million dollars of Naftogazu Ukraine in order to avoid the bankruptcy of this national campaign in order to be able to account for its gas debts. Nearly 3 billion dollars — to form a stabilising fund in a global financial crisis — is an essential step and the lack of funding for a stabilising fund. This means that if tomorrow, God forbid, there will be some extraordinary situation, we simply will not be able to finance it from any source. As well as a billion dollars to fill the deposit guarantee fund, i.e. to meet the requirements of the law, which raised up to 100,000 bank deposits to people in the event of bankruptcy of the bank. And subsidies to local budgets, as well as subsidies to finance the election of local council members and village heads. It's a very urgent bill. This bill, submitted by the government, shows that the government is taking the best possible steps to stabilize the socio-economic situation in the country and will be extremely irresponsible, regardless of whether opposition or coalition, not to vote in favour of the bill, first of all, irresponsible to the country and to the citizens of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u58	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions, is invited to the presentation. Anatoly Kirilovich Kinach, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u59	Ladies and gentlemen of the national council, honourable citizens! The question is fundamental, affecting every citizen, every family in Ukraine. We have to say that Ukraine today is practically the only country in Europe in the post-Radians space that does not have an approved system-wide anti-crisis programme today as the only common result of government, central bank and responsible part of Parliament. The fall in October-November production is up to minus 20 percent. To compare: in SND spaces this decrease is 2 percent. We're 10 times deeper. In these circumstances, we see once again an attempt to solve the anti-crisis problems, including social protection issues through the methods of chaotic systemless actions with a very serious queued declarative populist component. Including an example of a corresponding bill that we are considering today. First of all, there is absolutely no answer as to how the Stabilisation Fund and the Guarantee Fund will be filled. That so-called anti-crisis law, which was passed before the winning relations here in parliament, is practically not working, which is deeper than the crisis, including the systemless exchange rate policy with the elements of corruption that citizens suffer. In this law, once again there is an attempt to resolve the issue of the deterioration of the real economy of Ukraine, including a clear example of a solution to the problem of the negative tax surplus for the added value. The government's debt is now worth about 12 billion dollars, and this is essentially a major deterioration and competitiveness of our businesses, a threat to the increase of mass unemployment and an attempt to resolve it on the basis of the government's so-called securities. This is a further deepening of the crisis, with corresponding negative developments, both in the state budget and in the Pension Fund. Privatization issues that also affect the formation of the Stability Fund, the implementation of the 2008 State Budget. As we have repeatedly pointed out, in terms of lower costs of the core funds, it is absolutely unpredictable and cannot be allowed to eat strategic businesses in Ukraine, such as Ukretelek, Odessa port, Kharkiv “Turboat” at the expense of sealing these holes. On the basis of the foregoing, we state that this bill, which does not essentially decide on fundamental issues, requires substantial work, both in the context of preventing the deterioration of the economic conditions of Ukraine and the availability of real sources of funding. And only if the factions of the Party of the Regions are redrafted will they support the above-mentioned bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u60	The word is Oleg Zarubinsky, the faction of the Lithuanian Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u61	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, dear colleagues, is this a comprehensive bill? No, it's not. Is this a bill that will solve all the issues that are urgent today? No, it's not. But at the same time, is this the right bill? Obviously we're forced to, or we can say yes. At any rate, for the Lithuanian Block, the three positions that have been put into this bill are the very ones that will motivate us, and if you want, they force us to vote for it. They're already called, but they're not political today, depending on how much someone liked to say what sector of the session hall they're in and what position they're in today. What a place to sit. There are three positions that are absolutely necessary for millions of people called this increase in the pension fund's grants of 6.6 million dollars, six billion and six hundred million dollars, for whom is that? Obviously, these pensions are not for national deputies or officials, ministers. These are the pensions to go to millions of ordinary Ukrainian citizens. Position on the formation of a stable fund. I remember well that when I adopted the so - called anti - crisis law or the anti - crisis law, it was not called that, but in terms of minimizing the financial crisis, all of us, absolutely, all of the political forces, offered this particular position, such as the one to be introduced. Everyone was talking about a stable fund. This standard is being implemented here, another thing as. I'll tell you about it if I have enough time. And the third rule, the replenishment of the deposit guarantee fund. Nor do I remember any political faction, a parliamentary faction against it. And it's quite clear that the stability fund, but first of all, the replenishment of the fund to guarantee the contributions of individuals, is the norm that does not work for parliamentarians, not ministers, not for the prime minister, or for the President or for the Chief of the Supreme Council, it works for the millions of ordinary citizens who are now suffering from this financial crisis that is there. But let's face it, is this a super-quality bill? No, it's not. Frankly, after this, it seems to me that after Parliament worked normally, how we began our normal legislative work and the quality of the proposed bills coming out of the legislators should be different. I would prefer that those bills that Kabmin will continue to submit, developed by the Ministry of Finance, would provide a basis for national MPs, why a certain norm is proposed. There were accounts, including the National Bank, whether he's capable of doing what you're writing. I propose that if Parliament has begun to work well, all other authorities should work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u62	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues, now speaking to the national deputies of Ukraine, please sign up. Please show me the names of the national MPs. Mikola Kravchenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u63	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. In addition to what has been said by the factions, I would like to see why we are looking so late today. And why is the situation in the regions today that, at the end of November and December, the funding of the budget area has been virtually cut short, and hospitals have even stopped feeding people because there is no money. In spite of our efforts with you, however, we have achieved that in July the Government has amended the budget law, but the President, in order to implement an alternative project in his tireless struggle against the Government, has put in place mechanisms to break up the work of the Supreme Council and so we have only begun today what we should have done six months ago. I want to say that if we are not an example of this bill today, and Adam Ivanovich said why we will support it, then I must say that the situation on the ground today on pensions, on other social payments, is very serious. And if someone thinks that games are just gonna end up like this up here, I have to tell you that I just got back from the Air-FM radio and that the issues of this order have already been answered, a colleague won't let you lie that you're not afraid of your families? You're not afraid of the consequences, what you're doing with the country. Here's an example of how the question is today. Second. I would like to draw attention to the question of a colleague with the NS-NS that 160 million under the Road Traffic Act should be included and immediately paid to the pensioners by the militia. So I'm telling all 10 million drivers, you're afraid, because 17 million just got together, and the rest will be gathering before New Year's. That is why I would ask Minfin, and my colleagues from NU-NS, not to rush to include these very things, because Simonenko and I, Peter Nikolaevich, have passed a bill that will in any way regulate the relationship and the divide that is now taking place on the roads of the militia and drivers. Therefore, respectable colleagues, I would ask that the money that is currently being torn from drivers be in no way included or counted on.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u64	Alexander Stoyan, faction of the Party of the Regions, please. It gives you the right to speak to Alexander Pecklusenko, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u65	Respectable radio audiences! Dear colleagues! I am sure that today's Minfin law should have passed, Anatoly Ivanovich, along with the Ministry of Emergency Situations. Because it's not just the law, it's a fire. What's really going on? Indeed, the 2008 pension fund provides for 141 billion of which 34 billion public money and their Pension Fund have already received. 106 billion are entities to fill the Pension Fund. What happened? What has happened today is that you have clearly not passed this law by accident, there is a report of the Committee on Statistics showing 28 per cent of the decline in production by last year. It wasn't even like that in the worst '97! Dear colleagues! This isn't about you giving anything! This is about you taking out the Pension Fund! And now, with money from people, you're trying to kill this fire! Therefore, we support this proposal, now is not the time to find the guilty. But it must be made clear that, apart from these six billion from the budget, 15 billion had already been removed from the budget, which should have come in the area of gasification. In my area, the Vasilievsky region, 30 million and 30 per cent were only conquered, Berdjansk, 10 per cent. Every area lacks money! On what? By non-professionalism! But you, the big pimples, you do selection, you take and you connect the unconnected canary with the rhinoceros. The pension fund is a canary, and the rhino you put in here, the Neftegas, you make it an uncontrollable, unruly state! You're beating on our producers again! Manufacturers still can't get VAT today! By this law they will never receive it! Therefore, our faction has clearly defined that we are ready to “press down the fires” that you have started, but we will not participate in the country's “burning” economy! Vote for the Pension Fund! Everything else is removed from the body of the law! You've made your own law a red card! In March, the people and the land will set it up for you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u66	Mikhail Papiev's "Paria of Regions" faction, please welcome to the presentation.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u67	Thank you. You know, when you're looking at this law, it's a question of why people live so badly in the country. Because first of all, we have a simple answer, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine does not comply with the Constitution of Ukraine and the current legislation of Ukraine. Remember, on March 30th, the Cabinet of Ministers was scheduled to make a change to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for 2008. Today we have December, and we have a law that basically hides under good slogans, which says that today we are dealing with the issue of pensions and the financing of the pension fund. Ladies and gentlemen, when will you learn to speak the truth? Today, there is no problem in December with the payment of pensions to Ukrainian citizens. In fact, today the Pension Fund has a mechanism for obtaining loans from the State Treasury and for paying pensions in full. I have a question for the Cabinet of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, right now these materials that have been published by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy on the actual size of the living minimum of five hundred and eighty bracelets of living minimum for disabled persons, and you know, this is the minimum pension rate. While our minimum pension was four hundred and ninety - five dollars per law. In fact, today every pensioner is underprivileged by antinational activities, even the government’s activities are 100 - 150 dollars a month. Every budget officer doesn't get 250 or 300 dollars a month. In fact, today the government has left the citizens of Ukraine on their own with the problems that exist. And, in fact, if you look at the depth of this law, hidden here, the Cabinet of Ministers hid one of these little things, they work like thimbles to allow you to include the funds of a single treasury account. In fact, there are no such funds in the single treasury account today. The Cabinet of Ministers today wants to adopt this law to cover up the robbery of a single treasury account that took place in previous periods. And I remember that the government of Viktor Yanukovich on January 1st was left in a single treasury account of 24 billion dollars. Where are these 24 billion dollars? They have disappeared as well as 24 billion dollars from the “Criminal”. Therefore, this law of Ukraine cannot be called complex; it does not solve the urgent problems of Ukrainian citizens today, but only covers the corruption of the government. That is why we ask the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to legislate immediately, the draft Ukrainian law on the 2009 budget. Where's the budget? Where do we have macroeconomic indicators in 2009? I want to.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u68	Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, a faction of Communists, has the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u69	Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! Peter Cibenko, faction of the Ukrainian company, first deputy head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons. In the faction of Communists, as Adam Ivanovich testified in his speech, and I will confirm, the mass of claims to this document, the mass of claims to the fact that the document is indeed being filed in the last days of the year that is coming. However, we are in a very specific situation where a number of urgent questions need to be addressed. I want to talk about three things. Well, first of all, there are 4.5 billion dollars in these changes, which provide for a pension grant from the Pension Fund in January 2009. As a person, as an MP who has led the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons during the two calls, I would like to testify that this is a decision taken every year before the New Year, because the mechanism for making contributions to the Pension Fund is zero on 1 January 2009. And since the provision of pensions to Ukrainian citizens starts on 2 January, we cannot but respond to this situation. The second argument I'd like to make. Dear colleagues, we cannot be human beings, representatives of the people of Ukraine, who act on the principle of smoking, and then, at least, let it not come out. It's just that, in September, you and I in this room in the presence of a large number of miners, very important people, have made decisions about the prestige of mining. At that time, there were many hunters who could tear their shirts off. But the question today, the situation seems to have been made rather than funded. And in these changes, there's one and a half billion dollars to implement this law. So we have to be consistent, because we accepted it, we have to do it. And the third position. When the law on compulsory government pension insurance was passed, I, the chairman of the committee at the time, insisted that I receive 1.4 percent of my salary each year. Sadly, my colleagues in this room did not support me. But the question needs to be resolved. And this year this problem was solved by changes to the state budget. So I urge the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, more than that, on behalf of the committee and millions of voters.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u70	Let's get this over with, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u71	On behalf of millions of voters, I insist that the 2009 draft state budget should be able to maintain this standard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u72	Thank you. Instead of the People's Deputies of Mankovsky, there will be a national deputy of Hara, a faction of the Party of the Regions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u73	Respectable citizens of Ukraine! As Chairman of the Committee on Social Policy and Labour and Chairman of the Federation of Trade Unions of Ukraine, I would like to address you first. You need to know that the Cabinet of Ministers is in charge of shushing again. And I want to reveal to you the secret of this next fact of the nuptial. The Cabinet of Ministers is being held holy to all categories of pensioners and miners for the purpose of running the country's decisions. We believe that the proposals in the bill are indeed worthy: the provision of 5.2 billion grants to the Pension Fund; the provision of 1.4 billion dollars to increase pensions to miners who have worked underground for at least 15 years. We're for a billion dollars to pay back the population. It's us two hands in favor. But we are categorically against the replacement of money, so-called, securities of return to VAT enterprises. Today, 12 billion are not returned to businesses. This means that enterprises are deprived of working capital: buying equipment, buying raw materials, paying wages. This means death for Ukrainian industrial enterprises. Second. We are against the manual management of funds in treasury accounts. Imagine what they want to do. The funds of the municipal councils, public enterprises and others on the treasury council want to contribute to the income portion of the budget and spend and then return for five years as it were. This is a paralysing of the entire economy of Ukraine. The faction of the Party of the Regions is looking forward to a package in the Supreme Council, indeed, of the anti-crisis bills of the Cabinet of Ministers, which government officials have been so passionate about for the past three months. Moreover, the proposals of the faction of the Party of the Regions by the Cabinet of Ministers are not accepted. The faction of the Party of the Regions insists on the introduction by the Cabinet of Ministers of anti-crisis programmes that will reduce the tax press to the domestic industry, as is done in Rossi, strengthen the social security of the most affected sectors of the population, reorient export-oriented industries to the domestic market, organize concessional long-term loans to Ukrainian industrial enterprises, make the most effective use of the International Monetary Fund, and not as they do today: 4.5 billion have received, and this does not feel that they have strengthened the bracelet, the bracelet continues to fall. The faction of the Party of the Regions will vote in favour of pensioners and miners and will categorically oppose the anti-national, anti-State activities proposed in the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u74	Ladies and gentlemen, the time for discussion of the bill is over. The offer came about. May I have your attention, please? On the adoption of the bill on the basis of proposals made in writing by the Committee and supported by the Cabinet of Ministers, and on the basis of two proposals made by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Merkovsky Anatoly Ivanovich. [[We're going to vote first on the basis]] Do we have to read them again, or are they reflected in the transcript? Please, one minute, Anatoly Ivanovich Merkowski before the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u75	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to support this bill in general, taking into account the suggestions we discussed during my speech. There it was clear to add two articles and delete articles 61 and 1. Therefore, I am asked to support myself in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u76	Dear colleagues, we have, if there is a political field, we vote that there will be no charges, so I'm going to put the adoption on the basis of draft Law 3308, taking into account those rights that have been issued by the Ministry of Finance, as well as those proposed by the committee and submitted in writing. Please vote. [[11:29:33]] For 262 I am voting on the adoption of the draft as a whole as the Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for 2008 and amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. Please vote. [[11:30:07]] For 266 The law is passed. The factions, please. Region Party – 1, Timoshenko Yulia Block – 153, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” – 66, Communist faction – 26, “Litvina Block – 20. [[Don't worry, dear fellows, I'm asking you very much.]] Dear colleagues, the draft Amnesty Law is being discussed. [[second reading]] The rapporteur is the head of the committee's subcommittee on the law enforcement of Mopsik Volodymyr Romanovich. Is there a Volodymyr Romanovich? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u77	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished fellow national MPs, celebrated on Tuesday the 60th anniversary of the proclamation of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and, by this date, the President of Ukraine had introduced an amnesty bill in Ukraine. He was voted in the first reading, and the honourable fellow national MPs, you gave 411 votes for him. The project is intended to announce amnesty and extend its action primarily to those who are most vulnerable and socially vulnerable. The committee received 40 comments from Ukrainian national deputies. 21 amendments are included, 19 are rejected. The legislative proposals were mainly about expanding the circle of amnesty persons and crimes. Other amendments were completely the opposite of narrowing the circle, both individuals and crimes. Some of the remedies involved banning the use of amnesty at the stage of pretrial investigation, banning the amnesty of persons who had not been punished at all, and so forth. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I am ready to give an explanation from the committee on specific legislative proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, are we going to make amends? That's why amendment number one. People's deputy Lukas. Are you insisting on this amendment? Don't insist. Let's move on to where we don't count. Dear colleagues, where the amendments are taken into account and no one insists, we simply go. Let's move on. Amendment 10 of the Bondik People's Deputy. Are you insisting on her? Please turn on the microphone. National Deputy Bondik, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u79	Dear reporter! Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! I really insist on this amendment, because for the purpose of political reconciliation, which unfortunately didn't come after the Orange Revolution, my amendment applied to the signs of the crime committed under the electoral article, the so-called electoral article, but unfortunately, something in the committee is not included. I received an answer from Mr. Schwetz, so I insist on my amendment. From the motives I said.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u80	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u81	Dear colleague, your amendment has not been taken into account because these crimes are not serious, there is no ban on amnesty, but this article does not refer to the compositions of amnesty crimes, but rather to the category of persons.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u82	Dear colleagues, the offer of our colleague, National Deputy Bondiq, was to ensure that those convicted of crimes against election rights, as provided for in articles 157, 158, 158-1, 159, 159, 159-1, 160 of the Criminal Code, are subjected to amnesty. The committee has the opposite point of view.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u83	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u84	That's why I'm voting on the proposal of National Deputy Bondik. Please vote. [[11:34:56]] For-173 Correction not supported. Let's move on. Amendment 12. Is Landik's national MP insisting on her?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u85	Don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u86	Don't insist. Correction 16th. Is the Olinick national deputy insisting? Microphone, please, BUT faction, Svetoslav Olijnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u87	Dear colleagues, most of the amendments I have made are taken into account by the committee. For those that are not counted in the table, we found agreement with the committee: they are included in part or in other standards. Therefore, I do not insist on any further of my own who are being rejected. Let's move on then.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u88	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u89	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u90	We're moving on. 18 Amendments, People’s Deputies Lukas, Carmazin, and Landik Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin insists. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u91	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I have just received a phone call from the national deputy Lukas, who is in the hospital, asking for support for this amendment, and the next amendment to it, which will be then. And motives. So we have similar motives: we're proposing an article 5 of the law to remove at all because we have similar positions to that of lawyers. [[I explain to those who can't make peace with anything.]] In line with the provisions of article 5, the release from criminal liability is subject to criminal proceedings committed in the conduct of a knowledge body, a pretrial investigation, or pending court proceedings. That is to say that, in fact, without the courts, they will confess and, in addition to everything else, they will avoid punishment and the irreversibility of punishment. I am firmly against this, against this and Mrs. Lukas. And this is the amendment of the Landik People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u92	Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u93	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. The point is that when an amnesty law is issued when a person’s case is at trial, that is, not yet in court. And what happens next? Whether or not to implement an amnesty case can be closed. All amnestyes of an independent Ukraine did just that: the case was not brought before the court, but only for the consent of the individual. Here the individual himself is a judge. Because, dear colleagues, if we go there on the path offered by Yuri Carmazin and other colleagues, it means that we should lead, find the person guilty, and if he falls under amnesty to be released from punishment. That is, to do what has always been done at the stage of the pretrial investigation. That's why the committee took the position I told you about.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u94	Yes, Oleg Lazko and Taras Cranwell, and we will be determined by vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u95	Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, well, in principle the logic of what Karmazin says and according to Luke’s commission is. When an amnesty takes place before a judicial verdict, and under the Constitution only a court can find a person guilty, it turns out that a person finds himself guilty but accepts amnesty. This is an anticonstitutional norm, for according to the Constitution only a court can plead guilty and then amnesty when a person falls under amnesty. Therefore, I think it would be necessary to support this proposal and if the case is at the stage of pretrial investigation, let it end with an indictment, but a person is exempt from punishment on the basis of the Amnesty Act. That's what the Constitution will say. Otherwise, it's a non-convictional way of saying people are guilty. That's not right.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, besides this draft law that we are considering, is a basic law on the application of amnesty in Ukraine. And it is he who provides, this law is fundamental, and all the amnesty of an independent Ukraine. A person can plead guilty, not admit it — the law requires, do you agree to amnesty or not? If a person does not want to conduct a business, he is aware of his situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u97	Taras Chernobyl, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u98	Dear colleagues, I very much ask everyone to support Lukas and Carmazin's position and the arguments that Oleg Lazko said. And I'm going to add another shade. Well, as far as basic law is concerned, we really need to change that. And the basic law, and this amnesty law. I'll just give you one example. When, you know, Viacheslava Crnovola was killed, a criminal case was opened, and it was clear that in court, they didn't want to do it, they didn't want to do it, they didn't want to do it, they wouldn't do it, they wouldn't do it, they wouldn't do it, they wouldn't do it, they wouldn't do it, they wouldn't do it, they wouldn't hide it like that, and they did it, as it happened, in 99 years ago: For that, now that it's restored, in the investigation, it's a huge problem to pick up the crumbs. In this way, the amnesty of a person who goes through a much larger business often destroys the matter. Please don't. Please support Karmazin and Lukas' position.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u99	Celebrity Olinik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u100	Dear colleagues, the question that is now being discussed is, in fact, a practical question, it's not theoretical. I want to assure you that in no way does a person's rights fall within the mechanism that is now being proposed, which is traditional and applied every year. Because if a person does not want amnesty to be applied to him, it is impossible to apply amnesty. That's the first one. And secondly, in any case, the case is closed in court, i.e. amnesty is applied by the court. So in fact, it's about the technical application of amnesty, which, in a procedure like this, now, just reduces the budget costs and doesn't turn this car around until the sentencing stage. And the man agreed, and they closed the question, that's all. Therefore, it is not necessary, not necessarily, to maintain this amendment, that it saves the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u101	Thank you. People's deputy Beales, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u102	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! In fact, I fully agree with my colleague Olivenic, and I ask you to take one detail into account. The Amnesty Law involves tens of thousands of criminal cases committed by humans. If they heard us today, what we're talking about, they would totally disagree with us. That's why there's such a big request to support the committee's position.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u103	Vladimir Mikhailovich, let me briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u104	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u105	Dear colleagues, Yuri Anatolyovich is mostly here! Criminal cases are not brought to trial in other cases. It's been a while. A criminal law has been repealed, under which a person is called to account at the stage of the pretrial investigation. It is the court that closes the case at that stage, but it is the court, not the body that conducts the case. So it's perfectly legal in terms of criminal law theory and criminal process theory.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, you have all heard the arguments “for” and “against”. I'm voting on Amendment 18. For the vote of Amendment 18. People's deputies please identify themselves. [[11:43:22]] For a hundred and Correction not supported. The following changes. People's MP Landik, 26th Amendment. Are you insisting on her?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u107	And the 24th and the 25th are accounted for.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u108	Lukas doesn't have Samuel.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u109	National MP Lukash, please, 24th Amendment. Let's do the 25th, Yuri Carmazin. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u110	There's me in the hall. Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this article foresees these amendments, and, at this point, Mrs. Lukash, at the 24th amendment, my 25th, has to do with crimes. So now we're firing those who were smuggling narcotic drugs who were storing, transporting, possessing, stealing narcotic drugs, all these articles and the previous 229, or today 307 fall under amnesty. Sea pollution is now also subject to the violation of traffic safety rules, which has caused the death of several people, under article 119, “Kill for recklessness”. I believe that these articles should be excluded, and we should be responsible for what is happening in society. And please put this amendment to the vote. Then let the electorate decide who and what.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u111	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u112	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, you see, Karmazin's offer in the opposite direction echoes Valery Landik's offer. He asks for their amnesty. Yuri Anatolyovich says not to anoint those who committed crimes with electoral crimes. The committee has determined that these crimes are not serious, and a person, if he is not a disabled person, a pregnant woman and so on, is subject to punishment but amnesty. It may be short - lived, replaced with softer, and so forth. The committee does not support the removal or inclusion of these crimes into those that are not amnesty at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u113	Yeah. Oleg Lazko. Please. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u114	Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. In general, it seems to me that the question that we're looking at today is, well, it's actually not relevant in terms of the situation that is in the country today. Here we hear, even recently on TV, reports that taxis are already stopping, robbing and stripping people, taking them to the field, and throwing them there. And today we're offering drug dealers to amnesty. Well, that's not right for me. We need to review, that is, where there are not serious crimes that are not of social interest, when there are pregnant women when they are underage, yes, these people need support. But when we have an epidemic of drug abuse, we're drug dealers under amnesty, and tomorrow he'll be redistributing it. Or let's go under the amnesty of those who take out, strip, rob passengers. I mean, here, I think, Vladimir Romanovich, more selectively approach those who are amnesty-worthy.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u115	Dear colleagues! I'll explain again, especially for Yuri Anatoliovich. The word amnesty does not mean exemption from punishment. Those crimes you call are committed in places of deprivation. After ten years of age eight, he's got two left, the law provides, let's shorten him for one year, that's what we're talking about. No one frees them from their places of deprivation. This is exactly the humane action of society toward those who have given in.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u116	Dear colleagues! I am voting on Amendment 25 of Yuri Karmazin, and I ask that you determine by vote how you feel about this amendment. [[11:47:46]] For-142 Correction not supported. Let's move on. Amendment 28, national deputies Krutz, Lukas and Carmazin, do you insist on it? Oh, no?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u117	Vladimir Mikhailovich! I'll explain two words, maybe Yuri Anatolyevich will agree. Yuri Anatoliyovich suggests that amnesty should not be applied on its own initiative, but only on the initiative of the trial participants. So we think it's wrong, because there are different cases where a person comes to court without a lawyer, he doesn't know the law. The prosecutor is not always interested in amnesty, so in everyone, Yuri Anatoliyevich, amnesty of an independent Ukraine, this position existed, so this position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u118	Yuri Anatolyevich, please give your argument.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u119	Dear Vladimir Romanovich! I reported more than one amnesty from this rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u120	And so am I.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u121	And I'm telling you, it's responsible that the court should be an impartial body, and it shouldn't have its own initiative. There is the initiative of the participants. And that's crucial if we want to have independent judicial authority, not what we have today. If we want to have this, please, we have already taken responsibility for the political ones who will, because at first the President said that drug abuse from those who distribute this potion must be released from amnesty. Well, everyone's priorities are determined, the electorate will judge it. Now we're moving on, we're saying that let the judge take his own, on his own initiative, the court accepts, but the initiative is the prosecutor, the authorities of inquiry, the prosecution and the participants in the trial, the bodies of execution. So I'm asking you, honourable national deputies, to look at it from this point of view, and there you go, like, I gave it to you, a public duty.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u122	Dear colleagues, a few more explanations. Yuri Anatoliyovich, if even a person who is amnesty and wants to sit in prison is not entitled to do so, unless he sees it, the court is obliged to enforce the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u123	Dear fellow Members, the vote is amended as follows: 28. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:50:25]] For 128 The decision is not taken. The following changes. 32rd Deputy Bondik, are you insisting on your amendment? Microphone, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u124	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, honourable Vladimir Romanovich, after there was no vote for my previous amendment, which led to political reconciliation, you know, people who theoretically know some Asian jurisprudence, and as procedural persons have not been in the S.I.A., nor in court, and have no reason to believe that my amendments are inappropriate, so I, you know, in the judgment of the hall, because I say nothing more.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u125	Dear colleague, your proposal is satisfied, we have rejected Yuri Carmazin's offer and the election crimes fall under the amnesty, which is why you've reached that conclusion. Your correction has been served.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u126	One more time, please. Vitaly Bondick. Valery Bondick, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u127	Then it's on amendment 32. Dear colleagues! I ask that my correction be made because it is appropriate because the courts decide the place where the sentenced person is being punished. So the principle of territoriality. The amnesty bill he proposed was introduced by the President, and there was no such thing. It is written only “the proper courts. ” I bring in and improve that “outside the place of persons”, i.e. by the territory, it is. In principle, Vladimir Romanovich knows that. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u128	Dear colleague! As for the application of amnesty to all categories, except this exception, this is what happens at the place where the punishment is being carried out. This refers to those condemned by the courts of other nations. Therefore, the Law on the Judiciary sets out appropriate courts in procedural codes. So the term is completely out of code.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u129	Oleg Lazko, BUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u130	Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! We propose to return to the 24th amendment, which provides for the amnesty of those convicted of distribution of narcotic drugs. And review, and vote again to rule out this category of amnesty persons. You can't get drug dealers who are fooling people who are ruining their lives, who are dying because of them, and they're making their three cents of thieving money, they can't be amnesty. It is a crime against hundreds of thousands of young people, children who have suffered through these propagators. Therefore, we suggest that we go back to voting and expel these persons so that they do not fall under the amnesty.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u131	Dear colleagues! If you have this amendment, let's do it this way, we're going to go all the way down to the end, then we're going to put the vote back on this amendment. There'll be support. We'll vote. Is this about Andrew School? Is it not? Then we'll be back. And now, honourable colleagues, so as not to lose the thread of conversation, the vote is voted on by the 32rd National Deputy Bondik. Please vote. [[11:54:13]] For-166 The decision is not taken. Amendment 33. People's deputies Krutz and Bondik. Are you insisting on your amendment? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u132	This amendment refers to the mandatory participation of a protector. But my amendment is aimed at “may participate”. Because sometimes such a situation is created when advocates are appointed, as agreed. There is a fact that when dealing with cases, personally in a detention center when a judge is present, they cannot be considered because there is no one to defend them. That is why I would suggest that “maybe” is not necessarily involved, but “may participate”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u133	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u134	Dear colleagues! Here are two amendments and the next, and which we're looking at right now, are touching the same thing. As far as a lawyer is concerned, “due to the presence of duly formulated powers he participates”. So he is, he is, he is, and he is. Similarly, a legal representative of a minor who is subject to amnesty is expected to participate in the meeting by a legal representative, or a father and mother who are appointed by law. There is no problem: “take”, “may brothers”. A committee like that took an editor, and you can change it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u135	Dear colleagues! The amendment, the essence of it, is understood that it doesn't depend on whether or not there will be a lawyer, so the logic here is in the making of a question. Then I put Amendment 33 to the vote. Please vote. [[11:56:05]] For 190 The decision is not taken. And it doesn't make sense to say the 34th amendment. The next amendment is 37. Yuri Anatoliyovich, please Karmazin. The oil man withdrew his repairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u136	Amendment 37 provides in Article 13 for the words “from both basic and additional types of punishment” to replace the words “from basic punishment”. [[Yuri Karmazin]] It's about not getting rid of the extra kinds of punishments, because they're assigned by the court, and now we're all just a little bit out of it, and we're all doing it all for free. We don't see whether it's a confiscation or something or we say it right now, so I'm asking you to vote for this amendment, it's an amendment, and Karmazin, and we're talking about Olena Lukash, so let's vote for this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u137	Vladimir Mikhailovich, a respected colleague, is speaking of article 13, the problem is small. Those who are exempt from punishment under this law are freed from both basic and additional punishment. All other convicted persons who are subject to this law are not exempt from additional punishment. Here's what we're talking about. Court. Yuri Anatolyovich, it's not that, it's not that. I'll convince you now. This is about the article of the first amnesty law, where individuals are released from punishment, and the court cannot just impose additional punishment without the basic penalty. So if he's freed from punishment, he's freed from one and the other. But if he is serving a sentence and has an additional sentence, and is amnesty by cutting the sentence by half, by a third, by replacing it with a milder punishment, then additional punishment remains. Yuri Anatolyevich, there can be no further punishment without a basic punishment.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u138	At the same time, honourable colleagues, according to the procedure, I place an amendment 37 on the vote, and I ask you to identify yourself. [[11:58:41]] For 135 Correction not supported. Dear colleagues, back to the 24th Amendment. Well, who wants to go back to the 24th Amendment, please be sure. [[11:59:12]] For 349 We're back to the repair. Now the explanation, then the argument.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u139	Dear colleagues, I have some amnesty here for 3-4 years, which is actually a matter of parliament, which crime is to include in amnesty, which is to rule out. The committee adopted an amnesty tradition in Ukraine. If your will is now to exclude them as indicated in the 24th amendment, the committee will not be able to do anything except agree and properly shape your will.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u140	Yes, Oleg Lazko and Revoslav Olinik, and we will be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u141	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear Volodymyr Romanovich! Maybe it's because the Supreme Council amnestys drug distributors every year that we have this epidemic getting more and more publicity and spread. So we suggest that we support this amendment by excluding the responsibility for drug dumping, because there might be provocations and everything else, but just distribution.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u142	It's the will of the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u143	Thank you. Celebrities of Olives and Yuri Carmazin
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u144	Dear colleagues, we found out about the amendments. The position is: Indeed, most of the articles that are proposed in this amendment to exclude the use of amnesty are related to one or the other in the way of distribution of narcotic drugs, there’s a tendency, introduction into the body. Instead, there is a paragraph that can be ruled out and applied to amnesty; it refers to the illicit production, manufacture, acquisition, storage, transport or transfer of narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances or their analogues without a purpose, namely, the 309th New Criminal Code and the 2296 Old. This is where drugs can be dumped, and this is the category of people who can just be treated, that is, those who do not pose such a danger are not distributors. By minus these individuals, this amendment can be taken into account, and relatively the distributors do not apply amnesty.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u145	Thank you. Invite the national deputies to the session room so that we can make a decision. Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, Andrew Shkel
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u146	Dear National Deputies! Yuri Carmazin. I thank you for coming back to discuss this amendment. I ask that this amendment be voted in full as it is written, starting with the violation of the safety rules that caused death and ending with the distribution of drugs. When it comes to surrendering, it is a matter of committing a crime already committed by law enforcement officials. It's completely different. That's a fact. None of us can say that it was drugs or precursors that were dumped or not. This is a judgment and a judgment is being executed. All we're talking about is the crimes committed, which are punishable. And we can't define it that way. So I'm asking you to support the position, this amendment, to remove completely and so write down, as written in the amendment, is written in this 24th. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u147	Thank you. Andrew Schlell. Then Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u148	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. First of all, I think we're starting a fight, in the heat of a fight, we've forgotten what law we're considering right now. This is an amnesty law that touches a separate, predetermined category of persons. These individuals are very limited. We're talking about 30,000 going out there. 2-3 thousand people will be amnesty for this amnesty. Among those 2-3 thousand people, half of this is going to be really pregnant and retired people who, I don't know, committed a crime that only in the imagination of today's law enforcement is actually a crime. For example, in today’s situation, when the banking sector starts not lending, people turn to the court and begin, the problem begins. So when you talk about drug distributors and precursors, well, believe that these articles that you're proposing categories of people who are going to get involved can be 2-3 people. And this, and to make it a story that the Supreme Council distributes drugs, is separate.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u149	Thank you. Adam Martinyuk. Ladies and gentlemen, we're going to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u150	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like to ask that we speak now, especially as presiding officer, not be misled. Because we're totally legally, absolutely majority, constitutional majority of the votes are back to 24 amendments. Now there's all kinds of proposals in every speech that can't be made. That's why we have one possibility: to vote on 24 amendments as a whole. We'll support it -- it'll be counted. We're not going to support that sentence or a half sentence, so it's going to be hard for me to tell how it's going to go down and how the regulatory committee is going to see that it's not what's being voted on. So I'm asking you to put to the vote the amendment we went back to, Amendment 24. We'll support it. We'll get through it. We can't support it. It won't work.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u151	Please, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u152	Dear Adam Ivanovich, you are absolutely right in support of the committee, in fact, but here in this direction 24 were mixed up except for drugs that violate the road safety rule or the use of transport by a person, if caused by the death of a person, it is not a drug. And he came together to this article. And generally, dear colleagues, this amnesty is not widespread. With this amnesty, it is planned to leave the places where a little over 3,000 people will be deprived of their will and almost 4,000 will touch the amnesty. These are the crimes you're asking to vote on drugs, on the fingers of one of your hands. [[B in m in s a l in]] Identify yourself. Identify yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u153	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Puts the vote to the vote. May I have your attention, please? Dear colleagues, you've all come to understand what the head of the committee was talking about and the people who are convicted of drugs and the ones who have done traffic adventures and so forth. Therefore, in view of the discussion that has taken place, I place an amendment 24 on the vote and ask for a vote to be decided. [[12:06:17]] For 371 Decision taken. Now, attention, dear colleagues, is on the vote for acceptance. after the vote. Dear colleagues, here comes the vote. There is a motion for the adoption of the draft Amnesty Law as a law. [[Registration number 2280]] Please vote. [[12:06:59]] For 393 The law is passed. Dear colleagues, we have a break on schedule. Next, after a break, we need to consider very important laws that apply to many.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u154	Well, dear colleagues, I'd like to agree with you on the positions that apply to people who have suffered from a financial crisis. That's why we have two approaches: we now announce a 30-minute recess, and then we agree to consider this issue and make a decision, or we work without interruption, so that at 13 o'clock the issue will be completed, as stipulated by the Rules of Procedure, the Ukrainian National Deputies. That's why I'm asking for your attention! I'm putting a motion to vote so that we don't take a break right now, and we've finished our consideration of the Friday schedule. Please vote. [[12:08:11]] For 347 For a total of 347, decisions have been made. Then, honourable colleagues, Bill 3343 and Bill 3459 are announced for consideration, the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts (to ban banks from changing the terms of the agreement on bank contributions and the loan agreement in a unilateral manner (the draft national parliament of Tarasyuk). Reports National Deputy Tarasyuk, co-rapporteur, the first deputy head of the Committee on Finance and Banking. Draft Law 3459 amending the Ukrainian Law on the Priorities for the Prevention of the Negative Consequences of the Financial Crisis and amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the protection of citizens' property rights and support for a domestic producer. The rapporteur is National Deputy of Ukraine Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk and is responsible for the committee Terjehohin Sergey Anatoliyovich. Let's get to it. I invite Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u155	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Deputy Boris Tarasyuk, National Movement of Ukraine, NUNS factions Your view is that it is proposed to amend some legislation prohibiting banks from modifying the terms of the bank's deposit and credit agreement unilaterally. This bill is designed to protect the rights and legitimate interests of Ukrainian citizens – customers of banking institutions – and aimed at ending the existing unfair practice of changing banks in a unilateral order of terms of contracts. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the bill protects the rights of hundreds of thousands of Ukrainian borrowers who, according to the National Bank, have been granted loans of about 253.5 billion dollars for November of this year. Adapting to survival in financial crisis to the borrowers of the Ukrainian banks had already taken place in the spring of this year, when the first wave of massive bank raises in species interest rates last year had passed. Today, this wave has hit such a mass that no one could have expected. Over the past few months, foreign exchange interest rates have increased by about 3 percent and are 16 to 18 percent, while national interest is 5 percent and 22 to 24 percent. According to the official data of the National Bank of Ukraine, the average monthly loan rate in the national currency has increased by 8.2 percent since the beginning of the year. Some banks raised interest rates on credit to 30 percent in national currency and to 23 percent in US dollars. Thousands of Ukrainians receive letters reporting an increase in the interest rate. Such an increase takes place in one - sided order. Citizens are offered either to pay loans at new higher rates, or to pay them on time in connection with the unilateral termination of the contract. In today’s difficult conditions and challenges to the domestic economy, it seems that some are seeking income from Ukrainian citizens. In view of today's speculative rate of foreign currency dollars, inflation rates, rising unemployment rates, it's clear that most Ukrainian citizens simply won't be able to pay back the loans they received and pay higher interest on them. According to the NBA, from the beginning of the year up to 2 percent of the country’s problem loans have grown. The problem of debt in the consumer credit sector has risen most rapidly. However, it is only official statistics, since banks can hide real amounts of customer debt. According to experts, the general problem of civil debt accounts for up to 20 percent of the Ukrainian bank’s loan portfolio, and in recent months it has grown by 10 percent and is estimated at over 20 billion dollars. To my conviction, the financial problems of banks must not be transferred to the consumer’s side of their services. For the financial support of the banking system, Ukraine received the International Monetary Fund's loan, created the Stabilisation Fund, part of which will be directed towards the refinancing of banks that, after receiving cheap money, have to lower interest rates at credits, thus stimulating the development of the Ukrainian economy rather than deepening its recession by raising interest rates. In view of the above, the bill proposes to amend the Civil Code of Ukraine and the Law on Banking and Banking, which prohibits banks from modifying unilaterally the terms of contracts with customers, including by increasing the interest rate on credit agreements or by reducing it by bank contribution contracts. The position of these contracts, which reinforces the bank’s right to review the terms of these treaties unilaterally, is proposed to be considered worthless. I would like to point out that the adoption of the bill does not deprive the bank of the right to review the terms of the contract with the client in the event of a substantial change in circumstances, but it will require due process in court rather than in the manner in which it is done today. Dear colleagues, the bill was supported by a profile committee – the Committee on Finance and Banking and the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council and recommended for adoption in the first reading. [[all voted in favour, except for one committee member]] Correct comments were made by members of the committee on the content of the Final Provisions of the Bill. I believe that as a result of the drafting of the bill for second reading, taking into account the proposals and comments of the national deputies, it will be improved. And lastly, I would like to point out that this bill is extremely relevant, as evidenced by the numerous letters I have received over the past month, with the support of this legislative initiative and the requests for its speedy consideration and adoption as a law. In recent times, much has been said about the support of the banking system, but little has been mentioned in this context about the support of our citizens under today's difficult conditions for the Ukrainian economy. I am convinced that the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in the absence of sufficient response from the National Bank, must take the side of Ukrainian citizens and protect their rights. Please support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u156	Questions, please. National MP Klimenko, please, Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u157	Alexander Klimenko, Ukrainian National Party Dear Boris Ivanovich, while welcoming your delay in protecting the interests of the citizens, I would like to draw your attention to what has happened. And also the attention of all the national deputies that this has resulted from the activities of the National Bank of Ukraine. It was also discussed on our committee at the time, and you were present. As a result, prices rose sharply in the consumer market today. Today it is necessary not only to protect our Ukrainians and consumers, but also those who will receive services from such monopolistic institutions as housing and utilities in terms of heat and electricity, and others. And that's why I think I need to make changes not only to the civil code, but also to the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Violations and Criminal Responsibility, if that is to be done unilaterally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u158	Thank you. Thank you for your offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u159	National MP Pisarenko, please. Pisarenko, national MP, please. Turn on the microphone from the spot. Bondarenko Volodymyr Dmitrovich, look at the card, something about your card.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u160	I see. Dear colleagues, for a few minutes, will, in fact, now fix the system, depending on the computer. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I have this proposal: since it will take at least three minutes, we can now listen to the co-report, and then ask questions and a report and a co-reporter. Is there no objection? Boris Ivanovich, please sit down. Yuri Anatoliyovich, I personally repeat to you: questions will be asked by both the reporter and the co-reporter after the "Council" system is reloaded. And now I invite you to the words of Stanislav Mikhailovich Arjevitin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u161	Dear colleagues, our committee discussed the question, as Boris Ivanovich said, I did not support it, but was defined as a co-reporter. Our committee has considered the purpose of this bill to protect the interests of customers of banking institutions. As you can see, a number of drafts are proposed to make some changes. It should be noted, however, that our committee’s deputies made significant remarks before the end of the law, since the final rules conflict with article 5 of the Ukrainian Civil Code, which states that article 5 is an act of civil law at the time. And sub-paragraph one suggests that civil law acts regulate relations that have arisen since the date of its entry into force. The third point is that if civil relations arose earlier and were regulated by an act of civil law that had become invalid, a new act of civil law applied to the rights and obligations that had arisen since it became effective. In other words, the standard proposed by Boris Ivanovich cannot be extended to those covenants that were made before this law was passed. Science-expert management also has some suggestions and observations that are of the following nature. The main scientific and expert management is proposing that this project be clearly identified, not generally a ban on changes in the terms of the loan agreement in one-sided order, but merely a ban on an increase in the size of the interest rate set by the bank in one-sided order. In this regard, he suggests making a number of changes. To part three of article 10.56 of the Civil Code, to part four of article 10.61 of the Civil Code, part four of the Banking and Banking Act. For example, the topic of banning banks from raising unilaterally interest on deposits is what Boris Ivanovich proposes to change. Imagine, this year the banking system raised interest rates on deposits from 14 percent to 20 percent. And if today's proposed norm were to work, banks would simply not be allowed to raise unilateral interest rates. So what I'm proposing about deposits is we need to think about not making the situation worse for investors. So the committee proposes to adopt this bill as a basis for the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u162	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Boris Ivanovich, please come to the rostrum. They've already signed up. The question is Pisarenko Valeriy Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u163	Thank you. Boris Ivanovich, first of all, I want to thank you for your initiative. Indeed, at this point many citizens today appreciate our vote. Moreover, the faction of the Yulia Tymoshenko fully supports your initiative. I also want to report that we are not stopping your initiative. We continue to work on how to protect citizens from banks. And unfortunately, there's a situation where bankers now see their customers, not customers, but debtors. And unfortunately, that's the kind of cooperation that's going on right now, when people have become now, people are now not needed by banks as people, but needed as bags to get money out of. That's why the initiative is appropriate. I'm suggesting that we don't have a lot of text. There may not be an offer to accept it in general today. Because such an offer has to be implemented so that people can actually feel it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u164	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u165	Boris Ivanovich, you don't have any more answers?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u166	No, if I have a chance, I'd like to say a few words. Dear colleagues, it's about that, under the terms of our contracts, our citizens are in fact deprived of the ability to say their word and deny the changes that have been made unilaterally by the banks. That's why this bill is about protecting the rights of citizens, of customers, of banks, not of banks. Banks are protected by other laws. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u167	National MP Bondarenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u168	Vladimir Bondarenko, Timoshenko Yuli Block. I have two questions for the reporter. The first is whether it's really the language, because Mr. Arjevetin here is a little bit misleading, that the agreements that have been made before, which banks are explaining this increase in force majeure, it's about them, too? That's the first question. Because Mr. Argewittin says it is only for the new covenants that will be made now. The second question. Your Honor, I'm also wondering if we should all be here together not only to consider this issue in a narrow way, but to be interested in the activities of those who monitor the state's finances, how hundreds of millions of dollars have been removed from the state through credit cards? Who's watching this? Who's playing with the course? And here's that report by Stelmacha, or whoever's going to be there from Nazbank, it's absolutely necessary here, as long as someone doesn't want to run away from it or take that question off. So how do you feel about these two questions I've been asked?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u169	Question me?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u170	To you, to you, Boris Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u171	I think that the list of unfair actions by commercial banks in relation to investors, the customers of these banks, can be continued. For example, commercial banks were buying up the currency, then holding it, there was no currency at the exchange points, and at the same time, the speculators, the bank representatives, were actually selling the currency at higher rates. So I think that this bill is specifically called upon to protect the rights of customers of banks. As for the reverse-action clauses, once again, I want to say that what about protecting the rights of those customers of the banks whose rights have already been violated. It is imperative to protect the rights of these customers to the bank.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u172	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u173	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Please give the floor to the national deputy Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u174	Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Thank you very much, Yuri Anatolyovich. Boris Ivanovich! I have three questions for you. First. Not only citizens but also legal persons — or just citizens — fall under this law? The other one. The law in the form in which you proposed for our consideration takes effect ten days after the publication. In this case, are the contracts made to become effective by this law subject to its operation? Because the banks have already raised contract rates. And the third. Can banks, that's the answer to a question Mr. Arzwethin asked here, can banks raise interest on citizens' deposits, or does it not prohibit this law from raising these interest rates on deposits? Please, three questions to make it clear to the citizens who listen to us whether the law improves their rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u175	Thank you. In principle, the bill does not refer only to natural persons; it refers generally to individuals and legal persons. As for the extension of the bill to previous contracts, yes. The second point of the Final Provisions provides that the law extends to those contracts that have been made before it. In addition, the bill generally prohibits unilaterally banks from lowering interest rates on deposits and increasing credit. So this is definitely going to protect the rights of customers of banks.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u176	National MP Arjevetin, question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u177	Boris Stepanovich, you probably know or will be able to cope with the fact that the long-term loans that are now 40 percent in the banking system, which is more than 20 billion, are issued by more than 10 years of basic funds, for example, more than 20 years are issued by housing programs. The resource base from deposits is formed for a year, one and a half times our deposits are deposited, the rate of refinancing changes several times a year, the inflation from 8 to 20 we have over the course of the year. Please tell me, if you suggest, for example, 20 years of not changing the interest rate in this situation, do you not realize that your initiative will stop long-term lending in Ukraine?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u178	I want to say that this bill does not deprive banks of their right unilaterally to change the terms of lending and interest rates on deposits, but this right must be proved in court. So banks are not defenseless in that sense. Furthermore, I believe that this bill, according to your committee's suggestions, recommended that it be accepted as a basis in the first reading. I ask you to support him in the first reading with a view to furthering his second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u179	Please sit down, Boris Ivanovich. Please, National Deputy Arjevetin on the rostrum. Let's sign up for a question to the reporter. I'm sorry, there's going to be an answer to the question, you wait until they sign up, they'll ask you a question, then you'll answer. National deputy Shevchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u180	The honourable colleague to whom you see the future of this bill after it has been approved in Parliament as a whole. Would it be on the President's side that we should take advantage of the veto, using perhaps your advice, perhaps your colleagues of bankers, and, what do you say, will Parliament overcome the President's possible veto? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u181	I think we should always talk to some common sense when we're talking about a bill. I can give you an example from the banking system when some government officials told us on a national level that banks would not have the right to lodge mortgages. In October, there were two percent of the problem loans of the banking system. Already in November, nearly 22 percent. Please tell me, what should the banking system do in this situation? One. It should target all the credit resources to form reserves for this group of problematic loans. She won't be able to make any money in the economy in this situation. So I think if we protect our customers in this way, among other things, in all the countries of the world, they protect our customers by protecting our banking institutions. What Boris Ivanovich said today is that the insurance funds that are counted into the guarantee institution are $1 billion per 650 billion of assets issued in the banking system. What Boris Ivanovich said is that the World Bank is issuing funds for stability -- they don't spend money here either.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u182	Hare Ivan Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u183	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian National Party. The faction of "Our Ukrainian People's Self-Defense." Mr. Reporter! I don't think we're gonna find that golden middle, if we act, we don't hear both sides. Of course, there is today the insolence of the bank’s employees, and today there is an effort to resolve their income issues at the expense of the citizens, including through the deposit area. On the other hand, I support you in saying that if we make a very populist decision, we can collapse the banking system and then everyone, both the state and every citizen, will really get hurt and so on. Because how do you think it's worth accepting this bill just in the first reading and in the short-term to work on it so that we can protect investors' interests, so that banks can't do it on their own, change their credit rates on their own? Because today I understand people, today the bank says: "Did I pick you up? Picked it up." And others say: "And why did he agree to bilateral changes in.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u184	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u185	Why did a person agree to sign a contract that involved changing the terms of the loan? However, if he did not agree, he would not have been granted that loan. That's why there's this moment. So let's take it in the first reading, work on a reduced procedure, and so that interests are preserved.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u186	I'm going to give a very brief answer to this question about revenue. Tell me, what was the motivation of the banking system when, this year, from 14 to 13 percent of deposits at the beginning of the year, today, 20 to 21 percent of citizens' deposits were raised. You can imagine, by the 206 billion that are in the banking system today, multiplying this margin that the banking system has voluntarily invested in order to equalize the problems that inflation has created. And please tell me, was there a law required for the banking system? The banking system did so on its own, realizing that the money invested in loans should be serviced. Our people came to take these deposits, even though they put them in the banking system for a year, for two and for three. Please tell me where the logic is. Let us then speak with justice. If we're talking about no raises, let's talk about no withdrawals, at least from term deposits, and that makes sense, we don't have it in legislation yet.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u187	Thank you, Stanislav Mikhailovich! Have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u188	It's not law, it's not law.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u189	Let's sign up for a discussion. Is the Kulczynski National Deputy in the Hall? There is no national MP. National MP Bondarenko speaking. It's from the faction of the record. Hold on, Vladimir Dmitrovitch, please. Out of procedure, please, Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u190	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich, for your apology. Dear colleagues, the Head of the Supreme Council, said that these were laws that were binding, and we, in principle, probably agreed to do so in such a way that we would listen to the reports on the two bills because they touched each other and we would discuss them together. I suggest that we save time together to discuss both. As the hall will decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u191	Dear colleagues, would you please say that the proposal is to discuss two draft laws at the same time? Is it accepted? I put to the vote this proposal to hear two more reports, a report and a report, and then a report.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u192	The committee didn't consider it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u193	Wait a minute. Adam Ivanovich, this draft law was not discussed on committees, the second one spoken by committee representatives. So now we have a question about how we can talk together and if we don't have a committee. And then we're going to define it separately. Have a seat, please. Please, Vladimir Dmitrovitch, come in.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u194	Vladimir Bondarenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear friends, I think the question that's being raised today is that it looks like it's a populist action for the benefit of the citizens, but it's not a populist action, it's an absolute protection for these citizens. The language goes on to say that there are rules in the world that should ensure that both sides, in this case, seem to have a conflict, are equal rights. For example, there's force majeure, there's war there, there's a world crisis, so why only one side is a bank, they're using their own capabilities to change the previously negotiated agreements between them and the citizens. Why do citizens remain lawless and have to agree that someone is changing the bet there by 1, by 2, by 3, by 5 percent? Why should citizens think about where to take the money? By the way, in one case, the banks are setting one bet, the other one is different, and the citizens are staying out of it. This needs to be removed. Of course, if it were a system of voluntary renegotiation of new contracts on new terms, this could be accepted. It's not there. Mr. Argewittin, who reported, is actually a bit of a twister here. He says that if we adopt this law, we won't have the right of the bank to raise deposits. That's not right. The new covenants that are being concluded today will be concluded in today’s conditions. And they will be made up of two sides, not one, as they want to spend today. And what I'm saying is that the situation in the banking system today, it, well, at the very least, asks a few questions today that need to be answered, who's manipulating the course? Apparently, banks. No one else, or the bank is ours, the National Bank. Who played today that was 4.50 in the spring and today under 8 is supporting and still going? Who's on it. Who exported and how much money, and with what result? Because information about the possibility of changing course is only in a limited circle of people. Everyone else sees it in their lives. Therefore, it is absolutely urgent to consider the situation with the financial banking system of Ukraine in this room. At the same time, consideration is open - minded, multifaceted. Because there's a lot of interesting interests here. There are gas stations that are convenient for Ukraine not to make a deal with Russia. Therefore, our Naftogaz cannot buy dollars in the state to deal with suppliers. Who is interested in not making direct agreements with Russia? Apparently, the group that controls “Rosukrenergo”. And that's all today -- what are the questions that are not answered. From. So what I'm proposing today is this part that relates to deposits and which relates to bank rates, to accept in general here, in this room. It's not like we're pulling forward. And then we'll look at everything else later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u195	Bondar Alexander Mikolaiovich, please. The faction “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u196	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich, for your word. I want to refute some of my colleague Arjevetin's claims that you can't change deposit agreements, and there's no credit here. If there is a consent of the parties, we can continue to do so. New deposit agreements, loan agreements can also be concluded at new rates. If you have entered into a deposit agreement and the bank offers you and you agree to raise the interest rate, who will refuse to do so. Attention is paid to banning such unilateral acts, which is the first. The other one. We completely forgot that loans were taken not only by citizens but also by legal persons, i.e. businesses. And imagine, if they took one percent, and now the bank is putting them on another, who are we protecting in this case? I understand that the banking system in a difficult state that needs to be maintained is to send the funding for the refinancing that is then being used here is already called. But you have to think about the other side of the process, the depositors and the recipients. In this regard, I have such a specific offer. The only significant point that was made by the committee, by Arjevetin himself, is that these contracts cannot be cancelled if they are re-constituted by a back number. Alexander Volodymyrovich agrees, and I approached him. I think if we take the second article in the Final Positions where it says that they have no worthless, or reverse force, this law can be passed in general, and no one will deny it. I propose to do so today and why. I'm explaining. Based on their experience in privatization, as soon as they knew that something would be banned, such action was immediately initiated. If we don't adopt this law for the second reading today, before the President signs it, trust me, all deposit agreements will be reviewed by banks. Because they're going to know from some number it's going to be forbidden. Therefore, I propose that this law be adopted once again as a basis for voting in general without the second article in the Final Provisions. And then we're going to put a dot on the abuses that are being done in the banks. By the way, we also support banks in this case, because we forbid to review deposit contracts in order to increase credit rates, if you do, someone will want to do it in one-sided order. Only with the consent of the parties. I would like to listen to the thought and adopt this law as a whole, taking into account this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u197	Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u198	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, I think the bill was filed later than it was supposed to be filed. I think we should thank Boris Ivanovich for becoming the subject of the legislative initiative. But now I'm thinking, how much stress, if you don't say the worst, was with the people who had a back-up change in the terms of their relationship with the bank. I don't want to do anything else right now, you know, to form another phobia. We like to do it in politics and not just in politics, in this case, in banking hatred, in the banking system and so on. But it seems to me that conscientious bankers and conscientious banks should be interested in adopting this bill, which Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk proposed. Because there are two sides to any contract: the bank and the physical person. Indeed, the bank will be interested in simply not having to exist after the deposit has been made and so on. So I think we should look at who is the most vulnerable in this crisis. Of course, bankers and banks lose, but there are different proportions. Because the person who has a small deposit is losing everything. And often this person has nothing else to do if he was counting on it to believe in the banking system that there should be a certain percentage. So it seems to me that the bill correctly drafted is just in its essence. Because I want to say once again, it's convenient to implement it indirectly and in the banking system itself. So I feel like I should take it. It seems to me that we should thank the acknowledgment of the initiative. It seems to me that such things should be offered on time, and this could have happened much earlier. And I think we can take this bill not only as a basis today, but as a whole. He is very urgent and timely. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u199	Kravchenko Mikola Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u200	Cowchenko, the Communist faction. Law 3343 will support the Communist faction. What made us take such a step? Today, nearly 1/3 of the population remained alone with banks and one by one with their own problems. Unfortunately, the State has been completely removed from its participation in the protection of the interests of the population. And I must say, even the fact that we are also considering the people's representative of Tarasjuk today, that is, the bills passed by the people's deputies are not sent by the President, there is no message from the Cabinet of Ministers to resolve this situation. In terms of whether the right of the people to be protected from the State, we must clearly say that the constitutional duty of the public authorities is to protect the people from the situation in which our people have fallen. Today there were questions about bank protection. Yeah, we need to keep the banking system safe, but why are we silent that in the 11 months of this year, 10 billion people, even over 10 billion, have been hit by banks? Why are we not saying to this day that banks also have to share with their investors in order to preserve themselves and the potential investor that will come to it? That's not what we're talking about today. And most of all. The State, instead of protecting the population, is now on the path of saving individual banks. This is evidenced by the fact that the Nadra Bank and other banks today are, on the initiative of, [[their only 3-4 selected]] The President's Department and someone else have issued huge loans at the rate of 5.05, and so they think they're going to save the banks, but they're going to lose and clear the entire territory of our country, and they're not going to have people coming to them for credits. Therefore, today, Simonenko and I have introduced a bill that broadens the scope of the bill. We're talking about people who are fired from their jobs, people who are on free leave for 2 years, banks have no right to borrow from them. It's not people's fault they got there, it's force majeure. Therefore, I believe that this measure will allow for an expansion of the State's influence on the rescue of the human situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u201	Yes. Dear colleagues, we are about to move on to the national MPs. We've got 15 minutes. Ivan Alexandrovich Hare, faction of our Ukraine. Prepare the national deputy Behiz.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u202	John Hare, Ukrainian People's Party, faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Ladies and gentlemen, I think we'll do the right thing if we step out of the basic rules if we step out of the understanding of the civil contract itself. And it's clear that the treaty is a two-party agreement, it's the will of the two sides. Then we can talk about what a treaty is. And if one party can change this treaty without the other party’s will, it is no longer a covenant. And if even in the agreement that the other party has signed that it agrees to a unilateral change in terms of terms, there's lending, it says that this norm is so serious that it doesn't fit, let's say, the philosophy of the agreement itself as the will of the two sides. And these are the standards that are written. If they're in contracts, that's it. They're worthless, they're actually in conflict with the Civil Code, and they've had to react to these things for a long time. If the bank wants to change or change the terms of the contract unilaterally, for example, if the bank wants to raise a loan, it must agree with the borrower. If the bank disagrees with the borrower, it will be bad for both the borrower and the bank. This is what we need to understand today, because clearly the crisis situation is, on the one hand, a great disaster for many people, and on the other hand, an opportunity for dishonest, disorderly people to take advantage of this situation and make a living. So if that's how the bank works, it loses the borrower, and if it loses the borrower, why do we really need these banks, who needs them if there's no borrower? Therefore, the suggestion is that it is the will of the borrower that cannot be changed unilaterally. It's an ideology that protects both an ordinary citizen and protects the banking system. Otherwise, we will create a situation where a common person will be robbed, because those who are unclean on hand will be enriched separately but will undermine the banking situation. So I think today these banks have gone so far that the question is not about what the question is to rehabilitate the financial system itself, the banking system itself. [[Don't interrupt!]] This is best done if we follow such approaches: that the agreement is.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u203	The national deputy Beavez, a faction of Communists, is invited to the presentation. Prepare Arieva.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u204	Vladimir Mikhailovich, can you get out of here?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u205	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u206	I'm sorry, I have my own line. Here's the thing. A distinguished national deputy, Arjewitin, spoke and said that we now have 20 percent of the problem loans in the country in the banking system. This is because yesterday the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine, Stelma, stated that the percentage of such problematic loans is only 2 percent. Then who should I trust? That's the first question. Second, there is another factor to consider: In the last 10 days, banks have lost interest in purchasing the currency five times. The tenth number of the month was sold by the National Bank of Ukraine, referring to foreign currency — dollars. And 10 days ago, 500, 400 million dollars a day. Doesn't it make sense who to trust, Stanislaw Mikhailovich? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u207	National Deputy Ariev, faction of “Our Ukraine — People’s Self-Defense. ” The next one will be the national MP, Voropeyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u208	Dear colleagues, now the situation in the banking market needs our immediate intervention, as there will be a massive default in the near future if we don't settle this issue. And I'm not going to talk about what's going to happen if there's a massive default on loans and how it's going to affect people who have a mortgage or a loan to buy a new car. But what's going on now? Now banks are actually often blackmailing their customers with letters that come to them. And they say that if you don't come and sign a contract in which either the interest rate on the loan is changed or the loan term is changed, the contract will be deemed to be broken and it will be requiring customers to demand that the lenders pay off the loan in a timely manner. I think it's a very dangerous thing because, in fact, banks go into outright blackmailing customers. Although, as we know, in each agreement, the two sides are equal. And that's why I'm proposing from my side right now that we do make an annual or a two-year-old, we can discuss a moratorium on a unilateral break-up by a bank of contracts that entails a long-term repayment of credit. In addition, we also need to address the issue of unilaterally reducing credit, reducing the lending term by banks. And this is a very serious moment that will have a positive impact both on borrowers and on the system as a whole, so that it doesn't collapse early next year. It's not forever. I think we should limit it for a year or two until the effects of the financial and economic crisis are eliminated. And second, we all know what was going on at the National Bank now, but we don't have any documentary evidence, unfortunately. Thus, the National Deputy of the People's Self-Defense Kirilo Kulikov made a draft decree for the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry at the National Bank. I think this is a priority issue for today, and I ask the committees of profile to consider this issue as quickly as possible, faction leaders to direct the national deputies there from factions to participate in this interim commission of inquiry and, more quickly, to adopt a decision at the sessions of the Supreme Council on the establishment of this interim commission of inquiry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u209	National MP Voropeyev, faction of the Regions, please. Oleg Belarus will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u210	To make everyone happy by one decision, one proposal is a good wish, but it is not always possible. Impossible. If you look at this law, you will see that, in fact, the whole dispute is about one article, which consists of a third of everything. But how does this article, as in this law, take credit lines into account, for example? If the bank has concluded a contract under which it grants several tranches to the borrower. He just gave him one tranche, didn't he? The money he got from the people. Tomorrow he must give him another tranche, other money, at another interest rate. And six months later, he has to allocate the third tranche received at an even higher rate. If the law were to prohibit an increase in the rate, the interest rate on loans already issued was one topic. How can we prevent a bank from raising interest rates on money that has not yet been issued, received by the bank and not issued to the borrower? It's a different subject. Much has been said about justice. That's right. The law must be based on moral principles and justice. But it's not completely here. The law does not take full account of the principle of justice. We must not turn into like in the movie "The Dog's Heart" into schwanders and balloons, which are guided only by one principle: take it all and share it. That's not right. We are ultimately living in a society that must take into account the interests of all parties. I think this law would be the right thing to do. To finalize it in such a way as to take into account the basic principle that money received and issued should not be adjusted by banks and that money not received and not yet issued by banks should be adjusted by banks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u211	Oleg Bilorus, the “Julia Tymoshenko Block” is invited to the presentation. Vladimir Yavorowski will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u212	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs and voters! Today, the Supreme Council is fully entitled and responsible to consider whether or not the most painful issue of the security of our socio-economic development. It seems that the unilateral decisions of banks in terms of citizens who have received loans on such a massive scale are a well-planned and well-resourced stock. It is closely related to the practice of increasing the sudden course of bracelets to 4.4, 4.3 even, and then the organized collapse of the course of bracelets that threaten, prophesy, and provoke 10 or more. This is a new phenomenon in the country's economic and social life. It's not just about banks, it's somebody who's very, very interested in it. By speaking responsibly with conscience, we must say that we are dealing with a new phenomenon. It's a monopoly, it's a conspiracy by the National Bank with the oligarchic banks of Ukraine. This is not just a threat to citizens who have received credit, it is a threat to national security, to the security of our development. And we need to evaluate this as an extraordinary situation and take appropriate measures. In world practice, our interest rates on loans are unprecedented, there are three, four, five, six percent, here are tens of interest rates, and now it is in a unilateral order to raise interest rates on loans that have already been received, which have been returned at other interest rates. It's banditry, or I can't call it. And I'm surprised why the President's Administration or the National Bank or the Association of Banks didn't pass the law that Boris Ivanovich passed, the honor and glory to him. So on behalf of the faction and on behalf of myself, I propose to adopt this bill not only as a basis, but in general that the Supreme Council has demonstrated that it protects banks, we have adopted laws and billions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u213	Thank you. Vladimir Aleksandrovitch Yavorowski has a word from the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u214	Dear colleagues! Dearly beloved electors who listen to us. It seems to me that these two days of the work of the Ukrainian Parliament are truly a sign. It seems to me that we have sent a good message to Ukrainian society on the grounds that before the disaster, before the great problems, we are able to actually unite, find ourselves in some kind of one row, but there may be a political segment in which ambitions are too exaggerated, and this bill is also in this order. I would very much like to thank Boris Ivanovich and the People's Movement, because he is the leader of the People's Movement, because they actually assigned this beautiful law to their Jubilee. I would like to say that this is not a war against banks, hide God, we understand very well that the banking system is absolutely necessary, I will never forget Boris Yeltsin on the committee he headed, and I was a member of his committee when Paul stood before us and Yeltsin, biting the pencil, asks Paul, “Lord Paul, tell me how many banks are needed by the Soviet Union?” Paul is wet, moving from foot to foot, Yeltsin takes this pencil and says, "Remember, the bank is as big as it needs to be!" Because of that, I think it's a very good law, it's come together in general, frankly, a wild situation, banks can one-on-one change everything they want in this agreement for their own benefit. In such a case the question arises, then the investor or the person who took credit in them has the same one - way shift in this interest for their own benefit. The only thing I think we should think about is, Boris Ivanovich, after all, we have a segment from September, from October, to the moment of the entry into force of this bill. Those people who have already been able to take the lead, say banks, some have been intimidated, others have been threatened, how can we do that to these other people, because I don't know how many of them are there, but it's worth doing. Banks are banks, they say the bank will always lend you an umbrella, but when it rains, it will take that umbrella back. This is really a big problem, and I'm very concerned that the loans that Ukraine has received from the IMF, in fact, the Ukrainian government has no relation to them. I'm not saying that the government had to distribute this money, but they would have to act in solidarity with the National Bank, and the government, which knows where to go, unfortunately, this money just went on sale and actually didn't help Ukraine, but actually did do it. Because of that Yulia Timoshenko Block, we thank Taraszuk once again for the law and we will give up all the votes we have for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u215	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! The bill has been completed. Please, a national MP. I know, I'm just... Dear colleagues, National Deputy Arjewityn, turn on the microphone and then Carmazin, and we will vote. After a minute, please, time is up.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u216	Dear colleagues! I understand how much you're not in love with me right now, you can love me and you can't love me. Please divide the Ukrainian banking system into two levels: the National Bank is the first responsibility and the first level; there is the banking system, the second level that currently serves 670 billion loans and deposits. I'm asking you very much, let's take care of this, this is the blood system of Ukraine, this is salary payments, this is pensions. Let's not create strombas, so I'm asking you very much. Let me make sure that the final word from our committee, however, is returned to our committee so that we can work on it. Your Honor, this is a special financial tool. We haven't been looking at letters of credit today, we haven't been looking at forex, forward operations today -- there are a lot of specific things. There is a grave violation of the Civil Code of 5 articles today, if you don't care about the MPs that are being violated and the 5 articles of the Civil Code are not being regulated, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u217	Thank you, dear fellows, for your attention! A colleague has the right to express his or her point of view. At the same time, there's a committee's decision to take the basis now we're going to define. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u218	The committee's decision is to take it as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u219	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u220	Invite the deputies to the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u221	Dear National Deputies! Please, I'll make an alternative offer, please calm down. We must now think about the constitutional rights and freedoms of Ukrainian citizens, how to ensure them. And I see it that way and I offer it to you. First. Make changes to the fourth, to the point that is now envisaged in this law, where it is prohibited to change conditions unilaterally, so that we write a little bit differently. Now, I'm going to write a line here: reverse action to stop, delete the reverse action in the Final Positions, paragraph two, delete what this law takes in 10 days, so it picks up from the day of official publication and deletes, write in the wording of this law, that the terms of the contract, or the item.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u222	Dear National Deputies! Let me finish and now let us finish Yuri Anatoliovich's opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u223	Dear National Deputies! The fourth paragraph reads: “The terms of the contract, as regards the bank's right to change interest rates to a one-sided one-way contribution”, are worthless and correct. But here you would have to write after the “bank right” word “to the side of its reduction”. So we've practically taken into account all the proposals that are and let's not make people wait for this long-awaited law that can protect citizens' rights. We're not violating the rights of banks, because we're not entering the rear number, we're entering the End position.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u224	Dear National Deputies! The bill has been completed. Let's stick to this sequence, because if we're going to make changes in a voice right now, it's going to have to be put to the vote. So the decision can be one thing. Now we're laying the groundwork. Just a minute. As a result of the vote, and if there are no objections to the MPs, we can put it up and vote as a law. If there is denial and insistence on second reading, we can decide on a shorter procedure for preparing for second reading. Now, with a voice, we can stress a lot of unagreed positions. Accordingly, according to the committee, the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation prohibiting banks from changing the terms of the agreement on bank contributions and the loan agreement in a unilateral manner is to be adopted as a basis for adoption. Registration number, once again, 3343, please vote. [[13:10:23]] For 256 The factions? Please, by the factions. A party of regions, my fellow dignitaries, I very much ask you, but we have a tolerant attitude in the session room, and from next week it's going to be upsetting, so let's work. Region Party – 0, "Timoshenko Yulia Block" – 152, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" – 57, Communist faction – 27, "Litvina Block" – 20. Dear colleagues, National Deputy Bondar, please. Dear colleagues, the offer was, right now, just calm down. I'm asking you not to insist anymore.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u225	Vladimir Mikhailovich, when I wasn't in the rostrum, I suggested and all of this was supported, including the author, to now enforce the law as a whole, by deleting the second article of the final clauses, where is the deadline for breaking up the rear number. And this law can be adopted today in general with this amendment. Everyone agreed to that. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u226	Dear colleagues, let's put it this way, there were two positions here. First offer, take it as a law. A second suggestion, colleague Arzhewitten spoke and said that there was a series of disagreements with the legislative base. In order to break up in this situation, therefore, it would be possible to put to the vote and determine the will of the session room. With regard to the second point, the second point of the closing position is denied and the committee is appropriate. Clearly, it needs to be removed. So, to your mind, I'm putting forward a motion for a deviation from the rule of law and for the adoption of the bill as a whole now as a law, with the deletion of the second point of the closing order. Please vote. I put it to a vote because there's a denial. If it wasn't, I wouldn't put it to a vote. [[13:12:44]] For 243 What did I do wrong? [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, the People's Deputies of Arjevetin. Sign up, please, who is willing to speak, five minutes. Well, the microphone, Arjevitin. I already announced it, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u227	Dear fellow MPs! I'm talking to you again. Let's make a decision that we're going to consider in a simplified way. And next week we settle the five violations we have before the Civil Code and, by the way, before the article of the Constitution. Let's regulate the law on consumer co-operation, where there's also a violation. Let us regulate the law that relates to the article in the Banking and Banking Act. Well, you can't just treat it like that. Please, give the committee a few days. We'll settle this and get it out fast. This is the committee's request.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u228	Thank you. Please. It's not working. Catherine Samuel, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u229	Thank you. I want to say both to all colleagues of the Ukrainian national deputies and to all who are listening to us today. Today we may have adopted perhaps the most important and most important law, which still protects those people who had only hope for that loan, even though with a large percentage of what they could buy, or real estate, or something to buy. And so once again, I want to emphasize that whoever wants to take the adopted one away today, and we've already adopted this whole bill, of course, is simply setting up simple people. And the one who did not vote also proved that banking interests are primarily but not the interests of the common people. I think we did the right thing, and it's wise that we did it for people. And I want to say to those who are very violent, "Don't worry about it, because your President is going to veto this law."
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u230	Ivan Kirilenko faction “Bloku Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u231	Dear Head, dear colleagues, we must have adopted if, according to the scale, the most important anti-crisis law that affects 32 million of our citizens is largely accounted for by all 46 million. I respect the banks, I respect our banking system, we've trusted it too long, but today most of our banks are savings banks that have loans for other financial transactions that are our people's investments. And today, to lose people's trust, not to support our people, our investors, is to put a cross on the next banking system, on the entire economic system of the state. That's why the government called that law first when Julia Volodymyrna was on the air yesterday. We have to protect people, protect investors -- it has to be the first anti-crisis law. I thank all the factions that supported this law. Thank you for voting at the same time in the second reading. Colleagues, we sent a beautiful signal today not only to people but also to the banking system that.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u232	No, dear colleagues, Yuri Carmazin, please the faction "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u233	Yuri Karmazin The Party of Fatherland Defenders of Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense. Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome the adoption of this anti-crisis law. First. The other one. I firmly claim that there are no six violations of the Civil Code. Although the law would have to be added to it. There must be no change in the terms of the loan agreement in one-sided order, because it is a home invasion, and it cannot be assumed. This is a violation of the constitutional rights of citizens. And let's see, we have the National Bank Act, the Banking Act and the Banking Act, written by the bankers themselves. It wasn't written under Ukrainian citizens, it showed this crisis that they were allowed to rob citizens by law. And I'm very sorry that neither the Henprosecutors nor other organizations have joined. I'm so sorry I didn't see where the money went. We're going to call the landlady where the Ukrainian money went to open it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u234	Thank you. National MP Voropeyev, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear colleagues, one more minute, let's follow the rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u235	I'm very glad we have Communists on the left, but on the right. That's interesting. And the second. Do you think we just protected the borrowers? You're making a deep mistake. We did not protect the borrower with such a crude law. Because banks will, of course, be able to only unconscionable banks, to put in some kind of loan service commission, to issue cash there, other commissions, and they will compensate for their losses. If we had finalized the law within a week, we would not have allowed these banks to increase the commissions on the money that has already been issued. You didn't want to do that. That's why the people see who was finally protecting him here.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u236	Dear people's deputies, we exchanged thoughts. The Supreme Council has made a decision that has been derogated from the rules, regardless of the objection, and is invited by most deputies to adopt the law in general. By doing the will of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I will put it to a vote, but we also need to understand the situation that the President of Ukraine is obviously devoting him to. That's why. Dear colleagues, please calm down and focus on the vote. Please. The draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts prohibiting banks from modifying the terms of the Banking Authority and the loan agreement in a unilateral manner, registration number 3343 from deleting the second paragraph of the termination clauses for the adoption of the draft as a whole as a law. [[13:20:11]] For 239. The law is passed. The factions, please. The Party of the Regions – 1, "Club of Yulia Timoshenko" – 152, "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" – 40, Communist faction – 27, "Clocle of Lithuania – 19. Dear colleagues, on the Conciliation Council, when we were discussing the introduction of Bill 3343, which we had just adopted as a law, we spoke to consider Bill 3459. But since he didn't have the committee's consideration, and in some parts he's in touch with the bill that we've just considered and made a positive decision about him, so I'm going to put the bill to the vote without a committee decision. That was the offer? I therefore put to the vote without a decision by the 3459 Committee on Amendments to the Ukrainian Act "On the first steps to prevent the negative effects of the financial crisis and to amend certain legislative acts of Ukraine". [[on the protection of property rights of citizens and support of a domestic producer]] Please, Your Honor, vote. [[13:21:49]] For 204 The decision is not taken. Please show the faction. Region Party – 0, “Club of Timoshenko” – 150, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” – 7, Communist faction – 27, “Clocus of Lithuania” – 20. Adam Martinyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u237	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues! Dear radiotelephones! Our bill, which should now be considered, by the way, the Supreme Council has voted that today we have two laws to consider in one context, until we consider it, unfortunately, the Head has come out, the First Deputy has changed the situation a little bit, but it has already passed. There is no alternative to that bill that we voted on. He's filling it up. The bill of colleagues from Tarasyuk says that banks have no right to change the terms of credit, but we suggest in our project that banks be temporarily banned from taking a mortgage: cars, apartments and so on and so forth. Because 1 in 5 today cannot repay the loan. And we suggest that those banks that want to transfer dollar loans in a bracelet right now, so that they can return those loans, transfer them in a course that's not higher than that set up by the National Bank, because.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u238	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have a conflict here. We voted with you to consider these two bills, and we are not currently considering it. Then let's do it this way: either this is a decision, if it's final, then we'll wait for the committee to decide; or we can vote it out and, if we don't have the will to consider it today, we'll consider it next week. [[B in m in s a l in]] Huh? So let's now vote it out, this is a decision now, that is to go back to including it in the schedule of meetings. About getting back to the agenda. Bill 3459. Please vote. [[13:24:14]] For 205 The decision is not taken. I would then ask the committee to consider this bill expeditiously so that we, along with other bills relating to this problem, can consider it in plenary week. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now moving on to the performances. The deputies were registered with us or. ? Please record the performance. On the board, please. National Deputy Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich, faction of the Party of the Regions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u239	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! Recent government statements to win inflation have proved to be a myth. The standard of living of citizens continues to deteriorate because of the constant rise in prices, which in January-November 2008 already reached 19.8 percent. With the completion of last year’s harvest harvest, rising food prices have been restored, municipal tariffs are rising sharply, and population inflation expectations have increased amid economic and exchange-rate instability. The government is making dangerous attempts to finance the current budget for the money issue, the release of GDP for 6 billion dollars purchased by the National Bank. This creates undetected risks of accelerated inflation in the coming periods. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is demonstrating helplessness, lack of systems, and non-professionalism in the fight against economic and financial crises. There is no government economic programme for the coming year, there is no realistic macroeconomic forecast, there is no State Budget-2009 project, that is, key documents that depend on the implementation and financing of any anti-crisis proposals. Individual attempts by the Cabinet of Ministers to curb the crisis, such as the adoption of an anti-crisis law, the adoption of an order for the use of the Stabilisation Fund, the participation of the State in the recapitalisation of banks, are either declarative in nature, or will have a questionable effect on stabilizing the financial and industrial situation. The anti-crisis law does not solve the financial stabilisation tasks adopted by the Cabinet's decisions on how to use the Stabilisation Fund and the State's participation in the recapitalisation of banks remains a fiction because there is still no funding in the Stabilisation Fund. Government making memoranda with industry is a declarant document. Moreover, the implementation of the individual provisions included in the memorandums will destabilize the industry by exacerbating competition, increasing corruption and creating incentives to redistribute property. The initiatives of the Cabinet of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, envision a broad field for corruption. In particular, the government proposes to issue land to the builders without auction. Instead of providing systemic support to the real sector, Ukraine’s Cabinet of Ministers has unsuccessfully tried to stop the rise in prices and increase unemployment. By replacing real business support with administrative press tools, the government creates visibility, but it shows complete lack of results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u240	Thank you. I would like to invite Igor Alexeyev, the Communist Party faction of Ukraine. Please. Get ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u241	Dear colleagues, distinguished radio audiences, respected TVs! I want to briefly prove to you the content of a very interesting letter that, on November 27, Minister of Foreign Affairs Ogryzko sent to the head of the National Council of Ukraine on TV issues, the Shevchenko radio talk, informing him that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was trying to create material on the activities of the NATO Alliance, namely 30-second rolls and a ten-second documentary film "NATO: Yours or Foreigner" and so on. And he invites Mr. Shevchenko to make an effort to make an assessment of the correspondingity of the above-mentioned 30-second role models with social advertising standards. I would like to point out that according to the Ukrainian Advertising Act, social advertising is seen as advertising for socially important measures to preserve the health of Ukrainian citizens. I want to ask the question: So will the introduction, rather, of Ukraine's failure to join NATO preserve the health of Ukrainian citizens? He claims that we are dealing with manipulation of social consciousness, which is a crime that is being punished as criminal. So Mr. Ogryzk's actions, and if Mr. Shevchenk's positive decision is made, he can be considered criminally responsible. I would like to point out that recent social surveys show that more than 70 per cent of Ukrainian citizens clearly do not support Ukraine's accession to NATO. So they, most Ukrainian citizens, have no right to express their position on state television and radio channels? I emphasize, but not as a social commercial. We have a clear position here that the minority is once again trying to impose illegal methods on most Ukrainian citizens. I am in charge of the already-established interfractional parliamentary association “Antinato”, composed of 79 national deputies from various political factions. As the head of this association, I will make a formal request to the National Council for airtime on national and regional television channels in order to express another point of view on NATO. And we're in these materials that we already have, we're going to remind the citizens of Ukraine that they're "peacemakers" in quotes, NATO shares in Iraq, Afghanistan, Yugoslavia and so on. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u242	Thank you. I would like to invite you to the words of National Deputy Andriy Shkull, faction of the “Julia Timoshenko Block”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u243	Dear radios, television sets, distinguished fellow national MPs! I'd like to say the main thing a little bit later. Here is the previous talk, I heard that there is an interfractional merger of “Antinato. ” This means that the rest of those who are not part of this union are supported in the NATO Parliament. That's how I'd like it. It's an automatic division: if there's an “ANTINATO”, all the others who haven't entered. “ANTINATO” includes a small number of people. So, I just don't think we should just focus so much on this, it's going to be okay. Ukraine now has much bigger problems than these. So I would still like to go back to the bill that we discussed about banks. We're talking a lot, we've adopted a legal bill, but we've been talking about accusations that are unpleasant, for example, for me who voted in favour of this bill, in terms of population. I mean, there's no iota in this law. There was an attempt to make it so much more nationalized by giving it, as it were, reverse force. We've fixed it, and this law will work. What does it mean? This means that banks that outrank credit rates only when a person has to pay. But when a bank is credited, the rate they put in the bank, for example, to save and live on it, they're not in a hurry to raise it. This is a very important argument for those who have heard, heard, voted, and may not have understood everything from our radio listeners. This means that television sets will work in the name of mutual interests: both the borrower and the one who puts them in the bank. Because it can't be that the borrower borrows less than 35 percent and the borrower gets a 10 percent profit. This is, at least, 25 percent unfair. And that was corrected. So I don't want to say that this is the most important or widespread step towards overcoming the crisis, but this is a very important step. Because the banking system itself was a source of hope destruction, hope for a bright future for so many people, because money was invested in banks, funds were borrowed from banks to build, to buy cars. And this is a very painful, very difficult moment in the human experience of Ukraine's crisis. So I want to say that the parliamentary majority, which is formed and exists in the walls of the Supreme Council, has demonstrated quite clearly enough. And no matter what the angry voices say, the fact remains, because voting is the best confirmation of the coalition. And all the opponents of this coalition I urge, as a minimum, to pay attention to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u244	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have Jaroslav Jódzik and Alexander Klimenko, who have duly submitted written statements and request that their position be sounded by national deputy John the Rabbit. So I invite him to speak. Rules - 6 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u245	Thank you. John Hare, Ukrainian People's Party, faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". The future of Ukraine, nations, and nations is not possible without the preservation of a spiritual inheritance. Unfortunately, we have to admit that we have a lot of problems in this area. In particular, the issue of one of the most important areas, namely, museums and museums. The majority of Ukrainian museums are forced not to dwell in specially built buildings, but in suitable facilities, they are fortunate enough to have museums whose premises were specially built by 1917. In Soviet times, the authorities were mainly concerned with the construction of museums that carried out an ideological mission, such as the pompous museum of the world’s proletariat leader. Thus, valuable art meetings were preserved and stored in unadapted facilities. I will remind you that for a long time they were located in closed temples. With the return of the last churches, the museum’s exhibition areas have declined considerably, and today less than five percent of the museum’s funds are being exhibited in the halls, while the rest are being stocked. Often too soft and tight, harmful to the long - term storage of items that are not fit for scientific work. Ukrainian museums need funds, and this is beyond question; it is not just a hollow roof and a rusty battery; it is a constant lack of protection; it is often the case that exhibits from the main collections become the object of presumptuous theft. When the stolen items are almost never found, consider the sad fate of the unique sword of Bogdan the Hmelnick. Approved at dawn, although it seems to have been returned, the foundations of Ukrainian legislation on culture and the Museums and Museums Act have been established, museum collections and objects have not yet been dismantled, privatized, and not alienated, but are not actually implemented, and in today's economic crisis, questions are being raised about the possibility of implementing some museum exhibits that do not represent rarity for the purpose of using funds for the development of the museum. But in the absence of proper control, including public control, this process poses a potential threat to the resurgence of the scourge that Ukrainian culture suffered in the 20th century. In particular, 20-30 years when cultural treasures were actually paid for industrialization and the construction of socialism. The decision on the implementation of the funds, the museum without defining the value of the exhibits, their balance sheet value, and the determination of the direction of the distribution of funds poses a huge threat to the spiritual heritage. To understand what will happen in this case with national acquisitions, such as national acquisitions such as museum funds, it is enough to look at what is being done with agricultural land, where agricultural land is being sold, and there are no legislative rules for this, where there is no lack of assessment of land, of their inventory. As a result, Ukrainians depopulate, and the nation loses its natural resource base for the future. If this is not an example, I'll draw your attention to another aspect of the problem of liberal privatization, namely municipal property. Local government authorities have essentially sold out municipal property and thereby cut off the local budget and could rent the property and have living expenses for the needs of the community. So without going against the possibility of selling individual museum exhibits and museum reserves that really don't conflict with world practice, you have to realize that in a crisis, you sell museum exhibits, whatever it is to steal them. The sale of museum exhibits can be talked about in stable social conditions after a thorough inventory of museum acquisitions, after their export valuation, after the formation of a national list of those rarity that can never be put on sale under any circumstances. And now, honourable national deputies, I would like to draw your attention to the initiatives of the Ukrainian People's Party. We've submitted to the Supreme Council a bill on public procurement in crisis conditions, you know that we have these issues settled today by a decree of the Cabinet of Ministers, today we need to amend this regulation so that government purchases are oriented towards the purchase of the production of the national manufacturer, except for critical imports, and this applies from grain to combines. Similarly, we have a legislative initiative that is called upon to reduce pressure on owners, especially agriculture. This is 2444, we're proposing, finally, a zero bet so that people can survive in these conditions today. There's a whole range of offers -- seaports to remove land; moratoriums to change the target destination of land under the recreational zones -- these are stadiums, these are parks, these are playgrounds, this is all that needs to be considered today by the Supreme Council with a view to finally settling this situation. Because we have to remember with you that the crisis is a great disaster for the people, but on the other hand, if the authorities are acting energetically, it is an opportunity to bring society, people's lives to a quality new level. If we don't do this, if we just point-blankly change our political behavior, we will only deepen this crisis. So I suggest you focus on a whole set of legislative initiatives, and we've put an anti-crisis program out of the party to implement it. And then we get it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u246	Thank you. National MP Kulczynski is missing in the hall. National MP Kravchenko is handing over his right to speak to National Deputy Cibenko Petr Stepanovich, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u247	Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! [[Communist faction, Peter Cibenko]] December 9-10 in Kiev took place the next plenary of the “Ukrainen Veterans” organization. He discussed the socio-economic and political situation in the country. And the practical actions of the Ukrainian Veterans and its structure in the places that come out of it. It's also discussed a series of questions about the preparation and marking of the 65-year-old Great Victory in the Great Homeland War and the 65-year-old liberation of Ukraine from the fascist invaders. The problems of the organization’s statutory activity have also been addressed. While appreciating the socio-economic and political situation in the country, veterans viewed it as extremely unsatisfactory. They believe that the highest leadership of the state — the President, the Prime Minister, the Supreme Council of Ukraine — is engaged in internal political deliberations completely inappropriately and untimelyly in the problems of former hunger, not the present cold and famine, the rehabilitation and heroization of UN UPA troops by joining NATO, the search for treason has missed the first bells, the first signs of a global total crisis. In addition, the strategy for responding to the global financial and economic crisis was mistakenly chosen. Now it's absolutely obvious, because the first package of anti-crisis laws that was adopted won and “used” only by bankers. Veterans described as extremely unsatisfactory the state of implementation of current legislation in part of the social protection of veterans. Participants in the plenary warned of the highest leadership of the state and local authorities regarding the inadmissibility of contemptuous, brutal treatment of veterans. After working for the country, for 30-40-50 years, they have the ability not to ask, not to beg, but to demand adequate social protection for the veterans of the nation's gene pool. Council members warned the government that if it did not perform its functions satisfactorily and subsequently, the mass veterans would join the movement of Ukraine’s growing resistance. The plenary also accepted an application to defend the historical and spiritual values of the people of Ukraine. The plenary warned the authorities and some of its most nationalized supporters about the inadmissibility of preconceived censuses of the most heroic pages of the history of Ukraine and of the Great Homeland War and their enumeration to the bloodguilty criminals of the UN-OPA. Fighting the heroic history of Ukraine by destroying military graves, including bulldozers, is absolutely unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u248	Deputy Jereshko gives his word to the national deputy from the BUT faction Vitaly Terentijovich Koržu, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u249	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! In recent times, observations have given the impression that at times the subject of a crisis is artificially unfolded, and so everyone tries to scare as if they want the citizens to lose their sanity. For some, the crisis has become such a god that we must pray and please him so that he does not do worse. Here I would like to remind you of the words of the Soviet wizard Leonid Brezhnev, who, among other things, came into history with the famous expression “there are things more important than peace”. So I don't want our descendants to think of us as what they thought were more important than human life. Therefore, it should not be forgotten that more important than the workplaces and profits of companies are the clean water that humans and animals drink, and from here, the food we eat. The air we all breathe is more important. A specific example. The inhabitants of the villages of Gnow and Belaus and Masana of the Chernigiv district of Chernigiv region specifically asked me to save them from ecological death. This perspective is completely real because there are ponds that store rare toxic wastes from industrial enterprises next to these villages. In these businesses of their own time, many people in these villages were given jobs and were also happy. But there have been so many toxic substances in storage ponds for decades that toxic wastes have already polluted water in wells, polluted vegetables and fruits, polluted by the Billous River, which falls into the Right, from which water is supplied to the people of Kiev. According to the institute of colloidal water chemistry, Ukraine’s National Academy of Sciences has a share of first and fourth grade toxicities in ponds of up to 4.6 percent. In September of this year, Kabmin first allocated 2.5 million dollars to build a facility to dispose of toxic waste. A tender was made, contracts were made with contractors, building permits were obtained, but now the Ministry of Ecology requires reimbursement of the funds allocated. Villagers ask for the opportunity to continue building to preserve their lives. Instead of hiding behind the crisis, we need to use this time of crisis to internalize our communications, to eliminate the flaws of the past years, to put our environment in order. Because in today’s peaceful conditions, it is not.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u250	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u251	human life.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u252	I would like to invite Vladimir Bondarenko, faction of the “Julia Timoshenko Block”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u253	Dear friends, respected TV viewers! And first of all, I'm talking to the Chinese. Recently, thousands of you have received a specific letter from Leonid Mikhailovich Czernovecki, where he apologized for folding the programs he had previously conducted. It's about paying off every holiday some kind of money in one category or another, passing on some product kits and stuff. What is behind this letter? First of all, it is caused by the complete bankruptcy of the Montenegrin politics, which organized resources for the elections, borrowing from itself from the third and fourth quarters of this year in medicine, in education and under elections, created an illusion of complete happiness in Kiev. Everyone gets everything they need, as if they'll always be. No, it's not. That is not the case now. The fares for transport are unjustifiably doubled. The Antimonopoly Committee stresses this, the government stresses this. Leonid Mikhailovich does not pay any attention to this. A unique document has recently been released, which today has divided some organizations that are governed by the laws of Ukraine and the city of Kiev into two classes. Some are those who have to pay 10 times more than others for the heat they consume. I mean, today half Kiev without heat, the left bank is practically everything. It is also a testimony to his technical policies and reforms that he did not touch during his period of activity, not even on yotta. Another document came out recently, where five times they promise to raise tariffs in so - called elite houses. Who divided them into elites and not elites? How can people be sorted? After all, those who earn more pay more taxes. I want to say that this activity continues. And it must ever be stopped. We also see unique things in this background that the prosecution doesn't want to see. In the system of the Embassy of God, which is controlled by the Chernobyl and provided for the work of Sande Adeleji, a huge financial pyramid arose. And when we were discussing banking today, I'd like to ask. And how does this pyramid, which no longer pays anyone any more money, have a conscience toward those who now govern the city to view it, for they obviously had a bearing on it. Recently on the Internet, I read that a bank called Sandeday Adelaide had opened up in Nigeria. So, Cherniwiecki's going to urge the Chinese to put money into the Nigerian bank today to finance voodoo and so on in Africa? These are terrible things that we need to pay attention to today. And I would ask today perhaps with a punter, but Bear comes out of the den and settles with Kiev, not sit and watch by eating tens of acres of Kiev land. Once again, the prosecutor's office, as well as the President's Secretariat, are the largest consumers of the land of Kiev, so they see nothing and hear nothing, and they don't want to see and listen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u254	Yes, I would like to ask Yuri Carmazin to prepare for Belarus the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u255	Yuri Karmazin The Party of Fatherland Defenders of Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense. Dear fellow MPs, distinguished Ukrainian people! Today, everyone in the country is tired of the chaos that is in Ukraine, from the fact that neither the Constitution nor the law nor the laws of Ukraine are being implemented. That is why more than 380 deputies today supported the MP’s request to be dismissed as deputy director of the Ukrainian Security Service, Tiberius Durdinz. Who, in contrast with the law, is also appointed chief of the Governing Body. Moreover, for two years we have been in disgraceful violation of the Constitution of Ukraine, which is personally sanctioned by you Victor Andrievich Yushchenko. Personally, I would like to emphasize. Because in accordance with article 85, paragraph 12, of the Constitution, the Supreme Council is to appoint the President of Ukraine as head of the Ukrainian Security Service. In accordance with article 106, paragraph 4, it is the President who submits the assignment. In order not to see Mr. Kuchma’s clout in 1997 from the same rostrum, I informed the deputies of the law, which was called the temporary exercise of the duties of persons appointed by the Supreme Council of the President or the Supreme Council at the request of the President. Then we adopted this law. Kuchma vetoed but began to carry it out, submitted it to the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court said that the law was constitutional. And this law is being ignored by today's secretariat, today's president. I ask, how long can it go on like this, Mr. President? Let's stop this violation of the Constitution and the law. I stood and stood on this and wouldn't have to break the laws as a Party of Protectors of the Motherland. And the persecution of members of the Party of Protectors will be properly appreciated, and we'll talk about it around. With regard to another domestic problem, it is extremely large. 3353, yesterday we passed an anti-crisis law in the agrarian sector, the right law, but there's a perfectly wrong rule on zero rate of duty for sunflower seeds. The conversion of sunflower seeds in Ukraine is jobs for 50,000 workers and two billion budget cuts. This is written to me at the commission of the Ukriliaprom oil companies holding association. A trading company and a bunch of companies that prove that if we keep an expert seed time, we can produce 2.4 million tons of oil that we sell in 56 countries around the world. So I urge us to fight for our own Ukrainian market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u256	Thank you. I would like to invite Billorus Oleg Grigorovich, faction of the "Julia Timoshenko Block". Get ready for Victor Terrence. [[Taran]]
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u257	Honorable Chairman, Honourable Citizens of Ukraine! It is time to stop and think about where we are with you, why we have this situation, and what we can do to bring about the misery that exists in Ukraine today. Introducing Ukraine in the Inter-Parliamentary Union and in the Organisation for Security Cooperation in Europe, protecting the national interests, honour and dignity of our state, I find it increasingly difficult and difficult to explain to my colleagues why our great European country is in such a mess in such a crisis. And this is, first of all, the crisis of power. It cannot be explained by a global, total financial crisis. I explain this by explaining that the internal crisis arises in the heads, by subjective interests, the desire for power, and the unwillingness to work for the State, the people. And so today, speaking to the President, as a national MP, I have the moral right to say: “Mr. President, stop, the country on the brink of failure, undermining the new democratic coalition is a crime, because Parliament has been working again, the people have sighed, passed bills that are in the interests of millions, tens of millions of citizens.” Today, as yesterday, we have passed major laws, including the Law on Changes to the Budget of the State in 2007. It gives hope to millions of pensioners in 2009. And I would ask the presiding officer to instruct me to publish the names of all the national MPs who refused to uphold this national interest. As everyone has seen, the regions gave only one vote out of 175. What's he talking about? I think that by accepting ambassadors, delegations, explaining to them that Ukraine is not doomed to a crisis, and we believe that common sense will be found, and that from tomorrow on all branches of government are working in solidarity, in the interests of the people, every family, and every citizen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u258	Mikola Grigorovich, I'd like to ask the apparatus to prepare a protocol assignment. I think it's a fair requirement for the national deputy of Belarus to have our colleagues in the Voice of Ukraine publish today's vote on two fundamentally important bills that required the Supreme Council to deal with the 2008 budget and which relate to the return procedure or so-called return procedure. Or a bill banning banks from changing the terms of a bank deposit agreement. I think it's important for people to know the point of view and the position of all the factions that are represented in Parliament. I'd like to invite Victor Terrence to the Yulia Timoshenko Block. [[Tarana]] Get ready for Samowalik Katharina Semenovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u259	Victor Terrence, Timoshenko Street. On Tuesday, a coalition of three parliamentary factions was announced: BUT, “Block of Lithuania” and “NU-NS”. And as a result, a number of important anti-crisis laws have been adopted in these days to minimize the impact of the global financial crisis on the development of an agro-industry complex, on the social protection of the population and others. In a statement to the people, Prime Minister Yulia Timoshenko announced the next steps of the coalition. The report's coalition will do its utmost to stop corruption and speculation in the currency and dollar markets, the coalition at the legislative level will not allow banks to raise interest on loans in their own discretion, and we assure that any discussion of the abolition of pensions or the non-payment of their working pensioners is a total provocation -- all benefits and benefits will be saved. So Parliament began to work productively. But at the same time, a number of questions arise. Why are there empty seats for members of the Party of Regions in the Hall when considering important anti-crisis laws? What, the financial crisis doesn't affect them? I realize that their personal financial crisis may not touch or touch, but. worries many and many people. Why would the Party of the Regions have to do with the law? This is what Deputy Belarus was talking about, for the law that forbids banks from raising their loans, they gave one vote at a time. Or. The question arises in this context. Why does the President, instead of working with the government and parliament, personally call the deputies from “Our Ukraine” – and this is not a secret in Parliament – call those MPs who voted in favour of the coalition and Lithuania, and convince them not to think about creating a coalition with “Julia Timoshenko’s Block”. I think that today, when both parliaments and governments and presidents of all countries are united before the financial crisis strikes, we need to follow the same principles. And in conclusion, I want to look at the classics of Ukrainian state-building. And the classics of Ukrainian citizenship, for example, Simon Petlura said clearly that the nation is higher than the party, the nation is higher than the class. And if the state is higher than the parties, for personal interests, for any ratings, we have no other way of simply uniting ourselves, to unite in the name of a great cause whose name is Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u260	Thank you. I invite you to speak to Samuel Catherine of Simeon. I'm informing her that there's a rule of procedure for the people's MP, Drapov, who's giving her the word. So Samuel Catherine of Simeon, 6 minutes. Prepared for Paul’s day.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u261	Thank you very much. Dear voters, our radio listeners! I want to say that today we set an example for everyone of how to work so that, really, at least minimize these blows that caused the crisis on you. And today, we have adopted the most important law of Ukraine that protects you -- those who have taken credit under the authority and banks -- protects you from the collapse of banks. And let it be on the conscience of those and bankers, including, are they so inhuman?Oh, my God! – let their conscience be that they practically voted against the adoption of this law. I'm sure they'll go to the President of Ukraine because, despite their claims of opposition and their days and nights there, they'll talk him into vetoing this law. But I do believe that we're going to be able to overcome that veto. I also want to say that the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine has deliberately supported the candidacy of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We understand that the crisis is not a time for disunity. The crisis never brings out real leaders like that, and it says that these are the winners today. So let them continue to shame themselves. But let people remember who, in times of difficulty instead of laying their shoulders, lays a footstool. In my opinion, we need to be more complex and systematic in shaping Ukraine's anti-crisis laws. What do I mean? Earth is our breadwinner and, in fact, the greatest number of problems we have today are in the agro-industrial complex. We go back to them from time to time, but we take out certain questions. So they're lobbying someone, so, well, really, someone's trying so cunningly to run a bill, they're supporting one or another industry. But I'd say they're seasonal. Our government's wish is to work to support a domestic producer. I was pleased to hear that in Russia, leaders were gathered at the level of the president and heads of government, those who produced the country's agricultural technology and adopted the fundamental measures to support them. So far, we have no law to support our domestic agriculture. What, then, is the extent to which we will create jobs abroad, provide family workers abroad with wages? Have we solved all the issues in our country? What have we done to ensure the worth of our fellow countrymen? Did the President of Ukraine really fulfill his promise to create 5 million jobs? That's not all. Thus, the disgrace of the authorities, who have invested in the economy of various countries, has forgotten their people! I am impressed by the fact that today grain is rotting in the fields of Hersonland, Cherkashina, Kirovgrad. There were many promises, but where is the farmer’s support? Why does a record crop raise the price of bread? Why bread has become a luxury for the vast majority of families in Ukraine. I'd like to feel the pain of the village not so much by reducing or increasing excise duties, it's also probably necessary, but actually by supporting a domestic producer. Is it not a crime that when bread rots in mosquitoes, people are malnourished, they live in the cold, they have little end in the end? At a time when nearly a billion dollars follow the President’s initiative, they are spent on starvation. Do they not see that our people, great and wise, are dying? Almost half a million a year! Isn't that genocide? Isn't that an artificial hunger? But come to the end, stop patting on the bones, enough to drag the future into the grave! In this respect, we really think we need to stop speculation in our past, in our history. And whoever wants to make a living, who wants to become President of Ukraine again or come back to Parliament, and as a presidential force, who wants to oppress the Ukrainian people and harm the Ukrainian people, let him know that people will remember that too. And they have already evaluated all these facts today. Too bad today those who needed to hear and draw conclusions are both deaf and mute, living in their little world, which is long ago a paradise for them, and what is done outside their windows, their villas, their residences, they're not interested. So I want to go back to our respected citizens of Ukraine. Today we are on the right path for stability in our country. We cannot solve everything, a very difficult crisis, but support us, please, and do not listen to political ignorance.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u262	Thank you, Catherine Seed. Dear colleagues, we have two speeches left. I give the floor to the National Deputy to Pavlovski Andrija, the faction of the “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. And get ready for Kirylenka Ivan Grigorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u263	Andrew Pavlovski, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. I'm a national deputy who works in Kiev, as a cyanide, and I want to use the parliamentary rostrum to address both the President and the relevant government structures, and the parliamentary committees on the catastrophic situation that has now taken place in our capital city of Kiev. Yesterday and today, it is cut off from the heat, from the hot supply of half Kiev. In particular, in the Podola area, people do not receive these services. Now, the honorable kyans, we've been expecting these inadequacies from the Chernobyl team. I think it's both a lesson for us and for our older generation, when you can't do it for Greek, and for 100 dollars to pay for your pension to choose inadequate authority, because then it's going to take 500 dollars a month. And now we're feeling it all on ourselves. You see, Chernewsky promised us that Kiev, Kiev, would have the cheapest bread. No, he's more expensive. Now prices in Kiev are higher than 3 times higher. And now these poor grandmothers have stopped paying off these 15 bracelets of bread. Just like they stopped paying off those 100 dollars of retirement allowance. That's all Chernewsky said was a lie. I think we should pay attention to this, finally, and to the Kyiv prosecution. Don't take bribes from Chernewsky as land and free apartments, what they do, but still do what's going on in the walls of Kiev. Because, look what you're doing with the rent. The rent for commercial structures is now raised by Chernevski 9.5 times. And this is a rental for supermarkets, for shops. They're going to raise the prices then in their prices for simple sneezes. The same is true of municipal tariffs. We know that now, according to the instruction of the Montenegrins, there is a decision to raise municipal tariffs up to five times. I want to point out that it's going to go, you see, on such a cosmicly inadequate option, when tariffs go up not by one, not by two percent, but by one. I think we should finally learn to protect our own interests. And the sooner we understand that, the sooner we're going to take Kiev out of this inadequate power. I also want to look at the situation in the National Bank, and it's not adequate, it's not clear, and sometimes criminal policy in Nazbank has led banks to resort to speculative exchange rates to put ordinary citizens in their pockets, thereby reducing their actual purchasing power. But they give the oligarchs, such as Firtash, “Rosukreenergo” by 7.5 billion to their private banks. At the time, government banks such as Ukreximbank cannot get much smaller amounts. I think I should pay attention to that at last.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u264	Thank you. I'd like to invite Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich, head of the Yulia Timoshenko Faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u265	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! Dear voters! I went up to this rostrum with a sense of deep responsibility, and before this week, I felt a sense of unbreakable shame that we were almost paralyzed for a year. Along with us, the entire nation was paralyzed. Unfortunately, we have done too little today to see the catastrophe that is today in the world of finance and economics that has hit Ukraine and the consequences that we have yet to experience, unfortunately we cannot do anything secure in conditions of endless opposition, endless struggle, endless intrigue instead of real parliamentary legislative work. The feeling of shame slowly fades away from the hope we gave this week, unlocking the work and starting to work. And society felt that the Ukrainian Parliament could produce results. Tell me, what normative acts could be saved today by a national agriculture that would certainly be the engine of the domestic economy in the near future, not black metallurgy, not chemistry, not other industries, namely agriculture and the agricultural sector. The largest consumer of metal and the largest producer of end-products, which does not require monetary costs, but provides net currency in Ukraine – our Ukrainian bread and bread. No decree or government decree could change tariffs, taxes, excise policies, or budget changes to support a national producer. And the building industry, which we also voted for in the lion's share, the same thing, and the consumer of our 12 production sectors, and it's the jobs, this sector, and it's the main thing that the internal market, which has not been given as much attention in recent years, we've always been over-exported, exports are huge risks. Today's great laws that protect our investors, we're going back to the land and the bankers and the financiers, and everyone who's involved in financing our economies through the credit system, and once again I want to emphasize that we have very few powerful banks with our own serious capital. There is money for the population and population of Ukraine today, an investor in black metallurgy, agriculture, construction, and other fields. We have today protected the conditions of our investors, trust in banks, that means trust in the state, we have today preserved the adoption of this law. And the budget changes, we've saved the Pension Fund today, and we're talking to retirees today, be calm, the pensions will be stable, and they'll get every day in the area of retirement, everything will be fine. Parliament has begun to work, with this great hope we are looking at tomorrow, we will support all of this, dear friends.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-12-m0.u266	Thank you, Ivan Grigorovitch. My fellow citizens, I would like to inform you once again that, at today's meeting, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has passed three important bills, amending the 2008 State Budget, amnesty and banning banks from changing the terms of the bank's salary and credit agreement in a unilateral manner. I'm also informing you that the Supreme Council is working in plenary next week. On Monday, December 15, at 11 a.m., the Conciliation Council will be held, and on December 16, at 10 a.m., the next plenary meeting will take place. I declare today's session closed.
