ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-09-m1.u1	Please enable the "Council" system. Please register. [[16:01:39]] There are 419 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. I declare the evening plenary session open. Dear colleagues, we are scheduled to begin the morning plenary session today in accordance with the Rules for 30 minutes for statements by authorized factions. But at the suggestion of factions, we voted for a recess until the evening session. In this regard, we can use this time during the evening session, as suggested by the leaders of the MP factions. I ask that the session room now be determined on this proposal so that we can start our work now with 30 minutes of performances by authorized factions. Please include the "Council" system. [[16:02:48]] For 249 Decision taken. I would like you to record the authorized factions for the performances. National MP Konovaluk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-09-m1.u2	Respectable voters, respected colleagues, respected media representatives. I would like to make a statement not only about recent developments, but also to bring to your attention that, despite all the opposition that has been made since the first day of the establishment of the interim investigative commission investigating the transfers of arms, ammunition, military equipment to Georgia, which has provided the present authority, we have been able to register the draft decision and report yesterday, the preliminary report of our investigative commission. You know, the investigation that we've been conducting, it's been extremely difficult and difficult because Ukraine's been in armed scandals a number of times. But these events, which have shown the true person of the present authority, have shown the value of these supplies to Georgia. The enormous damage to the security of our country; the tremendous impact on the State budget of Ukraine, which was underestimated by hundreds of millions of dollars; the enormous problems that concerned the national security of the State. We collected the necessary materials and documents when the actions of senior officials were directed only to prevent us from providing the necessary information. I'll tell you about it in my reports. I have come to this rostrum only to state that, in investigating the illegal actions of individual officials in corruption, we have faced tremendous problems that have plagued all of our Ukrainian society. The problems of total censorship, the challenges of provocation and the actions of the intelligence services, which are exclusively aimed at concealing those. The crimes of this authority, this regime, in order to avoid liability. Just think, the Minister of Defence of the Yehanurs and the head of the Commission has been invited on several occasions. Acting Chairman of the Security Service, Lt. Najchenko. They didn't show up for a meeting once. We have not been provided with any information concerning our specific requests for a topic that concerns not only the Supreme Council but the Ukrainian people today. You know, when we introduced these documents to the Supreme Council on Friday, there were attempts to fully discredit the commission's investigation and mine personally. Think of the cynicism, the lowness it takes to make the decision made by the Minister of Defence of the Ehanurs to degrade me in the officer's capacity as a reserve officer. Among the many people present in the room who have completed and have military education, who are also reserve officers. You know, this power has shown its lowliness not only in front of me, because I can protect not only my officer's honour, but also the honour of the millions of Ukrainian citizens who today have been led by this power to despair. So I'd like to say one thing: you won't be able to hide all the crimes you've committed over the past four years, you won't be able to intimidate the opposition, you won't be able to intimidate all of us, just so that, while you're still in power, you can avoid responsibility. I am sure that today's problems of the Ukrainian army, which has been demoralized, which has been destroyed and looted by these people, are serious enough. And believe me, our investigation was successful only because, as with the Ukrainian Security Service, the Defence Security Council, other law enforcement agencies, the Ministry of Defence, there were honest officers who provided us with information, provided us with data that helped us to uncover the entire criminal nature of the regime. You know, you humiliated me, believe me. You have humiliated tens of thousands of personnel officers today, tens of thousands of officers who are now performing their duty to the country with that poor salary. And I am convinced that the time has come to tell the truth, the moment has come when we must realize all the danger that we are being brought into, our country these people. They won't stop at anything. They're directing an illegal decision. Think about it: Mr. Devajchenko is giving a telegram to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Georgia so that the commission that arrived in Tskhinvale will be monitored. Today, the Georgian task force came here to understand where we had crossed the border and what proofs we had in this regard, a compromise. I'd like to finish this topic and say one thing. Today is indeed a tragic day for all Orthodox people: the Great Patriarch, the Holy Patriarch Alexius the Second, who has demonstrated in his life how to strengthen the unity that has united the world Orthodox Church, which has saved the Ukrainian Orthodox Church from the rift, is buried today. I wish we were all, not just the ones who released 50 silver coins with their barrel.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-09-m1.u3	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-09-m1.u4	They remembered this man's vivid memory and realized how much he had given us the opportunity and the right to restore spirituality and faith, faith in himself, honor and dignity. Therefore, distinguished colleagues, I would ask you all to honor the bright memory of Alexia II. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-09-m1.u5	National MP Greenewecki, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-09-m1.u6	Respectful colleagues, honourable voters, events of recent months have arranged for the day to rethink the main challenges of Ukraine’s sovereign sovereignty and the need to find the right answers to them. Semi-legicity of power, and hence non-professionalism, a weak banking system, energy dependence, the critical state of the agri-industrial complex, is causing a state, a society, a individual, no less harassment than armed conflict. Efforts to stabilize destabilization in the way it has been done to this day cause social neurosis, depression, and sadness. Some start looking for a way out of dictatorship. The famous truth is that any dictatorship begins with a simplification of the concept. We have made it so simple that soon we will be able to cope with the world’s financial crisis. In fact, the authorities and the state have faced problems and contradictions, eliminating and solving problems that are simply not being addressed. All the floors, the nodes of power are struck by strife, corruption, and are not subject to correction. The interests of influential officials differ with the interests of the State and the people. The certified peak and the national masses see the welfare of the state in various ways. A general moral decline does not allow senior officials to defend the good of the people and the state. Rather, it directs and pushes them toward sales and selfishness. Incompetence and power have left the people at the brink of destruction, despair, and theft. The United Nations has recognized the people of Ukraine as dying since 2007. Therefore, radical treatment of the paralysis of bureaucratic power is needed, the basic order is given instead of chaos, and justice is set aside as a way of life. Our encounters with voters, business leaders, households, entrepreneurs prove once again that people demand transparency and predictability in the actions of the authorities, especially the National Bank. In assessing the activities of the banking system, one wise person told me: “Everything sold ceases to be national and becomes sold.” Think about it: Everything sold ceases to be national and becomes sold. So on behalf of our electorate, we propose in part of the measures aimed at reducing demand for foreign currency, the National Bank of Ukraine to make appropriate changes to the normative documents and to allow the payment and payment of interest on foreign exchange credits at the rate of the National Bank at the date of accrual, to develop an order for the conversion of foreign currency debt into the national currency at the rate of the National Bank, to introduce a moratorium on the increase in foreign exchange interest rates for legal and natural persons. The second part of measures aimed at the social protection of borrowers — individuals — is the introduction of a moratorium on borrowing banks through the real estate of natural persons, the prohibition on the increase in interest rates on loans to natural persons for housing. It is obvious that this is possible only if the management of the National Bank of Ukraine is adequate. Now for the coalition. Clearly, a coalition is a marriage where jealousy is stronger than love. There will be no understanding in any coalition unless a common goal is set. Regrettably, a common enemy has been identified on a common scale to this day. The Lithuanian Bloc rejects all jealousy that suggests structurally and functionally balancing the system of government, responding promptly to the challenges and threats of the political, economic, financial, social and psychological crisis in Ukraine. In order to keep the country on the verge of a deadlock, we unanimously decided to participate in the creation of a coalition of MP factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-09-m1.u7	Schmellow Svetlana Alexandrovna Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-09-m1.u8	Dear voters, the year 2008 is over. I think you and I should be honest with each other about these questions. Why was there complete chaos in Ukraine’s administration? Why are we entering the country without the State Budget in 2009? Who should be criminally responsible for criminal and mob activity in the banking field? The answers to these questions are on the surface. Because the President and his “loving friends” are concerned only with the preservation of their capital and willfully act as the organizers of chaos in the government. This disorder makes it easier for them to arrange for each other in pieces, to deceive the people, and to remain unpunished. Because this is a favourable situation for the President today, because he signed an act of surrender before the WTO in February this year, he insisted that the requirements of the International Monetary Fund be met in the adoption of the so-called Anti-Crist Measures Act, which consists of reducing social benefits and freezing the minimum wage. Because in chaos, it's easier to establish a new dictatorship -- a dictatorship based on nationalist-oligarchy capital -- and it works through criminal methods. What do I mean? This is when, in the face of a crisis, the President, for the sake of the oligarchs and his family, instructs them to privatize strategic objects when he determines who, how, and what, banks to lend billions of dollars and then speculate on the currency market. The president and his supporters are robbing the state, in fact providing weapons not only to Georgia but also to other hot spots where the interests of the United States are being resolved. I am no longer talking about the gas market and the demands of the citizens at the expense of the close to the presidential family and the sadly known intermediate structure of the “Roskrenergo”. It's already come to the point that it's calling the NAC manager and it's demanding that we sell the gas depot for $110 per thousand cubic meters, the gas that was bought for $179 per thousand cubic meters. And at this time, businesses stop every day. People are just being thrown out on the street. The pension fund lacks hundreds of millions of dollars each day. There's been a significant decline in government execution, which in turn excludes the pursuit of any investment policy, support for peasants, educators, medics and usually pensioners. Last one. They will suffer the most in February of the following year, when there will be nothing to pay their pension. Dear colleagues, I'm addressing you because it's you who own businesses, banks, insurance companies, I'm addressing the oligarchs who are sitting in the President's Secretariat and the government, and start doing anti-crisis programs because you stop firing the workers and stop the "accepted" businesses. Stop speculating in the financial market, give people money they trust, and today they can't pay you back. Dear voters, in their years of independence, using banks, the oligarchs formed financial and trust pyramids through which they robbed people and drained the country’s economy. And today’s banking affairs have become even more presumptuous. Millions of our citizens are desperate, so we Communists demand that monetary consumer loans be recalculated and paid according to the Nazbank rate at the time of signing the loan agreement. We demand the restoration of the right of investors to take their deposits in banks. We demand that Nazbank return to the Ukrainian economy of the capitals that the oligarchs are hiding in foreign banks and offshore zones. We suggest that we pursue a strict policy of granting loans to support businesses and the size of bank loans. For domestic industries, agriculture, and private enterprises, it should not exceed three percent, up to a maximum of five percent. We insist on the immediate elimination of VAT and a substantial reduction in tax pressure on people and the economy. Dear voters, the UK Company has a crisis program that knows what to do. The point is how to force the orange power, the yushchenka and the oligarchs sitting in Parliament to work for Ukraine and for its people. For them, there are three options for events. First. It's to form a new alliance of oligarchs and create a coalition. The other one. Leave everything as it is. To provoke a social explosion that could result in ultrareactive forces until the Fascist type of dictatorship is established. That is what the country is preparing for today’s orange - headed ruling with the President. Third. Elections, both parliamentary and presidential. But none of these options solve the main question, most citizens, how to survive and feed their own families in crisis situations. Experience suggests that we have to fight for our rights, so I urge citizens, first of all, to set up committees to protect their businesses and jobs. Secondly, through such committees, through updated trade unions, through the unification of citizens on.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-09-m1.u9	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-09-m1.u10	Secondly, through such committees, through up-to-date trade unions, through the unification of citizens, start to form national structures of self-government. And the third. To support the initiative of Communists and to move from various protests to mass civil resistance for the return of the real people to Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-09-m1.u11	Tomenko Mikola Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-09-m1.u12	Dear colleagues! I think the last few weeks of the negotiation process have given us the opportunity to make some serious conclusions. The first serious conclusion in this session room is that representatives of five factions who share the same feelings about the country and who share, at least, in discussions, negotiations, and consultations talk about the need to start working together in order to save the country from the crisis. I think we should stop in Ukraine from going forward with our heads back. Because when some political forces say that they will never, under any circumstances, speak to representatives of one faction or another, it's a bad rhetoric. Because it turns out that we've all been dating over the last few weeks. And most interestingly, all the suggestions that were made were very close to each other. So our position is to learn to make arrangements in the session room. Because there is no one left to make a deal in this country. If we have patience, we'll start working and we'll solve the issues facing the country, because I have the impression that not everyone has understood that there is a crisis in Ukraine. You know that in Kiev City Administration there was a tragedy, a Kiev city chief wanted to buy a car, bought only $1 million, and the crisis started. So I think if we don't all realize that the crisis has started, we need to show this example that we're worried about people, and I'm going to show you the latest Kiev research. 17 percent of the Chinese say that the state cutout has begun, 9 percent say that they have moved to part - time and 13 percent that they are being sent on forced vacations, in Kiev, where fantastic jobs and what is happening in Ukraine. So I want to say from our political power the following, we've been speaking out, we're speaking out for what's ideal for us, that the entire session hall was protecting Ukraine from the crisis and forgetting about ideological, and political disputes. It is ideal for us to work daily in a session mode or on committees and make decisions. For us it's extremely principle that we don't go back to the debate, we start talking about NATO in the morning, or we start talking about the EP. I would ask my friends and associates both on the right and on the left hand side not to play in a situation where this game can end in a lost country. Because when I'm told today, let's start the formal negotiations, because we've been off the record for two years. Friends!? What if we officially conclude negotiations on what will be left with this country? The position of our faction. We in this session room today must complete the formation of the Supreme Council leadership, select the Chief of the Supreme Council, and plan the voting on the anti-crisis plan. We in this session room should forget about ideological crackdown and narrow-party interests, and in this session room the words "protection of Ukrainian citizens" should be "protection of the national economy" and "protection of Ukraine". If we don't elect the Chief of the Supreme Council today, we don't declare a coalition, we don't start working, then if we don't have patience, we have to have courage, and the courage is that we should all get together and say: I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Elections, because we are unable to defend this country and let another president, and another parliament will protect this country there are no other ways. So, my friends, we choose the Head of the Supreme Council, we form a coalition, and we work. No, let's get out of here, and let the other parliament protect this state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-09-m1.u13	Kulikov Kirilo Borisovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-09-m1.u14	Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! I want to inform you that the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" has decided to start negotiations on the establishment of a coalition from the "Timoshenko Yulia Block" and "Litvina Block". I believe that we will soon be able to sign a coalition agreement and allow the government, Parliament to work on the issues that are most important to the state today -- the issues of crisis management, the issues of saving the country from ruin. I think we should start doing this today. We have a decision of the vast majority of factions that we should create such a block. I thank you very much. And I hope for fruitful work today.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-09-m1.u15	Dear colleagues! At the request of two factions, Timoshenko's Yulia Block and the Lithuanian Block, a break of 16.55 minutes is announced.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-09-m1.u16	Dear colleagues! Please take your seats in the hall, the time allocated for recess is over. The break was announced at the request of two factions: “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko” and “Block of Lithuania”. Which of these factions will speak on behalf of the two factions that have exercised the right to a break. Turn on Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-09-m1.u17	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! We are, for the moment, well, maybe a few more minutes to announce what needed to be announced. Maybe a few more minutes. If there's a possibility that we might still have a little break so that we can announce everything. The Chamber shall vote for another 30 minutes of recess, if possible. If that's possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-09-m1.u18	Are the “Block of Lithuania ” willing to make a statement? Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-09-m1.u19	Thank you! Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! There has now been a very constructive work on the text of the documents necessary for Parliament to work, in principle, there are already most of the arrangements. And please, Mr. Chairman, in connection with the latest, as they say, nuances, announce a recess, considering that the recess has already been announced, please put the vote to a recess by 17 o'clock 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-09-m1.u20	Please write it down for reasons. Efraemov Alexander Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-09-m1.u21	Dear Alexander Vladimirović, distinguished colleagues! I think everyone understands if something's going on in a hurry, it's not going to be good. Today, when we held the Conciliation Council, it was clear that there were still a number of issues that needed to be worked out. We would be pleased to congratulate our colleagues today on the establishment of a coalition and the election of a speaker from the coalition. But if this issue is not resolved at this time, it was a perfectly reasonable suggestion to move work to tomorrow until 10 a.m. How do you know it's wiser in the morning? Let's be wise and not rush anywhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-09-m1.u22	Alexandrovska Alla Alexandrovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-09-m1.u23	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Dear Alexander Vladimirović, distinguished colleagues, I believe that we should give another thirty minutes, they have suffered for a very long time, tortured us all, tortured us all, tormented us for another thirty minutes, perhaps they will succeed.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-09-m1.u24	Stonewall Valery Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-09-m1.u25	Kamchatny, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko”, Kharkiv region. There have been constructive proposals from all the factions, supporting the idea that thirty minutes should be taken for a break. Indeed, Parliament has waited much longer and has not worked, and I think that these thirty minutes can be decisive. I'd like to support the 30-minute break proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-09-m1.u26	Stone Valery Grigorovich, I'm sorry, Vaszczuk Katerina Timofievna.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-09-m1.u27	Dear colleagues, I would like to address each of you today, and I think that the critical mass of national MPs can no longer live like this. You can't look people in the street, you can't look children in the eyes at home, you can't explain to your family why we don't work. And when it is delayed for two days, for two weeks, when the Supreme Council is not working properly for a year, why is it that in 30 minutes, if there is a chance to bring all these difficult, difficult negotiation processes to a logical end, it is absolutely necessary to do so, to take advantage of the opportunity for the work of the Ukrainian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-09-m1.u28	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-09-m1.u29	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! In this country, it is disgusting what is happening in Parliament and everyone is looking forward to a serious decision. This decision can be today, and given the task of taking responsibility for the state's economic course in the context of the global crisis of adopting legislation that will determine the fate of society for many years, we are today talking about whether to put these issues aside or not. It is clear that today we need to hold a further meeting of the Supreme Council, and it is clear that society is awaiting decisions, including these small procedural decisions, on who will be the Head of the Supreme Council, on which bloc, on which party, who will take responsibility. So it's much better to take a break for half an hour than to do it for a long time tomorrow. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-09-m1.u30	Landik Vladimir Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-09-m1.u31	Dear colleagues, I understand that the price of the question is very high, the portfolios are not so much, but they are very much in demand. And as soon as you get there, you can forget someone and then you can start fighting again, and Parliament will start shaking all over again. So let's do it before morning, so that you can all bargain, pay each other everything, answer for everything, and tomorrow night is wiser. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-09-m1.u32	Bylorus Oleg Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-09-m1.u33	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! The natural rights of the two factions will end the negotiations, and half an hour was short. I think we have only 30 minutes of opportunity to use it productively, and it will conclude tonight's evening session as citizens of Ukraine demand. They are placed in a long box, and no such decisions can be made to new ones. The public won't forgive us for that. Thank you. Give me 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-09-m1.u34	Evening Volodymyr Mikolajovich. None. So the time for the speech is over. I'm voting on the proposal to allow factions to complete their negotiations and to continue our work at 17 hours 35 minutes. I'd like to make up my mind. [[5:05:51]] For 252 Decision taken. We'll continue our work at 17 hours 36 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-09-m1.u35	Dear colleagues, break time is over. In line with previous proposals that were in line with the leaders of the parliamentary factions, we were to start today with the first question of the election of the Supreme Council Head and consider a number of draft laws. In view of the situation we had during the day, it is obvious that we will not be able to consider these draft laws today. And there is such a proposal that we now include in today's session only one question: the election of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. [[17:37:38]] For 247 Decision taken. We move on to the election of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, the election of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is being held in accordance with Chapter 15 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, taking into account that you and I have adopted in this Chamber the Regulation “On the definition of the type and manner of the vote on the appeal and election of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine”. On November 12, we approved such a determination in the session hall. I mean, by an open-ended roll-call vote, we're going to be choosing the Head of the Supreme Council without listening to a report from the candidates for this post and discussing their candidates to the plenary. The Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations stipulate that the candidates for the post of the Supreme Council of Ukraine shall be submitted by the parliamentary factions and the national deputies of Ukraine. We had the practice of proposing draft regulations before announcing the issue to be considered, but the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules did not foresee this. Therefore, according to the Rules, I ask questions first of all about the parliamentary factions. What proposals will be made regarding the appointment of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine? Please sign up from the factions who will be making the nominations. Dear colleagues, I see not everyone has heard, I said that the introduction of previous draft regulations on this issue is not provided for by the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. But there is no problem with these nominations being tabled in the session hall right now, either by the faction or by the national deputies of Ukraine. Please, Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-09-m1.u36	Thank you. Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. Honorable National Deputies, Honorable First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council! I want to tell you that on November 12th, 2008, at number 3362, there is a registered draft of the national deputy, Omelchenka Aleksandra Alexandrovitch, who provides for proposals for election by the Head of the Supreme Council of the Ukraine of Lithuania, Vladimir Mihajlovich. This draft decree is under consideration, and there is no committee comment on it. There's been a committee submission since November 12, 2008. That's why I'm here. He was handing out to the national deputies. I think that since this is the only decision that is currently registered, legally introduced, which is not today, which is not the case at all, but it has already been settled, the time has passed, the public discussion has passed, I am convinced that we have to support this candidature, the more so that we have seen the work of Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvin in the previous cadence and have seen that he has succeeded, he has behaved with tolerance as chairman, as Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So I would ask you to make a decree of 3362 and put you to a vote, not wait for a new decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-09-m1.u37	Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-09-m1.u38	Thank you. I would like to give you the word of Ephraim, Alexander Sergiyyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-09-m1.u39	Dear Alexander Vladimirović, distinguished colleagues, according to the first speaker, first of all, is not the only candidate, not the only one to be registered. Look, please, at the post office of the Supreme Council, and you'll see that there are other candidatures on which the orders are prepared. In particular, the Party of the Regions has nominated Lavrinović Aleksandr Vladimirovic, and we believe that he, like Vladimir Mihajlovich, can effectively deal with the work of Parliament. But I don't think that's what we're talking about. And so far, Alexander Vladimirovich is doing well. That's not what we're talking about. We are trying not to solve the problem today, but we are trying to deal with the consequences. If we choose a speaker ahead of time today, and tomorrow we will have a problem in forming a coalition in the Supreme Council, then we will come to what we have been leaving for several months, and it will indeed be a tragedy for the work of the Supreme Council. Therefore, in our view, we have in principle maintained this position, which must first be said whether there is a coalition that will take responsibility for the processes that will take place in the State and then the coalition will nominate itself to the Speaker of Parliament. Then everything will be understood, and we will gladly support such a coalition, we will congratulate its creation and election of a speaker from that coalition, and we will understand who will take responsibility for resolving the situation where the current Government and power have put our State first. But we've led this situation to absurdity. In fact, always electing a speaker was a solemn procedure, when the Government was present, it was desirable for the Head of State, the President, to be present. One's on a flight today, the other's not. And here in the towers, something is going on to solve some misunderstanding problems without a solution to the formation of a coalition. Of course, the Party of the Regions in such a format to support even a vote without having anything against Vladimir Mihajlovich is indeed a good candidate, but we cannot participate in the very process of raising the issue in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-09-m1.u40	Thank you. Mr. Bogdan Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-09-m1.u41	I give Ivan Grigorovitch Kirilenko the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-09-m1.u42	Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-09-m1.u43	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! It is already clear to everyone how expensive it is for a country to be idle by the highest legislative body. 80 percent of decisions to be taken after saving the country and the economy of human beings should be decided only by adopting legislative acts. Not by decree, not by decree. Neither the President nor the government could do anything for a month. An unarmed country. Too much price is paid both by society and by the nation and by our economy. We need to put it to a vote now, Alexander Volodymyrovich, so that we don't continue until the 18th hour of the conversation, and then we close the sessions, finish the election procedure for the Supreme Council. That's the first time. The other one. The faction supports the proposal made in the relevant draft decision by Alexander Alexander Moroz, and we vote. I'm sorry! Oh, my God! Alexandre Alexandrovich Mo. A mint. I'm sorry. We support this proposal and ask that it be put to the vote. For me! 154 votes will be in favour of this candidate. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-09-m1.u44	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! In accordance with the Rules, I appeal to all MPs, are there national MPs who want to nominate other candidates? There aren't any, so I want to thank the factions of the Party of Regions, and I'm taking my candidacy out of this vote. We have one candidature submitted by National Deputy Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich and the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. In accordance with the ruling that you and I have passed on November 12th in this room, I am voting on the proposal to elect the Supreme Council of the Ukraine of Lithuania, Mr. Vladimir Mikhajlovich. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:46:37]] For 244 Decision taken. I welcome Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvin with his election as Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and ask him to continue the plenary session. [[Applause]] Please show by factions. Region Party 3, Timoshenko Yulia Block 154, "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" 40, Communist faction 27, Litvina Block 20.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-09-m1.u45	Ladies and gentlemen, I sincerely thank you for your support. First of all, I would like to thank those who have taken this decision as well as those who have not voted. I understand everything. I see my assignment to organize the work of a team, a team of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to bring us together, and above all to be a result. In this regard, I would also like to report on the formation of a coalition of MP factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine, article 83, the parliamentary factions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine: "Julia Timoshenko's Block", "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense", "Litvina's Block" formed a coalition of MP factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The extracts from the protocol are required by three factions. [[Congrats]] These materials remain to be published, and the corresponding agreement document is published. Clearly, the decision was not quite simple. [[Applause]] Thank you, Your Honor. This decision was made in a rather difficult situation. I am convinced that it will be materialized in practical activities. Dear colleagues, we should advise that due to our failure to anticipate this week as a plenary, there was a decision to hold parliamentary hearings tomorrow at 10 a.m. in the session hall. The question that is proposed for consideration at parliamentary hearings is the state of compliance with the constitutional guarantees of the labour rights of citizens. And we anticipated these parliamentary hearings to give them weight and sound. And more than that, December 10th, you know, it's a day essentially for the protection of human rights when the appropriate declaration was adopted. So we need to make a decision: either vote and move parliamentary hearings to another room, or tomorrow to hold parliamentary hearings here, in the session room, and at the same time hold a meeting of the conciliatory council to determine the package of decisions that we are going to make in the coming days. So, honourable colleagues, since the decision has been taken, I would like to request confirmation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of such an algorithm: tomorrow at 10 a.m. here in the session room, we are holding parliamentary hearings. At the same time, we determine the list of decisions that we should make for the next period, and on Thursday we are working in plenary mode on adopting the necessary anti-crisis laws, the package of which has already been dealt with by the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Is there no objection? That's why it's tonight. The point is, we need now, says Alexander Volodymyrovich, to vote for us, we've had two decisions made and they contradict each other. So, please note, the proposal is that tomorrow's meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be used to hold parliamentary hearings with the next extension of our plenary work on Thursday. Who's in favour of this proposal, please vote. [[17:52:50]] For 376 Dear colleagues, here I am approached and told that no card has worked when voting for the election of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I think we can make appropriate statements, as required by the Rules, and we will join the protocol. At this meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed. Tomorrow at 10 p.m. Parliamentary hearings. We'll resume the plenary meeting Thursday at 10 a.m. Thanks again for the support.
