ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:00:59]] They registered in the 418 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the Ukrainian national deputy Mikoli Janović Azarov. Let us welcome our colleague and wish him every success. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you of the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary on 16 December 2008. 13 issues of the agenda were discussed: 12 bills and four draft regulations. As a result of the review: one law and four decrees were passed, six bills were adopted as a basis and two bills were rejected. At the same time, I inform you, honourable national deputies, that according to the statements, statements and appeals made yesterday by representatives of the MPs, appropriate requests and instructions are sent to the relevant state institutions for proper response. In accordance with article 25 of the Rules, on Wednesday, 30 minutes are allocated to the interventions of the national deputies with proposals, announcements, and messages. People's deputies please sign up for the speech. There's a recording going on. Please state the name of the national MPs who are registered. Jury, faction of the Party of the Regions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u2	Dried.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u3	He's transferring the right to speech to Jaroslav Sukhoma. Please, Jaroslav Mikhailovich. Prepare Vladimir Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u4	Dear colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen, listen up! It would seem that we would have long ago forgotten the so-called coalition and worked hard to make up for the time that was missed by the botanist blocking of the session and the fruitless negotiations with them regarding the creation of an active coalition. But as we know, the little lie that accompanied the creation of the old “new coalition” gives rise to great mistrust. Article 83 of the Constitution. Here one man carries with him a small Constitution, I remind you all, article 83: “In the Supreme Council there is a coalition of MP factions, which consists of most national deputies from the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.” What else isn't clear? “Most”! “Department of Constitutional Composition”! To what composition? The coalition consists of the majority! What else is unclear? Show the signatures of the new "old coalitions". You are obliged to do so. Otherwise, the government is illegal, and today they are usurped to take their place in Gruszewski. Lying has long been a card for the political power of Timoshenko, the foundation of this illegally declared and illegitimately born of such an insurmountable corrosive coalition of disgrace and betrayal. The main purpose of this bizarre cartoon association is obvious. For some, it is a speaker's chair, for others to stay in the Prime Minister's chair despite open calculations and inability to work, for the part of the "ours" who betrayed Yashchenk, is the normal reaction of the coup d'états, which is the way to get a chance to become a nardepam in the subsequent vocation. To remind you, ancient Roman historian Titus Levi long ago warned: “Behind kings, companionship is unreliable.” Every leader, every single one of you is squawking a hetman, and what you're yelling at right now is one thing: either you're having really serious problems with your head, or you're really affected by my words. Meanwhile, while this circus is going on, free government officials, based on such pseudo-coalition, are leading the economy of Ukraine to a point of no return in the collapse of the national-owned complex. As Yushchenko did not try to bring the government into action in some productive way, this executive authority proved to be barren. Don't torture the cattle! I turn to shepherds and undershepherds. Don't torture the cattle, let them go, don't kill the people. It's funny to see these powers and the constant wave of hands: the prices, fall, the economy, get up. It's a total disgrace, not a coalition, not a government. The government resigns with such coalitions!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u5	The word is given by Vladimir Bondarenko, a faction of “The Block of Yulia Timoshenko. ” Next is George Litwin. Zarubinsky? Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u6	Vladimir Bodarenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear colleagues, distinguished TV audiences! Recently, the Ukrainian public and the Chinese have witnessed strange things happening in Kiev that have been associated with the burning of the city of Kiev, its supply of hot water and gas. The situation is that bankruptcy was affected by Leonid Czernovecki's policy -- the most popular policy in the world when he decided to raise about a third of the population of Kiev -- mainly by his contributions to the elderly, thereby blocking the possibility of normal, real elections in Kiev. The point is that a year is given about 1 billion dollars for a variety of gifts to every world. It is also surprising that today there have been changes, completely abnormal, in the life - sustaining system of Kiev’s activities. Today, in Kiev, power systems, bread supply, the banking system in the city’s former “Christmas” bank system, as well as in land matters, have one political power. Today, she found the support of Leonid Chernewsky, for they were able to share influences with one another. This is about the Party of Regions, which is now in favour of blocking the government, blocking other institutions in connection with the failure of Kiev to pay 414 million dollars for the gas consumed. Well, isn't it clear that it's only the city government and nobody else's fault? And if this prosecutor were to look at it impartially today, it would take a long time, if you will excuse me, to put your hands in the hands of those ten officials who have monopolized this influence today. Today marketing is controlled by one Donetsk firm. Today I'd like to say that what Leonid Chernewicki does in the city security system is total fraud when no one knows where the water is coming from and where it's going, how much, no one knows at what price the gas is coming from, and whether it comes at prices for the population or at prices for legal persons. It's a secret today. I would like to say that I have also received an answer from the Ukrainian Security Service, which demonstrates the illegal privatisation of this sector of the economy of Kiev, that dozens of percent of Kiev's property has been completely stolen. So today I call upon this hall and the entire population of Kiev to understand, today, that Kiev is guilty of shaking this cold fever only one person – Chernewsky and his system of influence through Adelaju, through other structures. And what he's doing today is pure populism and propaganda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u7	Oleg Zarubinsky has the floor. Prepare the Trophimenco.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u8	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! You know, I'm just convinced that the tens of millions of people who are suffering from the crisis today are the least interesting thing about a coalition that's already turned into a steering wheel, and today we see an open hysteric. I don't think that the historical notes and even the hysteria of important state issues are what people need today. They need real things, they need the work of the Supreme Council. And I think we're all gonna do this together. The question I'd like to raise concerns one area. It's generally believed, and it's obviously true that the task of government in the economic sphere is to achieve the highest level of efficiency for each sector. Today, Ukraine is largely supplied with power sources. Moreover, the State even exports them to markets in neighboring countries. Yet, according to a number of publications, the economic efficiency of such electricity sales in the first six months of this year alone has resulted in a loss of $190 million. The point is that because of the primary need to save markets and to engage or preserve foreign investors, a monopoly in the export of electricity, UkriInterEnergo offers electricity to foreign importing companies at a price much lower than the one paid by the Ukrainian consumer. So until the dollar rises, in October-November this year, almost seven cents per kilowatt-hour of electricity was exported at 2.9 to 4.8 cents. This is because the average European electricity price is 20 to 25 cents. And Ukraine sells for four cents. As a result, Moldova and Belarus buy our electricity cheaper than the Ukrainian consumer for about three cents. Slovakia and Russia – for two cents, Hungary – for 2.2 cents. Moreover, there are times when, in times of energy shortage in the internal market, the state is forced to buy electricity from the same partners, but at much higher prices. They were sold for 2.4 cents, and we buy our electricity from them at a different price. In particular, this applies to more than is the subject of a contract for imports of electricity from other countries, which is most likely to be used for resale abroad. Thus, the work of this authority, which monopolizes electricity, seems to me to deserve very serious attention, including by law enforcement agencies. I will officially submit a request to the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u9	Trophimenko refers the right to speak to Vladimir Yavorowski, the BUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u10	Vladimir Yavorowski. Our distinguished Ukrainian voters, the honourable Ukrainian Parliamentarians, are literally the last weeks of this very difficult and exhausting year. And I'm going to use these three minutes to try to look at ourselves and me, including, I emphasize, to look on the side that we're doing very and very rarely. I don't want to talk about us looking at ourselves with the eyes of our constituents, because then we're going to be so manic, because it's better just on the side. There are beautiful politicians in our room, and when you're standing with him, you're talking, well, such a smart man, so kind, so constructive. It goes into this rostrum, it changes in person's eyes, and I say this about my colleague Dryo, and then let him take the line for that. Well, it turns out the man we saw was completely different. We're all consumed here, we're all plagued by our provinciality, our smallness, our anger, which we're constantly radiating into society. How much anger, and not just from this rostrum, we throw into society. Today Parliament would seem to have a calm, normal transition of spirit, is the Head of the Supreme Council, the elected professional who conducts the session, independent of perhaps not involved in any political force, it is true. Parliament is working, after some of the terrible breaks that we've had, at last we've given society a very good signal, look, very important laws have been passed, the same to miners. At this difficult time, we've made money for the same village today, and we've filled our pension fund, it seems like we have to tell people every day, at least calm down a little bit, the year will be incredibly difficult, but we're sitting here doing everything we can, regardless of our views, to make it much easier for you people to live, these laws have been passed, they're already, we'll take them back in second reading. Well, it would seem, well, what do we have to do, Parliament works, it's what's important, no, every day on all screens, all these people are speaking out, and, well, is there a coalition or no coalition? Is there life on Mars? Or is there no life on Mars? I mean, isn't that for people? - those people in the village, they care, there's a coalition, there's 226 votes or there's no. Parliament is working. He lived in Parliament after he was dead and, in fact, a whole year. What else is needed? Our beloved President, it turns out, will not sign the Budget Act, the most important law for people's lives, unless there's a line to the election. This is so important!? This is the head of state who says he won't sign for it. I'm sure that the process has gone, the Ukrainian Parliament is working, everything will be fine. Ukraine will endure and survive, less anger, and everything will be fine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u11	John Kirilenko is handing over the right to speak to Mikola Tomenko, to prepare Daych. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u12	Dear colleagues! I would like to welcome the entire Chamber and the Ukrainian Parliament, because yesterday we received the first signed bill that was passed in this session hall after the election of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This means that, irrespective of who voted in favour of budget changes and who did not vote in favour of budget changes, the Pension Fund today received insurance, and pensioners can be confident that they receive pensions in time, miners get their benefits, and the Stabilisation Fund will be created. And it's very important to me that this pace that we've started for the second week is maintained. I'd only like to ask my colleagues in the session room that when we go to a meeting with the electorate, in fact, we're all national MPs. We're not representatives of the BUTU and the Party of Regions, we're all the same. And when we adopt a bill, it's not approved by the NS-NS MPs or the U.S.B.P. deputies, it's approved by the votes of parliament. And when I hear that the coalition agreement that is being published today in the Voice of Ukraine is a deal, too, where the word NATO is never mentioned, or is the treaty on violent Ukrainianization, which quotes the standard of the Constitution for supporting Ukrainian language, I want to say, friends, calm down. We have no desire and need to debate foreign policy and other matters today when the country is in such a state. So I would ask everyone today to unite around this calamity, to make a decision. Because it's at least this morning that Parliament is dividing into deputies who want to work and MPs who are involved in political arithmetic. One to one hundred learns to count. Some count the number of deputies in factions, while others accept the bill. I wanted all of us to accept the bill. We have two alternatives to everything. The first alternative is to work as a majority and be worthy of opposition or with the President of the largest faction to finally write a system road map, choose a new head of the Supreme Council, choose a new prime minister, a new government and work. There are no other alternatives. So I'm asking our political team, help us work for the country or at least, don't stop us from working for the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u13	Boris Dach, faction of the Party of the Regions, national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u14	Please pass on the word of Akimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u15	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u16	Dear colleagues, tomorrow 18 December will be a year from the date of the work of the Government of Timoshenko, so let us take stock of this very briefly. A year ago, the Government of Januković left behind a growing economy of more than seven per cent, with more than ten per cent of industrial growth, with inflation at about fifteen per cent and a real wage of more than twelve. What do we have today? After a year of work, Timoshenko's economy is rapidly falling. The rate of growth of our national product has slowed dramatically. Industry fell by twenty-eight per cent in November and GDP by fourteen per cent. Investment growth has slowed six times. Social indicators have also been reported without delay. Unemployment has so far increased sharply, wages have risen by fifty per cent, and salaries have been delayed for the first time in eight years. In addition, today, as a result of a record foreign trade deficit, we have a balanced economy and this has provoked a 60 per cent devaluation of the bracelet. To date, Timoshenko has not only failed economic policy in 2008 but has created conditions for deep depression in 2009. International experts give no comforting figures, the decline in GDP in 2009 is at least negative 4 per cent, inflation is 15-17 and the fall in the real income of citizens is about 8 per cent. These are augugy stables, which, in order to clear them, really need Hercules. What Timoshenko demonstrated in the course of this year was three main methods: administrative intervention in the economy, memoranda; direct deception, failure to fulfill his promises and to close his eyes on the real situation, and this search for an external enemy; it was the President, Parliament, regional and urban administrations, local councils, and today Parliament, which is always in the way. Timoshenko tried to shift the arrows to the global economic crisis. I recall that when inflation was 23 per cent in Ukraine, it was 3 per cent in Western Europe and Eastern Europe. Internal problems, therefore, are the problems of the Government of Timoshenko, not the world economy. It has happened that Timoshenko's anti-crisis programme itself is in deep crisis, there is no government programme, no budget, not even realistic macroeconomic indicators that can be discussed to date. Instead of combating the crisis, it is proposed: the introduction and payment of VAT debt in lieu of living money through treasury bonds and the lack of some real support to the real sector; and mistrust.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u17	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u18	The mistrust of the Government of Timoshenko and its economic policies is 82 per cent. There is a question of why we should have a government that our people do not trust and that contributes to the strengthening of crises in our economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u19	People's MP Mironenko faction of the Party of the Regions. Anna Herman will perform instead of Mironka.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u20	Dear colleagues, since we have the Head of the Supreme Council as a doctor of historical sciences, we have to do everything by book. I have two books that we all have: The Constitution of Ukraine and the Rules of the Supreme Council 83 article of the Constitution of Ukraine says that the coalition of MPs is formed and made up of most Ukrainian national deputies from the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, i.e. 226 deputies. 212 is not 226. The regulation is another book. In article 61, paragraph six, the text of the coalition agreement states: “The personal composition of the coalition is published in the newspaper Voice of Ukraine no later than four days after the official declaration on the formation of the coalition”. These are the most important books in our Parliament. Everything else is political relevance, everything else is trampling under Ukrainian law. As a result, there are no coalitions in the Supreme Council today. There is a parliamentary majority, which includes our fellow Communists. And if my colleague from Lviv didn't tell me that he would take revenge for what I'm saying, I'm not afraid of it, I'm still going to tell the truth for what it is. And I'm going to tell you today a Spartan parable specifically for a doctor of historical science who is running Parliament today. He was an old Spartan, and he wore a long beard. And his Spartan colleagues asked him, "Why is he wearing such a long beard?" And he answered: “Every time you see your gray hair and do nothing to bring shame upon it. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, or bear, or shame his gray hair with false claims of the existence of a coalition. I'm sorry to have to tell you this today. And it wouldn't hurt all of us and the President to wear a beard to see their gray hair. Because when we hear today that the President demands five million dollars in his one-day budget, in one day, we understand that the President has really done a lot for Ukraine, but it doesn't cost 5 million dollars a day. Likewise, Julia Volodymyrna costs 2 million dollars a day, and she also does a lot for Ukraine, but it does not cost 2 million dollars a day.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u21	Dear colleagues, 10 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u22	All of us together are members of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and we're costing the country 2.5 million dollars a day -- we're doing a lot for Ukraine, but we're not costing 2 million dollars a day -- so let's do what the leader of the Party of Regions has to say, we're going to lower all our expenses by 10 times.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u23	Thank you. Peter Stepanovich Cibenko will speak, he will be given the word for it, colleague Naydenov, a faction of Communists, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u24	Petr Cibenko, the Communist faction. Respected colleagues, respected voters, have been in office for 70 years since the issuance of the decree of the Presidency of the Supreme Council of the USSR on the highest degree of distinction in economic and cultural construction of the name Hero of Socialist Labour. Thus, the nation, the people, paid tribute to the work of their sons and daughters. A total of 21,000 people, 95 per cent of whom are workers in the material industry, 204 have received the title twice, and 16 have received it three times. In Ukraine, more than 7,000 people are awarded this high title. And today, in the face of this momentous event, I would like, on behalf of the Communist Party of Ukraine, its faction in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to sincerely congratulate all the heroes of the socialist work living in Ukraine, to thank them for their work and to wish them good health, family well-being and the best of all. Unfortunately, the current Ukrainian labourers cannot even dream of such attention by the State. In the “Man of the Year” television competition, which is held early in the year, the best minister, the best banker, the best politician, will be the best entrepreneur, but there will be no better laureate, better builder, better porker or milkmaid among them, nor will there be a better teacher, doctor, nurse. Don't look for them among the laureates and other representatives of the working professions, they're not there and they can't be. This is not an accident because the present power and the present State serve not a man of labour but a “money bag”. It's pretty obvious. The person of work is involved in all of this. He doesn't want to, he won't heroically work for the current latifundist, the current Mr. Twister. Remember the words of the classic: “Mr Twister, former minister, Mr Twister – a millionaire, owner of factories, cars, steamboats”, and the text. Thank you, distinguished colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u25	Oleg Belarus, Faction of the Timoshenko Yulia Block, please give your statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u26	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, citizens of Ukraine! The question of government is more important than ever today. The Supreme Council has organized itself, created a majority and a coalition. A coalition agreement published in the newspaper Voice of Ukraine. Let those MPs who doubt and who so fiercely bark at the coalition and the Supreme Council read the carefully coalition agreement first, and draw conclusions for themselves. Today, more important than ever is the consolidation of all branches of power in order to save Ukraine under an unprecedented total, systemic, global crisis: financial, economic and social. So there are strange attacks on the government, attempts to dissolve the government when the house is on fire when the fire is to be extinguished. Such a people cannot forgive. I don’t know where our colleagues, who were so casually speaking, took interest: 82 percent doubt. I think these are their own calculations. The people of Ukraine, the Ukrainian people, demand order and stability from us. I am convinced that in spite of all the ideological, political differences in the Supreme Council, despite the violent political conflicts, there will be quite a healthy force to protect the Ukrainian state, to protect the people, Ukrainian citizens, and every Ukrainian family. There is no more important challenge than the development and adoption of special government programmes, action plans, socio-economic development programmes, the adoption of the 2009 budget. Therefore, there is no need to rock a boat in which all of us Ukrainian citizens, representatives of the people, are seated. We must end this year by adopting the budget and appropriate government programs. I call on all national MPs, representatives of all political forces to consider this and to work for the people. Not for the government, not for their parties, but for the people of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, the speeches by the national deputies have been completed. With regard to the issues raised in the presentations and applications, I ask the secretariat to prepare appropriate assignments. Allow me literally a few sentences in connection with the problems that have just occurred. Dear colleagues, the Supreme Council of Ukraine since 2006, has not actually worked. Is that good or bad? It's absolutely bad. The Supreme Council of Ukraine finally worked. Is that good? I think that's good. We have captured a falling country for which we are all responsible. And we obviously need to tell all of us that we don't know the analogs of the negative processes that are happening in the world that are going to get us. So, dear fellows, I urge all of us not to lose face. If other approaches are proposed tomorrow, another coalition, another Supreme Council head, another government, I'm sure it will be the will of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Now I'm asking and calling on one: beg. And here I'm going to do a historical analogy, and I'm going to bring you a historical analogy, because I didn't have two books in my hands, a little bit more. First. When asked how he appreciated the French Revolution, John Enlay replied: “It’s been two hundred years. ” So let's see how we keep working, it's only been three days. The main thing is that everyone wanted the Supreme Council of Ukraine to work, and everyone who is dissatisfied, please look on the board. [[Applause]] And one more moment. I ask you, Your Honor, not to drool on the subject of the coalition. A working Supreme Council of Ukraine is needed. As far as there is agreement on the documents that are signed, those documents that were written, in the absence of time, were made by other people. So I ask one, let's work because the country is falling. And I want to say that to rent a country or to put it in charge with people, I don't think we're all going to let it go together. Don't cry, please. Let's work together. All of it. [[Applause]] Replica, please, Jaroslav Suhi, we are still working. Please don't raise your hand again.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u28	Dear colleagues, you know, I have respected, respected and could not be provoked by all the national MPs of Ukraine. As far as I'm concerned, you guys have helped me overcome the remains of romanticism and trust in you with my vote yesterday for the law on multi-child families. You've shown once again that it's not about the quality of the bill, it's about politics, because the author is a member of the Party of Regions. The Supreme Council of Ukraine did not work. That's a sign. But you have also allowed fraud and cynicism in the text of the covenants. Your calls today in the hall for constructive, consolidated work are just manifestations of cynicism and lies. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, you have this habit of giving Sass a word. Give Sergey Sass a word and let him read you article 61, paragraph 5, and paragraph 7 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. Lists are to be made. They have to be published. I'm in charge of the Supreme Council, but not the lie.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u29	Dear colleagues, we have agreed that the Supreme Council of Ukraine is working. Everything else is a problem of political agreements. There will be other arrangements, please. Let's work. Dear colleagues, you've been given an agreed meeting schedule for Wednesday. There are many questions. So there's obviously good reason to propose such a proposal so that we can consider draft law, registration number 2256, as a simplified procedure. The same applies to the issue of ratification. No warning? I'm going to put this proposal to the vote so that Law 2256, as well as draft ratification acts, will be considered in a simplified procedure. The same is true of the 2744 and 3455 draft regulations. I'll put it to a vote, please. [[10:38:18]] For 196 The decision is not supported. We'll consider the full procedure. Please review the draft Law amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts on the business of the credit cooperation system. Please sign in, five minutes. Dear colleagues, I apologize. Alexander Volodymyrovich tells me that the decision has been made. All right, then let's get down to business, that's all. A draft Law 2256 on amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the operation of the credit cooperation system is being announced for consideration. Reporter: Head of the State Commission for Market Regulation and Financial Services, Valery Borisovich Aloshin The first deputy head of the Committee on Finance and Banking will be Mr. Stanislaw Mikhailovich Arzewitin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u30	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished members of the national parliament, you will be mindful of the draft Ukrainian law amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts on the business of the credit cooperation system. The draft law has two interlinked objectives, first of all, a substantial improvement in state regulation and supervision of entities of credit cooperation, especially in the context of the opening of the financial crisis, and the creation or improvement of legislative conditions for further implementation approved by the Government of the Concept for the Development of Credit Cooperation. The amendments proposed to a whole series of laws under the two codes and the Monetary Regulation and Monetary Control Decree are intended to eliminate the inconsistencies of rules governing the activities of credit unions, provide for the definition of the concept of a “credit cooperation system”, propose to improve the creation and functioning of cooperative banks, strengthen the state regulation of the activities of law enforcement companies, because we now have a very paradoxical situation where a public authority cannot apply fines to credit unions. It is also suggested that a range of issues be addressed regarding the organisation of own-initiative activities of credit unions, and that the overall orientation of these changes relates to the protection of the property rights and interests of members of credit unions, which I stress is particularly relevant, because in the context of a financial crisis, the phenomenon and abuse of the service position of directors of credit unions is exacerbated, and other things that lead to serious violations not only of financial legislation but are the subject of consideration by law enforcement authorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u31	Yes, please let me finish. Please speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u32	Dear colleagues, it's extremely important and it's also a few of the rules that apply to the introduction of a system of financial stability in the business of credit unions, and it's also something that's very interesting today for a lot of people, an incredibly large number of citizens, and we feel it on those appeals, on those complaints, including those that come after parliamentary admissions and are sent to our address by the Ukrainian National Deputies. So I would like to support the bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u33	Yes, thank you. Have a seat, please. The National Deputy of Arzvetin is the first Deputy Head of the Committee on Finance and Banking. Please, Stanislaw Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u34	The Committee on Finance and Banking proposes to support the bill in its first reading. The main scientific and expert office also proposes to support the bill in the first reading. There are a few comments that we would like to prepare for the next reading and among them the question of whether there is a need to restrict cooperative banks as recorded in today's draft of the bill, because we understand that credit cooperation in particular needs to be slightly changed. What we're worried about is if a cooperative bank becomes a bank for credit unions, what's its function, what's its protection, and so on. Our committee also raises doubts as to whether the members of the credit union should be legal persons. Because you know that credit unions are a specialized financial institution that today does not pay taxes to the state and the interest on deposits in the credit union of Ukraine does not pay either. That's why we need this ideology, this philosophy, to be saved for credit unions. Also, the proposal of the Scientific and Experimental Authority does not include legal persons in the credit union. The bill proposes several measures of influence from the relevant state institution, but we would like to make clear how these sanctions are applied. Also, in our view, it may be necessary to remove the limitations of credit union rights as founder and participant of legal persons. And our committee is also looking at a lot of issues that we want not to happen, because the credit-guarantee institutions that they were also looking at are actually discredited in Ukraine. We're concerned about why these specialized institutions today have such low assets, because 5 billion or 6 billion assets per 800.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u35	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u36	Because 5 billion assets for 706 loan shares is small. 4 billion per deposit at 200 billion in the banking system is also small. We're concerned about whether we can expand the investor protection mechanism in credit unions in the same way as in the banking system, because you know that in the banking system, investors are protected by 150,000, and in the credit union, it doesn't work. So we suggest that this bill be adopted as a basis and that we prepare some suggestions and changes for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u37	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the report on the bill and the report have been delivered. Please sign up for discussion two in a row, two in a row. It's a recording. Please show the names of the national deputies who have been registered. National Deputy Karpuk, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u38	Please pass the word to Arjevetin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u39	National MP Arjevetin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to support this bill in the first reading, because we know that credit unions, the home of credit unions, are Ukraine itself, and in all countries of the world, it's almost our Ukrainian know-how. And today, credit unions in America are larger than some of the first-tens banks in Ukraine. You know, for many Ukrainians on different continents, the credit union became the one that gave him a new life. The password of the credit unions: “Go to your own way”. I think we should do everything we can to make the credit unions today especially for small farm cooperatives a good tool. The bill that we're looking at is. More faithfully, the basic bill that began its life in 93 really needs to be improved. The bill was prepared by a group of five delegations, which included me, we were in America, Canada, and we reviewed the evidence and prepared the project. That bill in '93. So it really needs to be improved. Most importantly, the bill should provide for some protection and certain mechanisms for the protection of credit card investors, so far we don't have any in this bill. That's why I'm here to support you. And I'm asking the deputies to submit their proposals to our committee. And public organizations that are in a cooperative credit movement should also join in, because there were public hearings three years ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u41	People's MP Denkovich, faction of the Timoshenko Yulia Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u42	The Timoshenko bloc also supports this bill in its first reading, although it itself needs to be improved. And I think our faction will make its proposals. And therefore, given today’s banking system, the faction supports and will vote in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u43	Thank you. National MP Gordienko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u44	Sergei Gordienko. The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. I would like to remind all Ukrainian citizens today and those present in this room that it was in Ukraine that the agro-industrial bank “Ukraine” was successfully operating, with many legal and natural people living in the country. Today it is proposed to create a new banking structure. Something, and we have banks in Ukraine and so much. I would like to say that just before the bank “Ukraine” collapsed, very much the one who claimed that “these hands did not take anything and these are the clean hands themselves in Ukraine”. I would like to draw the attention of everyone who is present in this room and who is outside the hall, that today there are very and very many complaints in the national deputies of Ukraine about the actions of credit unions that are actually robbing people of Ukraine. So I would suggest, for sure, if you vote in favour of creating these structures, it's important that the founders respond to their assets and they're just not leaving Ukraine for the very period of the bank's activities. I'm also saying that today it's an extremely questionable bill as well as a bill issued today to the 0109 people's deputies, where the President is immediately introducing a bill on the adoption of an amendment to the preservation of bats. Kazan is really an anti-crisis bill and it's just a nightmare and people.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u45	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill is closed. May I have your attention, please, and please prepare to make a decision. The committee proposes to adopt draft Law 2256 as a basis. Therefore, a proposal is put to the vote by the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the business of the credit cooperation system, registration number 2256, please vote. [[10:51:26]] For 235 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, please note that we have the following two projects, these are draft regulations that relate to the extension of the term of residence checks. So we have every reason to consider these two bills at the same time. So registration number 2744 and 3455. I want to explain what this is about. Dear colleagues, one draft decree proposes to continue until the first of January 2010, another decision by Eugene Marmazov, our colleague, proposes to remove this term altogether, because this problem is regulated by the law, and if necessary, we will make changes to the law. So there is every reason to act in the right way. Adam Martinyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u46	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, in full support of what you have said, in view of the fact that we are really making a decision with you each year that we continue to make. And now our colleagues are also proposing to continue the term for another year. Marmazov and other national MPs are proposing a more radical and correct path – to cancel at all. So that's not the case, Vladimir Mikhailovich, that we will now consider the first draft of the decree, we will continue until the 10th year, and then we will cancel this decision, including by the 10th year. So let's start by looking at Decree 3435. If it doesn't pass, then we're going to continue for another year, because it's not going to be nice that we made the decision, and in 10 minutes, we've done the same thing ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u47	I think that makes sense. We can now vote, and we can really vote, so that we don't do too much work. Mikhail Papiev, please. Alexander Popov, I'm sorry. And now let's define by vote. I said Popov. Then Bondar and we'll make decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u48	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I want to say that if the first draft of Decree 2744 is supported by the committee, by the way, by the representatives of all the MPs working in Parliament, 3455, note that it is only today submitted to the Supreme Council and did not follow the Rules of Procedure. It's my proposal to follow the current Rules and consider our bill today.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u49	National MP Bondar. Then Eugene Marmazov. And we'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u50	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like to point out to the MPs that there is another legal aspect. The Constitution stipulates that the legal regime of property is governed solely by laws. And the decision to extend the deadline since 2000 was legal nihilism. And that this legal nihilism should be abolished, as we suggest with our colleague Marmazov, and not to return to the extension of checks and not to worry people every year, will it continue or not? Why are we doing this? It's absolutely normal to cancel a regulation that does not have the right to regulate the term of use of residence checks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u51	Eugene Marmazov, please, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u52	Thank you. Dear colleagues, well, the question is very simple, there's nothing to argue about. In fact, these points of contention are provided for in two laws, and someone came up with a question of who, this decree, is constantly extending the period of supposed privatization, and we are constantly nervous about the population. As we are about to conclude, we have not yet exercised our right to do so among those who have not privatized. And we have 4.4 million more. So everything here is very simple, everything is provided for in the law, a deliberate decision. By the way, yesterday we carefully considered this issue with respectable Alexander Pavlović Popov, and he agreed that your law was right, but he said: let us first skip ours and then cancel ours. But it's simple, comrades, some kind of casusist. I believe that a decision needs to be made, and we should be given the opportunity to take advantage of the fact that this issue is being addressed today on the Supreme Council, that it is for the citizens who are listening to this issue, that there are no restrictions in time for implementation.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u53	Give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u54	There is no time limit for the exercise of their rights to privatize housing. And if anyone wants to propose to suspend privatization, let them change the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u55	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have such a conflict here, I would ask that we think together and make a wise decision. The point is that the Law on Privatization of the State Housing Fund does not set the deadline for the use of housing checks for citizens to exercise the right to privatize housing from the State Housing Fund. In spite of the Law, we make incomprehensible proceedings against this problem. So it's perfectly logical that we should take a decision to cancel any term, so that when this issue is resolved, some of it is not governed by law, and others are not governed solely by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Well, that's a clear and obvious truth, because now there's such a danger when we put the first 2744 on the extension of the year, it's going to be voted on, and once again these colossals will be left behind. And once we've made that decision, we've settled that question. I mean, we'll bring it in line with the Housing Fund Privatization Act. So if you hadn't denied the drafters of the bill, well, Valery Baranov, you could have put it to the vote first to consider draft regulation 3455, which didn't go through the committee, but the consultations showed that it was the right one. If we don't make a decision, then we'll go back to the next bill. Therefore, I am voting on the proposal that the draft Decree 3455 be first considered by withdrawing from the Rules in view of the fact that it has not been formally considered on the Committee. Please vote. [[10:58:56]] For 408 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Eugene Vasilovich Marmazov, is invited to report. The co-response will be made by the head of the Committee on Construction and Urbanization of Housing and Regional Policy, Vladimir Vasilovich Ribak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u56	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! In fact, I have said in more detail that, in connection with the consideration of the draft Decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the further extension of the use of cheques, I would like to recall that the use of such cheques is provided for in article 4 of the Law on the Privatization of the State Housing Fund and article 5 of the Law on the Enforcement of Housing Rights of Residents. However, these laws do not impose any restrictions on the duration of the cheques. According to the Ukrainian Constitution - this article 92 - the legal regime of ownership is determined solely by the laws of Ukraine. Under the Constitution, the right to private property is acquired in a manner defined only by law. [[Article 41]] That is, no legislation other than the laws of Ukraine can establish, modify or abolish the right of citizens to privatize housing. Thus, there is no legal basis for denying citizens the privatization of housing after 31 December 2008, i.e. after the termination of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision of 21 December 2000 extending the period of use of housing cheques for the privatization of the State housing fund. No further extension of the period of use of the cheques is therefore required. And on the Supreme Council, we're going to be extending this deadline for the fifth time. And when I said that time was running out, people got nervous. If anyone really intends to stop privatizing housing, let him propose amendments to the law rather than to the decree. It should also be recalled that in view of the entry into force of the Ukrainian Act on 1 January 2009.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u57	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u58	On the realization of housing rights in hostels, citizens only acquire for the first time the right to privatize housing in dormitories under the conditions and in accordance with this law. Therefore, there can be no cessation of privatization of housing. The draft regulation under consideration by our Commission is proposed to be rejected. [[2744]] Accordingly, the same view was expressed by the Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council and the General Legal Administration. By the way, my colleague Popov Aleksandr Pavlović also agreed to this decision yesterday. Today, there has been a change of heart. Therefore, please support our draft order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u59	Thank you. Vladimir Vasilovich Rybak, will you be speaking on this matter? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u60	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! On the committee, we have indeed considered one regulation, 2744, which was passed by the people's deputies and decided to take a decision in the Chamber. Question 3455, the ruling, has now arisen. I think we have no reason not to support this decree and continue to privatize housing without setting a time limit for citizens to exercise their right.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u61	Vladimir Vasilovich. Thank you, fellows of honor! Ladies and gentlemen, the problem seems to be understandable. Is there a need to discuss it? You don't? Therefore, under your unanimous agreement, draft Decree 3455 repealing the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the extension of the term of use of residence cheques for the privatization of the State Housing Fund is put to the vote. Please vote. [[11:04:11]] For 401 Decision taken. Thank you. In accordance with the decision taken, the draft regulation 2744 makes no sense. A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the queue of compliance with insurance requirements is being considered for the second reading. Registration number 0980. The rapporteur is the head of the Economic Policy Committee Committee, Alexander Mikolayovich Bondar. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u62	Dear Volodymira Mihajlovich, honourable members of the people, the bill “To amend the laws of Ukraine regarding the continuity of the satisfaction of insurance claims in the event of the removal of insurance” is presented for your consideration. This is a project by the national MP, Voropeyeva, which is discussed in the second reading. I propose that this bill be adopted as a whole. Only two amendments are made by Deputy Voropeyev. They're considered by the committee. And it introduces in the laws a normal, civilized rule of compliance when the insurance policy is eliminated into existing legislation. The only textual amendment, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I would like to put them into protocol, which is confirmed by the financial services commission, they can say that the Ukrainian Civil Code does not provide for the application of the laws. There's just a reference to the law, not to mention its name. Therefore, the amendment to the first paragraph should read: “Determined by the law of Ukraine” and “For insurance” should be deleted. This is more consistent with the legal standards applied in the Civil Code. If possible, with this textual amendment, adopt this law as a whole. I think Alexander Volodymyrovich can confirm that.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u63	The author of the amendment does not insist on such clarification?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u64	He's not here. I'll report him instead.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u65	Yeah. Dear colleagues, two amendments were made to the draft law on second reading. They're accounted for. So we have every reason to put the committee's proposal to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u66	Edited.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u67	With editorial permission to delete the name of the law. In view of this, draft Law 0980 is put to the vote for adoption as a whole as a law “On amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the queue of compliance with insurance requirements in the event of the liquidation of the insurance policy”. Please vote. [[11:07:32]] For 389 The law is passed. Dear colleagues, we are now going to consider the law with the proposals of the President of Ukraine, this is the Law on Ukraine on Amendments to the Ukrainian Customs Tariff Act. Registration No. 2351-1. The President's proposals were made on 13.05. 2008 Reporter: Deputy Head of the Ukrainian President's Office, Andri Ivanovich Honcharuk None. Then, please, co-reporter: Head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, Terjehin Sergey Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u68	Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to remind you that on May 16 such a great event occurred, Ukraine joined the World Trade Organization. Then we were going to implement the new rates of import duty, which we did. However, Parliament decided to leave some of the old import duty rates until January 1, 2009. We made this decision, 378 votes in favour, but the President of Ukraine applied the veto to this law and then the new rates were implemented in legislation in a rather strange way, by issuing a telegram from the head of the Customs Department. Now there was a paradoxical situation, there was a few days left before the new year, if we didn't accept the President's proposal, which is to introduce all of this from January 1st, from the moment of taxation, I apologize, then we won't be able to consider with you the law on anti-crisis measures for agriculture and to correct the balance of payments situation, because we can't legally modify the telegram of the customs department. So our committee reviewed the President's veto. And realizing that there's no longer any point in any delay, because on January 1st, it's up to you to agree to these proposals, and then consider special exceptions, as we planned, under anti-crisis laws. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u69	Dear colleagues! We must now, in accordance with the Rules, vote on the President's proposals. So let's get them. Let's call the President's proposals we'll put them to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u70	There is one proposal in chapter two of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Ukraine’s Customs Tariff Act to exclude paragraph two. And in accordance with the first paragraph, delete the word “except”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u71	Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u72	The committee suggests that we accept this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u73	Since this law has been in operation for several weeks – by the end of this year, there is obviously good reason to take into account the President's proposal. In chapter 2 of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Customs Tariff, paragraph 2 should be deleted. And in accordance with the first paragraph, delete the word “except”. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u74	For. [[11:11:27]] For 228 President of Ukraine's proposal is taken into account. So by factions, please: Region Party – 0, Timoshenko Yulia Block – 153, Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense – 55, Communist faction – 0, Litvina Block – 20. Dear colleagues! Then, it is proposed that the committee's decision be put to the vote – to adopt this law as a whole, taking into account the proposals of the President of Ukraine, who has found support. I'm voting on such a recommendation to the committee, please vote. [[11:12:20]] For 233 The law in the new edition was adopted taking into account the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the ratification section. Your opinion is proposed by the draft Law on the Ratification of the Convention on Mutual Administrative Assistance in Tax Matters. [[Registration number 0107]] Reporter: Deputy Head of State Tax Administration Reguretic Vasil Vasilovich. Correspondent: Head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Oleg Grigorovitch Belarus
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u75	Dear Volodymira Mihajlovich, honourable members of the people, your attention is given to the draft Law on the Ratification of the Convention on Mutual Administrative Assistance in Tax Matters, submitted by the President of Ukraine and designated as prime minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law provides for the entry into force for Ukraine of a convention signed by Ukraine in 2004. The Convention on Mutual Administrative Assistance in Tax Matters was concluded on 25 January 1988 in Strasbourg and the Convention was opened for signature by the member States of the Council of Europe and the member States of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. Today, most of the countries in Europe, the United States, are present. Canada and the Federal Republic of Germany also signed the convention. Azerbaijan is a member of the SND. The introduction of the Convention will enable more efficient administration of taxes, help other countries to collect taxes that they have, subjects, before Ukraine. The convention provides a list of taxes that Ukraine can count on to help other countries. The list comes from our domestic national legislation and provides for the country’s right to receive assistance in generating debt on the accrued taxes of entities located in other countries. The convention provides for the adoption of a number of warnings that the country may accept on its part, and we have two terms of caution in our bill, namely the non-admission of tax relief to other countries. there is a list of the system of taxation and debt on those taxes.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u76	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u77	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u78	You all have it, don't you? Thank you. Oleg Grigorovich, please head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u79	Ladies and gentlemen, after the report of my colleague Reguretic, I have the honour to say this on behalf of the committee. In accordance with article 93 of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts, this bill on ratification of the Convention on Mutual Administrative Assistance in Tax Matters is aimed at improving the efficiency of tax administration. The adoption of legislation and the entry into force of an international convention will enable more effective control of the correct application of tax legislation by both residents and non-residents. In accordance with the Explanatory Note of the State Tax Administration of Ukraine, the introduction of the International Convention will not require any additional budgetary expenditure, since the provision of information assistance is possible within the framework of normal activities and the cooperation of tax authorities. The extraordinary expenses associated with the provision of administrative assistance are paid at the expense of the requesting party in accordance with article 26 of the convention. The main scientific and expert office supports the adoption of the law on ratification of the convention. Our committee carefully reviewed all these materials and concluded that the bill was drafted and registered in accordance with articles 90, 92 of the Supreme Council Rules. Please support the recommendation.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u80	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the discussion: two for, two for, and no. Yes, please state your name on the board. Yuri Karmazin and Jaroslav Suhi. Yuri Karmazin, please, the faction “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u81	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. Ladies and gentlemen, the law that is currently under consideration is extremely important, because, as far as tax matters are concerned and as far as property taxation is concerned, which is based on values, currency values, and the acquisition of property by our citizens, it was completely out of control abroad. Especially will this be of great importance to us to realize what has happened to the banking system of Ukraine. Where did the funds that had just arrived in Ukraine go? And they went to support the same banks that actually came from these countries that gave us so-called financial aid. Because I think it's a crime that we haven't had this convention ratified since 2004. I would like to be told why, for what reason, the convention is signed on behalf of Ukraine on December 20, 2004, after four years. I want to see a name list of the people who blocked the fact that this convention came to this rostrum. Who interfered with this bill? Who didn't want it ratified? Who did not want our tax collectors to be able to see, and how will we proceed with the tax that we will certainly place on the real estate? What will we do about the property that has now appeared in Montenegro or Macedonia in some people who have been recruited into the coalition? What are we going to do? Will we receive these answers, society? This is also a matter for the Attorney General. I'm asking. Thus, only the State Tax Administration, the Customs Service, and the Pension Fund are listed. Obviously, there could also be investigating authorities as an authorized body.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u82	Jaroslav Mikhailovich Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u83	Dear colleagues, the ratification of this convention, I believe, must carry out the main task, namely, to encourage Ukrainian authority, all branches of power, legislative and executive power, to develop the Tax Code. There's one of the authors of the Tax Code sitting here, and there's nothing in the room. I remember other tax codes being developed, and they are not available in the hall. You and I in this session room have repeatedly ratified our agreements with Europe's partners, including Russia, where long ago all tax legislation has been codified. The complaint of our businessmen, the complaint of our investors, is that there is no such codification. That's why there could be a saviour like now, when 12 billion dollars on the added value of government debt to businesses doesn't come back. It's not worth it. And one more thing. I believe that the Convention on Mutual Administrative Assistance in Tax Matters should promote and encourage authority to improve tax legislation. By the way, to the knowledge of the political forces that have reacted nervously to my speech today. My speech and our speeches of opposition are also an incentive to you, to that coalition. You just said that she is, that she is, that she is, that she is, that she is, that she should get together, that she should understand, and stop attacking us and looking for an enemy where he is not. And you said you were a coalition. Please show that you are a coalition – publish in the newspaper Voice of Ukraine a treaty so that I know that in Berdjansk there will soon be a monument on the coast of the Azov Sea to Stepan Bandera, writing in the Azov Moscal Sea.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u84	Dear national MPs, distinguished national MPs! The document has been completed. I ask you not to create a basis for conflict, please. All respectable people, please. Oleg Grigorovich, committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u85	Dear Mr. Head, the honourable colleagues are the national MPs! Already stuck in sessions, on board boards, at meetings of the committee in the presence of representatives of the government and of the President’s Administration, I stress that there has been a delay in the ratification of very important documents in our country. It seems that someone is interested. If such an international convention is not ratified for five years, the question arises, Who is it to be, and who should be sought? That's why we're consulting on a committee with you, and obviously the Supreme Council should decide on the normative terms of the ratification procedure in the government, in the Secretariat of the President and in us. The committee has no problems, and the committee meets regularly every Wednesday. We have no political conflicts. We're working on a professional expert base. This question needs to be resolved. I believe that my colleague Karmazin and I will amend the International Contracts Act to remove this painful problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. May I have your attention, please? A proposal for a committee to adopt a draft Law on the Ratification of the Convention on Mutual Administrative Assistance in Tax Matters is put to the vote. Registration number 0107. Please vote. [[11:25:11]] For 253 Decision taken. The factions, please. The Party of the Regions – 1, "Club of Yulia Timoshenko" – 153, "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" – 54, Communist faction – 26, "Club of Lithuania" – 19. Dear colleagues, the decision is made. With regard to the critical comments that have just been made, and they relate to the delay, the delay and delay in submitting relevant ratification documents to the Supreme Council, I would ask the committee, together with the Supreme Council's Office, to analyse the dynamics of these documents, the terms and the relevant material for the national deputies, as well as the letters to the President and to the government on this matter. The draft Law on Ratification of the Decision on Amendments to the Rules on the Designation of the Country of Origin of Goods, approved by the Decision of the Council of Heads of Government of the SND of 30 November 2000, is now under consideration. Registration number 0052. Reporter: First Deputy Head of State Customs Gutnik Anatoly Evgenovich Correspondent: First Deputy Head of the Committee in Foreign Affairs, Taras Viacheslavovich Czarnovil Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u87	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Deputies! The bill proposed for consideration has been drafted by the Ukrainian State Department for the implementation of the Ukrainian Cabinet Decision of 7 May 2008 No. 430 “On the application for ratification of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s decision to amend the Rules on the determination of the country of origin of the goods approved by the SND Council of Heads of Government Decision of 30 November 2000”. The rules on determining the country of origin of goods from 30 November are an integral part of the agreement on the creation of a zone of free trade in SND countries and ratified by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 20 September 2001. During this period, a number of amendments and additions to the Rules of Origin, including technical issues, were made by the SND Heads of Government and the SND Economic Council and the completion of the “ST-1” certificate of origin, which appears to the authorized authorities of the exporting country, usually the Chamber of Commerce, for the purpose of granting tariff preferences to the importing country. One such decision is the decision of the SND Economic Council of 3 December 2004 amending and supplementing paragraph 12 of the Regulation in the part of the completion of the certificate of origin of the product “ST-1”, namely: the first is the addition of graphs 5 and 12 of the certificate to the duplicate of the certificate, which appears to be an authorized body in case of loss or damage to the original of the certificate; the second is the form of the certificate is supplemented by graph 9, “The criteria of origin”, which specifies the following criteria of origin: p is a product fully produced in the SND countries, d is a product subject to sufficient processing, processing. These criteria are reflected in paragraphs 1, 2 and 4 of the Rules. The implementation of the said decision will allow for the harmonization of national legislation of the member states of the Commonwealth of Independent States, strengthening control over the correct determination of the origin of goods moving under free trade conditions. Please support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u88	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Taras Viacheslavovich Czarnovil, the first deputy head of the Committee in foreign affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u89	Dear colleagues are national deputies, the Committee on Foreign Affairs has considered the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement. After considering November 12, 2008, we made a unanimous decision recommending that the Supreme Council ratify and uphold the law. The previous reporter set out in very detail the substance of this coming amendment. It really helps to remove a number of problems in the processing of goods when moving, and it takes away some of the problems that have arisen in connection with certain smuggling attempts. The adoption of this amendment will help to resolve a number of problems and align our customs procedures with the procedures in place in the SNS and, in this case, bring them closer to the generally accepted ones in the European Union, because these rules are generally consistent. The bill on ratification and the Chief Scientific and Expert Directorate, supported, is a professional committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on economic policy. Hence, no warnings were made about his support. On behalf of the committee, I ask you to ratify. And in the last second, I still want to say one more nuance: a signed agreement on this third December 2004 amendment. Count how many years our customs services have been forced to operate in different ways from other customs services in other SND countries. How many years! Because once again, as we have said before, it was not the first time that the draft law was ratified, we were once again opening certain windows for the misrepresentation of goods and for certain corruptions. I think we need to put this in order, so that these things are finally removed. From 2004 to the end of 2008, the project was actually there. The committee considered him as soon as possible after he arrived. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u90	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the problem is understood. And since we still have 13 such documents today, if no one has any objections, we could put them to a vote right away. You don't? The draft Law on Ratification of the Decision on Amendments to the Rules on the Definition of the Country of Origin of Goods, approved by the Decision of the Council of Heads of State of Government of the SND of 30 November 2000, Registration No. 0052. Please vote. [[11:31:35]] For the 250. The law is passed. The draft Law on Ratification of the Decision on Supplements and Amendments to the Rules on the Definition of the Country of Origin of Goods, approved by the Decision of the Council of Heads of Government of the SND of 30 November 2000, is now under consideration. Registration number 0053. The rapporteur is the first deputy head of the State Customs Service, Anatoly Evgenovich Gutnik, and the co-reporter will also be the first deputy head of the Committee in the foreign affairs of Taras Vjacheslavovich Czarnovil. I'll be brief.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u91	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The bill proposed for consideration has been drafted for the implementation of the Government's Decree of 7 May 2008 No. 431 on the granting for ratification of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the decision to make amendments and amendments to the Rules on the determination of the country of origin of the goods approved by the decision of the Heads of Government of the SND of 30 November 2000. The rules of 30 November’s country of origin are an integral part of the SND Free Trade Agreement and ratified by the Supreme Council on 20 September 2001. Rules defined sufficient processing criteria, changing the classification code of the goods. products, lists of manufacturing and technological operations required to determine the origin of the product in the case of two or more countries participating in the production of the product. The decision of the SND Heads of Government, signed by Ukraine in Minsk on 24 November 2006, has extended the list of transactions that do not meet the criteria for sufficient processing of the goods. [[Paragraph 5 of the rules]] A list of transactions that do not meet the criteria for sufficient processing is based on the rules of preferential origin of goods in the European Union. The need to detail the list of operations that do not meet the criteria for sufficient processing of the product was due to the increase in the import volume of semifare meat prepared, frozen, made from meat of domestic animals and domestic birds by dumping their parts with spices. The technological process of producing these products consists of simple operations related to mixing the components between each other and their subsequent packaging. The result of these operations is a change in the code of the commodity position, and the product becomes a status of origin in the country where such transactions took place. The current edition of paragraph five of the rules does not allow such transactions to be considered simple. These products are manufactured using raw materials originating in third countries that are generally taxed by import duties on a significant scale. Imports of such goods cause considerable damage.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u92	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u93	The decision also amends and adds to paragraph 12 of the rules to the fill-in of the graph of the certificate of origin of the ST-1 product. Five certificates have deleted the entry "SND Cumulation". In view of the cumulative principle laid down in Figure 9 of the certificate, the decision of the SND Heads of Government of May 25, 2006 is made by the Council of Heads of Government. The graph 5 of the certificate is supplemented by the issue of the “ST1” form certificate for goods manufactured for the validity of the Rules of Origin of the country of origin of the goods dated 24.09.1993. Goods produced in former republics of the Soviet Union. The implementation of the said decision will ensure the harmonisation of the external economic activities of the countries participating in the Commonwealth of Independent States. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u94	Thank you. Please sit down, Anatoly Eugenovich. Taras Vjačeslavovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u95	Dear colleagues are Ukrainian National Deputies, the Committee on Foreign Affairs has considered the proposed draft law on the ratification of the agreement under the SND to be a major consideration. Similarly, consider this draft law at the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Economic Policy and considered, Carmazin, a little bit quieter, and also considered by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. Everybody backs up. Additional spending from the state budget on the adoption of this law will not be necessary. On behalf of the committee, we ask you to support this bill, because it not only removes a number of problems in the processing of goods, it not only removes a number of problems in the customs process, but it carries another, very important and significant function -- it helps protect consumers' rights to produce adequate products, a clear fixation that the consumer receives directly. Since the kind of goods that appear to come from other countries are actually in Ukraine by now, the ratification of this law may be subject to appropriate products that have only undergone symbolic, superficial treatment. And that's how the ends are lost and the genetically modified products are lost and so on. Therefore, in this case, the adoption of this law removes a number of problems and, in addition to helping us to bring our standards closer to those of the GNI, it also helps to remove a number of problems that arise in adapting our legislation to European Union standards. Because here is an example of how the principles of norms in the SND are completely in line with the European Union's standards and that's what the amendment was about. Its fate is a little easier than the previous one -- it's only been on shelves for two years, not four as the previous one. I'm asking the committee to support the ratification of this agreement.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u96	Dear colleagues! The position of the committee is proven. There is no objection if we, or if someone insists on speaking, put the vote to the vote. You don't? As a result of your unanimous agreement, the draft Law on Ratification of Decisions on Supplements and Amendments to the Rules on the Country of Origin of Goods, approved by the Decision of the SND Heads of Government of 30 November 2000, shall be put to the vote. Registration number 0053. Please vote. [[11:38:12]] For 248 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u97	The factions, please. Region Party – 1, Timoshenko Yulia Block – 150, Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense – 51, Communist faction – 26, Litvina Block – 20. The draft Law No. 0072 on the denunciation of the Agreement between the Government of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on the avoidance of double taxation of citizens' income and property is announced for consideration. Reporter: Deputy Finance Minister Fudashkin Denis Alexandrovich. And the coreporter will be the first deputy committee head in the foreign affairs of Taras Viacheslavovich Czarnovil. And explain to us what Ukraine's attitude has to this problem right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u98	Good afternoon, distinguished national deputies, Your Honor! The Cabinet of Ministers proposes to denounce the Agreement between the Government of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on the Prevention of Double Taxation, which is now being distributed to Ukraine. The reason for this proposal is the loss of the relevance of this agreement in connection with the substantial change in the tax system between the Soviet Union and the Ukrainian tax system. In fact, these days it is not a double tax avoidance agreement, but a tax avoidance agreement, because no income under this agreement is taxed at all, and these are incomes, direct income such as dividends, interest, royalty, income from property alienation. Despite the changes in the tax system in Cyprus, direct income taxation is very low. Yes, the income tax is 10 percent, but the income from dividends, interest, and royalty is not taxed at all. This creates unprecedented opportunities for establishing special schemes that allow residents of Ukraine not to pay direct taxes at all. Thus, in 2007, almost a billion dollars were paid in the form of such income for the benefit of the residents of Cyprus without paying any tax. I would like to point out that since 1997, there have been negotiations with Cyprus on a new treaty that would provide for standard rates of taxation under contracts that Ukraine applies to other countries. But Cyprus is not interested in signing a treaty that is now initialled and has standard rates of taxation. It's initialled by Cyprus and approved by the government of Cyprus, and approved by the government of Ukraine, but for various reasons this agreement is constantly postponed because Cyprus is very interested in the very existence of this treaty, which foresees a lack of direct taxation.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u99	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u100	In this regard, please support the project on the denunciation of the agreement with Cyprus. Then a new agreement will be signed with Cyprus, which will provide for normal tax rates for such contracts. I would like to point out that Cyprus has no such unprecedented agreement with any country in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u101	Please take the seat of the committee, then we'll vote. Tarasse Vjačeslavovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u102	Dear fellow members of the national parliament, the committee at its meeting discussed the matter. Most of the votes on the issue of denunciation were supported, although a separate point was made on the basis that any denunciation was a pretty scandalous option, unless there was an immediate alternative to the agreement that I was obliged to report, because then on the committee I made those commitments. The other committees under consideration supported the agreement, and the Scientific and Scientific Expert also supported it. On behalf of the committee, the majority of the votes were offered a denunciation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u103	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is a need for discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u104	Please. There isn't!?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u105	None. Then I am voting on the draft law on the denunciation of the Agreement between the Government of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on the avoidance of double taxation of income and property, registration No. 0072. Please vote. Please vote. [[11:42:51]] For 211 The decision is not taken. Please, by the factions, please, why don't we vote? Region Party – 0, Timoshenko Yulia Block – 152, Our Ukraine-People's Self-Defense – 58, Communists – 0, Litvina Block – 1. So that's what I voted for, that's what's coming out. Dear colleagues, I will put to the vote a return to consideration. Well, please sign in.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u106	It's not Lithuanians, it's Lithuanians. I gave one vote. I beg you, fellow officers, to vote. Please sign up for 5 minutes. From the motives, write down the procedure from which the motives are based. Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u107	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, we're talking a lot about getting out of the crisis, we're talking a lot about going somewhere, the currency is going somewhere, mostly it's going to Cyprus, mostly right there, and all the offshore areas are registered where the funds are going now, and the banks are also. And that's what the commission of inquiry will show if it's created. But today, we need to get out of the legal community, there was a Soviet Union Agreement that allowed us to avoid taxation. Our Ukraine has not yet made such a covenant, for we have not given it the opportunity to do so. So I'd like everyone to understand right now that this agreement needs to be denounced. Someone might not understand? I ask that the announcements be made so that everyone can come here and then publish the results in the Voice of Ukraine, because this is a huge cost. This is the budget of all health care outside Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u108	Teren, faction “Blok Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u109	Victor Teren “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear friends, the situation is very simple. Recently our parliamentary delegation, I was in its warehouse, was in Cyprus. So, $5 billion, $5 billion a year, Cyprus invests in the economy of Ukraine. This is from here, second place in investment after Germany. I mean, it comes out of the banks, and then it goes here. And that's how it heats up very much, let's say. And that's the first, and that's one of the reasons that some people here don't want to vote, let's tell the truth. And the second. For example, I didn’t understand what else was going on. That was not really the answer to Vladimir Mikhailovich’s question. What does Ukraine have to do with this agreement, please explain it to me? Why? Because the person who made the agreement can denounce it. The deal was made by the Soviet Union. Ukraine did not put it in. This could still be denounced by Russia, which declared itself the successor of the Soviet Union. And so please explain to me, because that's what the speaker of the Supreme Council asked, and we didn't hear the answer to that question.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u110	Adam Martinyuk is a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u111	Thank you. Martinuk is a faction of Communists. Honorable colleagues who want to embarrass Ukraine and denounce the deal. You have a much simpler and easier way. Please don't let all the oligarchs of your two factions take out the capital and don't have to denuse anything. You can do better than that. That's the first one. The other one. We cannot vote because we absolutely support the position reported by the first deputy head of the identity committee that half of the committee has declared absolutely right and clearly. This will be the first denunciation in our history. If there is a government, if there is anything else you would like to conclude, please conclude. But don't tear anything apart, give birth first, and then you'll be denunciation. The Communists certainly can't vote, because it's the Soviet Union's agreement, the Communists can't vote, because there's also a Communist.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u112	Paul Sulkowski, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u113	Thank you. I think that now the previous speaker, my friend, the Communist, I respect him, he said very faithfully that a coalition like this is not without communists. And if only the decision goes through, it means only with the participation of Communists. And that, I think, is true, because the Communists are in power today, many committees are taking the lead.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u114	I'm asking you essentially to speak. I'm forced to turn off the microphone, you're abusing it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u115	No, it's not. So I urge the Communists to support this coalition because without you, it has no life. Therefore, we need to take seriously the responsibility of the Ukrainian people and answer them. You promised to take the oranges, the Communists and the Block of Lithuania. Let's vote. Why don't you vote? But we have to vote, not take the time of the Supreme Council for nothing.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u116	Knazević, “Our Ukraine” faction, Ruslan Knazević.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u117	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Ruslan Knazevich. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I want to support you absolutely. In fact, those who did not vote apparently did not understand what was going on. If you don't mind, a few words literally is history. In fact, this Agreement was ratified, more specifically signed by the Soviet Union at the beginning, when the Soviet Union came to an end, is the end of the 1980s. This is a period when the Soviet Union was actively and massively invested in offshore areas. 18 years of Ukrainian independence is the year of the struggle to cancel the signed agreement. Unfortunately, this did not happen, even during the parliamentary session several times, and it fell friendlyly during the vote. I understand why this is happening, a lot of arguments have been made. Especially during this period of time is the one who. And now he's got his capitals and he's got people out on the street, no desire to share a little bit of fat, and he's going to return at least a fraction of the income so that people can live for a period of time, he doesn't have any desire, and he's throwing all the responsibility, including social responsibility, on the shoulders of the state. So we need to do this now, but we need to solve this in a complex way, because not only in Cyprus is weaning.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u118	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Please, Oleg Belarus is head of the committee. I ask very briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, please calm down! In considering the matter, there is no need for extra politicization and psychosis. I repeat that the Russian Federation has long canceled, denounced it, and Ukraine, Ukraine in this part, is the same successor to the Soviet Union as the Russian Federation. That is why we must make a responsible decision in behalf of our citizens. The Cypriot side expects us to make that decision. We sent a parliamentary delegation, she tried to figure it out. Now again, the Cypriot side has invited our parliamentary delegation in charge of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. We have to bring what they're waiting for. I urge everyone to return to the vote and make a decision in accordance with Ukraine's national interests.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u120	Thank you. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? There were several suggestions. Well, the first sentence is to postpone consideration, because if you look at when the committee makes a unanimous decision, and the Supreme Council votes unanimously, you could have gone that way to have the committee reconsidered. The second, one minute, the second sentence is to put the vote back on the table, and the third sentence is to have the deal between Ukraine and Cyprus prepared immediately, and that would be the right decision. That's why it's okay. Please, representative. Dear colleagues, there are three of them. May I have your attention, please? The first proposal is simply to postpone the consideration in order to have a successful vote, the second proposal is to return to the issue if the Supreme Council is supported, and the third proposal is to have the government prepare the appropriate project, sign the corresponding contract in strict terms, and submit for approval to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that Ukraine and Cyprus be the participants in this process. These three proposals are. Now the government representative, Minfin, and we'll make a decision by voting. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u121	I would like to point out that the Convention on the Prevention of Double Taxation is fully prepared for the new edition. It was counted back in 2006. It is approved by the government of Yanukovic, and it is approved by the government of Cyprus. Cyprus refuses to sign it, for in this case it offers the general rates provided for in all other international treaties. He will not sign it until this covenant is denounced. As soon as it's denounced, we're ready to sign at any time. It is fully approved by the government of both Cyprus and Ukraine. It's just the signing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u122	Dear colleagues, there are three suggestions and a vision of the Cabinet of Ministers of this process is presented. So I'm going to put the first sentence to the vote: to invite the committee to come back again, to prepare an argument and to take a unanimous decision on the following Wednesday. The second proposal, if not supported first, is to go back to the consideration of this bill. And the third is to have the Cabinet of Ministers present an appropriate document for consideration by the Supreme Council. But there are warnings that the deputy minister of finance has just made. Is there no objection to such an approach? Dear colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, please, calm down. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! I'll do it again. I ask you again, let us not violate the balance of the ploy that is on the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The first sentence is therefore put to the vote. Please note that the commission of the committee is to reconsider this bill and issue it for final adoption by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Wednesday. Please vote. Please vote. [[11:54:58]] For-23 The decision is not taken. So I'm voting on the second sentence: return to the draft law, registration number 0072. Please vote. Well, please, vote, please! [[11:55:24]] For 221 The decision is not taken. I'll bet the vote on the third sentence. Please, by the factions. Region Party – 0, “Timoshenko Block” – 153, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” – 63, Communists – 0, “Litvina Block” – 5. Dear colleagues, and a third offer. I am betting on the vote on the appointment of the Cabinet of Ministers to expedite the consideration and preparation of the corresponding Agreement between Ukraine and Cyprus. Please vote. I beg of you, dear fellows! I want to do everything we can to make a decision. And I vote for all decisions in person. [[11:56:12]] For-29 None. 29. The first sentence remains: the committee will bring this document to the attention next Wednesday. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, let's do that. Dear colleagues, please calm down! Requesting the committee to re-examine the matter. Does he have a committee? Well, then "no" means we're not going to consider it. All of it. The draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Kingdom of Norway on the readmission of persons, registration number 0074, is being announced for consideration. Reporter - Minister of Foreign Affairs Vladimir Stanislavovich Ogrizko Oleg Grigorovitch will be speaking from the committee. Dear colleagues, now we have to consult, we have to have a break at 12 o'clock. We've got about 10 ratification papers left. [[B in m in s a l in]] One minute! Dear colleagues, if such a proposal were to be put to the vote, would move away from the relevant rules of the Rules and vote for us to work without interruption and to complete the consideration of these documents. Is there no objection to putting such a proposal to the vote? I'm betting on the vote not to announce recesses, to finish the work on the ratification documents. Please vote. [[11:58:07]] For 207 The decision is not taken. Question announced. One minute! There's a question to be considered, so we're going on for 15 minutes now, and then we're going to take a break. No warning? Please. A question has been raised, and consideration cannot be interrupted. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u123	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! You have before you the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Kingdom of Norway on the readmission of persons. This bill is drafted in accordance with the requirements of the current Ukrainian legislation, in particular the provisions of the Constitution of Ukraine and the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts. The practical meaning and purpose of the draft law is that if it is adopted, an internal procedure will be carried out involving the acquisition of an agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Kingdom of Norway on the readmission of persons signed on February 13, this year in Oslo. The implementation of the agreement will allow for the identification of procedures for the reception and transfer of persons who are in the territory of the contracting parties. The agreement stipulates that, on the basis of reciprocity, quick and effective procedures for identifying and ensuring the safe and orderly return of persons who do not comply with the conditions provided for entry and residence in Ukraine or the Kingdom of Norway, as well as for the transit of such persons to their countries of origin. With regard to third - country nationals and stateless persons, the mechanism for their acceptance and transfer under the agreement will be applied two years after the agreement is concluded. I'd like to inform you, honourable national deputies, that the draft law is accepted without notice by all relevant ministries and departments: the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Minfin, the Ministry of Economics, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the State Border Service, and the Ministry of Justice. The implementation of this law will not result in additional financial or material costs on the Ukrainian side.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u124	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u125	Ratification of the treaty, honourable national MPs, will create legal preconditions for simplifying the visa regime with Norway for Ukrainian citizens. It is in the interests of Ukraine and Ukrainian citizens and will promote bilateral Ukrainian-Norwegian relations. The implementation of the agreement on the Ukrainian side is based on the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the State Border Service, as well as the Ukrainian Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u126	Thank you. Please sit down, Vladimir Stanislavovich. Oleg Grigorovich, please, the opinion of the committee and the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u127	Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Foreign Affairs has carefully considered the draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Kingdom of Norway on the readmission of persons. The committee recommended it to the Supreme Council for ratification. As you have already heard from the Minister's report, this agreement defines quick and effective identification procedures and a safe and orderly return of persons who have violated conditions of border crossing and residence in Ukraine or in the Kingdom of Norway. As well as procedures for the transit of such persons to their countries of origin. It's important. The implementation of agreements at the discretion of the competent authorities will not lead to additional financial, material, including from the State budget. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine also considers the ratification of the agreement to be appropriate. And we ask you to support the committee's recommendation decision on the ratification of the agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u128	Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? Two for, two for, please. Please sign up. On board, please, the names of the national MPs who are registered. People's MP Kamchatny, faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u129	Kamchatya, Yulia Timoshenko, Kharkiv district. In order to provide the parliamentary support needed for the government and our country, I, as the leader of the friendship group of the Inter-Parliamentary, Ukrainian and Norwegian Parliaments, call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u130	Yuri Carmazin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u131	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense. Ladies and gentlemen, this project, which we are considering, is based on an agreement signed on February 13, 2008. I mean, for today, it's the latest deal there is. Interestingly, it foresees a twofold, transitional so - called. But what needs to be ratified is that I have no doubt. It has to be ratified. I have only a huge, huge amount of money to report today to the information agencies on the vote for Project 0072 on the denunciation of the Agreement between the Soviet Union and the Government of Cyprus on the avoidance of double taxation of income and property. I don't know what they're gonna tell me is where the gold is hidden. I would like us to realize that we are in a crisis situation where we are able to continue to export currency from Ukraine, to export, to avoid taxation in a situation where our country is bleeding. And today I'd like to ask you to take the factions -- the Communists, the Lithuanian Block, the regionals -- and see who is closer to you than the oligarchs who are taking the property there and all the money they are exporting, or closer to the Ukrainian people. I'd like to see that there are MPs and businessmen in your person. I would like to divide those who list something by factions or parties and those who vote. Therefore, dear friends, the first one reported by Mr. Ogryzko, the situation needs to be ratified. But I'm sure he'll be ashamed to answer that question in other countries when they say that our deputies are not patriotic. I wish we'd come back to that question.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u132	Thank you. Deputy Volintz, Communist faction. Peter Stepanovich Zibenko, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u133	The Communist faction Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues! The faction of the Ukrainian Company, unlike some other colleagues, is trying to be completely consistent in its actions. At the time of the vote in the Supreme Council meeting room, we did not vote in favour of the basic readmission agreement. And secondly, colleagues have been warned that by voting for this document, we will create a huge, cheap hole in the territory of Ukraine. Unfortunately, some of our colleagues, who pressed the buttons, voted for it. Today, television channels tell us what a great evil it is. And I want to remind Ukrainian citizens that, if a foreign person is illegally entering Europe, he is now returning to Ukraine, to camps from displaced persons and to Ukraine, he is already on legal ground. And Ukraine has to spend its money on their maintenance, their equipment, and much more. And those stories about the simplified visa regime, Mr. Foreign Minister, we've been hearing for several years now, but our Ukrainian citizens coming to the foreign embassies are constantly getting licked. So once again, the faction of the Company of Ukraine is absolutely conscious and will not consistently support this document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u134	Oleg Zarubinsky, please, faction of the “Block of Lithuania”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u135	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, I have spoken out against the fact that such agreements violate the national interests of Ukraine. Thesis. There is no readmission agreement with Belarus and the Russian Federation in Ukraine. That is, those territories, those countries through which transit to Europe, Norway, including transiting illegal migrants. What does that mean? This means that Ukraine is taking on material expenses. It was said by the committee head or committee representative, well, it wasn't said that it wouldn't cost materially. How does this not lead to material costs? Ukraine not only does it say that Cibenko has money to support these people who acquire legal status, it moves these people to their place of residence for its money, and that is, imagine how much this airline ticket costs in Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, India, China and other countries, that is, it needs serious material costs. Next. It was said by the minister that this creates preconditions for simplifying the visa regime in Norway. We already have a simplified regime with the European Union, not even a precondition. And by the way, when we were looking at the readmission agreement with the countries of the European Union in parallel, at the same time we actually ratified the simplified regime agreement. And here we don't even have that. We are told that these will be the prerequisites for Norway to ask us for a visa regime someday. I don't think it's in the interests of Ukraine, but at any rate today, Ukraine is carrying a key burden due to the absence of a readmission agreement with Belarus and Russia and the existence of a readmission agreement with the countries of Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u136	Thank you. Please. Dear colleagues, we've taken 2 to 2 against, and from this point of view I have been approached by the national MP Smitush, who says that he has a draft law that is complex, which is meant to regulate processes in Ukraine on this issue. I'd ask, if there's no objection, he's passed the committee so that we can immediately consider him and make the right decision. Vladimir Stanislavovich Ogrizko, Minister of Foreign Affairs Please. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u137	Thank you. One little help. The readmission agreement with the Russian Federation took effect on November 21, 2008. Today and tomorrow, the U.S.S.S.A. consults with the Belarusian side on the implementation of the Readmission Agreement. The Belarusian side insisted that it should first be ratified and that the readmission agreement with the Russian Federation would become effective, and then there would be a period of the Belarusian side, which we are doing now. Next. Last year we were allocated 30 million euros from the European Commission to arrange, as it were, places for illegal migrants. Unfortunately, none of this is used. This year we are offered 130 million euros, if we do the same, we will not use them. So it's up to you, dear fellows, to be able and willing to make us, we'll do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u138	Dear colleagues, submit to the vote the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Kingdom of Norway on the readmission of persons, registration number 0074. Please vote. [[12:11:52]] For 214 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 1, Block Timoshenko – 147, “Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense” – 47, Communist faction – 0, “Block of Lithuania” – 19. Dear National MPs, there's a break of up to 12 hours 43 minutes and then a continuation of productive work.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u139	Dear colleagues, we continue our morning plenary session. A draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the People's Republic of Bangladesh on trade and economic cooperation is under consideration. Number 0091. Reportedly, Deputy Minister of Economy Boycun Natalia Eugenena. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u140	Dear chairman, distinguished national deputies. The draft law is designed to implement the internal procedures necessary to establish the validity of the agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the People's Republic of Bangladesh on trade and economic cooperation. It was signed in June 2007. The adoption of the Act is a necessary prerequisite for an effective agreement that will be the legal basis for the development of bilateral trade and economic relations, which will contribute to the development of a forward-looking course of cooperation between the two countries and the activation of external trade. The agreement provides for the mutual provision by the contracting parties of the most favourable regime in respect of the customs duties of the congregations applicable to imports and exports, customs control procedures, the processing and transport of goods. In addition, the mutual provision of a non-discriminatory regime for the application of quantitative restrictions on goods originating in the territory of a treaty State and assigned to the territory of a State of another treaty party. Mutual provision for merchant ships of a regime that is no less favourable than that afforded to their own merchant ships to each of the contractual sides. The agreement also provides for the creation of a joint commission on trade and economic cooperation. The adoption of the law will be the basis for the Agreement to take effect, and this will allow it to be implemented directly in bilateral relations, to implement it into national legislation. This will create positive opportunities for long-term cooperation in the areas of machine building, light and chemical industry, agriculture, transport. The implementation of this law will not require additional expenditure from the State Budget. Please support the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Bangladesh. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u141	Thank you, Natal Yevnenovna, sit down, please. Bylorus Oleg Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u142	Honourable National Deputies, Committee on Foreign Affairs at its meeting, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the People's Republic of Bangladesh on Trade-Economic Cooperation. After an important discussion, the committee recommended that the Supreme Council ratify this bilateral agreement. The draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement has been developed with a view to carrying out the internal procedures necessary for the validity of the agreement. It is aimed at creating the most favourable conditions for further development of cooperation with that great state with respect to international law, equitable and mutually beneficial trade and economic cooperation. The agreement provides for Ukraine and Bangladesh to provide the regime for the greatest export promotion and import of goods in accordance with the principles, procedures, and procedures of the World Trade Organization. The adoption of the law and its implementation will not require additional financial costs from Ukraine’s State Budget. The main scientific and expert management also considers the ratification of the agreement to be appropriate. Please support the recommendation of the Committee on the Ratification of the Agreement.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u143	Let's sign up for a discussion. Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u144	Thank you. Dear colleagues, when considering this bill on the ratification of the Bangladesh Treaty, there is clearly a question, and it would be good to hear it in a speech or in a report, because it is a regime of the greatest support based on the principles of the World Trade Organization. I would like to remind the Ukrainian people of how difficult these bills were to go with regard to Ukraine's accession to the World Trade Organization. And it's already at the end of 2008. It would be good to hear how, for example, this ratification differs from that of others when Ukraine was not in the World Trade Organization and did not cooperate with other countries, especially in the economic, commercial, scientific and technical spheres, and on the principles of the World Trade Organization. Therefore, the regime of greatest contribution to exports and imports of goods in accordance with the principles of the World Trade Organization will certainly need to be further improved with regard to the ratification of other bills in this sessionary room that we will be considering here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u145	Thank you, Jaroslav Mikhailovich. All those desiring to do so took part in the consideration of the bill. I am. Didn't you have time to sign up? Please, National Deputy Sulkovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u146	Thank you. Honorable colleagues, no matter how much we make decisions in the Supreme Council, and regulations and draft laws on ratification, without exception all the countries of the world do not want to deal with such authority, the orange power that is now in Ukraine. And an example is that even the Supreme Council did not support Mr. Ogrizko's previous draft law, which was reported by the Foreign Minister. What does that say? This tells us that this minister will not go anywhere, he only provokes the situation against Ukraine. And it's like he's beating himself in the chest that he's protecting national interests and he's protecting himself. In fact, he's only hurting the state. This example was shown in the Supreme Council by voting. Therefore, I believe that as long as there is an "orange" in power, no countries will cooperate with Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u147	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the approval of draft Law 0091 on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the People's Republic of Bangladesh on trade and economic cooperation. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:51:12]] For 253 Decision taken. The draft Law on the Ratification of the Framework Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the United States Government on cooperation in research and the use of space for peaceful purposes is under consideration. [[No. 0096]] Reported: Director - General of the National Space Agency, Alexeyev Yuri Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u148	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Dear Presidium! A law on the ratification of the Framework Agreement between the Government of Ukraine, the Government of the United States of America on cooperation is being introduced. In a peaceful space. We've been through all the stages of harmonization. This is essentially the second document that is renewed after the first time. The first document expired in 2001 and here is the multi-year work between. With the space agency of Ukraine, INASA has led to the fact that this agreement is being submitted to you for ratification today. The agreement was signed on behalf of the Government by me personally and by the American Ambassador to Ukraine. This in fact establishes a legal basis for the cooperation of potential contracts and contracts between our rocket-space enterprises with representatives of United States missile-space enterprises. Now, I believe that this process is going well, and there is an increase in this cooperation, so please consider and sign this agreement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u149	Thank you, Yuri Alexiovich. Please, Cranowil Taras Viacheslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u150	The Honourable Chairman, the Honorable Colleagues, are the National Deputies of Ukraine! At its meeting, the Committee on Foreign Affairs reviewed the draft Law on Ratification. A unanimous decision was made to support the ratification of the agreement. We've considered this agreement so that there won't be any doubts about any member of the committee, no matter what political positions. It was considered in an articleistic way, in all the details. In all matters, this covenant is beneficial to the Ukrainian side, the Ukrainian State. It helps us to develop the scientific direction of the Ukrainian industry and will also contribute to the development of the scientific sphere. In this case, we gain more advantage because of this agreement, and we have no questions about it. The committee's agreement is entirely unanimous. Similarly, the Committee on Budgets, budgetary policy, considered at its meeting -- and confirmed that the agreement did not require spending from the State Budget. The agreement is a framework, it opens the way for normal further processes of making direct agreements on each particular issue, it helps to provide study for both sides: space and research, and so in atmospheric research, - it gives impetus to the development of the Ukrainian economy, Ukrainian science. The committee asks you to support the ratification of this agreement. There's no politics here, there's only economic development and there's a starting point for science. And so there's a positive conclusion from the main science-expert management, which also supports ratification. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u151	I'd like you to sign up for this. Zarubinsky National MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u152	Dear colleagues! Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. In my opinion, by ratifying this framework agreement, we will allow one of the sectors of the economy of Ukraine, which today is at the level of, in fact, world standards, the world level to develop. We have not so many industries, economies that can compete, compete with the Westerns, with Russian and so on. In this case, I think we're giving space for space development. And she's going after herself. He, this development, is carrying on normal processes and in adjacent fields. I think if I divide the sheet into two parts and look at the pluses and minuses, I don't see any minus in this agreement. The “Lithuania Block” will vote in favour of ratifying this agreement. And we suggest that our colleagues also be able to develop into this important sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u153	Smithuh Grigori Yudkomovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u154	Garbage, Party of Regions. Fellow colleagues, of course, that cooperation in such an important field as the space sector for the Ukrainian industry is a very important cooperation with any country that provides additional jobs or develops this sector. And surely such a covenant must be maintained. But at the same time, national interests must always be governed. What do I mean? You know everyone who, at the time of the collapse of the Soviet Union, Ukraine was given its right, including to work to gain space. In view of the part that Ukraine has received three starting points where it could gain power to launch artificial satellites for its needs. Unfortunately, in this way, Ukraine's independence has lost its right for 17 years at some stage in Ukraine in two of these positions. How did this happen, why, who is responsible for this, no one has raised that question today. But I know for a fact that of the three possibilities that Ukraine has had the opportunity to launch a satellite today or in the future, two of them have lost. What does that mean? That this right has been exercised by one of the other nations. And unfortunately, to this day, I don't know if Ukraine got the money for that right if it was passed on to someone, if it didn't get it, and who was responsible? Of course, I still wanted Yuri Sergiyovich to answer that question. But the simplified procedure does not allow us to ask, unfortunately, a question of such importance. So, Alexandre Volodymyrovich, I would like to ask you to change the order of the matter, and let Yuri Sergiyovitch explain to me and all the Ukrainians how this question took place in this part, who has a bearing on it or had a bearing on it, and for what reason.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u155	Thank you. Eugene Valeriovich Wolinec, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u156	Please pass on the word of Alexandrovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u157	Dear colleagues, we are invited to consider and ratify the so-called framework agreement. I am sorry that I am against ratifying this agreement because I have spent my entire life working on Harttron, an enterprise that has been directly involved in the development of management systems for missile and space complexes. Work together, but on what basis? Unfortunately, the framework agreement does not tell us what specific programmes will be implemented under this agreement and what we will spend money on. It is clear here that we will ratify this agreement, then define specific perpetrators, are determined not by the Government, and that separate agreements at the implementing level continue to take place. What decisions the executives will make, what programmes they consider necessary to support, is not clear to us. And it seems to me that we should move away from such practices when the Ukrainian Parliament approves documents that are very documents of a serious level, the level of international relations, and we do not understand what will happen next. You all know the definition of dual-use technology or equipment. You know what this is about. I have a question: and those programmes that will be implemented under this framework agreement cannot be attributed to programmes or dual-use development, I am not so sure. The financial issue here too has passed. It clearly states that the parties are under an obligation to finance these programmes, in a manner consistent with that of joint action. And how much will it cost, and what do you and I sign today? I therefore believe that I would like this agreement to be more specific, specific and understandable for what the parties assume. And the last.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u158	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u159	This is the third article on “the sphere of cooperation”. It says, of course, space operations, space science and so on and so forth. But there are still programs that can be implemented by means of aircraft flights and so on. We don't understand what this is. I therefore appeal to those who have signed this agreement provisionally, finalize this agreement, introduce specific programmes into it, pre-calculate economics, how much it will cost and for what purposes we will implement these programmes, and then place them in the Hall for ratification. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u160	Thank you. Yuri Sergiyovich, do you have anything to say to the question posed by the national MP Smitush? That's where the microphone comes in.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u161	I can only say that this is in fact an agreement that provides a legal field for the cooperation of our staff, Ukrainian space firms and America. That's why it's not normal to make a list of the programs that we're working on with NASA today, it's not the level of this office. We have a few defining programs today. There is a program. ” On which we produce five rockets annually for launches from the platform. We have the Lang Long program, where we and Russia are launching rockets from Kazakhstan, together with America. We have many separate elements of the programmes that, along with Russia, America, we do at the International Space Station. It is therefore essentially a document that gives our enterprises the right to work, protected at the level of US and United States legislation. It's about Alexandrovsky. What Smythuh said was, in fact, in the Soviet Union, that some number of points not geostationary had been obtained, it was the prerogative of the State. I am going to put this on my own today because it is the prerogative of these issues today, which is the prerogative of the Ministry of Transport and Communications. Ukraine's got some points, lost something. Today we have a single point where we are ready to start our machine and to deal with such issues if we are to go deeper, we will provide this issue in writing. But what were points, and what became fewer today, that's okay with it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u162	Thank you. I am voting on the approval of draft Law 0096 on the ratification of the Framework Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the United States on cooperation in research and the use of space for peaceful purposes, please identify yourself. [[13:03:45]] For 229 Decision taken. Show the factions, please. Region Party – 1, "Timoshenko Yulia Block" – 151, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" – 61, communists – 0, "Litvina Block" – 16. The draft Law on the Ratification of the Protocol on the Privileges and Immunities of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Black Sea Economic Cooperation, No. 0105, is under consideration. Report to the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Ukraine Ogrizko Vladimir Stanislavovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u163	Mr. Chairman, honourable national MPs, you have before you the draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Protocol on the Privileges and Immunities of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Black Sea Economic Cooperation, PACES, which provides for the guarantee of the inviolability of PACES premises, the granting of immunity to archives, property, assets of the organization, and privileges and immunities to representatives of Member States' parliaments and the staff of the International Secretariat of PACES. The granting of such privileges and immunities is consistent with the existing practice of international organizations. The implementation of this law will not require additional costs from the State Budget. The draft law is in line with the Ministries of Justice, Finance, Economics, Home Affairs, the State Tax Administration, the State Customs Service, the State Border Service Administration, the Security Service. The adoption of this law will ensure Ukraine's compliance with its international obligations, the proper work of PACES, the observance of the principles of freedom of expression and the independence of PACE members' parliaments in carrying out its duties and will contribute to the further development of the Black Sea Economic Cooperation. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u164	Belarus Oleg Grigorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u165	As the main committee on this issue, the Committee on Foreign Affairs also considered the draft Law on the Ratification of the Protocol on the Privileges and Immunities of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Black Sea Economic Cooperation. The Committee recommends that the Supreme Council accept this ratification. The majority of the members of the committee voted in favour of this decision. And the standards set out in this committee do not give rise to any doubt, there is nothing here but international accepted standards. According to the conclusion of the competent authorities, the adoption of this law and its implementation will not require additional financial costs for Ukraine’s state budget. The main scientific and expert management also considers it appropriate to ratify the PACES Protocol on Privileges and Immunities in the Supreme Council. Please support the committee's recommendation.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u166	Sign up for the discussion. National Deputy School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u167	Thank you. Well, of course it's a very important assembly. Here we have a parliamentary delegation within this Assembly of the Black Sea Cooperation, economic cooperation, but this is about privileges and immunities. I would like to point out that, you see, without privileges and immunities, even Paches can't work. [[Parliamentary Assembly of the Black Sea Union]] This is, in principle, known to those who wanted to make the Supreme Council a laughingstock. Too bad there's no initiator of such a bill today in the state of the Supreme Council, but still. It's about this ratification. Of course, ratifications can be made, simply because the question is more important in order for the average Ukrainian citizen to understand that immunity from the legislators is not necessary in order to hide and hide something from someone, but in order to fulfill his responsibilities in a quality manner. I wanted to stress this and took the floor for that. I think it's just a ratification, and I think it's going to go through most of the votes, but it's still worth explaining the position itself. So it depends on the quality of the work of parliamentarians, not the kind of privilege and immunity they have, but the way they work. [[That's what I'm talking about the Ukrainian Parliament.]] The worse they work, the more they pay attention to their privileges and immunities; the better, the less society pays attention. That's why I think we can vote for this ratification, but it's important to remember that all the parliaments of the world need this, this is the foundation and foundation of democracy, and all the parliamentary assemblies of the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u168	Crnowil Taras Viacheslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u169	Dear colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies, I also call for support for this ratification. First. It is imperative to speak about the benefits and needs of Ukraine’s activities in the Black Sea Economic Cooperation and, in particular, how active our parliamentary delegation is in PACES. We are actively participating in all without exception in action, in all without exception meetings and meetings, our delegation stands for the principles that Ukraine needs and, in particular, what is relevant to the Black Sea District Road, which is of great importance to Ukraine as to the transit state. Now, with regard to the specific meaning of the treaties to which Ukraine is to join. For us, this agreement does not bear any burden, because headquarters, all organs, secretariats and so forth are in Turkey, Istanbul. Accordingly, we make a one - way commitment. To the sector. If any of the meetings are held, we, in the territory of Ukraine, guarantee appropriate immunity and privileges for representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly who will come to Ukraine for these meetings. This is a very limited commitment cycle, but it is traditional and classic in international practice. In addition to everything else, I would also like to warn you that in all other countries, PACES members are also currently ratifying the relevant agreements. And Ukrainian representatives, first of all, when you come to headquarters in Turkey, Istanbul, or in other countries, use these privileges in most cases. Where they have not yet been introduced, according to our data, these privileges will be established in the coming months. It's a technical issue that practically doesn't raise any objections here.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u170	I am voting on the approval of the draft Law on the Ratification of the Protocol on the Privileges and Immunities of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Black Sea Economic Cooperation No. 0105. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:11:42]] For 231 Decision taken. Let's move on to the next draft of the Act on Ukraine's accession to the Strasbourg Agreement on the International Patent Classification, No. 0087. Reported: Deputy Minister of Education and Science, Strych Maksim Vitaliyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u171	Honourable First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Honourable National Deputies of Ukraine! Ukraine's draft law on the accession of Ukraine to the Strasbourg Agreement on the International Patent Classification has been developed and is being implemented by the Government of Ukraine in particular to implement the Supreme Council of Ukraine Ordinance on the recommendation of parliamentary hearings on the protection of intellectual property rights in Ukraine since 27 June 2007. The point is that international patents require a unified classification that facilitates patent search that facilitates the work of applicants, which at last gives a powerful impetus to science and technology. To date, 90 nations, including the Russian Federation, have joined the Strasbourg Treaty. Ukraine's accession to this agreement will enable us to participate actively in improving the patent classification, the ability to defend our interests, the position of Ukrainian researchers, Ukrainian inventors, Ukrainian rationalizers. The adoption of the law does not require any additional expenditure from the State budget of Ukraine, as the introductory contribution is absorbed by Ukraine’s contribution to the international one. To the World Intellectual Property Organization, which Ukraine joined earlier and is already paying for. Then I very much ask the Ukrainian National Deputies to support the draft law introduced by the Ukrainian Government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u172	Thank you, Maxim Vitaliovich. I invite Vladimir Mikolaiovich Evening to the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u173	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! The 1971 Strasbourg Treaty establishes the International Patent Classification, which is essential for the search for patent documents for technical research. Such a search is needed both by patents for inventions and by potential inventors of scientific research organizations involved in new developments and their use. Today, the International Patent Classification is being used by patents from over 90 countries around the world, as well as by 4 regional patents and the International Bureau of the World Intellectual Property Organization. In order to maintain the International Patent Classification at the level of modern requirements, it is constantly reviewed and a new edition is published every five years. Ukraine's accession to the treaty will also contribute to close international cooperation in intellectual property rights, as well as to the harmonization of national legislation with international law in the field of protection of rights of invention. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on European Integration considered at its meeting a draft law on Ukraine's accession to the Strasbourg Agreement on the International Patent Classification and approved the decision to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a whole. The Committee's decision is in line with the conclusions of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Expert Office, as well as the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Budget Affairs. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u174	Please sign up for the discussion. Crnowil Taras Viacheslavovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u175	Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to point out that the Committee on Foreign Affairs, as the second committee, has considered the draft Law on the Ratification of the Strasbourg Agreement. We have made a unanimous decision to support it, since this agreement is truly necessary for Ukraine. And here the question is not just prestige, the accession to such agreements is the norm for any civilized country. But this is a particular need for the Ukrainian economy and Ukrainian science. We have high-tech economics, and so joining the Strasbourg Treaty makes it easier for us to access patent documentation, help develop scientific research, and protect our scientists in the protection of copyright as well. For the rest of my time, I want to make another point, which is also related to international agreements in the field of science. Joining international organizations in the scientific field and joining treaties is the country's prestige, and this is a development, an impetus to science. Unfortunately, we had a contractual base. And unfortunately, I can say that this is where the position of the Ministry of Finance, and, unfortunately, of the current minister, is viewed. The position that the funds of the Ukrainian budget to participate in the relevant international organizations do not withstand any criticism. Participating in any organization that develops both fundamental and applied science gives an infinitely greater profit, a greater benefit to the country. Today there is a process of signing a number of relevant agreements, not ratifications, because the Ministry of Finance does not agree that we are involved in organizations where there are minor, once again, small financial contributions. So I'm now asking the Ministry of Finance to unlock this process, or we're going to go to the edge of global economic development. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u176	I'm voting on the draft law on Ukraine's accession to the Strasbourg Treaty on International Patent Classification, No. 0087. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:18:36]] For 260 Decision taken. We move on to the next draft of the Law on Ukraine's Integration into the Locarn Treaty on the Establishment of the International Classification of Industrial Samples. Reported by the Deputy Minister of Education and Science, Strych Maksim Vitaliyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u177	Honourable First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Honourable National Deputies of Ukraine! I am very grateful for the support of the previous bill. The bill is largely linked to it, and is also designed to implement the recommendations of Parliament's hearings on "Protection of intellectual property rights in Ukraine". And its adoption is similarly geared towards a similar goal: Ukraine's integration into the international patent system, strengthening the protection of intellectual property rights. In particular, according to the rules of the Locarn Treaty, the patents of the participating countries should be listed in each publication, in official documents on the registration of industrial rights samples, corresponding indexes of the international classification of industrial samples, which facilitates their search and improves, again, provides a powerful incentive for development. The scientific and technical sphere of Ukraine. As in the previous case, Ukraine's accession to this agreement makes it possible to actively influence politics as part of the formation of an international classification of industrial patterns, first of all, what Ukraine urgently needs, because we as a developed scientific state have our own interests and proposals here. And secondly, this does not require any additional contributions from the State budget of Ukraine. Please support the bill introduced by the Government of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u178	Thank you. Welcome to the report by Vladimir Mikolaiovich Vecerka. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u179	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The solution to the issue of creating a fully functioning intellectual property system depends on the strength of the foundation of the innovative model for Ukraine's development, its modernisation, its competitiveness in the world's socio-economic system. The solution also depends on the growing prospects for job creation in the new sectors of the 21st century economy. Ukraine's accession to the Locarno Agreement to defend the International Classification of Industrial Samples and allow Ukraine to ensure the full functioning of the intellectual property protection system at the level of the developed countries of the world. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on European Integration considered at its meeting a draft law on Ukraine's accession to the Locarno Agreement on the application of the International Classification of Industrial Samples and approved the decision to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a whole. This decision of the committee is in line with the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as well as the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Budget Affairs. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u180	Let's sign up for the discussion. There are no willing ones to share in the discussion. I am voting on the draft Law 0086 on Ukraine's accession to the Locarn Treaty establishing the International Classification of Industrial Samples. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:22:55]] For 258. Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u181	By factions, please, the Party of the Regions - 1, the Block of July Timoshenko - 152, Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense - 60, the Communists - 26, the Block of Lithuania - 19. A draft Act on Ukraine’s accession to the Convention on the Standardization of Certain Rules of International Air Transport is under consideration. Reportedly, David’s Deputy Minister of Transport and Communications, Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u182	Dear headmaster! Dear National Deputies! For your consideration, a draft Ukrainian law on Ukraine's accession to the Convention on the Standardization of Certain Rules of International Air Transport is presented. The Convention on the Standardization of Certain Rules of International Air Transport was signed in Montreal on May 28, 1999. At this time, 86 nations of the world are participating in the Montreal Convention. It should be noted that the transportation of passengers and cargo by air is characterized by mass and rhythm, and sufficient complexity when a passenger makes international air travel and uses several successive airlines. In this regard, a clear, modern legal basis for such transfers is needed. The legal mechanisms and responsibilities of all participants in international air transport and, most importantly, to determine the responsibility for the contract for the carriage of passengers and cargo. The Montreal Convention recognizes, defines all these aspects and is in line with the world’s best practice in international air transport. Joining the Montreal Convention will help improve the safety of flights to Ukraine and encourage air carriers to avoid any physical or material damage to passengers and their luggage. There will be increased protection from the state of human life. It is also worth noting that the draft act was agreed without notice by the Ukrainian State Foreign Service Administration, the Ukrainian Ministry of Defence, the Ukrainian Ministry of Economy, the Ukrainian Ministry of Security, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ukrainian State Customs Service, the Ukrainian State Committee on Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship. In summary, I would like to stress once again that Ukraine's accession to the Montreal Convention will ensure that international standards of national legislation on the protection of the interests of air users are introduced. Please support the draft Ukrainian Act on Ukraine's accession to the Convention on the Standardization of Certain Rules of International Air Transport. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u183	Commemorative: Evening Volodymyr Mikolajovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u184	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The European Integration Committee, at its meeting on 12 November 2008, reviewed the draft Law and decided to recommend it before the adoption of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a basis and as a whole. A positive decision on the bill was also made by a committee in foreign affairs. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in its conclusion of 7 October 2008 also supports Ukraine's accession to the Convention. The Convention, which was signed in 1999, in Montreal, modernizes and strengthens the international legal regime established by the Warsaw Convention on the Standardization of Certain Rules of International Air Transport in 1929 and other documents in the field of air transport. Sets the level of the same and predictable rules for the international carriage of passengers, luggage and cargo. The drafting of the bill was foreseen by a plan of action for the implementation in 2006 of a state-wide programme to adapt Ukraine's legislation to the European Union's legislation. Thus, its adoption will be a practice of implementing standards in the European Union in the field of international air transport, contributing to the implementation of the State policy of European integration of Ukraine. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u185	Let's sign up for a discussion. There are no speakers in the discussion. I am voting on the draft law on Ukraine's accession to the Convention on the Standardization of Certain Rules of International Air Transport, 0099, please be determined. [[13:28:22]] For 260 Decision taken. Here we go to the draft Law on Ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on the exchange and mutual protection of information with limited access to defence. Reported by Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine Ogrizko Volodymyr Stanislavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u186	Mr. Chairman, honourable national MPs, you are being reviewed by the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on the exchange and mutual protection of information with limited access in the field of defence. The document was designed to carry out the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to strengthen cooperation between Ukraine and Great Britain in the defence and defence industries. It ensures a purely equal, partnership-like relationship in the information exchange process, does not give any advantage to one party or another, obliges the parties to take the necessary measures to protect information obtained in the course of limited access cooperation. According to its contents, this document is fully in line with international practice. The competent authority responsible for organizing activities in the area of implementation of the aforementioned memorandum from the Ukrainian side is the Ukrainian Security Service. The memorandum of understanding provides the Ukrainian Security Service and the British Ministry of Defence with an opportunity to ensure proper State control over the compliance of subjects with the requirements of national legislation. The ratification of the memorandum does not entail the correction of existing or the adoption of new legislative acts by Ukraine. No expenditure is foreseen from the state budget. The bill was drafted by the Ukrainian Security Service, as I said, and agreed with the Ministry of Economics, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u187	Thank you. Tarasyuk Boris Ivanovich, co-report
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u188	Dear Lord Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The European Integration Committee discussed at its meeting on 12 November this year the draft Law on Ratification of the Memorandum between the UK and Ukraine on Exchange and Mutual Protection of Information with Limited Access to Defence. I would like to remind you that this Memorandum was signed in September 2004. The Committee on European Integration decided to recommend it before the Supreme Council adopted it as a basis and as a whole. The same conclusion is found in the Foreign Affairs Committee’s decision to consider the bill at its December 3rd meeting. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council also recommends, in line with its conclusion, a specified memorandum for ratification. The memorandum is a framework international treaty that sets out the order of transfers of information with limited access and the obligation of the parties to protect such information, the principles that allow restricted access to information, the order of visits, and the right of access to information between the rules. It should be noted that the Supreme Council of Ukraine has ratified more than a dozen such agreements with other countries. The ratification of the Memorandum will provide legal guidelines for the exchange of information with limited access in the process of cooperation between Ukraine and the United Kingdom in the field of defence. Thus, the ratification of the Memorandum will enhance efficiency and operationality in the exchange of information with limited access between our countries. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u189	Let's sign up for a discussion. National Deputy Heratchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u190	“Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense.” Our faction will certainly support this bill, such as one that is in line with Ukraine's international obligations, but I also want to draw the attention of all voters in Ukraine's Party of Regions today, who have not voted in favour of any bill in the Supreme Council Hall. The Supreme Council of Ukraine receives millions of dollars from taxpayers each day for its maintenance. And it's a very expensive pleasure when a 170-strong party of regions is acting on the principle of "nostril mother to unfreeze the ears" and does not vote for laws that are important to the country just to harm its own voters. We feel that such behavior is irresponsible. Our faction will always vote in favour of any legislation submitted by the opposition if they work for the state, and we urge the opposition in the face of the Party of Regions not to act on the principle “we do not do so, because it is given by the government and the coalition” but to support what is appropriate. It's very funny when from the rostrum the representatives of the Party of Regions say that the committee supported, that they personally think that these laws are important, and then they sit down and just don't press the button. It's a disgrace to the people's deputies!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u191	People's Deputy Cranwall.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u192	Dear colleagues, national deputies of Ukraine! With regard to this draft law on the ratification of an international agreement, I confirm that the Committee on Foreign Affairs considered it and unanimously supported it. But I have to make a little clarification on this. The Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, representing the law, presented it not quite accurately. He put it in such a presentation that I don't think there would be a unanimous vote on our committee. In fact, this law does not discuss cooperation in the military sphere, cooperation in the military-technical sphere -- this is the sphere of action of other laws. This law defines the protection of classified information that already exists, which is one way or another through different channels, and is now transmitted between Britain and Ukraine. And today, it doesn't have a proper level of protection. So we're actually doing a technical procedure for the introduction of proper protection of information that can be discovered today, and today it can pose a direct threat to the national security of the Ukrainian State. I have only one warning under this law. All the other laws on this subject that we've presented, they're of a broader nature, they provide for the protection of all classified and confidential information, and it's narrowed down in this law. I think it's from the British side, and it's narrowed down to the military. So we need to work with the British to expand the contractual base so that the issue of civil affairs, of consular affairs, will benefit from the same protection as in the agreements that were made with Norway and India, I think, and from half a dozen other countries. And as for the importance, I'm going to give you a case here, I'm going to give you one single example. We will also obviously join the military defence of vessels in Somali territorial waters, headquarters in London, the information will go between Kiev and London, and the protection of this information is necessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u193	Gordijenko Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u194	Sergei Gordienko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine I think there's no one in this room who has any doubt that some information, some percentage of it has to be protected and must be protected in interstate relations. But I'd like to say something else. We've already made such protected information that ordinary people don't know anything about it. What our governments and leaders do. I would like to point out that it was the protection of information and the concealment of it during the Georgian-Ossetian conflict, and more specifically the aggression of Georgia against the small Ossetian people, and we, the entire Ukrainian people, did not know that Ukrainian weapons were involved on the aggressor's side, that Ukrainian mercenaries were involved and very, very much, that caused such great damage to our foreign policy. In view of the fact that this bill also carries a very clear NATO orientation, the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine will not vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u195	The discussion is over. I am voting on the draft Law on Ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on the exchange and mutual protection of information with limited access to defence. Registration number 0103. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:38:46]] For 239. Decision taken. Here we go to the draft Law on the Ratification of the European Convention on Transboundary Television, No. 0095. He will report to the First Deputy Head of the State Committee on Television and Radio Broadcasting of Murachovsky Anatoly Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u196	Please show me the vote on the factions of the last bill. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u197	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies! Your opinion is on the draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the European Convention on Transboundary Television. The European Convention on Transborder Television, which took effect in the 89th year, is called upon to promote cross-border television broadcasting, guaranteeing the freedom of reception and retransmission of these programmes on the territory of the contracting parties. The convention is being implemented through the application of minimum rules on content, right of reply, advertising, and sponsorship by the contracting parties. The provisions of the convention on the jurisdiction of access to important public events, advertising and telemarketing were largely reviewed in an additional protocol dated September 9, 98, which took effect on March 1, 2002. Today, there are 31 countries in the Convention. The European Convention on Transborder Television was signed on behalf of Ukraine on June 14, 96, in Strasbourg. The bill proposes to ratify the European Convention on Transboundary Television with amendments to the protocols of September 9, 98, with such statements and warnings: Article 19 “the organs that. In accordance with article 32, paragraph 1, of the Convention, the National Council for Television and Broadcasting is responsible for cooperation between the parties to the Convention, and in accordance with article 32, paragraph 1, of the Convention leaves the right to restrict in its territory the retransmission of programmes containing the promotion of alcoholic beverages in a part that does not correspond to national legislation. What gives Ukraine an association with the Convention? Above all, this is an opportunity for the unhindered spread of national programmes in the territories of the countries that have acceded to the Convention. The adoption of the law and its implementation will contribute to the integration of Ukraine into the European television information space, the implementation of the 2008 Ukrainian-EU Action Plan; it will provide additional opportunities for native speakers to participate in the international exchange of their joint production programme. Please support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u198	Thank you, Anatoly Leonidovich. I invite you to see Andrew Vitaliovich Shevchenka’s report.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u199	Good health to all, gentlemen! The Committee supports the idea of ratifying the Convention. In general, the Supreme Council will pay off a very old and long-standing debt, since the Convention has been around for 12 years. The convention is written in the interest of the viewer, and as a journalist, I will say that it has a very healthy professional balance that guarantees editorial independence and freedom of speech, on the one hand, and on the other, describes the guarantees of the journalist's responsibility to society. In general, in Europe it is called the Constitution for the free circulation of information in Europe. Therefore, the position of the committee is to support the ratification of this Convention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u200	Let's sign up for a discussion. People's deputy Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u201	Dear colleagues, also our faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” supports voting for the convention, because, in fact, it works to establish clear rules of the game not only on freedom of speech but also on sponsoring and advertising on television. And now, personally, I'm also going to be very interested in looking at the vote of the Party of Regions, because that's where the main supporters of the channels are, as if the Nakrad had shut down incorrectly, whether they were not allowed to broadcast. Although it was true that we did not have a convention, the rights of Ukrainian television channels in the area of sponsorship and advertising were violated. So if you are the advocates of those issues that you so like to talk about on all the talk shows, please support this convention not by word of mouth, but by deed. Because today we see the really strange behavior of our colleagues in Parliament when channels are screaming for these issues, and in fact there is a completely different voice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u202	National Deputy School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u203	Thank you. I'd like to support my colleague Heratchenko on the point that we need to be consistent. We remember one election campaign there, and we said, "Because it's consistent," because there's another one. And here's just a sequence to stand in this situation. Ratification is necessary for us to be able to guarantee. We already, I think, have a pretty good level of freedom of speech on Ukrainian television: everyone can express their position, but we still need to do certain things that are guaranteed by international agreements. In fact, this international agreement foresees, in principle, a clear possibility and a distinction between editorial policy and the work of a journalist. But that's not the point. I believe that here the previous speaker, a representative of the committee, who urged us to vote in favour, but voted against it, i.e. did not support the relevant bills. And that's why right now, I think, we could be unanimous -- and all of the Supreme Council with the responsibility of supporting ratification. Because, well, we're really paying off the 12th there, that's the 13th year, thank God, it's been over since we were supposed to ratify this deal. Other reasons were the reluctance to have freedom of speech in Ukraine kept the treaty from being ratified. Now, I think there are no such restraints in anyone, and above all, in those who are consistent and consistently advocate freedom of speech. So I urge you to vote in favour of this ratification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u204	People's MP Koleshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u205	Dear colleagues! Before considering the issue of ratification, indeed a very important document, I would like to draw your attention to what our colleagues have already said: the false representatives of a false body called "Natsovite on TV and radio" have been saying for two months that they are banning the cable broadcasting of Russian channels precisely because Ukraine has allegedly ratified the document. Once again, this is a lie and a lie. And in Ukrainian, it's a lie. And today, I don't think we have the right to ratify this document, because there is a very good adjective in which this lying body is once again entitled to determine who can and who can and who can not do something. I therefore believe that this body of the Inquisition must first be dispersed, this organ of the Russianophobia entitled “Natsevít on television and radio broadcasting”, and only then can we talk about freedom of speech, democracy and human rights, because on the issue of the alleged protection of human rights, on the issue of the right of our State to protect its information space, I think, is simply a corruption conspiracy and national fascists want to raise their heads. Therefore, dear colleagues, I call today, as long as this body of the Inquisition exists, not to vote in favour of this document, but to consider in parallel the immediate countdown and dissolution of this body, which prevents our State from asserting freedom of speech, democracy and equality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u206	National Deputy Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u207	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin, Party of Protectors of Our Ukrainian People's Self-Defense. Dear National Deputies! Absolutely good law, absolutely good convention. The European Constitution on Transborder Television, which we have long ago to do. But I am drawing your attention to the special cynicism that has now been used: using our freedom of expression to violate the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine to order the use of state language by the authorities. I'm paying attention to the chairmen at the sessions. For you, the decision of the Constitutional Court is mandatory. Please either provide a translation, or provide an address in the Ukrainian Parliament. In the Russian Federation, Ukrainians are more than ten million, and none speak in the State Duma or anywhere else in Ukrainian. Why? I demand of you the execution of the Ukrainian language and I urge you, let us now vote in favour. And call.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u208	Tomenko Mikola Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u209	Dear colleagues, I'd like to draw your attention to the professional side of the matter. There has been no policy here since 1996. And as head of the Freedom of Speech Committee, we conducted dozens of actions to analyse the threats and dangers to Ukrainian media space in connection with the ratification of such a convention. Today, I don't know any media professionals who would say it would be bad for Ukraine, because four or six years ago, when we weren't on our feet, we didn't risk ratifying that convention. In fact, only the National Television Council has the authority to do so. We're only going to deal with questions tomorrow and the Nakrad Act, and I think it's going to be a question of Nakrad's report. For example, I do not like the President, but I do not insist that the word “President” be removed from all laws of Ukraine. Guys, let's not cross any lines of common sense. So I think we should accept this ratification. Another thing that she puts on us is the responsibility and, in particular, today we will talk about the Advertising Law. For example, in the face of severe restrictions on drug advertising, the ban on advertising generally drugs, such as those prescribed exclusively to a patient, are more stringent requirements for other forms of advertising. That's what we'll come up with when we bring together, in particular, advertising legislation with this ratification. But once again, there's no politics here. And I think that Parliament is obliged to ratify this document.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u210	I am voting on the draft Law on the Ratification of the European Convention on Transborder Television, registration number 0095. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:50:20]] For 260 Decision taken. We're looking at the draft law amending the Ukrainian Advertising Act. Registration number 3081. He will report to the First Deputy Head of the State Committee on Television and Radio Broadcasting of Murachovsky Anatoly Leonidovich. Please, the factions on the board.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u211	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! The draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Advertising Act is based on the decision that has just been taken. I propose this bill to your mind. The bill proposes to amend the Advertising Act, thereby bringing it into line with the European Convention on Transboundary Television. Amendments to the Advertising Act provide for the addition of a comprehensible apparatus with the new term “telepostage”. Improving the general requirements for radio and television advertising, advertising for children, banning TV and radio broadcasting by using the names of medical devices and specific medical services that are provided and distributed only on principle, by prescription or prescription of a doctor, by telesales of medical techniques of prevention, diagnostics, treatment and rehabilitation. Please support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u212	Shevchenko Andry Vitaliyovich, report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u213	Colleagues! The committee's position on this issue is to support the bill in the first reading. This is a logical step after the ratification of the convention, the European Convention on Cross-border Speech. At the same time, the committee’s consideration of the bill raised some questions concerning terminology, certain notions, and formal matters. And how the introduction of these changes is reflected in the television market in Ukraine. Obviously, these things can be discussed in preparing this bill for second reading. The committee's position is to support the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u214	Let's sign up for a discussion. National Deputy Heratchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u215	“Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense.” Similarly, our political power will vote in favour of this bill in the first reading, because it is a logical continuation after the ratification of the Convention that we voted on a minute ago, but really, this bill in financial crisis, it is for Ukrainian television channels, and there may be questions about sponsorship, about certain medical drugs, and it may be a certain loss of advertising budgets for our TV channels. So we call for the committee of profile to review this bill as soon as possible in its second reading, to adopt appropriate changes so that we can accept it in the second reading and receive the bill before they adopt their budgets that they are working on today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u216	People's deputy Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u217	Oleg Laszko “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. We will also vote in favour of ratifying this law, but I would like to refer to a profile committee that will work out this law in the second reading with a request during the second reading of it, to provide for a ban on advertising alcohol and tobacco, external advertising. Here we go to work at the Supreme Council, and each of us has the opportunity to see some “souls of tobacco” there, an advertisement of vodka and other alcoholic beverages. I've even seen a VIP-saun commercial somewhere where naked girls and such slogans are right on the side of the road, by the way, and Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk is on the road every day. Martinyuk! Are you going to the Doomsday in Conchu-Sap? There's an ad there. I mean, I think you're going to vote against it the same way to accept this commercial from our Ukrainian roads, tobacco advertising, alcohol advertising, and advertising of naked girls on Ukrainian routes. We need to clean these things up right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u218	The discussion is over, and I'm voting on the adoption in the first reading of the draft law amending the Ukrainian Advertising Act, please identify yourself. [[13:55:27]] For 236 Decision taken. Please, for the reasons of the vote, Tomenko Mikola Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u219	Dear colleagues, I inform you all that there was a time when we were actively working and I hope he will come back. Thus, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, by an absolute majority, adopted amendments to the “Pro advertising” law, which, as of 1 January 2009, has been completely prohibited from advertising alcohol and tobacco on external advertising. And I'm glad we did. Similarly, on TV from January 1, 2009, when daily brand advertising is banned from advertising alcoholic brands, and I think the Supreme Council will continue to engage in television broadcasting as part of the restriction on alcohol advertising, because tobacco advertising is completely prohibited. So I think today's first reading vote is a sign that Parliament is acting in the right direction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-17-m0.u220	Ladies and gentlemen, the agenda of the morning plenary is exhausted. The morning plenary session is closed. I wish there was effective committee work in the afternoon. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., another plenary meeting. Good luck.
