ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please register. [[16:03:36]] There are 430 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. I can't see them, I can't see them. Ranks. Excuse me, I declare the evening plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues, the first announcement, in accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine, and article 59 of the Provisional Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'm informing you that the National Deputy of Ukraine, Feduna Alexi Leonidovich, is part of the Ukrainian Party of Deputies. [[Applause]] Colleagues, there's one request I'd like to ask you. Our colleagues from “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” in the decision-making process for the interim commission of inquiry of 2566, this was the case, the interim commission of inquiry on Ternopol, missed two names for a temporary commission of inquiry. How do you view returning to the vote or making two names for the decision? It is better not to go back, but to make two names for the adopted order number 2566. Is there no objection? Please excuse me. Wooden, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m1.u2	Arsenius Petrovich, I want to say that before the commission was created, I addressed every faction with a corresponding letter. There was plenty of time, and unfortunately, no one was giving it up for commission. I don't know if it's appropriate to do that right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m1.u3	So, colleagues, there's a proposal for an adopted order of 2566. Colleagues, we need to make decisions. Do you want to continue to discuss? Names, please. Ah, Jojik. Give me a name, Jojik, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m1.u4	National MP Jojik, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear Head, honourable deputies! Obviously, we are setting up commissions for an objective study of the state of affairs in the Ternopil City Council. Of course, guarantees that this will be an impartial study of matters will be a proportional representation on this interim commission of inquiry, representatives of all political powers. I would like to remind you that during my consideration of the matter, I personally approached Arsenius Petrovich with an introduction of the inclusion of all of these as part of the interim commission of inquiry. Therefore, I ask my fellow MPs to support this inclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m1.u5	Dear colleagues, an offer is made. First of all, make the change order for regulation number 2566, the registration number now assigned, that's the last one. A proposal is therefore made for amendments to Decree No. 2566. In paragraph 5 of the decree, two additional names are added: the People's Deputy of Gumenuk and the People's Deputy of Djojik from the faction "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense". All right, colleagues? Okay. I am asking for a vote on the adoption of the relevant decision amending Regulation No. 2566. Attention, colleagues, we're voting! [[16:07:16]] For-182 Decision taken. Thank you. Colleagues, let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Alexander Vitaliovich Schlapak, please, on the rostrum. Draft Law 0866 on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Real Estate Rights and Restrictions, with proposals by the President of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m1.u6	Honorable Head of the Supreme Council, distinguished national deputies! The President of Ukraine notes that the Act “On State registration of immovable property rights and their limitations” adopted by the Supreme Council cannot be signed for several reasons. In the absence of time, I will stop on the main ground. By contrast, the new law provides for the construction of a system of state registration of real estate rights, including land outside the State Land cadastre only on the basis of information on real estate rights and their burdens. I want to emphasize this burden, not limitations. It should be noted that the current Ukrainian Law “On State registration of immovable property rights and their limitations” provides for the creation of a single system of state registration of property rights. In the new law, the idea of creating a single cadastre-registration system is levelled as a result of the anticipated release of the State Register of Real Estate Rights and their loads outside the State Land cadastre, which retains the state registration of land. In addition, this law leaves the issue of the registration of restrictions on property rights unresolved. At the same time, restrictions on rights arising from the requirements of laws and other legal acts relating, for example, to the privatization of property, to the planning and construction of territories, to the preservation of historical and cultural monuments and to the law of registration are not subject to registration, resulting in the need for a separate register of restrictions on real estate rights. This will not only require significant public budget costs to maintain several, to a certain extent, fixed property databases, but also complicates the implementation by citizens, legal persons, of constitutional property rights to immovable property, including land. Yes, under the proposed law, citizens and legal persons will be forced to obtain the relevant information from the State Land Inventory and then receive such information from the State Real Estate Register, then receive the same information from the Register of Restrictions and Liabilities. Only then will they register the relevant rights and return to all three registrations. The President of Ukraine believes that the valid rule of law, which, once again, I would like to remind, requires the creation of a single system of registration of real estate rights, is more perfect and proposes that the law be further developed in this regard. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m1.u7	Thank you, Alexander Vitaliovich. Is there a question for the reporter? Yes. Please sign up for five minutes. Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m1.u8	Thank you. Dear Alexander Vitaliovich! I feel like I have questions and wishes. Our e-mail to the Ukrainian National Deputies is full of letters with complaints from citizens who have not been able to receive a state act on land for months. What is now happening in the system of government resources, governance and cadastra is just like before. Or after the civil war. Unable to retrieve information, unable to access it. You'd send someone from the D.A.'s office, for example, to the Borispilla cadastre, and he'd watch at three o'clock in the morning, and at four o'clock in the morning, people would take turns and get nothing, and in the meantime, they would go to the boys who are offering specific money for specific services. Of course, these proposals need to be supported at the legislative level if they help improve the life of a simple person who cannot reach this office is simply impossible.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m1.u9	Mr. Jaroslav, I can only share with you the anxiety about the state of affairs we have today. The only thing I want to say is that unfortunately, the bill that the President is preparing today only complicates the system that we're talking about. The President insists on one more, I would like to say, in a principle already enshrined in the law of Ukraine, to which the relevant changes are being made. Please make a single register of where a person can go and get information, both about the state of his land and about the real estate on it and about all the pressures, limitations that apply to it. It's not like we're chasing people on a lot of things. In this regard, he refers to you as legislators now, please prescribe, in addition to this general formula, a system of such a land cadastre, and then such a law will be signed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m1.u10	Yuri Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m1.u11	Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. Alexander Vitaliovich, I have a question for you. Of course, I share the President's concern about making citizens feel as comfortable as possible first and foremost as citizens who will enjoy these rights. But at the same time, if we reject this bill and actually start from scratch, won't we take time? The committee has considered this issue at its meeting and proposes such a compromise decision: to send for work, to take into account the comments you make, and not to waste time, yet in such an editorial way as to return to work, we should not delay with the adoption of these changes. And your attitude toward such a decision by the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m1.u12	I can say the following, was present in several discussions on the settlement of this issue that has been taking place in the government so far. In my opinion, the minister of justice today offers extremely appropriate ways of settling this issue. As ready and formed as a legislative initiative, it's hard to say to me, but I would fully support what you're proposing: not to start this work from the beginning, because so many of the technological things are perfectly prescribed in this law. If we can find the answer to the creation of a single register, about access to it, about possible participation in it, as well as in people working on land inventories and rights, it would be brilliant. I think we can do that by working on this second reading of this document on the Committee of the Supreme Council. For rereading, that's right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m1.u13	Thank you, Alexander Vitaliovich, please sit down. Yuri Mikolaiovich Voropeyev, head of the Committee on Economic Policy subcommittee, please, on the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m1.u14	The distinguished Ukrainian National Deputies, respected by Arsenija Petrovich, were submitted to the Ukrainian Government in November 2006. It was reviewed by the Supreme Council, adopted on first reading, second reading and dedicated by the President of Ukraine. Now he's got, then he's got number 2597, now he's got number 0866. The main substance of this bill. He suggested that the maintenance of the register of property rights should be separated and that the land and all that was on that land should be divided between the State Committee on Land Resources and the Ministry of Finance. The President suggested that the bill should be rejected. I am very pleased that we have now heard a completely different point of view from the President: to work on it, because this is the same view of our committee. And here's the reason. This is also the view of the Chief Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The reasons are that the function of registering ownership is purely legal, purely legal. And, of course, because of the fact that this function is currently being performed, not by lawyers, but by persons who are far away, there are many complaints. I have been to the State Commission, and I know that such complaints are already coming to the hundreds if not more and very many judicial disputes in Ukraine. That's the first one. Second. The words that the transfer of such a register to the Ministry of Ukraine would take a lot of money and time are not objective. Why? Since 2002, the Ministry of the Interior has maintained such a register of property rights and has performed this function in good faith. It is automated, it does not take any time, and this function is performed by e-mail, in general, elementary and simple. Next moment. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that for many years, the Democratic Republic of Ukraine has been trying to establish a single automated land inventory system. For this purpose, funding was received from both the Cabinet of Ministers and the World Bank. Regrettably, these funds have not been properly utilized. And in 2006, the World Bank cancelled a $74 million funding decision by letter to Kabmin and later cancelled the additional amount of funding for the same purposes because the work on the Single Land Inventory System was not properly carried out. At the same time, we draw your attention to the fact that the land inventory is not only a register of ownership of land, it is also an accounting of all land by its structure, by its design and so on. This bill has some negatives, and the President has made a very objective call to them. The individual rules in this law do not correspond to each other, they just contradict each other, this time. Many things are simply not settled by this law. For example, the procedure for providing information, the procedure for issuing extracts from the registry. In January this year, under the signature of Mr. Turkinov, the High Council Committee received a response from the Cabinet of Ministers, a new, as if appointed coalition of the current one. The Cabinet of Ministers supports the bill. In his letter, however, the Cabinet of Ministers drew attention to the need for further work on the bill. In this regard, our Committee has decided to recommend that the Supreme Council send this bill to be finalized.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m1.u15	Colleagues, do you have a question for our colleague? Is it? No questions asked to Yuri Mikolaiovich. Turn on the mic.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m1.u16	Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. I'd like you to tell the committee's position. Here was a proposal made by the President's representative to create a single register so that the Ministry of Justice would keep this register, but other institutions, in particular the State Commission, would be able to make changes there. What is your position and the committee as a whole? For this reason, in order to understand whether we have a constructive dialogue at the pre-processing stage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m1.u17	Based on the President's suggestions on the written committee, in principle the Supreme Council of Ukraine has now submitted and registered Bill 1328 of our colleague Zvarić. This bill already contains many things that have been overlooked in the present, it regulates. However, if both of these bills had been finalized, consolidated together and decided to divide the registry system rather than concentrate in one hand, as the President suggests in his proposals, that would have been more appropriate. That is, keeping the Land Inventory on land structure, by purpose, is in one hand, and keeping the register of ownership is in the other hands, precisely with the lawyer, if that is what you mean.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m1.u18	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m1.u19	It's one registry.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m1.u20	Yuri Mikolaiovich, please sit down. Dear colleagues, I'd like your attention. Dear colleagues, what will be the voting procedure. Attention! So the President offered a veto to cancel. So the President's proposal is to reject the bill as a whole. Under the Rules, I must ask the question of rejecting the bill in general and supporting the President's proposals. If we vote 226 votes, this bill is therefore rejected in general. Understand? And we can't work on it. The other one. If we don't make this decision, then I'm putting the veto issue to the vote, and it takes two thirds of the vote -- 300 votes. Under such circumstances, the law is considered to have entered into force. But we don't get the first or the second result. So we're not going to be able to work out the law. If we make a third decision, i.e. if the first two decisions do not go through, but the third decision that is proposed by the committee, which is proposed by 130 of the Rules, is to send him to the committee for re-reading, we, on the one hand, and we support the President, on the other hand, and we allow Parliament to finalize the bill. My colleagues, have I made myself clear? Colleagues, i.e. the first vote is about supporting the President's proposals, the second vote is about overcoming the President's veto, and the third vote is what we all came up with. If we give 226 votes for the Supreme Council's draft decision to finalize the bill, then all parties will be satisfied. Did I make myself clear, colleagues? Therefore, under 130 of the Rules, I am putting to the vote the question of support for the proposals of the President of Ukraine to reject the bill as a whole with regard to the rejection of Law 0866 as a whole. Colleagues, attention, voting procedure. [[16:23:26]] For-61 The offer is not supported. I am now voting on the adoption of this bill as a whole, i.e. overcoming the President's veto. I'm reminding you that we have another third block, which is supported by all of us, is reprocessing. I'm asking questions about overcoming the President's veto and adopting Bill 0866 as a whole. [[16:24:01]] For the The decision is not taken. And now I'm putting, attention, colleagues, to the vote the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine 0866-P on sending this bill to the Main Committee for further processing and accordingly submitting it for re-reading. Please, colleagues, vote. [[16:24:33]] For 412 Dear colleagues, the decision is made. Dear national deputies, there are two factions. In accordance with the requirements of the Temporary Regulations and the Coalition Agreement. I see, Alexander Sergiyovich, I see everything. In accordance with the Rules and the requirements of the Coalition Agreement for the consideration of the release of Valentina Seminouk from office of head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine, registration number 1332. [[We didn't, did we, Samsonenko?]] Colleagues, now I'm calling Valentine Petrovna into the House of Parliament. But right now there's a statement by the faction of the Party of Regions, they're demanding a break. We still need 15-20 minutes to call Valentina Petrovna into Parliament. So the next issue of the agenda is the release of Seminouk-Samsonenko from office as head of the Property Fund. If you work faster on your break. [[B in m in s a l in]] Break? Well, please, you have 15, there's up to 30 minutes. Please take a break. Okay, okay. Alexander Sergiyovich, it's okay. We still have to invite her and the parliament. 30 minutes off, okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m1.u21	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask the faction of the Party of the Regions or the Communist Party, who have requested a recess, to declare their application, and then I will say so.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m1.u22	Thank you, Arseny Petrovich. Dear colleagues, after consulting us, we could not find the answer to one question: What problems did the coalition face again, why did it not want to work? [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I said what I wanted to say. Exactly: what problems have arisen from the coalition, why it does not want to work. Now let me explain our position. We have made our views very clear and clear on the procedure to be followed in the privatization and resolution of personnel issues. Not once on the Contingent Council, Arsenija Petrovich confirmed that before considering personnel issues, we must adopt the State Privatization Programme. We have considered the question of the bill on the State Privatization Programme in the first reading with you, and quite constructively. Today, all our colleagues are working on the changes that need to be made in order to bring this issue back to the hall on second reading and adopt the relevant document. If it's adopted, then we even went to 2233 that we agree to withdraw the bill. If it was not adopted, it was decided that Bill 2233 would be considered further. It is only after that that that we turn to the issue of personnel. Our position was clear throughout this period, with respect to personnel matters, distinguished colleagues, since your submission, we agreed that we would consider them further by changing the voting procedure to manual voting. This has been confirmed by all factions, without exception. And we agreed then to vote on the Cabinet of Ministers, given that such a system would then be introduced in the future. Since all of this is violated by a coalition, we would like to understand what is happening to you, why are you disrupting the work of the Supreme Council? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m1.u23	Dear colleagues, in accordance with the requirements of the Temporary Rules, I have summoned Valentina Seminouk-Samsonenko to the Ukrainian Parliament. So far, I've been informed that Valentina Seminouk-Samsonenko is currently on the scene. As for the further work of Parliament, colleagues. Attention, ladies and gentlemen, we have two options for getting out of this situation. The best option is to restore Parliament's work and consider the bill. The second option is to go to political consultations and maybe start working for Parliament tomorrow, including the personnel issue, if you agree. Because there's a situation like this that we started working normally on Monday, we just demonstrated that, in fact, there's a parliament in Ukraine, but we've probably been reworked. And that's why. Well, you, Ivan Grigorovich, do you have something to say? Well, come on, explain, Ivan Grigorovich, please, we have freedom of speech, so.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m1.u24	Dear colleagues, I fully support what Arsenius Petrovich has said. As of Monday, we started working properly and several times it was stated that as soon as the coalition and the minority spoke, as soon as the coalition made a deal, and you saw that it wasn't just a deal, if we made a deal, you wouldn't contradict us. We find it difficult, very difficult, you see how the procedure goes, unfortunately, it's too public and sometimes ashamed of it. But we agreed, and we put on the chairman's desk that we have an understanding of the case and the candidature that could be approved here, and the procedures. We fully agree with you that a person who is in charge today needs to go to the rostrum and report as stated in the Rules. We support it, it's such a thing, here, it doesn't cause a dispute here. But we're asking you, as you've been asking forever for three months, because in March the government had to make changes to the budget, and in fact this is the new budget law for 2008. Can you please tell me how to pass it? It's been almost six months, coming from privatization, zero. That's nine billion, and you and I voted a budget deficit of 18 billion. Should we do the borrowing? What do you want to do? Is it giving, passing, budgeting? We understand with you that it's both social programs and everything. Whoever doesn't have to work tomorrow-after tomorrow is blocked by the main procedure in the state of budget filling and the repayment of its deficit, privatisation. We're here with you, and we're going to determine what objects we're going to privatize, which ones we're not. Please, no questions. It's a vote in the room. We ask you, colleagues, to support us in this regard. Dear colleagues, you and I will be in the hall together to determine what we're selling, what we're not selling. We're going to vote. A colleague correctly said that if they did not accept it, they would not accept it. That's what the hall accepts. But let me change the direction today so that the procedure goes, because in today’s leadership, this is blocked. And we have big suspicions about corruption schemes and everything else, because we all know very well. Well, what are we blocking today? We can preserve what's going on there. To whom do we benefit? Are we ourselves or Ukraine, or are we doing evil to someone? Dear colleagues, we agree to the procedure you said. Let him answer, no questions asked. And give us the opportunity to work, vote. We're asking you to support us. We're not asking for anything anymore. Dear colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, listen, personnel issues are being considered outside the Rules, beyond all requirements. Human rights questions. We finally found an understanding. Support us in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-05-m1.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, our experience is how to get out of Parliament's standard work in the normal work of Parliament. I think that, first of all, I would go to the Prime Minister, to the factions' leaders to consult, and I'm willing to take part in these consultations. But in any event, tomorrow at 9:30 a.m., I invite the faction leaders to come to me for consultations and a way out of the situation that we're going to be offering, including for personnel purposes. I declare the evening plenary session closed.
