ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-05-m0.u1	Dear colleagues, let's register. Good morning. [[10:01:03]] There are 358 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. I'm calling this morning's plenary meeting open. We don't have an evening. Dear colleagues, traditionally we have a faction leaders meeting now, I invite the faction leaders. At 11 o'clock, we'll start, as always, with an agreed agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-05-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, the faction leaders have ended their meeting. I'll tell you what's agreed to today. First. We begin with the oath of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Sinchenk Viktor Mikolaiovich. Next is information about the entry of an MP into a faction. Next, ask questions. The machine is now preparing your daily routine. The next is a vote on the removal of two issues. The first question is an hour of questions to the government. The factions of most people today have suggested that this issue be removed so that the government does not report to Parliament. And the second is about the transfer of information from the Foreign Minister and the Defence Minister on the matter that was formed yesterday. An excuse is the condition of the stay, the temporary stay of any foreign ship in Ukraine. Next is a decree on changes in the personal composition of the National Bank of Ukraine Council. Next, the question of voting without a bill no. 3087 committee is the changes to the Ukrainian State Budget Act on the financing of the APC. Next is the abolition of the results of the vote under the Mining Act. The adoption of two amendments to this law, as was the case when the bill was passed, was not taken into account, first, by the order of the law in force. So it's deferred from the first number next year. And a return to voting under this law. Then Bill 1318. The Criminal Procedure Code, Bill 2380. And by full procedure, the bill to amend the Ukrainian Law on legal and regulatory acts. It's a complicated bill. First reading. Then – “Victory”. Yes, dear colleagues, well, I'll start with a sad occasion. And this information is there. The bear Alla, Alina Petrovna, is the National Deputy of the Supreme Council of the Soviet Union, yet Soviet Union XI, the Deputy of the Supreme Council of the Soviet Union XI, the National MP of Ukraine III, has died. We express our heartfelt sympathy to both the family and the family as one of the truly leading national deputies, both the U.S.R. and Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I'd like to invite you, I think for a minute of silence, I'd like to ask the national deputy of the former. Please sit down. Colleagues, on September 4, 2008, the Central Election Commission registered the National Deputy of Ukraine, elected on September 30, 2007, in the multi-mandatory constituency of Viktor Mikolaiovich Sinchenk, who was included in the block of the Lithuanian Block. In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution, Ukraine’s national deputies make an oath before taking office. I invite Viktor Mikolaiovich Sinchenka to the rostrum to take the oath of the Ukrainian national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-05-m0.u3	I, Sinchenko Viktor Mikolaiovich, swear allegiance to Ukraine. I pledge to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence in all my actions, to take care of the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-05-m0.u4	Thank you. Congratulations. Dear colleagues, this is how our regiment was filled. I am also informing you of the statement made by the People's Deputy Viktor Mikolaiovich Sinchenk about joining the "Block of Lithuania" faction. Dear colleagues, requests from Ukrainian national deputies. Groups of Ukrainian National Deputies: Sovkovic, Stretovic and others to the President of Ukraine regarding the release of Viktor Baloga from office of the Head of the President's Secretariat for the establishment of obstacles to the activities of the Ukrainian people's deputies and its coverage of illegal operations with land. [[only 5 deputies]] Colleagues, here's the deal. I'll go through all the questions and then we'll go to the voting procedure. Victor Olijnik to the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Committee on Law Enforcement, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the head of the National Shareholder Insurance Company Oranta for the payment of the widow and the children killed in the performance of the duties of police officer Valerius Struluk. Vladimir Bondarenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of State Affairs, Minister of Regional Development and Construction of Ukraine, acting as head of the Ukrainian Security Service for the non-destruction of anti-defunct underground works in Kiev. Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for dissatisfaction with the content of the reply to the parliamentary appeal regarding the allocation of funds for the construction of the third line of the trolleybus line in Kerchi. Igora Sharov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the protection of the rights of Ukrainian citizens in the process of implementing the Agreement between Ukraine and the European Association for the Simplification of Visas by the Consular Institutions of the Schengen Zone. Leonidas Grač to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the catastrophic situation in the “Dolosses” sanatorium of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Mikoli Shershun to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on non-execution by individual officials and members of the Government of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order of 18 April 2008 at 276-6 “On the state, measures and prospects of coping with the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster”. Alexander Omelchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the immediate cessation of the destruction of the Green Plantation Reserve on the Zhukov Island in Kiev. Paul Sulkovski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the emergency situation of the school in the village of Gliny Rokitansk district of Ravensk. Groups of National Deputies: Koleschenka, Popescu and others, to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the lifting of the order for the transfer of schools with instruction in minority languages to bilingual education and personal responsibility. [[only seven deputies]] Vladimir Litvina to the Minister for Regional Development and Construction of Ukraine regarding the dissatisfaction with the content of the reply to the parliamentary appeal for the allocation of funds for the gasification of the village of Hrodnik of the Žitomir region. Vladimir Yavorowski to the Minister of Defence of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, acting as Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, Head of State Border Services, Head of State Security, Head of State Department for the provision of information on the number of active generals, the number of generals scheduled under the state code, and the size of the funding. Edward Prutnik to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Ukraine’s Minister of Health, regarding financial security for the acquisition of dental equipment for the Montenegrin Rural Ambulance. Mikoli Shershun to the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine’s rights regarding the dissatisfaction of Ukraine’s foreign affairs with regard to the investigation of the conditions of death in Portugal by a citizen of Ukraine, Sergio Jarosha. Victor Olijnik to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the legal evaluation of the activities of the Board of Directors of the Professional Associations of the Volin Region. Vladimir Yavorowski to the Attorney General for the management of the New Year’s Hydroaccumulative Power Plant, which is the day before about the failure of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to respond to the death of a Portuguese citizen, Sergio Jaroz. Victor Olijnik to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the legal evaluation of the activities of the Board of Federations of Professional Associations of the Volin Region. Vladimir Yavorowski to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the management of the Novodnystrov Hydroaccumulation Power Plant, which artificially accumulated a large amount of water in the reservoir the day before the flood. Alexander Donya to the Attorney General of Ukraine for an inappropriate hearing by the prosecutor of Kiev regarding illegal construction on the street of Teshebaeva, 54 in Kiev. Alexander Donya to the Attorney General of Ukraine for an improper hearing by the prosecutor of the city of Kiev on the legality of the order of the Kyiv State number 772 from 29 May 2008. And Alexander Kemenyash to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the determination of the legality of the actions of the prosecutor of the Svalya district of Zakarpat. Dear colleagues, in order to request the President of Ukraine, we first vote in favour of the request, and then we vote in favour of the request. The request of the people's deputies – Sovkovich, Stretovich and others – to the President of Ukraine. I'm putting to the vote the question of supporting the request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[11:12:22]] For 293 Decision taken. I now put to the vote the question of sending this request to the President of Ukraine. [[11:12:43]] For 323 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, a number of decisions were put to the vote yesterday. First, according to the calendar work plan of the Supreme Council of Ukraine today, the Government of Ukraine had to answer to Parliament as an hour of questions to the government. So today the entire composition of the Cabinet of Ministers in accordance with the Cabinet of Ministers Act and in accordance with the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to approve the calendar plan had to be present at a meeting of Parliament and for an hour to answer questions from Ukrainian national deputies. There's the position of the majority factions to take this issue off the table. In order to take this issue off the table, I have to put this question to a vote. So at the request of the majority factions, I'm putting to the vote the issue of removing the question of an hour of questions to the government. Do you want to talk about it? Please, five minutes. Sign up. Sergei Sass.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-05-m0.u5	Pass it to Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-05-m0.u6	Ivan Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-05-m0.u7	Dear colleagues, as a result of consultations and with the government, we ask you to support this proposal regarding the transfer of the question of the “hour of government” to the plenary next week. We have one reason. We need to vote on the amendments to the Rules, they have been voted on in the first reading, and we continue to consult the factions in order to obtain an absolute majority of the votes in the Hall, where this procedure on the topic of "hours of questions to the government" is being implemented. We're interested in that first. No matter what government it represents, but it is desirable that it be not a variety of issues, but it is a specific one that is most relevant to the state today, and then the appropriate official, including the Prime Minister, can be on the stand and get deep, meaningful answers to the question of corruption. Therefore, we would like to introduce this subject and then turn to the “hour of questions to the government” already in place. That's our offer. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-05-m0.u8	Valerius Beales.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-05-m0.u9	The word to the national deputy of Zibank.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-05-m0.u10	Peter Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-05-m0.u11	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, if any of you remember, I warned you. That's just what my colleague Kirilenko was talking about. I warned that turning Government Day into a kind of KWN would bring no good. They didn't listen, they voted. Today, we're going back to that. But I'd like to say something else. Dear colleagues, we must stop working under extraordinary conditions. Yesterday the entire program of action for today was known: both about the visits and about the participation of the Cabinet of Ministers in one or the other actions, and that we voted yesterday on the agenda, and today we refuse it, does not honor us. We voted with you yesterday to organize the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to order the work of the Supreme Council. Well, let's get away from this extraordinary, let's work on the plan that we are.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-05-m0.u12	Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-05-m0.u13	Dear colleagues, I don't think it's going to be a big deal if we really move the issue, because democracy in Ukraine is young. We're just learning democratic ambushes, we're just learning how to build a clear and clear vertical of all branches of power. Of course, this offer by John Grigorovich Kirilenko can be supported, taking into account, indeed, the specificities of the preparation of such questions. This does not mean that we have today, for example, in our faction, or that there are no questions about price increases as to why inflation has never been able to stifle, as it has become extremely disturbing and frightening in the streets of our cities as to what we have in terms of health, education. Clearly, people expect a clear answer to these questions when they meet with the voters. During our time in the districts. I support both Peter Cybenk and John Kirilenko's proposal that these reports, whether the government's days are being prepared thematically, will certainly be of greater benefit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-05-m0.u14	Katerina Vaschuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-05-m0.u15	Katerina Vaschuk. ‘Block of Lithuania’. We are, of course, sorry that we cannot talk to the government today about such pressing issues that are still on the table today, because there is sown in the countryside, and we cannot possibly finish the problems that have arisen in the prices of the produce that is being purchased in the country today, especially on bread. We realize that there is no other way out, but we would like to know that if we were to prepare thematic days of government, one of the first was the situation in the country. Today, we have come to the point where my further being is not only the danger of food in Ukraine but, in general, the survival of the village, the preservation as a cradle of the nation's gene pool. So one step is today’s law, which the faction also proposes.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-05-m0.u16	Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-05-m0.u17	He's asking me to give him my word, Mikhail Wolintz, and I'm happy to do so. Please, Michael.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-05-m0.u18	Mikhail Volintz, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-05-m0.u19	Thank you. Mikhailo Wolintz, National Deputy, Yulia Timoshenko Block. Dear colleagues, on September 2nd, we were looking at a bill to increase mining, and where not only miners, but workers in other sectors are very grateful that MPs have made sure that the foundation of the coal industry is finally working for miners to get normal wages. And we passed another law with which we provided for the financial implementation of the first law. But there was a computer error, so it happened, and we didn’t notice that it was envisaged that a bill to improve the prestige of mining work would be implemented on January 1, the following year. And so it doesn't make sense to spend any extra money by the end of the year. Arsenius Petrovich, I propose to put the vote to a vote today and to make changes to this point.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-05-m0.u20	Dear colleagues, I'm going to give you a little piece of information on this. A year of questions to the government is foreseen by the Ukrainian Act on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. We had twice an hour of questions that the government had no problems with questions. Hours of questions to the government. None. So you don't have to tell me right now that something's not normal, something's not settled. I had a position and I am in the same position: do not make the Supreme Council of Ukraine a free addition to the magazine, or the Voice of Ukraine, or the “Pressor of the President”. You don't have to. I'm betting on a vote to remove the question of an hour of questions to the government. Yesterday, decisions were made, and today at 10 a.m., it was found to be nothing. I request a vote on the removal of this question. Not “The Voice of Ukraine” but “The Government courier” confused, sorry. Government courier and publisher. [[11:21:06]] For 289 The decision is over. Next question is the information of the Foreign Minister and the Defence Minister. The question was voted on yesterday. The question is now being asked to remove the question from the order of the day in the part of the transfer of the question. Do you have a wish to speak? Log in, five minutes. Vladimir Litwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-05-m0.u21	Dear colleagues, there is a strange situation. It is as if today it has become known that a high visitor is coming to Ukraine with a visit, outside of which the mornings have suggested a transfer of the matter. It's a good thing the Supreme Council of Ukraine hasn't canceled yet. Consider the previous high visit, so the Supreme Council of Ukraine was closed in general. I propose, fellow Members, let us respect ourselves and respect the Supreme Council of Ukraine and not make such impulsive decisions, and after the culinary arrangements these decisions are overturned. The Supreme Council can't, it shouldn't, and it's obviously not going to work for the challenge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-05-m0.u22	Alexander Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-05-m0.u23	I give the word to one of the most intelligent politicians of our faction, Jaroslav Sukhoma.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-05-m0.u24	I thank one of the most prepared parliamentarians of modern times, Alexander Mikolayovich Stoyan, for his completely faithful assessments of the Ukrainian people's deputies — unbiased and purely objective. I mean, whether or not to develop the opinion of Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvin. We have a lot of questions in principle, and we may not be waiting so long for them, for we imagine what Ogrezko represents, who is in negotiations with Russian diplomats, with translators. The answer to these questions lies with our neighbors, and the Ukrainian people are awaiting answers to these questions. I would like, for example, to ask Ogreskov today, who gave him the right to speak on behalf of Ukraine? Ukraine wants to join NATO, signature: Grozko. He's not Ukraine yet. Ukraine is 226 national deputies. So I think we need to listen.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-05-m0.u25	Peter Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-05-m0.u26	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, the faction of Communists strongly denies that this very acute issue is being passed on to some distant term. Yesterday it was all known when you and I voted in 350 votes in favour of this agenda item. You know, I watched the news yesterday about the arrival of Vice President of the United States of America Chaney. You know, I was frankly ashamed that the prime minister of the great European country, Ukraine, well, he almost kneeled before the vice-premier of the United States. Let us not repeat this shameful tradition. We have to call an official here and hear him report on what he's doing, how he feels about Ukrainian legislation. Because Ukraine was transformed into a passage yard. It's a faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-05-m0.u27	Steshenko, Timoshenko's Yulia Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-05-m0.u28	Please give my word to my colleague Mikola Volodymyrovich Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-05-m0.u29	Mikola Volodymyrovich Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-05-m0.u30	Dear colleagues, I'd like to say the position of our faction. We've been discussing this issue and we've come to the conclusion that it's clear from the discussion that if we go to this point, we're going to continue our discussion for a few hours about Georgia, Ossetia, Russia, NATO, because it feels like we started yesterday from one of the problems of being on the territory of other countries' ships, and that's what we're going to have right now is a sharp geopolitical dispute, which I'm sorry, in quotes, we really need it. So our faction doesn't think that we're in a situation where today we have a few hours of political controversy, we have a number of important bills, starting with the fact that you and I, on the bills, have allowed some nuances in support of mining work. We have to vote. So we respect the rights of other factions, and we think that if we move this issue and in a calm atmosphere, it's going to be more correct. And today we work on those bills that we have in order of the day.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-05-m0.u31	Baran's "Block of Lithuania"
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-05-m0.u32	I'm handing over Lithuania to Volodymyr Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-05-m0.u33	Vladimir Litwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-05-m0.u34	I think it's already said. Obviously, the Supreme Council will make the right decision by voting, as always, wisely.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-05-m0.u35	Dear colleagues! The first thing I'd like to focus on is before we put this question to a vote. Yesterday there was a discussion, and yesterday, I actually saw a draft decision registered for the release of the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, Ogrezka, from office. So I'm reporting. According to the current Ukrainian Act on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, only the President of Ukraine has exclusive authority to make such a submission. I'm focusing on the subjects of the legislative initiative, the national deputies of Ukraine to comply with constitutional requirements in the application of any legislation, or that way, half of the country can be released. Dear colleagues! I am putting to the vote the question of moving the second issue of the agenda – the information of the Ukrainian Defence Minister and the Ukrainian Foreign Minister on the question of the temporary stay of foreign ships in Ukraine. Please vote. [[11:28:06]] For 288 That's the thing. Decision taken. 288. Transferred. Dear colleagues! We are now in the agenda of the Supreme Council Order on Change to Personal Composition of the Council of the National Bank of Ukraine. Who's gonna report it, colleagues? Mikola Volodymyrovich – you? Oh, Andrew Cosemiakin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-05-m0.u36	Dear National Deputies! Dear Head! Your opinion is on a draft regulation on changes in the composition of the Council of the National Bank of Ukraine. In accordance with articles 85 and 106 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 10 of the Ukrainian National Bank Act, members of the National Bank of Ukraine are appointed President of Ukraine and the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The President of Ukraine appoints seven members of the Council of the National Bank of Ukraine by decree. The Supreme Council of Ukraine also appoints seven members of the Council of the National Bank of Ukraine by means of an appropriate decision. The term of office of members of the Board of the National Bank of Ukraine is 7 years. Six members of the Council of the National Bank of Ukraine have been appointed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine since 11.01.2007. Thus, the deadline for their credentials ended on January 11, 2014, ending on January 11, 2014. Approval of one of the members of the Board of the National Bank of Ukraine appointed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree of 18.05. The year 2000 ended on May 18, 2007. This calls for a full and effective composition of the National Bank Board of Ukraine as a body designed to enhance the effectiveness of monetary policy in the country. That is why the Supreme Council of Ukraine has been decided to appoint one member of the Council of the National Bank of Ukraine from the Supreme Council of Ukraine. To implement the Ukrainian Act on the National Bank of Ukraine and Article 206 of the Supreme Council Regulations, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is required to decide on the appointment of members of the Council of the National Bank of Ukraine, taking into account the requirements for their candidates. A candidate for the Ukrainian National Deputy, Secretary of the Committee of the Supreme Council for Finance and Banking, Poloneyev Yuri Volodymirovic, is proposed. This was discussed and supported by the Financial and Banking Committee. Poloneyev Yuri Volodymyrovich is an international economist, a candidate for economic science, author of more than eighty scientific papers devoted to macroeconomic and financial problems. He is a real member of the International Academy of Management in Barcelona, co-founder and head of the Public Organisation "The Competitiveness Council of Ukraine", editor-in-chief of the magazine "Competitiveness Monitor". He also has great experience in managing the world’s banking institutions, and for nine years he was a member of the Board of Directors of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development in London from Ukraine, Romania, Moldova, Georgia, and Armenia. He also has experience in the banking system of Ukraine. Members of the Council of the National Bank of Ukraine, please support the decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the appointment of Yuri Volodymyrovich Polunieviv. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-05-m0.u37	Thank you. Can I have the text of the ruling? Thank you. Colleagues — Is There a Need? Mikola Janovich, do you need to report to me? Please, Mikola Janovich Azarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-05-m0.u38	Dear National Deputies! The Financial and Banking Committee discussed the proposals of the National Child Cosemyakin and supported it. The decision to recommend to the Supreme Council was made to approve the draft decision. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-05-m0.u39	Thank you, Mikola Janovich. Dear colleagues, so pay attention. The Supreme Council's decree on changes in the composition of the Council of the National Bank of Ukraine is put to the vote. According to paragraph 19 of the first part of article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 10 of the Ukrainian National Bank Act, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decrees: to appoint a member of the Council of the National Bank of Ukraine of the People's Deputy of Ukraine, Yuri Volodymirovic, Secretary of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Finance and Banking. I have a question right away. Can I see the drafter? Where's Andriy Anatolyovich, can't I see? Andriy Anatoliyovich, and we don't need a second point by bringing Timoshenko out? Was it brought out? Right? There won't be a legal colossal here? Has everything been studied? Okay. Dear colleagues, I'm voting bill number 2591. Colleagues, there is no objection to putting it on the ground as a whole, such as a personal decision? Please vote on the basis as a whole. [[11:33:26]] For 337 Decision taken. Colleagues, we are now moving on to the next issue of the agenda: Bill 3087. yesterday, at a meeting of the factions' leaders and the vote of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a decision was taken to include Ukraine's daily law on Ukraine's 2008 state budget and to amend some of Ukraine's legislative acts. [[on increasing the financing of agricultural expenditure]] The point is that the Committee of the Supreme Council on Budget Issues has not considered the bill. So I can't put this bill into consideration if you don't vote for it. So I'm now voting on this bill without a committee decision. If you would like to make a statement on this subject, please. Please sign up for three minutes. Please, Vitaly Corge.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-05-m0.u40	Please pass the word to Oleg Laszko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-05-m0.u41	Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-05-m0.u42	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, distinguished colleagues. We agreed, and, Arsenija Petrovich, look at the transcript, you said that we would consider this bill on condition that it was considered by the budget committee. The Committee on Budgets did not consider the bill. In general, the bill is called on to amend the 2008 Act on the State Budget of Ukraine. So you can't change the budget without a committee decision, without a balance sheet, because this bill offers over 4 billion dollars. And we'd also like to point out that we're both hands in support of the agrarian sector, in order to give extra money to buy grain and everything else. But I want to remind you that while the Supreme Council was resting, the government held 11 meetings in the village. 11! In the Supreme Council, there are 20 bills relating to the agrarian sphere, one of which is the VAT benefit for farmers, which is 6 billion dollars. If you take it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-05-m0.u43	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-05-m0.u44	On August 20, the government issued a landmark decree for peasants on measures to boost animal development, which provides for substantial State support for agricultural producers. As I said before, there are 20 bills in which the government is also paying attention to the village. So we suggest that we address this issue in a comprehensive way on the budget committee, first of all, and get to the Supreme Council with a consolidated decision on the support of peasants.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-05-m0.u45	Peter DiBenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-05-m0.u46	Thank you, the Communist faction Peter DiBenko. Dear colleagues, you know, I realize that the legislative process is a bird with two wings: the political component is made up of factions, and the professional component is identified by the relevant parliamentary committees. I respect the position of parliamentary committees, but no parliamentary committee, including even a budget committee, can be higher than the Supreme Council of Ukraine. You and I have included this issue in the agenda. Moreover, it was the subject of joint agreements. And that's why I'm absolutely convinced that this is a question that needs to be considered and made today, at least in the first reading. That's why we have to be consistent. You and I have been acting in the opposite direction a few days ago in other professionals, in another field, so let's be consistent and solve this problem. We owe the villagers so much that it would be right if we did today.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-05-m0.u47	Yaroslavo Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-05-m0.u48	I'd like to give the depatato to Ribuk Sergi.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-05-m0.u49	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-05-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, not only is it important to consider such a difficult question – the budget issue is the appropriate committee, but also the agrarian committee from agrarian politics can and should offer its proposals and visions here too. What is more, it is not just that. The point is that there are many contradictions and differences in the content of the draft law itself. More importantly, after all of us have voted to join the World Trade Organization, there is an urgent need to review all the articles in the agricultural finance budget today. I mean, that's right, colleague Easy: it's complex to approach, but not pull the rubber and do it as quickly as possible. And for this bill, we should thank the initiators and ask them together.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-05-m0.u51	Thank you, colleagues. Discussion over. Honorable National MPs. Look, zero is written in time. [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay. Another two minutes, please add two minutes. Don't shout, dear fellows, calm down. Add two minutes. Katerina Vaschuk. Next up is Stishenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-05-m0.u52	Katerina Vashuk, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear colleagues and distinguished voters! This bill is an agreement, its inclusion and its consideration. And he's just supporting all the decisions of the meetings that have been in Cabmine, because these meetings will remain on paper if they're not supported by funding. Why didn't a budget committee take place? I went to the budget committee three times, you didn't meet. And I realize that it's made by special large factions, who today think only of their image in the elections and to them, just like you peasants today, survive by gathering 42 million. Bread, you do not cover your expenses for the cultivation of this bread.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-05-m0.u53	Suchenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-05-m0.u54	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like everyone to calm down a bit. I've already heard a third call like this. hysterical statements about the village's problems. But the point is, according to the Rules, the Main Committee is given 30 days to make decisions. The bill was introduced only on September 1. I wouldn't want us to be knocking in the public treasury right now on the street, let's just calm down. We have to make a balanced and verifiable document, and all of us as friendly as the last few days will vote in favour of agrarian support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-05-m0.u55	Colleagues, I'll brief you once again on the faction leaders' decisions. In view of the fact that the committee has not taken place several times, and the Block of Lithuania insists on the matter, I can only ask the matter on one condition: the vote on admission to the matter without the decision of the Committee of the Supreme Council. I mean, pay attention! – I am putting to the vote the issue of deviation from the procedures laid down by the Provisional Rules of the Supreme Council and the admission to the consideration of Bill No. 3087 without a decision of the Committee on Budgetary Questions. Please vote. [[11:42:29]] For-47 Thank you. No decision taken, my dear fellows. ‘For’ – 47. In accordance with the requirements of the Provisional Rules of the ‘Block of Lithuania’. Please show by factions. The “Lithuania Block” and the Communist Party of Ukraine call for a break. They've already had a break and they're asking for a performance. [[B in m in s a l in]] Are you going to take a break? Vladimir Mikhailovich, I am absolutely calm. Oleg Zarubinski. Said you wanted to make a statement. No problem. 30 minutes. Break. Take it easy. So, colleagues, take a break. I'm talking to all the Ukrainian national MPs, and I'm calling it a break. Vladimir Mikhailovich, calm down. I'm calling a break according to the Temporal Rules, and I'm telling you right now, we've got 12 o'clock here all our sports olympics. In this room. So I'm asking the people's deputies to meet us in 15 minutes at a break with our Olympics and reward them. Okay? Such a decision was made. Then. Yeah, we'll be in the hall here at 12 o'clock. There is a break in the demand for the “Lituin Block” and the Communist Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-05-m0.u56	Colleagues, let's wait for a second, let the national MPs come in, because let's move on to the mining bill. But before considering the bill, a statement was made by the factions who took a break. So let's wait two more minutes and have the national deputies come in. Dear colleagues, there is a suggestion to move on to the issue of the order of the day. At the request of the “Block of Lithuania” and the Communist Party of Ukraine, a break was announced. After a break, the right to declare the application is granted. Vladimir Litwin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-05-m0.u57	Respectable Good People! I turn to those who look at us and see us, since apparently it is necessary to appeal to the session room. On behalf of two factions, under the commission of two factions — the factions of the Company and the Block of Lithuania — I am authorized to make such a statement. The situation in the countryside is quite clear, as is plainly evident, that no one can order a word for a slave. If this was the kind of love shown for the people who feed everyone here, who are sitting here today, as they showed love for the Olympics, I think Ukraine would have won a victory. Now, think about it, your esteemed colleagues, as they've been dragging around here lately, I can't pick another word from the mining teams: both from the balcony and in the lobby, they've been trying to make one decision, but they've been fighting better for miners who've forgotten about miners, especially sawmills. And now they're going to be making changes and additions. The next moment is the best harvest ever. Why not help the village to realize this harvest so that the villagers can receive it? Understand why? That the grain traders who sit in these largest factions should take the grain at no cost and then make decisions in the village. They want to continue feeding the village to the well - known ones who will give signs of human health. They want to continue to ensure the final poverty of the village in order to take the land away at no cost. It's pretty obvious that when you get the money you've spent on coal miners, you're going to throw yourself at the peasants, and you're going to continue to drink the country. I'm convinced that people see it all, they understand it, and I'm convinced that they have to give proper estimates because of what's happening in the country. You're worried about the village. Please tell me how to sow people today when you, your grain traders, who didn't even want to support the consideration of this issue, support the decision of the Supreme Council, how to sow them? For the six hundred dollars you want to take and sell by a thousand 500, by a thousand 200? Please tell me how to live the country. How can we continue to survive in the countryside? What should children be given? How can you equip them for school? We usually say that the school is a wheelchair in Ukraine, and in this neighborhood, children don't know arithmetic anymore because you've ruined and you don't want to make any decisions about villages. Please, I would ask journalists to show the sick faces who today are cynical, challengingly waiting for them to work out their lobbying laws and then push them to feed the country with the products they're bringing in and for which they're going to gain huge profits. We can't keep this up. And we're protesting, and we're talking to people, look at what's going on in the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-05-m0.u58	Dear colleagues, the next approach is proposed for your consideration: we now have several pieces of legislation to consider. But there is virtually no time. That is why I propose: what has been agreed with the faction leaders, we must now return to clarifying the specific provisions of the Ukrainian Law “To enhance the prestige of mining work”. I'll tell you how to take these changes. And if anything is unclear, then you'll ask me a question. So so far, this bill has not been signed by the Head of the Supreme Council, so I haven't signed it. When he came to me with his previous suggestions, I saw that a number of provisions of the bill were not agreed upon. This is about disagreements regarding the entry into force of the bill. You've got two national deputies on your hands right now. To Turman and Volin. They offer two things. First. Transfer the validity of the law. The other one. When paying for monetary compensation for the cost of coal and briquettes, do not include in the general tax income the issue of the formation of a tax on the income of natural persons. These are two blocks of questions. I ask my colleague Volintz to brief Parliament because, according to the requirements of the Provisional Rules, these proposals are made by the Head of the Supreme Council. But let Wolintz say again on the transcript, I'll officially submit them, and we'll continue to put them to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-05-m0.u59	Dear colleagues! On September 2, we adopted two bills: the first on improving the prestige of mining work, and the second on change to the budget of Ukraine, where we planned to allocate an additional 3 billion 768 million dollars by the end of the year to ensure the implementation of the first bill. But it happened that the computer automatically made it through the computer that a bill to improve the prestige of mining could be implemented as of January 1, the following year. And so it makes no sense to implement the second bill -- at a time when the branch needs financial resources to work properly. The second question is what? Ukraine today lacks coal not only for energy but also for coke. We know that there are metallurgical combinations on the food rations that are missing coke and that are on the verge of stopping -- the Illich factory, Alcevsk and other large combinations to bring this coal out of the country, too. At the same time, however, it is legislatively stipulated that miners are given 6 tons of coal free of charge if they work and work in a mine. But very often some miners, after working and spending a long time in Donbas, then go to Chernigivsk or Winnicksk or Hmelnicki district, live there, but the mine is obliged to take 6 tons of coal to this miner. And it is this man, the consumer of this coal and mine, who is interested in paying him compensation. But in this case coal is made available free of charge, and compensation is taxed and added to total income, and taxed. It's a different situation. Central Donbas has the most valuable coal stamps, but this coal is extremely expensive because it's cool. layers and because very large depths and self-worth of this coal are very large. But the director is obliged to give coal to a coal miner, especially since it is coke coal that is not suitable for combustion and, in such a case, the coke mark should be given what is necessary for sewing, for shaping coke, or for setting it up from another area, such as the Luhansk region, to produce this coal. Once again, the director is interested in issuing such coal, making compensation to the miner, but it is taxed again. On this, a proposal is made to amend the Law on the Tax of Natural Persons. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-05-m0.u60	Thank you. Please sit down. Dear colleagues, now, pay attention! In accordance with the requirements of article 126 of the Provisional Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the order for the elimination of inconsistencies and inconsistencies of the law adopted is defined. The head of the Supreme Council has the exclusive right to make appropriate proposals. Therefore, in fact, when I take the suggestions made by our colleague in accordance with the Rules, I consider them to be my own, so that they do not say that the Rules have been violated. Two suggestions are made. First offer. Paragraph 1 of article 10 should be amended and amended as follows: “This law has become effective since the date of its publication.” That's the first offer. Attention, colleagues, to the vote on acceptance of this proposal. [[12:50:12]] For 331 Decision taken. Now the second offer. Paragraph 5 of article 4, paragraph 4.3, of the Law on the Income of Persons, of Paragraph 4.3.1.5, of the Ukrainian Law on the Income Tax should read as follows: “In the payment of monetary compensation for the cost of such coal and coal products, its sums shall not be included in the general taxable income of the taxpayer.” That's what we're making changes in the income tax, in the income tax of the natural person, but not in the individual law. And these changes were in the law on increasing the prestige of mining. Understood, what did I say? And that was in the very text of the law. So now I'm voting on the adoption of this amendment. [[12:51:10]] For 338 Copy that. I now inform you that in accordance with paragraph 7 of this article, there is no voting for the adoption of the law as a whole. So we actually accepted these two amendments. If there's a wish to vote yet, well, it's a violation of the rules. But for the sake of discussion, I propose a law to be adopted in general and signed to the Head, taking into account the amendments that have just been approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'll vote again just in case. [[12:52:00]] For 341 Colleagues, I'm asking the Legal Department to sign the law so that I can sign it immediately. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Now we've got the "Variance" for an hour. I'm going to welcome the entrepreneurs and ask the distinguished Alexander Volodymyrovich to continue the meetings. Thank you. I'll see you next time.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-05-m0.u61	Ladies and gentlemen of the Ukrainian People's Republic, please record the “Rizzne”. National MP Steshenko, please hand over the can.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-05-m0.u62	Before making a statement on the current political situation on the “Julia Timoshenko Block”. They wanted to ask the journalists to show the hall where the faction of those who hurt good people and the slaves of the mutes was sitting. Although they're not here right now. In addition, we want to remind the same good people that, not in December of last year, when the budget for this year was adopted, nor in July of this year, when changes were made to the budget, where additional billions of dollars were earmarked to support the village, there was no vote in the faction of the silent slaves and good people. I didn't say a word. And now they're pharisaizing and trying to blame someone for not caring for the peasants. It's easier to take care of the peasants right here on the Supreme Council stand, and the buttons don't have the skills. It's about the speech. Now about the current political situation. For days at the hands of the President, a democratic coalition in the Supreme Council was almost finally destroyed. For the third time during his reign, Yushchenko betrays his associates and destroys the democratic majority. For the first time in 2005, when the government of Yulia Timoshenko resigned without any objective grounds. Second, in 2006, when he was behind his political partners in negotiations to create a parliamentary majority, only an unexpected PRI demarchael prevented this. And now that the breakdown of demcoalization has become a logical consequence of the destructive processes launched by Yushchenk and his secretariat almost from the first moments of existence and the creation of a coalition. In order to lead the democratic coalition to a state of disintegration, the President was not scratching it with any means. Everyone also remembers the President’s criticism of savings payments, although they were not the main pre-election promise of President Yashchenko, and the intense pressure on Timoshenko during the gas crisis in the winter, when they were cleaning up gas intermediaries from Rosukrenerego and blocking the fight against corruption in the Fund, holding back and assigning a new leader, and as a result, the privatisation process was disrupted. As a result, the State received only 3 percent of the annual plan from the privatisation in January-August, and, according to Timoshenko's planned government, the process of returning savings was threatened by the lack of funds from privatization. The president also systematically suspended Kabminu's rulings and vetoed the laws that the government fought against inflation and even banned the governors from communicating with the head of government. In general, Yushchenko has suspended hundreds of important government orders. The apogues of a powerful antigovernment campaign by Yashchenka have become a vocal accusation against Timoshenko’s address of treason. Propagandist charges have been transformed into real search-and-research actions coordinated by Baloga, deputy head of Tiberi Durdins. “Our Ukraine” did not, by the way, approve any act to protect its coalition partners and watched silently how Yushchenko and his secretariat were abused by Timoshenko. How can you react when Yushchenko calls the betrayal of national interests the protection of the Black Sea shelf against the offshore company Venko, behind which are financial and oligarchic interests. With regard to the Odessa-Boda, the Prime Minister can also be accused here only of failing to give the strategic pipeline to the long-term free use of another oligarch. The same applies to other charges. Since when have attempts to put oligarchs on the scene been viewed as a national treachery? Not since Yashchenko enrolled all the wealthiest people in Ukraine into the charity funds that he had led his wife, Catherine, and his daughter, Vitalina. Youshchenka and Baloga's advisors do not hide that the 2010 presidential campaign strategy will be built on a replay of the 2004 scenario -- Ukraine's geopolitical choice between East and West, which requires a substantial increase in relations with Russia, in the fight with which Yushchenko is supposed to be a national leader. The risks posed by such a scenario for Ukraine are obvious. And it's for the sake of this scenario that Yushchenko and his Secretariat are trying to create the image of a pro-Russian politician. That's why they're distorting its position in the Russian-Georgian war, which is why they force the government to make decisions that could provoke conflict with the Black Sea fleet. But despite all the unfriendly actions of its coalition partners, the position of BUT is clear and firm: there is no alternative to a democratic coalition. But under the condition that the President actually destroyed the coalition and blocked any decisions made by it in the Supreme Council, the responsible government must seek ways of adopting political and socio-economic projects that are important to the State, including those that are not part of the coalition. It is this approach that has led to the adoption of a series of critical social-oriented bills for the country, including coal reform, the promotion of the prestige of mining work, the increase in the budget salary since September 1st, and so forth. Effective voting in favour of the State cannot be a betrayal of the definition. Moreover, the laws adopted by the Supreme Council fully correspond to Victor Yushchenk's position as President in 2004. This is also true of the amendments to the BSS Act, which strengthens parliamentary control of the Security Service, and of the President's veto to the Law on Investigating Parliamentary Commissions and regulating legislation on impeachment. BUTH stresses that the law that simplifies impeachment does not apply at all to Victor Yushchenk. It's designed and approved for the next presidents. Despite the difficult flight.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-05-m0.u63	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-05-m0.u64	Despite the difficult political situation, Ukraine’s Cabinet of Ministers, led by Julia Timoshenko, remains an effective body that continues to solve important state problems. In just the last two weeks, the government has adopted a revolutionary decision to resuscitate domestic animals, develop a system plan to regulate the pharmacological market and control drug prices, and, in the framework of the 2009 budget, significantly increased the income base of local budgets. So once again, we stress that the Yulia Tymoshenko bloc and our own leader for Ukraine's effective parliament. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-05-m0.u65	Dear colleagues, I bring you to your knowledge that the regulations of the national MP Bondarenko have also been used. Therefore, I now invite you to the floor of the National MP Mishchenka Sergey Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-05-m0.u66	Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! I want to draw your attention to the huge problems that exist in the activities of the state-owned enterprise Borispol International Airport. This enterprise is strategically important for the economy and security of our nation. For many years, the state has not been able to process $178 million in Japanese interest-free loans to build a new “D” terminal. Everyone remembers one of the commercial companies taking tens of acres of land near the airport. It took years for airport personnel, deputies, the personal intervention of Prime Minister Timoshenko and the Prosecutor's Office to return to the country. Sadly, though, the first airport managers viewed this strategic object as a means of personal enrichment and monopolies. Take at least a monopoly to provide fuel to the airport by Crab. But what cynicism the heads of the State Service and the Ministry of Transport have resorted to! They were assigned to the position of the c.o. Mr. Shaxuarov, general director of Borispol Airport, is associated with commercial structures that took over the land and criminal groups. The courts failed to wind up the Borispol Airport, so they decided to tear it down from the inside. The first action of this director was the release of all those fighting for the return of the state, some in critical condition in hospitals. Because they acted in gangs by illegal means. However, it was not all clear that Mr. Shaxuary was a citizen of another state. And that's why the Heads of State, Mintrans of Ukraine, reconciled his access to the state secret. You can't imagine how a citizen of another state could have access to our state secret. It's a criminal offence, it's an abuse of duty. And that's why I want to state that my speech is an official statement about committing a crime. Therefore, the Security Service, the Public Prosecutor’s Office, must immediately find out, remove the employee from office, and find out who is responsible for the commission of the crime. And in front of my countrymen in Borispol, I want to apologize for the representatives of our authority that we have appointed. But they do these things. I mean, we're going to fight our own, and we're going to fight strangers. But we won't leave you alone. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-05-m0.u67	Cory Vitaly Terentiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-05-m0.u68	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, throughout the summer, during numerous meetings with Montenegrin electorates in the areas of the constituency that I have established, he has heard the same claim over and over again: what are they fighting about? This is, of course, the issue of the conflict between Bank and Kabmin, and more specifically, between the guarantor and the prime minister. A second question was asked: Why do national deputies fail to carry out their duties? Why does the Supreme Council work as wet burns? And one woman in the village of Moscali asked a third specific question: He promised to meet people ten steps, but why didn’t he do anything? The answer to all these three questions came out of the bag these days: we do not have the President of the State in the fullest sense of the word. Instead, there is a man sitting in the President's chair, imitating the activities of the highest official who has been barricaded by the so-called "spin" and abuses our trust, which has long been meaningless. At first we excused Mr. Yushchenk, ascribed the softness of character to him, then accused him not of him, but of “loving friends”, then went “hanging all dogs” on Mr. Balou, on the PNBO, and now on to the Secretariat. For almost four years, we have kept dear Viktor Andriyovich in every way from the criticism of which he long deserved to be destroyed. And in the meantime, the highest official we have chosen, increasingly violating the Constitution of Ukraine, demonstrated the dictator's qualities and was the master of the state, in which he built nothing – neither the Armed Forces nor the border, nor Ukraine's relations with its neighbours, let alone the internal politics and the economy of the state. Moreover, when the government of the democratic coalition began to solve the problems that had been accumulated over the years and actually raised the economic level of the state and the lives of citizens, Mr. Yushchenko organized an unprecedented campaign of harassment by the government. And in this situation, using a formal, in fact, trifling technical reconciliation-conciliation of procedural issues in relations between BUT and NS-NS, the entire Presidential, Presidential Council with joyful shouts tries to break down the democratic coalition, creating a real political earthquake that feels far beyond Ukraine. Dear colleagues, the reconstruction we started in the Ukrainian state system, must continue in a consistent manner.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-05-m0.u69	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-05-m0.u70	Despite the beautiful words of the one who long lost our trust along with his surroundings. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-05-m0.u71	Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich, please. National MP Oleg Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-05-m0.u72	It took six minutes to make a statement about the political position. And now I'd like to tell you the radio too.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-05-m0.u73	Excuse me for a second. I received a note, and the Olinick national deputy wants to give you his word. Are you using it or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-05-m0.u74	I hope so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-05-m0.u75	Six minutes, then.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-05-m0.u76	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Recently, a year later, a visiting official from Kiev, Volodymyr Homenko, was appointed Governor of Montenegro. As a result of his activities, he proudly stated that his main task was to improve the lives and well - being of our people. However, the language of the dry figures speaks against official populism. Compared to other regions of Ukraine in Montenegro, one of the lowest levels of wages. There is a relatively large debt on the payroll. Industrial production, for example, decreased by a percentage in June. Compared to June last year, this figure was 1.3 percent, while in Ukraine the average is 5.2. A particularly difficult situation in agriculture. In the first half of 2008, meat production decreased by 12 percent, by 3 percent, egg production, and by 20 percent, poultry production and sales decreased. And prices rose 46 percent in the year of Homenko’s leadership. At the same time, Homenko tries to ensure that the price hike in Montenegro’s markets is triggered by Ukraine’s introduction to the World Trade Organization. However, economic experts are smiling to remind us that the introduction took place only in May 2008 and that it would be more likely to link the inefficient management of solar power. But it's not even about numbers or prices. It seems that Vladimir Homenko is sometimes simply confusing his current position as head of the Chernigow government with his former job in the State Administration, where he was initially working on Leonid Kuchma and then on Victor Yushchenk. [[It's scandalous.]] If in the DUS the main task is to create comfortable conditions for the President's activities, the Governor should first think about the interests of the territorial community, which, unfortunately, Homenko does not do. Take, for example, the construction area. In the first quarter of 2008, construction work steadily declined in the area. And here's the second one, it's like it's starting to rekindle. Moreover, it was in the second quarter that significant public funds were planned to invest — over 30 million in the construction and repair of important social sites and the gasification of rural areas. The corresponding funds have long been earmarked by the government. Until recently, however, the officials of the Chernigow observatories had been unable to reconcile the list of objects with the Ministry of Regional Development and Construction and with the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Officially, the Homenka, as it were, is hampered by the initiatives of the Ukrainian National Deputies from the Yulia Timoshenko Block, which have complemented this list of objects submitted to the administration with no less pressing questions. However, it is likely that the problem is not in the lists but in the stubbornness of local officials who want all the positives to be attributed to themselves, but in their failures to cheat on opponents ’ intrigues. Here's an example, in the Chernigian district, in the village of Old Billows. Last year, 2 million dollars were allocated to repairing the school in the village. This year, under the government of Timoshenko, there are 4.5 million dollars. The governor goes to this school, reveals and tells how much he has done to rehabilitate this school, and what the government of Timoshenko is not involved in. The real Homenka is concerned about other construction projects such as the restoration of Baturin, the construction of a memorial complex in Kruta, the installation of monuments for the victims of Holodomor, 32-33 years old. Work on these objects is moving at an alarming rate and according to graphs, as if according to Soviet tradition. Perhaps the work of the Secretary of the Paradise Commodore is well illustrated. He tries to end up in public holidays. For example, the Kurd memorial wants to be filed by August 24th to report to Kiev. Of course, bringing about a system of national sanctuaries and perpetuating the memory of historical tragedies is important and necessary, but there is a eloquent difference between Homenko’s approach to building sites for the general public and those where the principal client is the president. Clearly, Homenka was appointed president, not district dwellers. But Montenegro is not the Spirit. At the same time, the impact rates of construction cannot hide the overall negative results of the work of the Homenka in Kiev. Thus, the Secretary of the President’s Office, not to mention the Cabinet of Ministers, has discussed seriously and repeatedly the issue of the removal of the Homenock from office of the district government. Regrettably, the issue remains unresolved, resulting in more than a million Montenegrins feeling the work of this remote prince. Therefore, as Ukrainian national deputy, I am formally requesting the President of Ukraine to examine closely the results of the work of the Chief of the Montenegrin Government. And make a decision on his dismissal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-05-m0.u77	National MP Sobolev, please. He's handing it over to you. There is no Saint Soboleva. Next is the People's Deputy of Teeth.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-05-m0.u78	Dear Presidium! Dear colleagues! Respectable voters! Thus, the first week of successful Parliamentary work ends. Not surprisingly, the attention of the whole country is tied to what is happening in our hall. I will not repeat our faction's statement, but I want to stop at two points in my statement. First. Today, both the media and our people are trying, problems are being discussed, why did the coalition break up? Why is there such close unity in the voting on many Bills between BUTT and the Party of the Regions? In my view, the media, in their overwhelming majority, are not exactly giving me back an assessment of what is going on. The reason for the break-up of the coalition is that the President of Ukraine has been working continuously and persistently for nine months, focusing on the collapse of the coalition is one reason. The second reason, in my view, is a more important reason, and the reason that it has urged, has actively fuelled the processes that are taking place today in the Supreme Council Hall, is the position of the President during the Russian-Georgian conflict. I think that probably every Ukrainian citizen appreciates the actions of the President when, while neglecting the national interests of Ukraine, without consulting the Parliament, with the Cabinet of Ministers, he took a clear position on the support of Georgia in the conflict, all the people who saw it, I think, really felt how close we were to the possibility of a military conflict with Russia. I will say that for many people's deputies, for many politicians in Ukraine this clearly incorrect anti-Ukrainian position of the President has become a cold soul and, I believe, I may be mistaken, but this is my view that no culinary arrangements here are in view of the fact that who will be the first president, who will be the head of the Kabmin, no inter-party post redeployment arrangements play any role. Only because the President of Ukraine was the first to introduce into political awareness, in the minds of our people, the very possibility of a military conflict with Russia is the only reason he is worthy of the most serious sanctions. I would like to conclude by saying that today there is still a great deal in his behaviour of a strange, strange assignment of 116 general titles.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-05-m0.u79	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-05-m0.u80	And not only in the Ministry of Defence, but also in the introduction of new generalities in the internal forces system, in the State Security system, the Border Guard says that it is a kind of Ukrainian language, a bribe to the leadership of the force structures in order to clearly implement them, to use them in the implementation of a plan that I think is already under preparation. Note the rhetoric of the President when he, in addressing the people of Ukraine, said that all those who had begun working Parliament for the benefit of Ukraine were an anti-State coup d'état in the country. Today it was agreed that, and that is what he said, Lilia Grigorović, who today in an interview with the parliamentary channel, said that all that had happened in Parliament was Moscow's work. Thus, there is an impression, and I am almost certain that someone in the President's environment is preparing a plan for a state of emergency in the country under the slogan of combating the anti-Ukrainian, anti-national, anti-State parliament. So, speaking from this rostrum, I want to warn the President. Victor Andreevich, you have been brought to this position by the President, who, if you only have such a temptation, a strong solution to the problem, you will receive an adequate response not only from Parliament, but also from the people as a whole. I ask you to take my words very seriously.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-05-m0.u81	Ribuk Sergey Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-05-m0.u82	Dear colleagues! Just two factions – the Communist faction and the Lithuanian Block – have blamed all of us, most of us absolutely, for not wanting to help the country's money. And there were, of course, great emotions. At least once without emotion, we would like to have a balanced understanding of the situation and help the country itself. But there is truth in the statement by the representative and the manager of the “Block of Lithuania”. What's the point? In that there is no political power in Parliament today that represents agriculture. Because when these leaders led the Selyan Agrarian Party, they were ashamed to be called an agrarian party, they renamed it, transformed it, chewed it up, destroyed it, and now they are performing! But that's not why we put the matter on hold. And not even because it wasn't agreed on on an agrarian committee, but because it's already agreed on by the agrarian committee in the Cabinet of Ministers, so it's not 4 billion, it's 7.5 billion immediately to isolate the village in the compound, getting out of the WTO and so on and so forth. But look what's proposed in this bill. 2 billion states offer to translate from one government pocket to another. I mean, give it to an agrarian fund that buys food wheat. And we have only 30 percent of the food wheat. Deficit. And one and a half thousand. And farmers today can sell it for two. So the governors immediately, if we, God's borons, had made this decision, would have placed our posts at all the intersections, and would have forced over a thousand and a half thousand of us back into the state centers, and what helped the villagers or not? More. 500 million dollars is for mortgages. I ask the committee, I invite the minister of agrarian politics, you want 500 million? No, we can't get 250 million. So we're saying you don't need 500, because it's going to get latifundists who can take loans, not peasants who have long been credited. What's more, 300 million is for technology. So it's not the peasants' money again. It's for industry. And the villagers need to give 500 million to 200 to 250 million uninterested, interestless loans for 10 years so that every farmer who has two, three, five acres [5 ha] of the city, the children with the pitchforks, with the shovel there, can buy that tractor and work. Here's what we want. So you and I voted very well. All I ask is that this week -- committee work -- let's agree, and next week we're going to adopt this rural law, as we've adopted, let's say, coal miners, no matter who says they deserve it. Then there will be a credit to Parliament and agriculture as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-05-m0.u83	The national deputy Yavorowski. It's a knock-off.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-05-m0.u84	Yuri Prokopchuk “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko” Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! This is where the previous speaker, who at least knows what agriculture is, has already been told about political speculators, including those on our team. I mean, those who are represented by one faction, I'm not going to advertise to her. So I want to lead to all of Ukraine and to you personally, as today, by directing the head of the district administration of the Plains. The distribution of funds in areas that were subject to natural disasters. Everyone knows, everyone saw what was happening in Prikarpata, what was happening in Ternopilska, Winnitzchina, in other regions, the whole of Ukraine was helping. Stythia also passed through certain areas of the district of Equinox. But when one of the deputy heads of the administration, who belongs to the political power that controls agriculture, distributes 10.5 million out of 20 to the lobbyed area, and the area that is the most affected, Vladimirecki, only one and a half, I ask the law enforcement authorities, and I call on the Attorney-General, the Head of the Head, the Ukrainian Security Service to check the facts of the irregular distribution of the funds indicated. I ask you to consider how the MP's request will proceed immediately to examine the facts. Because there is reason to believe that just the amount of money made by the government of Yulia Volodymyrny Timoshenko, which has been allocated to 20 million people, including the Plain region, is stupidly stolen. We should not allow this to happen, and we should all watch together to ensure that no amount of money that has come into the affected areas has been stolen from the government’s execution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-05-m0.u85	National Deputy Chechtov, two regulations instead of the MP Mironka and Chechtov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-05-m0.u86	Respectable voters, according to the Constitution, the only source and authority of the people is the people. On the most serious strategic issues, which determine the fate of the State for many years to come, the people have the right, in their own power, to decide in a referendum, as is done in the absolute majority of the democratic States whose social standards we seek. And the politicians and the authorities must do the will of the people firmly, under the gallows, without any contradictions. We have, however, that today, almost 80 per cent of the Ukrainian people against joining NATO's political-military bloc, and that a violent applause for the joy of joining NATO will not be heard even in Western Ukraine, and only 20 per cent are sympathetic to this military bloc, a functioning orange power, breaking the will of the people through their knees, literally trying to drag Ukraine into this bloc. There is another serious question in the air that we should try to answer together: Why is it very quick and forceful, without consulting the people, that our obnoxious rulers want to drag Ukraine into NATO? The answer is very simple, and you will probably agree with me only for one purpose: to finally break up our normal good-neighbourly relations with our main strategic partner, our eternal neighbour Russia and her brotherly Russian people. In fact, by joining NATO and saying that we need to defend ourselves, we are making Russia an enemy. I would like to address our orange rulers, the orange authorities, gentlemen, what are you doing? Think about it! After all, the brothers, Ukrainian and Russian had one common historical cradle: Rusto was Kiev. Millions of families in Ukraine and Russia are related to blood. Throughout our long history, all victories were achieved when Russian and Ukrainian soldiers fought in one trench against the common enemy, protecting their homeland. A strong example of a joint struggle for freedom and independence of homeland is the great victory in the Great Homeland War, when Soviet soldiers — Russians, Ukrainians, Belarusians, they said, Georgians, Armenians, soldiers of all the former Soviet Union’s nationalities — chested themselves to defend their family, stood and defeated in the cruelest, most bloody battle and thus saved not only their homeland but the entire world from the fascist plague. I think that today, who have died bravely and thus marched into immortality by Russian and Ukrainian soldiers, have indeed been the former wealthiers who have defended Moscow, who have fallen at the liberation of Kiev, who died in the wake of the Berlin storm and in the graves, who have heard from today's orange rulers that Ukraine must be protected from Russia by entering NATO's military bloc. I prefer the fates of two great brotherly people today, Ukrainian and Russian, to live in two independent democratic states. Therefore, the leaders of two of our States must do their utmost to ensure that relations between our countries are only improved and that our friendly countries and the brotherly peoples, the Russian and Ukrainian, win in equal terms. NATO's image was finally undermined by the barbaric military campaigns from Yugoslavia to Afghanistan, as well as by the widespread humanitarian disaster of South Ossetia as a result of the inhumane policy of genocide against the proud, free-loving people of South Ossetia, by the current ruling Georgian regime, which felt the support of the world and the blessing of its criminal acts by NATO. But with the full extent of the human tragedy that has occurred entirely because of the Georgian leadership with the silent consent of NATO, we must always remember and understand the main things: the oppressive rulers and tyrants come and go, and the brotherly friendship between the Georgian and Ossetian peoples, between Georgia and Russia, between Ukraine and Russia will be eternal. And no one has the authority to destroy it! The Party of the Regions strongly and in principle opposes Ukraine's membership in NATO as neither meeting the security needs of our State nor the will of our people. In other words, we are in favour of retaining Ukraine's out-of-block status as elected by the people. In today's world, security is achieved, not by military force, but by the full cooperation of the neighbouring States, which is a prerequisite for a mutually beneficial world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-05-m0.u87	National MP Victor Terrence, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-05-m0.u88	Victor Terrence, Timoshenko Street. My dear people, I am addressing you, I am saying "my dear people" as I have addressed you thousands of times in elections, whether it's in Kremenczuk, whether it's Ivano-Franksky, or anywhere and every time I've tried to hear you first, to consult you. And I'd like you to say your word today, too. And I think that even to the MPs, the authorities should hear you. I know Victor Andryovich Yushchenka very well. I signed his books to my children and very well, I think our entire team was working with Julia Volodymyrna in the presidential election. And I want to ask myself a question that I can't answer. Well, that's so true, a wise man unites everyone in general. Why all those who were with Victor Andryovich Yushchenko there, at that Midan finally became his enemies, well, that's true. Lucenko, Zwania, Zhenya Yultak, I know them all very well, Grizzenko, to infinity, in the end Timoshenko, you can continue on some criminal cases, the others removed from office, some demon of destruction living in this man. Well, it's scary, but it's true, but after that, it was destroyed by its own faction. They split up by half today. Destroying himself with his cosmic rating before what he has left today, the destruction of Ukraine, largely at the expense of destruction after this coalition. Well, well, we're being scolded, we're guilty of the coalition's disintegrating. Good people, what was voted at that meeting of the Supreme Council? We voted in favour of subordination of the parliament's SBU, well, we really should. The KGB, which attracted me to the Chequest cellars, should not be independent; it should be subordinated to someone. Was that supposed to be done? You should have done it. Today, the U.S.S.A. is considering what Tymoshenko supposedly wanted to do there or poison or to do some sort of plane crash to Balozy. Well, that's funny, and that's what B.B.I. does. We voted in favour of selecting assistants, Yatsenuk’s deputies. Should I? You should have. They chose normal people after all, and our Ukraine voted for it. We voted that there should be an impeachment procedure, it doesn't touch Yushchenk, it touches the next presidents. And Yushchenko himself said, when he wasn't President, "Let's do this." And now all of this is going to happen to us that we're kind of tearing down the coalition. It was just a reason to break it down, that is, everything is falling apart. What would I do now, I think? I think we should do it first. I think so, don't I? To remove all these “scrupulous things” from the President's environment, because Arakchei and Benkendorfi once compromised kings, self-reliants. The situation repeats itself. We need to clean up. Obviously we need to look for contacts, normal contacts with the “Lithuania Block”. And finally, Ukraine will understand why Lithuania needs either the Supreme Council or anyone. And the last. I had a conversation with Mikhail Vasilovich Chechtev five minutes ago, and we talked about it perfectly.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-05-m0.u89	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-05-m0.u90	Thank you, thank you very much. What we need to look for is a constructive one, because we and the regions have adopted beautiful laws about mining and so on. And we agreed, we were just standing in the towers, we were saying that we're bringing up all the sharp questions -- we're bringing up NATO's long questions, we're asking a lot of other questions. Why is this confrontation again? Let's work, work heals, there's no other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-05-m0.u91	People's representative of Litvinov, please. People's Deputies, Oliynik. National Deputy Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-05-m0.u92	Dear colleagues, the stable, successful, dynamic adoption of the laws that we have here with you, and which some puppet politicians call treason, give us hope for the effectiveness of adopting other bills, particularly those relating to the social sphere. I am confident that we will finally be able to bring into this session hall those bills that we have not been able to adopt in either the third or the fourth or the fifth or today’s sixth convocation, I mean, first of all, a set of bills that relate to the improvement and development of the social sphere, especially in the area of health. Medical insurance, its introduction, which has been delayed for more than a year, has its opponents, in the ranks of opposers of extremely influential people. These are very influential people who are behind them, probably a lot of money, if by now we, the majority of the factions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, have not been able to adopt such a law in any event. And I want to remind you that we ratified the European Social Charter. And in the fall of 2008, you and I, your fellow national MPs, will report to Europe on what we have done by ratifying the European Social Charter, in particular article 11 on the protection of citizens' right to health. We will probably tell Europe what we see in our own bitter experience, our own family, and our own electorate. Ukraine’s modern health system is ineffective, functioning inadequately. We will tell them that according to an open public health institute in the last six years, health spending has increased fourfold in Ukraine, and the use of medicines in money has increased threefold. Even so, mortality is high in European countries, increasing by a few percent annually. Ukraine is ahead of Europe for cardiovascular and cancer mortality. One and a half times as high as in Europe, there is mortality from respiratory organs. Four times higher is maternal mortality, and the infant mortality rate is slowing down. The population is dying. Recent medical sociological studies have been conducted under the auspices of WHO. Thus, Ukraine takes its last place in Europe at the expense of its population. Only 18 percent of those surveyed recognized their health as good. I hope we all understand that the problem of public health has long gone from the field to the social policy and has to be addressed systematically and comprehensively. I hope, in this unity, we can adopt the necessary bills in one way or another. It is vital that they please our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-05-m0.u93	Thank you, Jaroslav Mikhailovich. I would like to remind you that next week we will be working on committees and fulfilling our duties in the parliamentary factions, in accordance with the calendar plan approved by the Supreme Council. And the next plenary meeting will take place on Tuesday, September 16th, at 10 a.m. Please prepare the committee work in such a way that we have quality material for a successful job in the next plenary week. Thank you. Good luck. The morning session is closed.
