ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u1	Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, please take your seats, please register. [[10:01:52]] Registered -444 There were 444 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. I declare the morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues, I would like to begin by saying hello to Alexander Yuriovich Tretyakov on his birthday. Let's welcome our colleague. And Gordien Sergey Volodymyrovich, let's also welcome you. Dear colleagues, there was a statement yesterday by the faction of the Party of the Regions regarding the situation in the city of Kharkiv. And during yesterday, both the President of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and a number of Ukrainian national deputies addressed this issue. And I would like to inform you that the Ukrainian Security Service has sent an authorized deputy to the city of Harkov on this issue. There is an appropriate statement by the head of the Ukrainian Security Service. Yesterday, I had a conversation with the Attorney General and the head of the Security Service. The situation is as depoliticized as possible. There is now a proper check, and the results of the check in this case, if there is an appropriate wish of the Ukrainian national deputies, we will be able to hear the information and the Attorney General of Ukraine and the heads of the Ukrainian Security Service, because both Medvedzko and Nadvejchenko were able to come to the Supreme Council at any time yesterday to inform the Ukrainian Parliament about the situation in Kharkiv. But let's wait for the materials of the relevant service investigation and verification, and I think we're going to get very thorough information from this point of view. So the reaction was done. Now for the rest of the day. Colleagues, two factions were asked to announce a 30-minute recess for internal consultations. In accordance with the Rules, I ask that the two factions of the coalition meet for 30 minutes, and you and I continue to hold a plenary meeting afterwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u2	Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, please take your seats. Colleagues, according to the decision of the Ukrainian Parliament when the meeting schedule is approved, I ask questions to the extent that I am ready. We don't have a 1375 yet. Let's go straight to 1061, and then we'll go back to 1375. I am announcing the question: a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving legislation on road safety in Ukraine. [[B in m in s a l in]] The question has already been discussed. [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay. If you want to take a five - minute procedure, write it down. I ask the people's deputies not to shout in the hall, more calmly so that Parliament works in a normal regime. Please sign in. Katerinczuk Mikola Dmitrovic, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u3	The European Party of Ukraine, the “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” Block. Please pass the word to Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u4	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u5	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. I thank the European Party. We also have European approaches, and we would like to ask Arsenij Petrovich that today a decree be made to annul the results of voting for draft laws that – 1476 – on state procurement, that is, tenders. Because 32 projects were put in place, but only one and one were decided in contravention of the Rules. He is now assigned to the second reading. We cannot accept what is allowed to be a violation of the Rules, Arseni Petrovich. It can't become a norm and it shouldn't become a norm. Therefore, the requirement of our faction, the “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” Block, was yesterday.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u6	Sulkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u7	Please pass it on to your colleague, Lavrinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u8	Lavrinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u9	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to ask you how do we change the issues that are being brought into the agenda? First. By your commission, the Regulatory Committee would consider the legality of returning today to the 1375 issue. on the introduction of amendments to the Constitution. We'd like to hear a report from the regulatory committee and your position. Has it changed? Will you work only for the coalition or for the entire parliament? The other one. What's the issue today that a colleague from "Our Ukraine" has raised, how much will we abuse the Ukrainian people with these government purchases? Does the interfractional union that has been created to support the greatest corruption scheme invite you to join us? We need to consider repealing those laws and eliminating the Tender Chamber. And we're going to re-enact these schemes. And we have to look at the question first.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u10	Matthew Valentin Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u11	Pass it to Kravchenk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u12	Cowchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u13	Kravchenko, the Communist faction. Well, actually, we're very free to deal with the agenda. It is not clear why we are going back to the previously unsupported issues. On the basis of what regulatory rules are we today included in the agenda? The second is 1061. We are considering the bills that were passed in January-February this year. I passed the law. draft regulation No 116. 1116 of 5.12.07 on the establishment of a working group on the development of the Road Traffic Code. You're not putting it on the agenda, you're looking at issues that benefit you. I ask you to put this issue on the agenda and today consider it with everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u14	Sivulian.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u15	Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u16	Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u17	Dear colleagues, the BUT faction will support the day-to-day order with mandatory inclusion, Arsenija Petrovich, we are addressing you, we have just held a coalition meeting, with the mandatory inclusion of the Law on the Cancellation of Deputies. Arsenius Petrovich, when we come to the consideration of the coalition bills, we ask that we put to the vote the day-to-day vote on this bill and consider in this session room, along with the other resonance bills that we are talking about today. We, too, strongly insist on the consideration and final decision on government procurement. We also insist that the issue of parliamentary immunity be considered. We continue to work in the same mode as we agreed on Tuesday. Therefore, Arsenija Petrovich, I ask you to grant the wish of the council of the coalition: before considering matters that are part of our coalition agreement, it is necessary to put in order the day’s vote on the inclusion in the order of the day’s law that I have spoken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u18	Grenevetsky Sergey Rafailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u19	Thank you. I ask you to give Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvina.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u20	Please pass the word to Lithuania.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u21	Dear colleagues, Your Honor Arsenius Petrovich! Since there was a break at the initiative of the two factions, it is obvious that after the break they should inform them why they had taken the break they had made. That's the first one. If you follow the Rules. Second, yesterday the Supreme Council did not make a number of decisions, particularly regarding pay. Today, these bills are no longer being tabled. I realize that it is good for the Ukrainian people to make the decisions they just talked about, but let's stick to the basic order. And we insist that now, as stated in the consideration, “return to previously unsupported issues”, where it is about lifting parliamentary immunity, putting to the vote the return of previously unsupported bills and considering them in substance. There's nothing to wait for until the deputies are up in the session room. I think it's a great luxury for the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u22	Dear colleagues, the time for the performance is over. Let me briefly comment. The first thing about the bill of amendments and additions to the Constitution of Ukraine is 1375 and 1375-1. At my request, the regulatory committee yesterday considered this issue and the chairman of the regulatory committee will inform us on question 1375. The other one. As for this item in the agenda. A vote on the schedule of meetings included this item. But in that case, if the Regulatory Committee informs me that it is not ready to address this issue in the form of a return to vote, I, as Head of the Supreme Council, will not be able to put to the conclusion of the proceedings without a vote on the question of return to the conclusion of the consideration of the matter. That's what Vladimir Litwin was talking about. So once again, I would like to stress that this will be within the limits of the Rules. Even though the deputies have already voted in favour of the agenda of the item, I will still put this paragraph to a vote on the return to the 1375 and 1375-1 procedure. Second item. As far as the State Procurement Act is concerned. There are, unfortunately, no other laws in Parliament today. And even that bill, which was passed by Ukraine's national deputy Yatsenuk, was rejected because the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Economic Policy had decided to reject all bills. The Regulatory Committee sent a letter. In this way, we are now putting the bill of amendments and additions to the Public Procurement Act into order, as agreed. I remind all the national MPs who, by the way, voted in favour of the first reading of this bill and who, strangely enough, are now accusing, including the other side, of playing games. This should remind us who voted in favour of the first reading of this bill. So, come on, colleagues, just under the Rules, we agreed with you that this bill would be admitted to second reading on one condition and more voted on, we promised it to the whole country if there was no Chamber of Tenders and if there was no inter-ministerial commission. We actually haven't considered this issue for a month and a half. After the pressure, we received a comparative table today. We have time to study this comparative table right now. If the Tender Chamber remains there and the Interdepartmental Commission remains there, then I will put to the vote the vote for the adoption of the bill in the first reading. That's the approach. So let us be honest before the people and before ourselves. I'm asking for everything to be exclusive under the Rules. Third. As far as the Road Traffic Bill is concerned. The agenda is being formatted, and you know it, only on the proposals of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Everything that has been submitted by the relevant committee has been considered by the Conciliation Council, and everything is incorporated by Parliament. So there will be the next Conciliation Council, and we will adopt the bill accordingly. Do you still want to perform? Yes, please. Two more minutes, sign up. People's deputies still want to speak. After this. Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u23	Please give the word to the leader of the faction John Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u24	Ivan Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u25	Thank you, Oleg Valeriovich. Dear colleagues, an offer was made by one of the leaders of the MP’s faction to inform Parliament about what we were taking a break with. It was in this connection that we took a break. On Tuesday, we did not consider the issues related to our coalition agreement, so we discussed at the coalition council meeting how we would consider and propose consideration of issues today. And I informed you in the previous speech, as we agreed. We want today to be considered in a mandatory manner: public procurement, parliamentary integrity, and parliamentary benefits, necessarily in the order of day, consideration, and voting. That's what we went with, colleagues, to the elections. That is what we promised the electorate, so we must keep our word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u26	Bondik Valeriy Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u27	Dear Head, please pass the word to Alexander Lavrinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u28	Alexander Lavrinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u29	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to say what is involved in public procurement. We made a completely wrong decision when we had draft laws on various issues. They could not be regarded as alternative because part of the projects were directed towards making changes to the current Law on Improving the Corruption Scheme, which is now proposed for further improvement. You just need the names of these bodies, or you need to get rid of the end-of-the-curve government budget and stop buying to anyone who works with the local and state budgets. The second question. I mean, making decisions today would like them to be in conformity with the Constitution, so that those five people who are ill today should not go on a mission today to vote in favour of important draft laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u30	Jojik.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u31	Please give the word to the leader of the faction Kirilenkov Viacheslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u32	Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u33	Viacheslav Kirilenko, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear colleagues! Dear voters! Today, we must fulfill the obligation we have made. Therefore, the MP's in touch today should cancel both the Tender Chamber and the interdepartmental commission on public procurement as well. But what we're already concerned about is that in the table for the second reading, the Tender Chamber and the Interdeputy Commission are nominally canceling, other negatives in the text are being preserved, and another body is being created, the State College of Public Procurement, which is going to do the same thing as the Interdepartmental Commission and the Tender Chamber. So, Mr. Head, we ask you today to submit drafts by the factions of the factions of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" to cancel the results of the first reading and return to the purchasing system that operated in the Tender Chamber. And these two decisions are made today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u34	Thank you. Once again, I would like to emphasize and turn to my colleague, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Alexander Volodymyrovich, for example, did not vote in favour of the first reading of the bill. And your faction voted, Your Honor. So I'm sorry, but we're having this discussion on the wrong subject, so it's all going to be under the Rules. Once again, in that case, if the Tender Chamber or the Interministerial Commission in one form or another, or in a disguised or altered form, is present in the law, I will put to the vote a requirement of a whole number of factions, first of all "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" and, by the way, the Party of Regions: the lifting of the vote. I have to follow the rules. After that, we will in fact require an immediate meeting of the Economic Policy Committee in order for us to have a decision by the Committee on the annulment of the law in general and the re-establishment of the law that was in 2004. There will be no other format. But let's go through all of this according to the rules. Colleagues, I'd like to move on to the day-to-day issues. I announced the issue of road safety. Now I've got a draft Supreme Council Regulation on the creation of a working group for the development of a Ukrainian Road Traffic Code. It will be included if we go through the appropriate procedure from the beginning of the consideration of the bill. If we don't vote, then we'll go to the appropriate working group. I beg of you, Musik Volodymyr Romanovich, on the romanovich rostrum. Vladimir Romanovich, I'm sorry, I made a mistake, I'm sorry. The faction of the Party of the Regions and the Communist Party of Ukraine requested a recess. But by the time they asked for a break, they had actually held a meeting, and now they're asking to make an application for the results of an almost unannounced break. Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov, please. Hanna Herman, please. From the intermission application.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u35	Dear friends, first of all let me ask you here in this room to help the family of the boy in the Ternopil area who died in Kosovo for the sake of NATO. I'm also asking you to do everything you can to ensure that those children who are killed and injured there are given the status of those who have taken part in the fighting. This is what we have to do here, because the leaders of the state don't care about it, because the leaders of the state, instead, have sent a second letter to NATO, demanding Ukraine to join the DPH. We know that this second letter indicates that the senior leaders of the state are consciously going to make the internal political situation worse in the country. They violate the agreements reached in the walls of the Supreme Council. You know, as a result of the compromise, it was agreed that the decision on Ukraine's accession to NATO could be made only through the results of a national referendum and this could also be distributed to the DHR, because the plan clearly touched on Ukraine's accession to the North Atlantic Alliance, not cooperation in those or other forms. The second letter to NATO, signed by Yushchenko and Timoshenko, contains some false information about the alleged largest opposition faction in the Supreme Council of Ukraine for Ukraine's accession to NATO. This information disinformations the member states of the alliance as to Ukraine's availability of a seemingly internal political consensus on this issue. It disinformations the world community and yesterday's statement by an official of the President's Secretariat, who claims that there are no obstacles, including internal ones, to Ukraine's accession to the DHR. A party of regions claims that such actions lead to another destabilization of the work of the Supreme Council. Restored with such difficulties, the work of Parliament is again at risk of collapse. This means that Euro - Atlantic commitments are superior to those of our nation’s leaders and our children. Dear friends, in Kosovo, I've already told you, a young man has died in the Ternopil region, another is in critical condition, twenty-one is injured. Ukraine has not yet joined NATO, and our children are already being killed for NATO’s interests. We claim the right to seek the support of our constituents again in order to protect Ukraine from being violently involved in other people’s conflicts. If the President and the Prime Minister don't want to hear the demands.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u36	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u37	If the President and the Prime Minister refuse to listen to the demands of opposition, our people will be forced to listen to the demands of the people.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u38	Vladimir Romanovich, please to the rostrum. Does the House insist that the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine? You insist that the hall be. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll put it to a vote. We have the official Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, articles 6 and 34 of the Rules, and the procedural decision is 150 votes to give him the right to speak. That is why I am putting to the vote the question of giving the floor to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine Lucenek Yuri Vitaliyovich. Please vote. [[11:06:55]] For 244 Yuri Vitaliyovich, please come to the rostrum of the Ukrainian Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u39	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to give you an opportunity without papers, but to provide you with information on the situation of our contingent in the United Nations peacekeeping forces, I would like to stress the United Nations peacekeeping forces that have been in Kosovo since 2000, according to the decree of then President Kuchma. Indeed, the situation is extremely complex and has led to the growth of extremists -- opponents of Kosovo's independence. The fact is that the operation involving international peacekeeping contingents under the auspices of the United Nations of Ukrainian, Polish, Romanian, and French fighters was planned, unfortunately, on March 17th. March 17th is a difficult date in the history of Kosovo. It was on that day that the Orthodox temples were massacred in 2004 and ethnic groups in 2004 were fighting. It was the 17th of March last year that Kosovo was declared independent unilaterally. That is why the participation of our fighters in one of the peace operations in Kosovo’s Mitrovica on this day was not desirable, as stated by the leadership of our UN mission commander. Nevertheless, the UN mission decided to conduct a special police operation by the Ukrainian, Polish, Romanian, and French troops. According to the status of our troops, such operations are not subject to the agreement of the U.S. Navy. Second position: According to the status of the UN police unit, they do not have the right to use firearms, even though they do have them. In the morning, at two o'clock in the morning, this plan was brought to the head of our unit, and the task was to do it anyway. At four o’clock in the morning, the courtroom, where Serbian former judges were barricaded, was taken by international units, the judges were sent to buses, but as our specialists warned, on this very day, with the full readiness of mass demonstrations of the Serb population, the buses were blocked, set on fire, and extremists surrounded our and other units that were concentrated in the courtroom. After that, the number of aggressively tuned mammals increased rapidly — from one hundred to one and a half thousand men, women and children in front of the front, throwing stones and bottles with the incendiary blend of BTRs and our fighters. Fortunately, the commander of our unit was able to deploy the fighters, place them in the area of responsibility, and our zone was the security of the central gates to the court, the Polish rear gate unit, the Romanian auxiliary flanks. And at that moment, there was a bombing of our unit with shell shells. Only in the course of a four - hour standoff from 35 to 40 shells was thrown into our unit, hundreds of stones also flew into our fighters. The total number of injured in the Ukrainian unit was 22 men, one of whom died. In general, all peacekeepers have 102 injured. This is the first manifestation of such mass extremism in all the years of the mission since 2004. Yesterday I met with the UN mission leaders and the deputy chief of police within the United Nations, talked to them and made claims: first, the lack of preparation of the operation from a political point of view, because on this very day, in this very city, it was in this way that it was obvious, from our point of view, that it was inappropriate. The second position, in our view, was a poorly prepared operation, there was no coordination between the police units and the Caifor units, which are military and should be guarding, including the firearms, our peacekeepers. Position three: we believe that insufficient attention is paid to the treatment of our fighters, due to the fact that six people are in the hospital today, and because of the overload of the German and French hospitals, they are still not operational, and numerous fragments can be oxidized with all the health consequences. Therefore, if medical assistance is not provided to them by the end of today, the interior ministry’s aircraft will take the fighters home for treatment. The third most tragic position is that at the start of these conflicts, when covered by hailstones, one of our fighters, a native of the Ternopil region, was fatally injured by a hand grenade. In fact she was stoned by the burning BTRs under his feet and burst right under them, and the fighter took over the whole blow which could have affected many more people. Romanian medics gave him first aid, broke through extremist shelters and brought him to the hospital, he was given first medical care, he was brought out of the state of clinical death, but unfortunately after the incision it was clear that in such injuries, and, in fact, the whole charge of grenades he took on his body, he couldn't survive. So yesterday, I delivered a "load of 200" -- a coffin with a body that died in Ukraine. Today, he is forgiven by a special composition of the inner forces of the Ternopil region. Tomorrow we plan, I personally, to attend the Ternopil for forgiveness during the funeral ceremony of the loved ones. In this case, I would like the political aspects of this issue not to subdue the mission of the fighters who heroically represent Ukraine, according to national decisions. I would like to emphasize separately, in this regard, the Hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in my view, should unite and support both morally and politically the people representing Ukraine. Separately, separately. [[B in m in s a l in]] In particular, I will point out to the opposition lords that it is the Cabinet of Ministers that you have revoked their status as warlords. And I think that's exactly what we need to fix right now by giving these heroic people the status of the participants in the fighting that represent the heroic Ukrainian people in the UN mission in Kosovo. I would ask, gentlemen of the people, to remember, in this case, that our sons carry the service there. Mrs. Herman, for your particular attention, the son of the deputy commander of the internal forces was there carrying the service and also injured, his father saw his helmet broken yesterday. In this case, there are Ukrainians who are not divided into parties, factions, and not engaged in their narrow political interests. I ask you to thank the people who present Ukraine with dignity. And on behalf of all the special compositions that I met with all of them yesterday, their request to you: Do not make political decisions! Because the retreat of our fighters in these conditions from Kosovo will be a disgrace to them, to the IMF and to Ukraine. [[B in m in s a l in]] I am confident that we should show that we are capable of fulfilling our international obligations. Ukraine as a state founder of the United Nations, I stress, gentlemen, Ukraine as a state founder of the United Nations has every reason to demonstrate its responsible position for international commitments.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u40	Thank you, Yuri Vitaliovich. Dear colleagues, is there a question-answer wish or not? Yes. Please, 10 minutes of question-answer. Anna Mikolayevna, I'll give you a line at the end. Okay, Hanna Mikolayevna. Peter Simonenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u41	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Well, in all the tragedy that concerns specific families, I believe that this hysterical statement confirms that it was time to draw conclusions when a faction of Communists suggested condemning the aggression of the United States of America and NATO in Yugoslavia. The fact that our sons are there is the outcome of your policy, which has given the Americans the opportunity to unleash this aggression on NATO. NATO in the Balkans. That's a first. Secondly, today, or, to return, literally in March, the declaration of Kosovo's independence took place. But we suggested that, let's let Parliament express our attitude towards this process, because this process naturally pushed the situation there and exacerbated it. Therefore, Arsenija Petrovich, it is necessary to make a concrete decision, not to listen to these walls today, when they sent their sons there to serve American interests, even in Maidan, that we serve America. This is where our sons are dying today, on the basis that Americans are serving in the Balkans.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u42	Yuri Vitaliovich, will you answer?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u43	I don't know if that's a question, but I can say one more. Peter Mikolaiovich, I will try to speak in a calm tone so that history is not offended. Just don't stop me from answering, then I'll have a calm tone of speech and answers. In this case, I emphasize once again for those who do not know or hear. It is a mission of the United Nations to serve as representatives of a United Nations country. In this case, it's not a Nazi operation. And I ask the political to not raise my hysterical questions more than the need to present Ukraine with dignity in the international arena.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u44	Andrew Schlell.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u45	Thank you, Arsenia Petrovich. Yuri Vitaliovich, I understand that this question will still be politicized, because to the representatives, the leader of the faction that he has just done no less, I think, a hysterical statement about the fact that everything here is built on some American or whatever interest. Of course, they don't care, either NATO or the UN or. They only remember well four letters — the USSR. They lived well at the time, shared but served, but then they lived better. They remember other times when they, alone, ate red and black eggs, and now they eat people, and of course they don’t like it. So I would like to ask you, Yuri Vitaliovich, clearly and specifically. The Supreme Council, in your opinion, what can help in this situation? If you're talking about getting back into martial law, can we do that with a bill and initiate it? Because the boys are truly there courageously carrying out their military and military duties. So I'd like you to coordinate us here, what we can do to help in this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u46	Thank you for asking. In this case, I'd like to re-emphasize. At a meeting with the United Nations mission, I, as a representative of Ukraine and the Ukrainian government, made these demands. First. Conduct a service investigation and bring the guilty to justice, in our view, a poorly planned and coordinated operation. 102 wounded and one killed can't last a minute untraceable for any leader of any level even in the United Nations mission. Position of the second. We demand that we provide security assurances for our unit, which continues to serve under these conditions. With regard to the Supreme Council. Then your support may be expressed when voting for budget amendments. I would very much ask that the internal forces of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine receive more funding to prepare for the peacekeeping operations they carry out in various countries under the mandate of the United Nations, I stress. In this case, it would be the most helpful. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, I hope that in the next session, the Order of the Government of Yanuković will be lifted from December 2007 "To disenfranchise our fighters from the status of participants in hostilities". I think this political decision will be backed by a coalition.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u47	Alexander Budgerak.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u48	For me, as an Afghan, as a person who gave up fighting organized crime for 36 years, tragedy is the death of our man, our young man. Question: are all peacekeeping professionals well trained or not? This is one of the reasons for the tragedy, which may be in this situation. The other one. I insist that we really restore the status of a participant in combat to these people.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u49	Thank you for asking. I can give you the highest level of our unit's education. Most fighters serve not for the first year, not even for the first time in peacekeeping operations not only in Kosovo but in other countries. In this case, the UN leadership asked me why our unit took over a mission in a foreign sector, because this is the Pakistani unit sector, and said, "For yours is the best." That is why the Ukrainians, Poles, and Romanians were targeted for a particularly important operation. In this case, gentlemen of the people's deputies, I would ask you not to smile ironically, because this is a huge, serious, technical and professional experience that our unit has, and they appreciate it. Another question that we should really get is that such operations, obviously, can continue to expose extremists to the exits, have to be confidently covered by the Caifor system, which has the right to use table weapons against extremists, which they, by the way, have done in this operation at the end of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u50	Jaroslav Kenzior.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u51	Jaroslav Kenzior, National Movement of Ukraine, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Yuri Vitaliovich! I would ask you not to respond particularly to these questions that are being echoed on your left hand, because those high-ranking politicians with red badges would have to do a seminar on what a mission is, the United Nations Peacemaking Organization, what a division of NATO is, and so on. But it seems to me that this company, led by the leader of the IPU, should sit quietly and remain silent because it did not send Ukrainian boys to all the continents of the world, to Afghanistan, to Africa, it was smothering all the European states that are now in the European Union and NATO. So we have to have the Supreme Council and really restore the status of the fighters that were in.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u52	Dear Mr. Kendzer, distinguished national MPs! Once again, I would ask you not to play the game between parties. Believe me, for the first time in my life, I drove the “load of 200” home and today I find it bitter to be at the center of a party opposition that is not a beauty, obviously, in the entire Ukrainian state responsible for its sons. In this case, I would like to emphasize once again that this is a UN mission that was created by the General Assembly and the Secretary-General's decision. As you know, the United Nations Security Council, including Russia, America, France, Germany and all other members, have made the appropriate decision to direct this mission. Therefore, it is not worth playing the American or anti - American map that we should play the Ukrainian map and thank our fighters, who are worthy of representing the Ukrainian people. And perhaps it would be wise to bow your head to the memory of a person who has fulfilled her obligation to the end.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u53	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u54	To carry out his duties.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u55	Sergey Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u56	Sobolev, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko”. Honorable Yuri Vitaliyovich, do you not think that such an important issue should unite the majority and the opposition when it comes to the death of our boys who carry out legitimate missions on which they were delegated by the Supreme Council to their full composition of independence from political affiliation, which was always supported by the Supreme Council when it applied to the missions of the United Nations. And the spectacle that is now trying to play for man’s death is the jewels of our hundreds and hundreds of boys who carry out legitimate missions according to the mandate of the United Nations. Therefore, the request, Yuri Vitaliyovich, is a clear position expressed by the Supreme Council, which is expressed by all governments, regardless of who leads them. And the request in this situation, indeed, to do everything possible, if it requires government intervention, to make appropriate decisions to legitimize the status of our citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u57	Thank you for such a position. In this case, I can only comment on one thing. I believe that this issue should unite not just the majority and the minority but just all normal, moral, decent people. I don't have to judge how many there are, most of them. In this case, I'm going to do everything as a member of the government and I'm going to ask the factions and coalitions to delegate it to their representatives in the government so that the status of the participants in the fighting might be, because it's not about the funds, it's about the moral self-esteem of people who are there far from the Fatherland proudly holding the Ukrainian flag and the UN flag that is developing over the base of our peacekeeping unit in Kosovo. Personally, for the second time I was in Kosovo, I did not take any status as a participant in combat, as many of those who flew there for one day, but I assure you, among other things, yesterday was a Ukrainian national deputy, also inspecting the situation. And in this case, I'm going to say one thing, these are the worthy sons of the Ukrainian people who heroically carry out the tasks that you, the national MPs, and the Ukrainian government, and the Ukrainian President of the war task of maintaining peace on the planet.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u58	Thank you, Yuri Vitaliovich. Yuri Vitaliyovich, please. I'm going on for two minutes because I haven't delivered the "Litwin Block" yet, so they signed up, and the Party of the Regions hasn't spoken. That'll be two more questions, two final questions. Sergey Greenewecki and the faction of the Party of the Regions, Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u59	Thank you. Mr. Minister, please tell me, don't you think it is necessary to amend the Ukrainian Peacemaking Act so that not only the contingent will be sent through the Supreme Council, but also the staff, because, by the way, a man has been killed by the staff. That's the first question. And the second. You, as a minister, have not received any prior information from the special units that the involvement of Ukrainian peacekeepers in efforts to stabilize the situation in the region has caused a deterioration in the attitude of Kosovo Serbs. And there was tension in the relationship between Ukrainian peacekeepers and the local Albanian police, who were the last to try to govern the actions of Ukrainian peacekeepers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u60	Thank you. According to the first question, I do not think that legislative changes are necessary. Because all personnel have the same status under the law, and it is assembled by a special centre for the training of peacekeepers at the University of Kiev of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, as well as by a special commission for the selection of staff from the Department of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. As to the second question. The situation is indeed very mixed. All peacemakers have divided up: both Polish, Romanian, Pakistani, and Ukrainian from time to time accused of prejudice over one or another ethnic part. In this case, we try to be objective. A week ago, we were accused of having a Serb flag in one of the fighters, and he really didn't put it on the car. Today we are accused of being used against an angry Serb crowd. I think that in such situations there is only the right decision to be objective and to try to establish peace in the country for which Ukraine is responsible.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u61	One last question. Sergey Headate, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u62	Mr. Secretary, I don't think your reference to the UN peacekeeping mission. The relevant decisions of the UN and the UN Security Council are appropriate today. Why? Because when a decision was made on the deployment of a peacekeeping contingent, there was a completely different situation both political and legal and international law in the region. It was the integrity and territorial integrity of Serbia as a country, and then all members of the Security Council were unanimous. Today, the situation is fundamentally different. Today both de jure and de facto there are two states. So the UN peacekeeping mission is changing. And the UN Security Council has not reached a consensus on Kosovo's status. That's why I've always been and will be, while I'm in Parliament, against having Ukrainian boys in places where there's a real threat to their lives. I think we should review this decision and call off our contingent.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u63	Please, a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u64	Dear Sergey Petrovich, you started your speech with the words "I don't think." I'll tell you, "I think so." I think politicians have to make this decision, and we have to do it and ask our boys who carry a heroic mission not to make hostages of political maneuvers. Make a responsible decision. There is such a need, vote, send the appropriate decision to the President, let him lead by decree. But please do not make a few hundred hostages who carry out their duties. At least thank them for not setting up a heroic Ukrainian people in the eyes of the entire community, including the Serb and Kosovar minorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u65	Thank you, Yuri Vitaliovich. Please sit down. Herman Hanna Mikolayevna, a replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u66	Dear Yuri Vitaliovich, you'll be at the funeral tomorrow, just in case you ask the mother whose child died, whether she wants or she wants our children to stay in Kosovo. You will also recall that the UN Security Council did not agree unilaterally to the declaration of Kosovo's independence. I also want to tell you that the mother's heart hurts the same way -- whether it's the minister's son or whether he's the son of a simple peasant. And your saying that the deputy minister's son is there is completely inappropriate. And the last. I want to thank you for supporting the "Regions" faction initiative to give these children the status of participants in hostilities.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u67	Ladies and gentlemen of the people of Ukraine, allow me to make a very brief reply. Our contingent is located in Kosovo on the basis of United Nations Security Council Resolution 1244. Ukraine as the founder of the UN made two decisions on this: the first decision was the decision of the National Security and Defence Council, and the second decision was the decision of the Ukrainian Parliament. In view of this, I would like to ask the most where to politicize this process and, excuse me, not to trample on human deaths. Therefore, as regards the continued fate of the contingent under the Ukrainian National Security and Defence Foundation Act and in accordance with the Ukrainian National Security and Defence Council Act, a meeting of the National Security and Defence Council, including the issue, will be held tomorrow. Yuri Vitaliovich, thank you for your information. Colleagues, I'd like that.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u68	Do you want to make statements from the factions yet? I propose that this issue be considered after the National Security and Defence Council has considered the issue. Would you like to make statements from the factions? To the vote, speak from the factions. Who's in charge of the factions now? [[11:35:12]] For 217 The decision is not taken. Dear National Deputies! Please show by factions. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that you return to your consideration of matters of the order of the day.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u69	Yes, the agenda approved by the Ukrainian Parliament. This is about the consideration of Bills 1375, 1375-1. I ask that Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov, head of the Committee from the Regulatory Committee, inform the regulatory committee's proposal for the consideration of Bills 1375 and 1375-1. Please, Alexander Sergiyovich. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please show me an article in the Rules, which states that a procedural decision — 150 votes — allows me to change the Rules and give me the opportunity to speak from factions. As soon as you show me this article, I apologize to you officially. There is no such article — that is, what is the problem. So let's go to the Rules. I'm asking you to finish the discussion. Please do not hesitate to hold parliamentary meetings. I've done everything we can to address this issue, and all the deputies have spoken. The faction of the Party of the Regions asked me to continue with the deadline, and I gave extra time to extend the deadline. So please. Alexander Sergiyovich, please, your position.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u70	Dear National Deputies! [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman! At the meeting of the Committee on 19 March 2008, a mandate by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to continue its consideration of the inclusion in the agenda of Ukraine's draft laws amending the Constitution of Ukraine under registration numbers 1375 and 1375-1 was considered. The committee carefully examined the transcript of the plenary session and the documents before it, and concluded that the amendments to the Constitution of Ukraine were in breach of the Rules, without proper preparation of the matter for the consideration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which the Committee had also determined previously, considering these bills, and had reached a conclusion to the Committee of Legal Policy. Following a comprehensive discussion of the legal positions, the coalitions on the continuation and voting on the bills presented in the previous conclusion by the First Vice-Chairman of the Sass Committee, and the comments made to it by the Subcommittee on the Rules of National Deputies Martinyuk and the head of the committee Demidek, the Committee concluded that the legal basis for the continued consideration of the issue in accordance with the provisions of the Rules was not seen to be the decision taken accordingly.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u71	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. So, colleagues, please take five minutes to sign up. Vitaly Corge.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u72	Vitaly Corge, BUT. Please pass the word to Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u73	Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u74	Viacheslav Kirilenko, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense". Dear colleagues, we've just found again that the Party of Regions in any way, but does not want to undo the parliamentary immunity. However, this does not change the substance of the matter, for the Ukrainian people want to undo the parliamentary immunity. Therefore, our factions and the coalition of democratic forces as a whole insist that, according to 141 articles of the Rules, there is now a vote on the inclusion of the issue in the agenda and at the same time an appeal to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine to reach a conclusion. Once again, we point out that the question is quite ready. There is every reason to return now to the vote for including it in the agenda and for referring to the conclusion. Please put this question to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u75	Olga Gerasimük
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u76	I give the word to Ruslan Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u77	Ruslan Knazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u78	Ruslan Knazevich, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear colleagues, I am very sad to say that the regulatory committee has only now come to the conclusion that it is possible to see a violation of this issue at the last session. If there was any violation of the Rules, I can only see it in one, that 1375-1 could not be put to the vote as one that had not passed the committee, and it did not take 30 days to consider the matter in order for the committee to consider the matter. I am even more saddened by the fact that, in the meantime, when this issue has been considered and when we vote today in accordance with the Rules on this issue, the Committee on Legal Policy, to which I have the honour to belong, has not found the courage to consider this issue and to propose appropriate conclusions for Parliament's consideration. At the same time, respectable colleagues, there are no obstacles to revoting the matter in the session room, for only a blind person cannot see in the transcript of a session that is one of the paragraphs 141.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u79	Schmellow.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u80	Simonenko, please have a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u81	Simonenko's word.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u82	Dear voters! The point is that once again there is controversy in the Supreme Council over the one with whom to record the inviolability. The position of the Communist faction is that we propose to remove the integrity of the President, of the national MPs and of the judges, of these seven thousand people, of the Ukrainian citizens who exercise that right, especially of the judges. I think every citizen here has understood the position. What are they trying to do now, "Our Ukraine", the presidential structure? She's only trying to consider overturning the inviolability of the people's deputies and leaving the President and the judges. So they're not going to put order in the state today, they're just going to make the Supreme Council completely dependent on those who have usurped power today, and by doing so, they're setting up a dictatorship. I think our position is principle, and that's all we have to stand for.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u83	Alexander Lavrinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u84	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! I would like to remind you that an important political and legal document like the Constitution needs to be treated very carefully. And trying to change it in an illegal way immediately puts a big spot in this whole direction. And if he is unable to resolve the issue today by a coalition, there is no need to translate his helplessness into a session hall or appeal to the Ukrainian people. If the law is one for all, it is necessary to enforce the law first to the deputies in the hall and then to ensure that every Ukrainian citizen is equal before the law, not to try to make exceptions. If the Head of the Supreme Council did not consider it necessary, it was possible, in accordance with the Constitution of the Rules of Procedure, to deal with the issue and send the drafts back to the authors by their own signature, then the regulatory committee at his disposal concluded what you had just heard. We're ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u85	Grenevetsky Sergey Rafailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u86	Please give the word to Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u87	Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u88	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Honorable colleagues, who have just spoken such a phrase, are evidently right that the Ukrainian people demand the removal of parliamentary immunity. But it has, you know, such little hypocrisy, and more specifically manipulation. Because the Ukrainian people demand that all be equal before the laws and many more people, and that's what all sociological research says, requires the Ukrainian people to be equal before the laws. Because there can be no equal before the law, but someone more equal that some of our very important colleagues are offering us. And that's why the "Block of Lithuania" voted a hundred percent of its time to eliminate the untouchableness of all the seven thousand who have it. This is a position, it is a state position, not a political connection, depending on who is sitting and when he was elsewhere, he voted against inviolability. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u89	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the time for the performance is over. What offer do I make for your consideration? I carefully quote article 141 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, which provides for the order of amendments and additions to the Ukrainian Constitution. “If none of the proposed decisions in paragraphs 1, 2, 3 of Part Five of Article 141 are supported by the Supreme Council, then the bill shall be deemed to be withdrawn.” The language goes, if none of the decisions are made. Thus, part five of 141 provides for three decisions. In the first decision, we voted negative. Parliament's decision on inclusion in the agenda was not adopted. We must formally put two more decisions to the vote in order to reject this bill, which is the decision to include a bill or one of the alternatives and related to it in the agenda and to refer the bill to the Constitutional Court. If that is not the case, we have a third decision: it is a postponement of the decision to include a bill or an alternative or a day-to-day decision. I mean, in order for a formal legal procedure to be maintained right now, I have no right to vote 141, and I have to put to the vote the question of going back and closing the procedure for the consideration of Bills 1375-1375-1. I want to emphasize again. This is about a return to the finalization of Bill 1375 - 1375 - 1. Please vote. [[11:47:21]] For 241 For 241, colleagues. Thus, the Ukrainian Parliament has returned to the consideration of the matter, namely, the completion of the procedure. I would like to remind you that this is not about the adoption of the law, it is about the inclusion in the agenda and the departure to the Constitutional Court. So this is the first step towards changes to the Constitution. So far, there has been no violation of any regulatory norm. The Constitutional Court of Ukraine will deal with this issue and send a conclusion to the Ukrainian Parliament on the basis of the results of the vote. At the same time, when considering the matter before the Constitutional Court, Ukrainian national deputies have the right to express their views on the bill. So we are now making a decision in accordance with the Constitution to submit the bill to the body of constitutional jurisdiction, which is the Constitutional Court. I therefore vote on the inclusion of Bill No. 1375 in the agenda of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and on the simultaneous appeal to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine to reach a conclusion by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine on the compatibility of the bill with the requirements of articles 157 and 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine. Please vote. [[11:49:14]] For 226 So Bill 1375 was sent to the Constitutional Court for its conclusion. Please show the factions and sign the procedure. Region Party – 0, “Club of Timoshenko” – 156, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” – 70, Communists – 0, “Club of Lithuania” – 0. Five minutes out of the procedure, please. Taras Blackwall, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u90	We must note that the coalition has just declared the President of Ukraine a criminal criminal by this vote, because it is only in this way that a higher official of the state is being held accountable. I think the President has a moral right to appeal to the coalition to ask her not to disrespect his person so much, and to review that question, and to really preserve the principle that before the law all equal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u91	Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u92	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. Dear colleagues, honourable voters, despite opposition, “Our Ukraine – the People’s Self-Defense” has today fulfilled one of the main commitments we have made to the voters. We started, not under the fannery, not under any circumstances, but actually to cancel the 80th article of the Constitution, which provided for parliamentary immunity. Sadly, the opposition colleagues were merely grappling with the issue. People should know that their bill did not mention the annulment of the integrity of judges. People need to know that their bill left the President untouched, but their bill left a full caste of untouchable people in Parliament, which has been on the table for how many years. He gives an example of how words do not differ from deeds and how commitments made by politicians are fulfilled.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u93	Vladimir Litwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u94	Please give the word to Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u95	Thank you very much. Arsenius Petrovich, I am addressing you. I'm not saying that there aren't 30 people in the room who voted 226. But there is official guidance from the Supreme Council’s apparatus that five people who have voted in a large way are on trips thousands and miles away from Ukraine. I'm asking you to. [[B in m in s a l in]] Don't bother! I'm asking you to consider this, because the changes to the Constitution are not taken in an unconstitutional way, that's understandable. And you've always been there for me. And second moment. Since Bill 1375-1 is not in conflict with Bill 1375, more than that, in many ways it is absorbing, it is broader, I ask for a bill to be put to the vote concerning the referral to the Constitutional Court, which concerns the elimination of the inviolability of all those who have it in Ukraine, all of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u96	Mikola Kravchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u97	Please pass the word to Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u98	Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u99	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, first of all, is article 102 of the Rules, which says that we violated it. There can be no drafts that are not supported, no decision of the Supreme Council to return to them, because this is not provided for in 102. But most importantly, Arsenia Petrovich. Arsenius Petrovich, I'm addressing you, please. You rightly referred to 141 articles, but read them carefully.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u100	I'm listening to you very carefully, Adam Ivanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u101	Arsenija Petrovich, the 141st part of the second you refer to, says that you should put both bills to the vote. Unfortunately, one of them is now legally bound by Bill No.1345-1.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u102	Upstairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u103	The Uplands, the Yulia Timoshenko Block. Dear voters, I would like to point out that it is the faction of Yulia Tymoshenko that is most successive, and I voted 100 percent to end the parliamentary integrity. That's the first one. Secondly, those who today call us to believe that there are some violations of the Rules, I would like to remind you that there have been cases where the hands have been voted by the very ones who are telling us today about a violation. And thirdly, I want to say that this vote confirmed that the coalition of the factions of the Timoshenko Yulia Block, the "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" bloc is and will continue to be consistent in carrying out all its duties to the electorate. And finally. Arsenija Petrovich, I would like to ask you to have the issue of holding out of turn today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u104	Dear colleagues, I would ask that there be no arbitrary interpretation of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament. But the 141st part of the fifth is written as hard as the entire Supreme Council Rules. Formally and legally there are two approaches: 1375-1 registered as an alternative. If it's registered as an alternative, if it's a major, it's automatically taken off. However, the fifth part includes the phrase “inclusion of the bill” and then the term “both related bills”. There is an arbitrary interpretation of this norm, either as an alternative, or that 1,375 is related to the basic bill. In order to remove the debate in the Ukrainian Parliament, in order for the left half of the room to be satisfied with the part that the rights of opposition are not violated, I will put to the vote the so - called binding bill, 1375-1. With the same motivation: 141st, 5th, part two. This is the vote of 1375-1 in accordance with article 141, paragraph 5, and part two of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. Please vote for an alternative or binding bill. [[11:56:51]] For 224 Colleagues, please show me the factions. The decision is not taken. I have fulfilled your request, so, honourable national MPs, I'd like to consult on the matter of whether we're going through, we have two minutes to take a break. Let's talk these two minutes by procedure, please log in, three minutes by procedure. Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u105	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. I will not repeat that this second vote, which has just taken place, has not resolved any matter in essence, because it has kept everyone intact, both the judges and the President and the MPs. But our faction would like to say that the beginning of the procedure for lifting parliamentary immunity is the beginning of a qualitative change in the composition of the Ukrainian Parliament. Because at the next call, those questionable people who come here, not to go to meetings, but to hide behind the mandate and to solve their criminal issues, will not yearn for this room. Because they will know that under this dome of protection they will find neither from the police nor from the prosecution nor from honest law enforcement. And so Parliament, perhaps for the first time in history, will work in the interests of the electorate who sends deputies here. And to the regionals, to the communists who did not vote in favour, I think it will be a disgrace from the Ukrainian people.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u106	Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u107	I want to point out that we're about to be accused of some kind of unwillingness to remove the intrusiveness. So I want to remind my predecessor that I voted six times to remove the MP's in touch. Moreover, I voted in favour of removing the MP's in touch when it was necessary to obtain 300 votes at the last stage. And it was my predecessor who did not vote and avoid responsibility for that step. But notice, today at the hospital, members of the coalition: Fedorchuk, Zubov, Bondarenko, Krawchuk. [[B in m in s a l in]] Besides, you know you weren't there for 226. Right here next to me, there's no Constant Zivago near me.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u108	He's gone. And I want to tell you that such a vote is shameful. And the last. I'm asking you for a minute, I'm asking you 10 seconds, please, because you broke up. Today you are.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u109	Let me finish. Ten seconds. Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u110	Today you have not given us the opportunity to vote on a bill that would win 400 votes for removing the parliamentary immunity from the President and anyone who hides from the responsibility of mandate.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u111	Thank you, thank you. Rudchenko, “Block Lithuania”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u112	Please give the word to Oleg Zarubinski, “Block of Lithuania”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u113	Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u114	Thank you. Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear Arsenia Petrovich, fellows of honor! If it were better, normally, logically, then it would be worth two bills, as you well understand, to send to the Constitutional Court and he would conclude whether or not it corresponds to certain articles of the Constitution. What happened took place. But it's not for the benefit of, frankly, both Ukrainian politics, and society, and Parliament. When the idea of making everyone equal for a bill that has one idea is voted 226 and 224, it clearly does not lead to harm. Well, it seems to me that when a bill is drafted, it is certainly more fair, both in terms of the majority of voters, and in terms of common sense, which actually implements the constitutional position sacred to equality before the law. If representatives didn't support it, let's say in this case a coalition is not in their favor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u115	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please have a line. Fedorrucz, because his last name was Bondarenko. Two lines, two names. Please turn on Fedorchuk, Bondarenko and the Communist faction because they were spoken of.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u116	I have a special attitude towards the “Regions”. They call me twice that I don't vote and I vote every time. So, Mr. Shufruku, whatever you call it, so you're such a solid person, stick to some basic ethics at least.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u117	Thank you. Bonadrenco.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u118	Dear friends, we all remember who was in the parliaments of the last summons and how the vote was there, in that corner of the question, when one woman from this greatest faction lifted three hands at once. My last name was named today. I want to say that I am, I have been, and, God willing, I will be today, tomorrow, when Parliament is working. So I'd like to be more specific here. And I also want to say. Mrs. Richter is voting in your faction, and where she is, I don't see her in the hall. And so did Ahmeth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u119	Peter Mikolaiovich. Then a colleague of Sweden, who's there, Zubov? Please, Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u120	Simonenko, the Communist faction. In response to the accusations that have been made here, I would like to reiterate the position of the Communist faction, and above all, I appeal to our voters: in the walls of Parliament, on the basis that it is practically turned by ours and by the orange team into a club of oligarchs in the defence of their interests, today is not a fundamental issue, because it will remain with the status of the integrity of those to whom you, the esteemed voters, every day turn to, come to court and solve your problems of life. This is one side of the question. The other side of the issue, with the status of inviolability, remains the President who is in charge of this orange team and thus ensures their integrity. Thirdly, they now provide, in fact, a continuation of the system of corruption and bribes, because it is for money that all matters are resolved in the courts and that is where there is never a simple, honest person standing. Therefore, the faction of Communists demanded removal from all integrity.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u121	Another name was Kravchuk. [[B in m in s a l in]] Comrades, we need to finish because we need to look at the bills, not to engage in overcrowding. Turn on the croissant. Please turn on Kravchuk. Butt.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u122	We have two Kravczuks -- both Peter Kostinovich and Vasil Petrovich, so, Mr. Schufrich, we are both, and you have accused us. You just told the truth.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u123	Thank you. Colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] That's enough. Honorable People’s Deputies! Who? Do you want a party of regions? Give Ephraim a microphone. Turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u124	Dear Arsenius Petrovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u125	A faction of the Party of the Regions was said. I'm sorry, Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u126	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, given that there is a discrepancy between the data provided by the Secretariat and those in the Hall, there is a discrepancy in the voting on the Council system, which today does not produce real results, in accordance with article 37 of the Rules, we demand that we continue to vote in the roll-call mode today.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u127	Thank you. Honorable People’s Deputies! Nestor Ivanovich, please finish. Okay? I'll tell you. Then let's talk to your colleagues on your own. [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay. Replica of Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u128	Dear colleagues, let's face it, you know you don't have 226. And we'll see about that in the next roll call that we're going to insist on and we're going to ask for a vote. All matters of order today, taking into account your infamous response, will be voted by your show of hands. Next. What did you do today? You did not allow us today to send our version of the changes to the Constitution regarding the removal of parliamentary immunity, along with the President of Ukraine. What makes Viktor Andryovich Yushchenko or his successor, because in a year and a half, he will no longer be President, he is different from the people's deputies, and he has immunity from the Ukrainian people? We wanted to put a dot on this. You didn't let it happen. Unfortunately, you have ruined the possibility of voting in this room with three hundred votes and more. This is your mistake, which you will no longer correct if you do not enforce our law.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u129	Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, I will not reveal a secret when I say that on the right side of the hall, that on the left side of the hall, the honourable colleagues, there is a matter of physical presence. Therefore, the matter must be resolved as required by article 83, paragraph 4, of the Ukrainian Constitution, where the national MP votes in person. Paragraph 84. 3. We will come to this because I am drafting an appropriate bill on how to vote and sign acts of the Supreme Council. With regard to the order of voting changes, we will discuss the matter. But I would like to point out on the line that we have all the votes in accordance with the Rules. Because the vote that goes with the card, it's a name. Colleagues, 12:37 a.m.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u130	Please take your seats. We will now consider an extremely important issue for the state and for society. We owe a lot of money to one of the key branches of power, this judicial branch of power. And in fact, the normal functioning of the courts of general jurisdiction and of the courts in Ukraine as a whole was called into question. For this reason, I had a conversation with the head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. And that's why, despite all the political interrogations that are in society today, we have made a mutually agreed decision on the question of the election of Ukrainian judges and accordingly the formation of a full judicial branch of power. I invite the chairman of the Committee on Justice of Kiwalov Sergio Vasilovich to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u131	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished national MPs, the honourable ones present! The Justice Committee at its meeting on 6th, 11th, 13th, 20th February, 5th and 19th March 2008 considered the appointment of the Supreme Court, the head of the Supreme Administrative Court, the head of the Supreme Economic Court for the selection of the judges on the draft decrees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, by numbers: 2026, 2026-1, -2, -3, -4, -5, -6, -7 of 8th, 12th, 14th, 21st February and 13th, and 19th March of this year. Honorable members of the national parliament, under the procedure laid down, read out the name of the judge, the judge rises from the seat and, if there is a warning to him, the national deputies report it from the place. Such a judge is temporarily removed from the draft decree. And we return to his consideration after the vote on other candidates. The judges are in the guest bed and on the balcony. First. Draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine number 2026 of February 8, this year. The committee recommends that judges be elected on an indefinite basis: The Court of Appeal of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Griesenka Yuri Fedorovich, Kiruchin Marina Anatoliyevna, Cemetery Sergey Mikolaiovich; the Court of Appeal of the Volin district of Veremczuk Ludmila Mikolayevna; the Court of Appeal of the Dnipropetrov district of Temchenko Elvira Lvivna, Zajiv Vasil Viktorovich; the Court of Appeal of the Donetsk Region of Kravtsov Oleg Viktorovich; the Court of Appeal of the Žitomir district of Zapalovsk Vladimir Josephovich; the Court of Appeal of the District of Lviv, Fedorizin Anatoly Vasilovich; the Court of Appeal of the Odessa Region of Železnova Valentina Mikolaiovich, Levenza Boris Borisovich, Cushroom of Pavel Mikolaiovich; the Court of Appeal of the Poltava District of Panchenka Alexandra Alexandrovitch; The Court of Appeal of the Suma District of Barsai Viktor Mikolaiovich, Zabar Igor Klimentiyovich; The Court of Appeal of the Kharkiv District of Burlak Irina Vasilovna; The Court of Appeal of the Hersonian Region of Karavajk Alexandr Ivanovich; The local Malinov district court of Odessa Verbicke Nina Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u132	Dear colleagues, I ask you to comment on the comments on the names that were named and reflected in draft regulation 2026.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u133	It's on Verbite.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u134	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u135	We're going to delete it eventually.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u136	Verbite. Last name. Let's delete it. Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u137	The local Kyiv District Court of Kharkiv Didenka Sergey Arkadyovich; the military local court of the Odessa garrison of Borschev Igor Alexiyovich; the local court of the Dnipropetrov district of Kovalenka Alexander Alexiyovich. Please support these nominations with the exception of the Verbatic Nina Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u138	We will return to the question of Verbatic after the Ukrainian National MP has expressed his position. Dear colleagues, I'll put it to a vote. Holy Michaelovich, are you offering as a basis as a whole?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u139	In general.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u140	On the basis and in general. Okay. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to vote on the Supreme Council Order "On the Election of Judges", registration number 2026, in the first, second reading and in general. Excluding the name Verbite Nina Volodymyrna. Please. [[12:48:32]] For 418 Please show by factions. They've done a great job, colleagues. Please, Sergey Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u141	Draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine by number.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u142	Sergey Vasilovich, after Verbicki, a minute. We have to go back.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u143	Let's go to Verbitzka at the end. Let's go to the end.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u144	No, I'm suggesting, let's go through so we don't go back to the verdict. Who can object to the appointment of the judge of the Kyiv District Court, excuse me, of the Malinov District Court of Odessa Verbatic Nina Volodymyrna? I'm sorry, I can see it so far, last name. Verni Dubov. Turn on Verni Dubov's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u145	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, I must have been mistakenly working for the Anti - Corruption Committee, but a letter from Odessa’s district about the unobjectiveness of dealing with a number of cases was received by this judge. I submitted this complaint to the Justice Committee, where it is, Sergio Vasilovich, to your committee. Therefore, the request to consider it is essentially there, and we cannot consider it in our committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u146	Dear colleagues, I would like us to be extremely correct. What's more, it's in the decision to select judges on an open-ended basis. The letters are very many, and the complaint is even more. But the main question is the objectivity of a decision. So I would like to make the next suggestion, let's take Sergey Vasilovich Kiwalov's position and the Head of the Supreme Court on how to deal with these issues. Well, you know, the judge made an objective decision, and it's definitely not like one side. And to go on one side or the other, we'll never be able to figure it out. Therefore, I would ask to eliminate the subjective approach as much as possible in making decisions regarding the selection of judges on an uninterrupted basis. There is a High Council of Justice, for this there are appropriate bodies that should make decisions, not just a complaint by an applicant. Sergey Vasilovich, I ask your position, the position of the Chief Justice and briefly three minutes, colleagues, calmer, and briefly three minutes will now be informed. Sergey Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u147	Arsenius Petrovich, we have always had the procedure we followed. If a question arises by a judge, in order for a successful vote to take place, it may be right if we postpone and we will find out again at the next meeting. And I'll tell you. And if we vote now, we don't know what the vote will be. We don't have any complaints on the committee today, but there are complaints from members of the people. Let's not boil the heat, let's postpone it to the next meeting in two weeks. That's where Carmazin says to put it off. It's a procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u148	Thank you. Vasil Vasilovich, what's your position?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u149	Thank you, Arsen Danilovich. Ladies and gentlemen, when I sent the materials to the Supreme Council and to the Committee on Justice, we also had no claim against Judge Verbatsky. If there's a situation now, I think it's better, really, to postpone. I agree with Sergei Vasilovich. And we will examine these circumstances carefully together.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u150	Colleagues, here's the next offer. For the sake of this, we don't put the Verbitzka Nina Volodymyrovna to a vote, give the committee a quick answer and then vote quickly in the general order. Is it accepted?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u151	Roger that. Draft Decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for No.2026-1 of February 12, this year. The committee recommends that judges be elected on an indefinite basis: The Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine Moisuk Mikola Ivanovich; The Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine, Hubenko, Nadia Mikhailovna; the Court of Appeal of the Viennese Region of Rupak Antonovich; the Court of Appeal of the Odessa district of Zaikin Anatolia Pavlovich; the Court of Appeal of the Hmeljna District of Vlasenka Alexandre Vasilovich; The Court of Appeal of the Hersonian District of Zedrabko, Victoria Alexiyevna; Dnipropetrov's Administrative Court of Appeal Saffron Svetlana Volodymyrovna; Kyiv Administrative Court of Appeal Mamczuk Jaroslav Stepanović; Note?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u152	In the end, it is possible, after all the comments have been made.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u153	The Kyiv Administrative Court of Appeal, Usnko Vasil Grigorovitch; Dnipropetrov's Economic Court of Moroz Valentin Fedorovich, Sagittarius Hennadian. Kyiv's Court of Appeal, Shaprano Viktor Valentinović; Lviv's Court of Appeal, Zvaric Oksana Volodymyrný; the local First National Court of Kharkiv, Basniak Mikhailovich; the local Luhansk District Administrative Court of Honcharov Irina Anatoliyevna, Kovalov Tetjan Ivanovna; the local commercial court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Mokrušin Viktor Ivanovich; The local court of the Dnipropetrov district of Vasiljev Oleg Yuriovich, Eustignie’s Nadia Mikhailnovna, Koval Lubov Anatoliyovna, Polivo Dmitra Mikolaiovich. Local Economic Court of the Donetsk Region of Goncharov Sergija Augustovich, Zubchenko Innu Volodymyrovna, Popov Alexander Viktorovich. the local court of the Zakarpatsky district of Olega Viktorovich; the local court of the Ivano-Frakiv district of Deluko Boris Vasilovich;
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u154	It's a deuce.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u155	I'm sorry. Dedelika Boris Vasilovich, Kalashnik Vladimir Aleksandrovitch, Nevrovski Larissa Mironovna; [[Remove Kalashnikov]] the local court of the Odessa district of Seminyuk Hennady Vasilovich; The local commercial court of the Suman district of Lugovova Natalia Petrovna. Please support the exclusion of Kalashnikov and Manchur Jaroslav Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u156	Colleagues, I'm going back to the question of ruling 2026 on the exclusion of two aliases. Which of the national deputies is in order for this to be under the transcript, I ask you to speak out, to record what is doubtful, and to find out what the situation is. Then we vote first. Wait a minute. Then we should vote first and then as a basis. Then by full procedure, it will be a very long time. So I'm going to suggest, let's say we remove the last names. Who's in favor of removing names? One moment, please. Comrades, will you allow the head of the Supreme Council to hold a meeting? Thank you. Please, National Deputy Lukyanchuk. Lukyanov, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u157	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! I received material regarding judges Mamchur Jaroslav Stepanovich and Kalashnik Volodymyr Alexanderovich. To test them and not to make them now, and not to make a previous decision on this issue that may be unfaithful, I suggest that these materials be referred to the committee for consideration. And now you're going to remove those names from the ruling. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u158	And there was another last name, someone removed it. Who among the national deputies proposed the removal? You two names? Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I put to the vote the whole first, second reading and the whole bill, with the exception of two names. Last name, Sergey Vasilovich, repeat.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u159	Mamchura Jaroslav Stepanovich removed and Kalashnik Volodymyr Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u160	Thank you. Please vote. Stop the voting procedure. People's deputy Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u161	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, I think before removing the names of judges Mamchura and Kalashnikov, we should be interested in the opinion of the Supreme Court. And I know that from the point of view of these people, they're inspired complaints, they've gone through a committee, they're recommending for election, and we're proposing to vote for the election of these judges, not to see what the complaint is, and let's take a picture. And you were just saying a minute ago that you should be able to approach it with balance. We think we should put them to a vote, not remove them. For the committee has passed, the Supreme Court has passed, everything has passed, and someone you see is not pleased with their judicial work, let's delete. Let the specific claims tell us what they are to these judges.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u162	Dear colleagues, I would like once again to hear every national MP's proposal agreed upon by the Head of the Supreme Court and the head of the committee. Now we're removing the names of these national MPs. After the voting procedure has been completed, excuse me, these judges. Once the voting procedure has been completed, these judges will go to the rostrum and we will be able to communicate with each judge in order to remove the objections. If these objections are removed, we will vote and today we will make a decision. Is that not good? Okay, you see. Let's go vote. So I put to the vote 2026-1, first, second reading and in general, except for the two names that were spoken, which we will hear after the full vote. Please vote. [[12:59:45]] For 435 Colleagues, we can do something new. There are two choices. Option one. All the judges who have been removed from the rulings should be put to the end. Option two. By every decision we removed, we immediately invite judges, give them a microphone, and thus work. I'm going to propose a second option. Let's go through all the orders, and then we'll talk to each individual judge. 2026-2, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u163	Order 2026-2 of February 14, this year. The committee recommends that judges be elected: The Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine Capacín Nadia Vasilovna. Note?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u164	Sowkovich. Turn on the Sivkovic microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u165	Dear Sergey Vasilovich, I have written a question regarding the judge on your committee, the answers I have not received, as I understand, on the committee of the question this has not been done. On what grounds you've included it today, I can't understand it, because the number of 4 cases I've filed entirely with the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u166	Vladimir Leonidovich, you filed a complaint when the committee passed, and during this period, between the consideration in the Supreme Council and the committee, you filed a complaint. Therefore, please refer the complaint to the committee and we will consider it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u167	There's a denial. It's coming off. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u168	High Court of Commerce Kovalenko Volodymyr Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u169	Yes, a minute! There is also, please, please give your word to the People's Deputy. Labunska is a national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u170	Sergey Vasilovich, as secretary of the committee, I would like to remind you that the complaint made by Sovkovic and Doub about this judge on the committee has been considered and it has been decided by the committee to recommend this judge for this position. These two complaints were considered by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u171	Thank you. Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u172	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear Arsenya Petrovich! Dear colleagues! Let us walk as defined in the law, that is, the head of the committee of surnames. If one of us has an observation, he raises his hand, we see that there's a reference to that last name without discussing that last name. The last name is removed from the global list. After we vote on those judges to whom we have not noticed, the procedure for discussing the judges to whom we are referring begins. Then the initiator who proposes to delete has the right to express his motivation. After that, we listen to a judge to whom there are claims, and they have microphones where they are. Then we listen to the position of the profile committee and make decisions. It's not necessary, as it were, to come up with new procedures.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u173	Fellows, I'm asking you, well, we have the impression that we don't shrug each other's water in our feet. Well, we made a deal. There's a judge's name, there's a denial, we take it off. We're voting in general. As a result, at the end of the proceedings we consider each individual judge. Well, what are we talking about? Sergei Vasilovich, please, come on, let's make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u174	The Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine, Kovalenko Vladimir Mikolaiovich, Shortevitch Alexander Evgeniyovich; The Donetsk Administrative Court of Appeal Vasilko Love Andriyevna; Kiev Court of Appeal Popovic Olen Viktorovna; The Lviv Administrative Court of Appeal of Zaveruh Oleg Bogdanović, Nos Stepan Petrovich; Kharkiv's Administrative Court of Appeal, Hutzal Mikhail Igorovich; Shevchenko Tetjan Mikolayevna, the impugned court of appeal; Kiev’s Court of Appeal of Agriculture, Buravlova Sergija Ivanovich; Kiev Interdisciplinary Court of Appeal Razin Tetjan Ivanovna, Czernogus Mikhail Georgievovich; Sevastopol’s Court of Appeal Gogol Yuri Mihajlovich; Kharkiv's Court of Appeal Kamishev Ludmila Mikolayevna, Pool Olen Anatolyevna; the local Winnick District Administrative Court of Saulak, Saulak Yuri Vasilovich; the local Donetsk District Administrative Court of Jurchenko Valentine Petrovna; the local Kirovograd District Administrative Court of Yakovlev Alexander Volodymyrovich, Yasenov Tetjan Ivanovna; the local Lviv District Administrative Court of Lankevich Andrija Zinoviovich; the local Odessa District Administrative Court of Fedusik Andrija Grigorovitch; the local Ternopil district administrative court of Zagorski Aleksandra Alexiyovich; the local Kharkiv District Administrative Court of Katunov Vladislav Volodymirovich; the local Hmelnick District Administrative Court of Borovicky Aleksandar Andryovich; the local court of the Dnipropetrov region of Primok, Sergija Anatoliyovich, Shirobokovo Ludmila Petrovna; Irina Vitaliyevna, Chernoth Ludmila Fedorovna, Black Irina Kuzminicka; the local court of the Ivano-Frankiv district. Who? The Greenwich?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u175	Please. Turn on the microphone to Deputy Greenyuk. Roman. Colleagues, I'd like to ask the people's deputies, sorry, I don't know all 450. When you raise your hand, say your name, then I'll have the command turn on the microphone. Name of National Deputy Komar. Turn on the Komar People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u176	Thank you. Arseny Petrovich, yesterday I received additional information on the Debalts' trains from the voters where Black Irina Kuzminick worked. We used to have a conversation with Sergei Vasilevich about this. So I ask you to consider at the end, there are questions here.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u177	The local courts of the Ivano-Frankow district of Greenjak Bogdan Pavlovich; VOICES FROM THE PLACE. There's a note.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u178	Let's take it. A note on Greenyak? Local Commercial Court of the Lviv district of Gomenyuk Zorian Petrovna, Derkac Yuri Bogdanović, Sudov-Homuk Natalija Mikhailnovna; Local Economic Court of the Mikolai district of Smrodinovo Olga Grigorovna Smorodinov? the local court of the Kharkiv district of Hotenz Pavel Vasilovich; the local commercial court of the Hmelni district of Mager Vasil Vitaliyovich; the local court of the town of Sevastopol Lazarev Sergio Hennadyovich. Please support these candidatures.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u179	Honourable National MPs, vote 2026 on the exclusion of the local court of Johno-Frankiv district of Greenjak Bogdan Pavlovich. [[first, second reading and in general]]
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u180	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u181	Oh, no? Anyone else, Sergey Vasilovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u182	Excluding Blackie.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u183	Black.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u184	Greenwich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u185	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u186	And Smorrodin's Olga Grigorovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u187	And Smorrodin's Olga Grigorovna. This is the Mikolai Court. Colleagues, please vote. [[13:09:34]] For 416 Decision taken. Order 2026-3.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u188	Decree 2026-3 of February 21, this year. The committee recommends that judges be elected on an indefinite basis: Dnipropetrov's Administrative Court of Appeal, Alexander Vasilovich; Donetsk’s Administrative Court of Appeal, Gorbenko, Catherine Panasovna Arsenius Petrovich, Gorbenko Katerina Panasivna is not here. She was unable to show up for a meeting in connection with her husband’s health. In the absence of a person, her candidacy is not considered. That was the procedure. Let's delete it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u189	Sergey Vasilovich, we're removing. Deputy Kamchatny, turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u190	Thank you, Arsenia Petrovich. Kamchatny, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko”. I'm not proposing to remove anyone, I just raised my hand at the beginning of the report on draft regulation 2026-3. I would like to ask you a question before it is considered. Why is Decree 2026-3 given to us without the autobiographical help of judges, as is always done? 2026-7 meets all the requirements, for example. 2026-3 is just text and surnames. How can we conclude? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u191	Dear colleagues, these are all the papers that the judges gave out in February-month. So you just don't seem to have made a technical mistake. Everything was reproduced by the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u192	In regulation 2026-3, there's all kinds of biographical reference. If my colleague Kamchatny wants me, I can make my decision. They'll bring me another one. It's all there, all the national MPs are on hand. Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u193	Donetsk Court of Appeal Thank you, Svetlana Petrovna. Zivachenka Igor Viktorovich; Kyiv’s Administrative Court of Appeal, Zacjila Petrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u194	Deputy Laszko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u195	We're removing Zaivevo.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u196	We'll delete it and then we'll do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u197	Kiev Court of Appeal Saprikin Irina Valentine's Day, Serkiza Viktor Grigorovich; [[B in m in s a l in]] Serquisa?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u198	Deputy Baburin, turn on the microphone, please. Exclusion? Exclusion. Let's do it without me. Well, I need to get under the transcript so they don't say that.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u199	Serkissa's being removed.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u200	Let's delete it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u201	Sevastopol’s Administrative Court of Appeal, Yelan Olen Eduardovna; Kharkiv Court of Appeal: Benedict Anna Petrovna, Cononenko Zia Alexiyevna; the local Supreme District Court of Ivano-Frankiv region: Floral Darius Vasilovna; We're removing Florak Darius Vasilovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u202	Who insists on being removed so that I can see? Lukyanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u203	Local Isiaslav District Court of Hmelnicka District: Shevchuk Volodymyr Ivanovich;
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u204	Please stop. Chevy.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u205	Let's delete it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u206	Let's delete it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u207	Local Lenin District Court of Sevastopol: Baluk's Catherine of Georgia, Kazakova Valentina Vjacheslavovich; the local Donetsk District Administrative Court: Nautical Catherine Hennadian; the local Zitomir District Administrative Court: Sicho's Olenna Petrovna; local Lviv District Administrative Court: Demyanovska Galija Semenović, Galija Semenović; the local Suma District Administrative Court: Šapovala Mikola Mikhajlovich; the local Ternopil district administrative court: Danilevich Nadia Andriyevna; the local Czernovetsk District Administrative Court: the Gardener Anatolia Petrovich; the local district administrative court of Kiev: Kishinski Mikol Ivanovich, Kashinski is. Arsenius Petrovich, Kashinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u208	It's been removed.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u209	Stepan's Anatholia Hermanovich, Shelest of Svetlana Bogdanovna - delete, Shelest; the local district administrative court of Sevastopol: Šapovala Igor Ivanovič; Local Economic Court of the Winnitsk Region: Kurka Oleg Petrovich; Local Economic Court of the Donetsk Region: Daddy Valery Mikolaiovich. Daddy? And Daddy.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u210	Let's delete it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u211	Please support me, Arsenius Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u212	Sergey Vasilovich, please reread the names that are being deleted. Or should I read: Gorbenko Catherine Opanasovna, the Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u213	I am. Read?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u214	Yes, it is. Under the transcript, because then there'll be questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u215	It's okay. It's okay. We're going to remove Zatajlav Mikhail Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u216	Gorbenko. Is the hunchback out? Deleted. Gorbenko, Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u217	No, no.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u218	Well, how come you're not getting rid of it? Who for Gorbenko was in favor of removal?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u219	No, no, Gorbenko, she is.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u220	It's gone, so it's gone. The decree is being removed.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u221	The hump's getting rid of it. Zavah Mikhail Petrovich is being removed. Floral Daria Vasilovna is being removed.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u222	Serquisa.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u223	Serquisa?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u224	Yeah, that's Easy. Serquisa. Shevchuk Vladimir Ivanovich, Kishinsky Mikola Ivanovich and Tatenko Valeriy Mikolaiovich I would like to vote in favour of the ruling in general with the exception of these names. Who else?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u225	Who? Shelest. Shelest's gonna be there. Shelest Svetlana Bogdanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u226	Shelest Svetlana Bogdanovna. I would like to vote in favour of excluding the names just named in general. 2026-3, I'll put it to a vote. [[13:16:28]] For 412 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u227	Draft Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine by 2026-6 of 13 March of this year. The committee recommends that judges be elected on an indefinite basis: The Court of Appeal of the Zaporozhye District of Caracas, Catherine Victorian; the local Kerchen city court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Kovalova Alexander Volodymirovich; the local Oratov district court of the Winnick district of Drachuk Tetjana Alexandrovna; Irina Mikolayevna, a local Kovellian Regional Court of Volin County, Logwinyuk. Irina Mikolayevna Logwinyuk, a respected colleague, was also unable to attend health meetings.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u228	Sergey Vasilovich, we have a little problem. 2026-4, 2026-5. You immediately moved on 2026-6. We have two decisions before that.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u229	Arsenius Petrovich, there are two decrees by two judges.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u230	That's right.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u231	And we made a deal. The committee does not recommend these judges.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u232	Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. There's an order to review the bill, colleagues. You can't.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u233	We'll look into it later.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u234	You can't move like this. Well, later. Let's do 2026-4. Let's go back to the 2026-4 bill. Please. You have to do as the book says. And the book says it's okay to register.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u235	Honorary colleagues, draft Supreme Council of Ukraine ruling 2026-4 of February 1st of this year on the temporary election of the judge of the local Ordjonikidzew District Court of Zaporozhye Koval Petr Juriovich. The referee’s candidacy was already presented for consideration by the Supreme Council on the previous call of March 15, 2007. The vote has been postponed. Complaints from representatives of the Metallurgy Consortium, VAT “Ritam”, ZAT “Restricted boiler assembly plant”, VAT “Restoration transformer”, other natural and legal persons have come about violations of the judiciary’s legislation. On the basis of the judge’s explanations and the availability of information, the committee concluded that he had intervened in the commercial activities of legal persons, prohibited the conduct of actions by registrars, alienated shares, which led to negative consequences in the activities of such enterprises. The committee decided not to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the appointment of Koval Petr Yuriovich as judge on an indefinite basis. Please support the committee’s decision and do not recommend it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u236	Please ask Sergey Vasilovich. If you allow me not to write it down, because it's going to be a long time. Please, Deputy Babourin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u237	Dear Sergey Vasilevich, what documents did the committee have when it decided on Judge Kowalya? What evidence was there that he intervened in the business cases of courts, business entities, and how was this proved? Check, we then, at the time, postponed the examination of Judge Kowalya in order to carry out the inspection. Has the Committee been audited and what supporting documents have been submitted?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u238	Dear colleagues, we have considered the matter carefully at the meeting of the High Council of Justice, we have also considered it at a meeting of the Committee, and I wish to say to you that the Committee has taken a unanimous decision. All political forces are represented in our committee. I would like to give you a few examples where the judge of the district court who is not involved in the business imposes arrests on the Zaporozhoblanergo, Lvivoblanergo, Summooblanergo, Poltawoblanergo, Prikarpacieoblenergo, Chernigovoblanergo, although these enterprises have not even participated in the trial. We have taken all these documents and the Committee has taken such a decision. Making a decision for you. But the Committee decided not to recommend that such a judge should be elected.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u239	Thank you. Any more questions for Comrade Kiwalov? Member of the Kamchat question.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u240	Kamchatny, Timoshenko Street. Dear Sergey Vasilovich, well, I support your position on such a principled evaluation of the activities of the judges. There must be truly honest people in office. But I have a question, do you all have this attitude on your committee? For example, in Kharkiv there is a judge named Shastak, who has received a piece of land from the Harkvish city authorities and is now making unjust decisions. Do you have this selective attitude toward judges? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u241	But to those judges who are going to be elected on an untimely basis here in this room. And if we don't have information, how can we react to a judge? If you provide information, of course we will respond, we will consider these issues at the Committee's meeting.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u242	I would like to express my position as Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, Vasil Vasilovich Onopenek, on the appointment of Judge Koval Petr Juriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u243	Thank you, Arseny Petrovich! Dear colleagues, I am the only one who can add that I have been approached by the Council of Judges of the Zaporozhye Region and the local courts, and they indicate that there are certain additional data to be studied at the committee meeting. I haven't seen this data, but that's how the letter goes. So I think you need to be in this room. Maybe really put down the question of Kowal to look at all the data, to take into account the opinion of the Council of Judges of the Zaporozhye region. In general, it is not bad as a judge. As for those raids, frankly, I didn't see those materials.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u244	Can I have your name, please? Labunski. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u245	I don't know why they don't know. I want to remind you that this is the judge who has decided not to hold a rally in Horticia, what half-country has put in their ears about all political forces, and has forbidden the election of the wrong district. And we have, as always, judges. All these questions have been considered, this judge is not just dealing with corporate conflicts all over the country, he's also engaged in political activity that's very interesting. I don't understand why we're going back to that question. There must be no recommendation for such judges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u246	Please, Party of Regions. What's your name? Sulkowski, last name.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u247	Dear Arseny Petrovich! Dear colleagues! You know, the three vocations were very good when fellow national MPs respected each other, and, indeed, they were in the position of the situation that arose with regard to such matters. And so if, for example, the National MP, came either because of the delay and didn't make it through the committee, look at one or the other judge. Nothing will happen if, for example, 30 days later the question will return and that judge will be calmly cleared. So you don't have to have any discussions and argue with each other, there's information, there's a proposal, there's an extra check, it's only for the benefit of Ukraine and the people of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u248	MP Easy and we're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u249	A colleague who says nothing will happen if we check in another 30 days. My dear colleague, in the course of the year, does not serve as a judge, he continues to receive a large salary, he has the status of a judge. So you don't have to pull, you have to pull the raiders out of the judicial system. Let's vote in favour of the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u250	Honorary National Deputies, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, does not recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine elect Koval Petr Yuriovich to serve as a judge of the local court on an indefinite basis. So I'm voting on the election order. Because the decision is proposed for election. Wait a minute, wait a minute. The decision is proposed for election. If you do not vote in favour of the ruling, you support the position of the committee, another decision has to be made, Sergey Vasilovich. I'm telling you again, we have to do something legally, Sergey Vasilovich. I put to the vote the decision to elect a judge on an untimely basis, and I note that the committee proposes not to support this ruling. All of it. Please vote. [[13:26:45.]] For 1 The decision is not taken. So the committee's position is supported. 2026-5.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u251	Dear colleagues, draft decree 2026-5 of February 21, this year. About the temporary election of the judge of the local Lenin District Court of Kirovgrad, Chernish Vadim Anatoliyovich. The judge’s candidacy was already presented for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on March 15, 2007. The vote has been postponed. The committee discussed information on this judge’s case regarding the 2006 election of the city’s head in Kirovograd. The candidate was removed from the territorial electoral commission five minutes before the time of registration. The candidate appealed to the court. The judge did not examine the fact that there was a violation of electoral law by the electoral commission. In fact, the decision was not taken. The candidate was not given the opportunity to defend in court the rights of the accused and to charge the illegal actions of the TVC. After hearing the judge’s explanation, the committee decided not to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that Chernish Vadim Anatoliyovich be elected as judge on an indefinite basis. Please support our committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u252	Please. Say your last name again. Radchenko? Calchenko?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u253	Sergei Vasilovich! I'm surprised at the position with which you speak frankly. I'll just make it clear: first of all, it was a college of judges, and Judge Chernish was just not the presiding officer, but just a member of this judicial college; The other one. In fact, five minutes before the election, the territorial commission removed Nicholas from the city’s position of head. After that, the same college went to the territorial commission and wanted to obtain a decision from the territorial commission in order to make that decision so that it could be examined. But since it was not up to the prosecutor himself to make that decision and the executives were unable to obtain that decision, it was not easy to judge the court. There was just a statement, but there was no decision of the territorial commission, nothing else. There's official help. There is help from the head of the Court of Appeal and the College of Judges in Kirovograd. And so I would very much ask the deputies to support this honest one.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u254	Sergei Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u255	You know, dear colleagues, I bring here not my opinion, but the opinion of our committee, the Committee on Justice. And we considered carefully at the meeting of the Committee and made, as it were, a unanimous decision. This is the famous 100th district, you may have forgotten when the highest-ranking candidate was denied the right to vote, the gravest violation of constitutional law. The judge, as was clarified at the Committee's meeting, did not act or take a decision, did not correct the territorial electoral commission. All right, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u256	Vasil Vasilovich Onopenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u257	Dear National Deputies! I want you to listen to me carefully, because I need you to have a clear picture of this judge. In fact, there were elections in Kirovgrad. Judge Chernish did not consider the case alone, as the report says. There were three judges, and Chernish did not report the case. When the temporary commission met, they tried to enforce the commission’s decision. The commission did not give them that decision. The composition of the court, went under the door of the territorial electoral commission to retrieve this document. [[That hasn't happened before.]] No, they didn't. What could a judge do in this situation without a document? You're saying you don't have any help with any of the candidates for the judge's office, and you don't have to deal with this. True, the court cannot consider the matter if there are no documents. What's the point? Even the number of the decision. So I want to say that we need to be objective. I don't know why the committee came to that conclusion. I believe that this judge should not be recommended today. There is no specific fault for the judge! There can be no collective responsibility. And those emotions that sound like the 100th district, they, we understand what the 100th district is in Kirovograd, but there has to be some kind of guilt. Moreover, the court demanded a ruling. Later I considered it. He gave separate approval to the three judges and sent them to the Attorney General’s Office. To this day, the guilty are not held accountable. Rather, we see guilt in the work of this judge.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u258	Deputy Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u259	Vladimir Yavorowski. Dear colleagues, I am in charge of the city of Kirovograd, first of all, from the “Blanket of Yulia Timoshenko”. And secondly, I was the representative of Victor Yushchenk in the 100th constituency. I want to tell you, my dear colleagues, look, there's a statement coming from one of us. We take it, we put away the man's last name. After that, we vote. Actually, I'm surprised, with whole packs, give me tens, hundreds of judges we appoint, and then they judge other people. Some legend suddenly clings to one of them, some of them all, and we cripple the fate of this man. I know very well the attitude of the Cypriots in dealing with this judge, he is an honest, decent judge. We will support the head of the Supreme Court of Vasil Onopenek and we will vote for him, that will be fair.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u260	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u261	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very sorry that the head of the Supreme Court, Mr. Vasil Vasilovich, is not aware of whether you still do not understand the primary purpose of administrative jurisdiction, whether it be the State or the State, is where the citizen should seek protection in court. A citizen came, was not given, so what was needed? It should have been left on the ballot lists for the candidate in measure. It's about Nicole's then. How can you do that? We decided the fate of the city, we decided the fate of another person, but when it comes to corporate interests, Vasil Vasilovich, you protect them from corporate interests. Let's just have one approach and think about why judges are needed to protect human rights and you should now condemn such an approach at all, in principle, must be impossible to approach when people just spit when they don't see it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u262	Who else? Bondik, colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u263	Dear colleagues, we have a rather emotional discussion of these personnel issues. But I'm paying attention, and that was the subject of committee discussion. I may not agree with what's going on right now, but the judge has been idle, he doesn't have to go to the territorial election committee, but all in accordance with the Administrative Code to accept the approval and everything. Why would he go there if he was authorized to accept only approval? Accordingly, I do not remember 117 or any of these articles. So I'm asking, I'm really supporting my colleague Karmazin's first deputy, we have to put this question aside, because there are certain disputes that unfortunately are not in favor of the judge.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u264	Please give Sulkowski a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u265	Thank you. I would like to address Mr. Kiwalov’s committee and the head of the Supreme Court, Mr. Onopenko. You remember, it's very interesting when today the head of the Supreme Court is talking about these things with a lot of questions, and you can do that all the time. So you know from history, in the fourth call of Judge Timothy, three times did not pass in the Supreme Council and to this day, Mr. Kiwalov and Mr. Onopenko, this judge receives a salary where you never again have his right to be confirmed by the Supreme Council. I'd like to have a case like this, and the Chief of the Supreme Council knows, and the head of the committee of Kiwalov, and please tell us by now what time you're going to embarrass the Sufi Corps in front of the Ukrainian people. That's what infidelity to judges in Ukraine is!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u266	Colleagues of discussion have come to an end, but could I draw the attention of the Ukrainian National Deputies, as I am to me, to one such legal ignorance, which includes and is now taking place in the session room. In fact, it is a matter of someone speaking out of respectable national deputies of Ukraine, making claims of some sort. But these are the claims of a national MP. What should be done with article 62 of the Ukrainian Constitution, which clearly states when a person may be found guilty? After all, today we are actually putting the blame on a person. There is a special procedure for clarifying these issues, starting with the High Council of Justice and ending with the Attorney General's Office. So I have a question for the committee head. Sergey Vasilovich, have these judges been summoned to the committee? And were these judges explaining the complaints?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u267	But without the participation of a judge who goes on indefinitely, we never deal with matters. I repeat. At first, I said that we had considered, in the presence of the President of the Council of Judges of Ukraine, the First Vice-President of the Supreme Court, in the judgement of the President of the Supreme Council of Justice, the President of the High Qualifying Commission, a unanimous decision. And you're asking me whether it was considered or not.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u268	So, this way, I don't see the subject of discussion. If the Supreme Council committee has called everyone, if there is a solution, then I will put the appropriate decision to the vote, colleagues. What? Alexandrovska. I'd like a representative of Alexandrovska, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u269	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Arsenius Petrovich, the Supreme Council is not a court, not a prosecutor. However, according to the Constitution, the Supreme Council, the Supreme Council as a collective body, is the final body that decides. And it's up to you here in this room. It's not being prepared in committee, it's not being considered. People's deputies are therefore called people, despite the irony that we are open to people. We can write a statement, we can be addressed orally, we are addressed with specific complaints. And we have no right to ignore them. We have to consider them, these complaints. We have to act. To that end, we turn to a committee of profile. Sometimes we have to raise a question right in the room. The practice of Parliament's work over the years suggests that the issue is often raised correctly in the room. Therefore, do not violate the procedure and regulations and the Constitution of Ukraine. The decision was taken by the People's Deputies in the Supreme Council by a vote. That doesn't mean it's a court of law.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u270	Deputy Philenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u271	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, distinguished colleagues, I have two positions. First. Arsenija Petrovich, I can't agree with your treatment of the Supreme Council's competence in terms of personnel assignments, because if we get out of this, then there's nothing we can do here, all of us should be automatically appointed and everything. To that end, the Constitution gives us the right to make decisions as deputies, politicians on every particular personnel issue. And the second. The committee had representatives of various factions, we had very detailed discussions on this issue and on the committee, and representatives: 9 deputies from BUTU and 10 from the Party of Regions, and 2 from “Our Ukraine”, representatives of the Company, “Litvina Block”, all voted in favour of expressing mistrust and recommending to the Supreme Council not to choose it indefinitely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u272	Thank you. Vasil Vasilovich asked for words.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u273	Thank you, Arsenia Petrovich. Ladies and gentlemen, I know how hard it is to go against the current or swim. But I want you to listen to me anyway. If we speak of the responsibility of Judge Chernish, why are we not talking about the responsibility of two more judges who participated in the meeting? That's the first one. Next. There is a secret to the counseling room when the decision is made in the counseling room. Who in this room, including the judges of the Justice Committee, would be interested in the position of Chernić? No one, because it's a secret. The person who exposes it is criminally responsible. That's why Chernich's guilt isn't really proven here. And to say everything in general is just legal nihilism. That's why I'm saying it again. Judge Chernish's guilt in making a decision that has not been overturned is no more. And I insist that he be elected judge.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u274	Your Honor, let's move on to the voting procedure. I am voting on Order 2026-5 on the election of Chernić Vadim Anatoliyovich as judge of the local court of the Lenin district court of Kirovgrad. On the basis and in general, please vote. [[13:42:30.]] For 180. Unfortunately, the decision is not taken. 2026-6, please. Please show by factions. Please, Sergey Vasilovich, 2026-6, report.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u275	Since March 13, this year. The committee recommends that judges be elected on an indefinite basis: The Court of Appeal of the Zaporozhye District of Caracas, Catherine Victorian; the local Kerchen city court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Kovalova Alexander Volodymirovich;
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u276	They deny it, Sergey Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u277	The local district of Oratov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u278	Sergei Vasilovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u279	Huh?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u280	Objection to the Karakushi Catherine of Victoria.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u281	Oh, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u282	Who?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u283	Kerchi?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u284	Kovalova Aleksandra Volodymirovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u285	Kovalova?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u286	Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u287	The local Oratov district court of the Winnick district of Drachuk Tetjana Alexandrovna; Irina Mikolayevna, a local Kovellian Regional Court of Volin County, Logwinyuk. Dear colleagues, I ask you to remove this candidate. She was unable to attend a health session.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u288	Do you want me to take down the
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u289	Yes, Logwink.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u290	Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u291	Dniprožinska Dnipropetrovska oblast, a local factory district court.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u292	There's a denial.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u293	Ichchenko Tatyana Pavlovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u294	Do you object to Ivchenko Tetjani?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u295	Yvchenko?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u296	Let's take it. Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u297	The local Babushkin district court of Dnipropetrovska Maruschak Svetlana Leonidivna; the local Voroshilovsky District Court of Donetsk Livočko Ludmila Ivanovna; The local Ordjokidzew District Court of Mariupol, Donetsk Region, Kovtunko Oles Volodymyrna; the local Berdichov Regional Court of the Zhaik District of Zhaïk Hennady Mihajlovich; the local Rakhiv District Court of the Zakarpat district of Blisht Oksan Bogdanovna; the local Uzhgorod District Court of Zakarpatsk district of Bedio Vasil Ivanovich; the local Hortical District Court of Zaporozhye Illu Borisovich; The local Colombian District Court of Ivano-Frankiv District, Dimashka Vitali Petrovich. Note.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u298	Smoke? Notice, we're shooting.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u299	The local Tlumatic District Court of Ivano-Frankiv district of Gavris Jaroslav Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u300	A note from Gavrish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u301	The local Bilgorod-Dnistrov City Court of Odessa district of Lozun Olga Yuriyovna; the local Billeyiv District Court of the Odessa Region of Andreev Edouard Alexiyovich; the local Malinov district court of Odessa Juryak Sergey Volodymyrovic; the local Çortkow district court of Ternopil district of Colomiéc Natalija Zinovievna; the local Tsurupina District Court of the Herson District of Lebed Ivan Petrovich; the local Vinkovetsk District Court of the Hmelnicke District Volkov Oksana Mikolayevna; the local Kamyanec-Podil Regional Court of Hmeljna County of Borislav Vijacheslav Mikolaiovich; the local Transnistrian District Court of Cherkasa Bassak Tamaru Yegorynow; the local Wysnicke District Court of the Cherniewec Region, Kirilak Antonin Juryivna; the local court of the district court of Czernovetsk district of Kozlovsk Ludmila Dmitrovna. And the local Solomonian District Court of Kyiv Kaličenko Olen Borissovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u302	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm putting to the vote draft resolution 2026-6 with the exception of the following names: Kovalov Alexander Volodymyrovich, Logwinyuk Irina Mikolayovna, Ivchenko Tetjana Pavlovna, Dimasko Vitali Petrovich and Gavris Jaroslav Mihajlovich. Please vote on the basis as a whole. [[13:47:33]] For 405 Decision taken. Let's move on to the final bill 2026-7.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u303	The committee recommends that judges be elected on an indefinite basis: the local Jankoj Regional Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea: Rosko Marina Volodymyrovna; the local Lenin District Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea: Ukrainian Forest Ivanovna; the local Ivanichov District Court of Volin County: New Year's Igor Mikolaiovich; the local Novomoskov Regional Court of Dnipropetrovsk oblast: The sailor of Oksana Victorian; the local Amurosius District Court of the Donetsk Region: Radchenko Ellie Anatolyevna; the local city court of Dimitrov, Donetsk Region: Rarely Jeanne Eugeneous; The local Kirovograd City Court of Donetsk Kirovsky, Kyrowsky City Court of the Donetsk Region: Artemenko Larissa Ivanovna; the local District Court of the Donetsk Region: Topuzov Natalia Mikhailovna; the local Lenin district court of Donetsk: Princess Natalija Mikolaynowna; the local Petrovsky District Court of Donetsk: Juriya Grigorovitch; the local Ovrutsky District Court of the Žitomir Region: Yakuhna Alexander Mikhailovich; the local Zaporozhye District Court: Merkulov Larissa Alexiyevna; the local Ordjokidzew district court of Zaporozhye: Fishing Natal Ivanovna; of the local Galician District Court of Ivano-Frankiv Region: Mulu Oleg Dmitrovich; the local district court of Kyiv district of Chalet Roman Vitaliyovich; the local Krasnolutsky City Court of Lugansk Region, Sknarina Lily Grigorovna; The local Kili district court of Tumin Alexander Glibovich Odessa District; the local Kotov District Court of Odessa, Nikita Viktor Petrovich; the local Gaddaic District Court of the Poltava District of Harlan Natalija Mikolayevna; the local Lebedinsky District Court of Sumskie District Steczenk Vladimir Anatoliyovich; Ms. Dvoričany District Court of Kharkiv, Rybokon Evgenyyyyyyyevna; the local Yellow District Court of Kharkiv Fedushina Mikola Volodimirovic; The local Goloprist district court of the Hersonian district of Shirin Oksana Harrisovna; The local Hmelnick M.E. Court of the Hmielnicke District of Spiridon Tetjana Victorovna; the local Novozavod District Court of Chernigova Podaluku Aleksija Fedorovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u304	I'd like a word with the national deputy Shemchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u305	Dear Sergey Vasilovich, in your second position, you read the name of the judge of Ukraine: the Lenin Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, which is not in the Supreme Council ruling and handed down to the national deputies. Be good, if you can, read that last name again, if it's on the list, and if it's there, really, there is, I have an observation.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u306	What's your last name?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u307	The nickname “Ukrainian”, the second name you read.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u308	Yes. The Ukrainian forest Ivanovna. Lenin District Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Note?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u309	Sergey Vasilovich, there is a small problem with the bill 2026: you read two names that are not included in Bill 2026, the first name is Ukrainian, and the second name is Fedushina. There is no such name, neither one nor the other in the bill. Where did the names come from?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u310	The committee's decision was, we've been looking. Maybe it didn't get here.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u311	I don't deny the committee's decision. Please, 2026. Which of the national deputies has the names Ukrainian and Fedushin, raise your hand. Who has a suitable bill with two names? None. So I can't put in a bill that's not passed out to the people's deputies. You said that out of a voice, but then you have to vote now, or you have to substitute the bill, or we put it on the ground. After that, we include these two names, and only then do we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u312	Arsenius Petrovich, this is a question for your machine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u313	Our camera, Sergey Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u314	Ours, ours. To our machine, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u315	The MPs are proposing to create a TSC on this issue. It's a good offer, but not on time. So I propose to put to the vote the bill that was introduced without two names, without Fedushin and without Ukrainians. And then, if there's an insistence on inclusion, then we're going to include and vote each one by their own name. I'm betting on a bill based on 2026-7.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u316	Vote. [[13:53:47]] For 396
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u317	As a basis, it's been accepted. ‘For’ – 396. Sergey Vasilovich, now you've named two names. I'm asking for the name of the court and the names.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u318	Local Lenin District Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Ukrainian Forest Ivanovna Note.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u319	There's a note. It's automatically taken, so we don't include it. Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u320	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Sergey Vasilovich, you don't have to blame the Supreme Council's apparatus, which has absolutely nothing to do with this. [[Applause]] First. The other one. Draft decrees for consideration by the Supreme Council are prepared by committee equipment. I mean, you're gonna have to figure out, you're gonna have to keep the committees secret, you're gonna have to get your secretarial. That's two. And the third. Arseny Petrovich! I ask you such serious questions from the voice of even the chairman of the committee, not to be put to the session. We can't consider those names that aren't in the draft decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u321	And that's why I made the decision, because unfortunately, most of the Ukrainian people's deputies missed those names at all. If Deputy Shevchuk hadn't mentioned the Ukrainian, and I was talking about Fedushina, we would have voted and it would have been completely different on the transcript. Please turn on the microphone. Secretary of Labunska.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u322	I want to remind you, Sergey Vasilovich, that we created these two names yesterday, and decided to put those two names down, I don't know who voted, but a hundred percent of these two names were put off by the judge.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u323	Please, Deputy Shevchuk and our colleagues. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u324	Dear National Deputies! If, as you may remember, a stenograph is crucial when considering various bills, not a project that is given to the deputies. And in this case, we see an attempt to falsify one of the bills. In vain, Mr. Kiwalov, you have received a letter from the CBC, she has not taught you this story, and now you are manipulating the MPs again. My suggestion is that the secretary, or deputy head of the committee, should report on such important issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u325	Calm down, calm down! We'll find out where those names came from.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u326	Deputy Sulkovsky's word, please. Deputy Sulkovsky, turn on the microphone. Sit down, it's on.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u327	Dear Arseny Petrovich! This is today, and it's no wonder that I asked Mr. Onopenek and Mr. Kiwalov, when the fourth summons was held three times by a judge, they wanted to carry out a corrupter, a criminal who is practically no longer to this day, and they're still, the Superior Council of Justice, Isavite doesn't release him until today, and I just came up to Mr. Onopenko, and he says, I've long ago filed for his release. So I ask, today on this occasion, that two candidates have gone unplanned outside the committee, must be investigated and fully brought to justice, regardless of what Kiwalov is.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u328	Roman Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u329	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, respected colleagues, no jokes, and in fact some serious things are happening here. I mean, as far as I can see, the committee decides not to include two names in the draft decision, the committee head, for reasons that are not clear, I would even, let me say, for some probable reason, include these names in the draft decision. So I would like to inform you, Arsenija Petrovich, that the faction will initiate the creation of a temporary commission of inquiry to investigate this fact of gross violation of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u330	Dear Ukrainian national MPs, I think what happened today in the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament is not just an incident and not just an offence, but something more than what might happen in the Ukrainian Parliament when the national MPs are held for fools. One draft decree is given and then two names appear that have not even passed the committee and more so, the committee has decided to reject them. So on this point, I'm going to have a separate conversation with faction leaders about how to investigate this incident, this incident will not be overlooked from the perspective of the Ukrainian Parliament. If we thus appoint Ukrainian judges, we do not have to ask them what decisions they make. I'm voting on draft regulation 2026-7 without the names of the Ukrainians and the Fedushins. Only the one that was offered is in your hands. Please vote. [[13:59:47]] For 404 Decision taken. Hello. Dear colleagues, back to ruling 2026. There are several names that have been removed when the question is considered. Malinov district court of Odessa Verbicka Nina Volodymyrna Who insisted on removing Verbal Nina Volodymyrna? Verni Dub. It's on the list. I'm on the list. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u331	For this reason, Arsenija Petrovich has already stated that a complaint from the Odessa region may have come to the committee on corruption. That's why I'm handing her over to the Justice Committee -- that's their jurisdiction. Let them check the facts that are presented there, and then we'll make a decision in this room. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u332	Colleagues, when we vote, we've decided that the committee will consider it further, and we'll get back to that last name. Are we going to listen to Nina Volodymyr or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u333	No, we won't.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u334	Okay. I suggest you postpone consideration of the matter until the committee has decided. I'm going to rule 2026-1. We have several names here: the Kyiv Court of Appeal, Mamchur Jaroslav Stepanovich. National MP. Please raise the hand of the national MP. Deputat Lukyanov I'm 15 minutes away, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u335	Dear fellow national MPs! I applied for seven judges, which are in orders 26-1, 26-2,
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u336	Dear MP, Lukyanov is now talking about Decree 2026-1, I ask only by name.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u337	There's a citizen's appeal.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u338	Turn on the microphone. Turn on the lucyan microphone again?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u339	There's a citizen's appeal for these judges in Judge 26-1, this is Judge Mamchura Jaroslav Stepanovich and Kalashnik Volodymyr Aleksandrovich. I propose not to address this issue now, but to refer it to the committee and make a decision on the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u340	Colleagues, what are the suggestions? First option. To listen to the judges because there are many references, but God knows what these references are about. The first option is to listen to the judges and decide on them, and the second option is to put them back on the committee. Are we putting it on the committee? Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk and Lyszko I've moved on, colleagues. Below the stenogram: the meeting resumed. I'm asking you to listen carefully to the chairman, that was two minutes ago.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u341	Martinyuk, the Communist faction. I think come on, Arseny Petrovich, that way. Let the committee’s head react to the comments of the colleagues — that is, if the committee has not received comments and the committee has not considered them — it is indeed right to return to the committee for consideration. If there have been such complaints on the committee and he has already considered and has his decisions on the matter, let him inform us. If he has not considered it, he certainly needs to consider it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u342	Deputy Laszko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u343	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear Arsenija Petrovich, distinguished Sergey Vasilovich. Since the question of these judges has been considered on the committees and there have been no comments to them, I believe that the decision of the committee on the election of these judges should be put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u344	I have a question for the committee head. Sergey Vasilovich, have the two judges on the committee heard any complaints?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u345	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, on February 12th we considered it on the committee and I don't remember whether we were looking at it or not.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u346	Mrs. Labunska’s committee secretary, have complaints been considered? Can I ask you a question?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u347	No, there was no complaint against these judges on the committee, the committee did not have these complaints to deal with. The candidates, the decision made, were considered, but without regard to these complaints.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u348	I suggest we give the committee a chance to consider the complaints, and we'll take it up in a quick order for the next plenary week, and we'll take it up. Do you copy, colleagues? Roger that. 2026-2. We had a denial. Judge of the Supreme Economic Court Kapacin Nadija Vasilovna, Donetsk Region Black Irina Kuzminick and Ivano-Frankivsk Grinjak Bogdan Pavlovich. And Smorrodin's Olga Grigorovna. Who among the national deputies objected to the Captains of the Basilica Hope? People's Deputies, please turn on the microphone. Andrew Leonidovich, turn on the microphone. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u349	Respected national deputies, a number of comments were made to this judge, who, in deciding on several cases, were cases when they went to the advisory room and then made decisions on a number of matters. Moreover, the standards of material law were not properly applied. The two decisions made by Capacín were annulled by the Supreme Court for reasons that do not meet the requirements of material and procedural law. On these issues, Deputy Sovkovic filed a complaint. I have a complaint addressed to the committee yesterday, and I have an offer to consider it again on the committee, because we can get another judge. in the Supreme Court of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u350	Thank you, Andre Leonidovich. My colleague, Drac, suggests that the matter of Judge Capacin be postponed until the decision of the committee. Please, Secretary of the Labunski Committee. Turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u351	Please tell me what to consider if these complaints are considered. First of all, I want to point out that the Court of Appeal provides for a trial of three judges, and the judge has participated in a trial. And it's impossible to talk about what's going on in person. What if the complaint is considered by the committee and I want to point out that it is completely rejected and that the judge is recommended at all without any warning by the committee? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u352	In view of this, I will make such an offer. If the committee is offered without warning, if there is support for the hall, then we are choosing the judge on an uninterrupted basis. If not, then we should postpone until the appeal is reexamined. I'll put it to a vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Quiet. Colleagues! I put to the vote the proposal to elect an untimely judge of Ukraine's Supreme Court of Commerce, Kapacin Nadia Vasilovna. Please vote. [[14:07:09]] For 204 The decision is not taken. Next time. Please, Roman Mikhailovich. Welder Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u353	Arsenija Petrovich, we seem to have ruled that the proposal had been removed from the list of candidates for the post of judge, as noted in the draft ruling. Instead, you put to the vote a separate appointment for this judge. I would ask, however, that we ask for future questions as proposed by the Ukrainian National Deputy on the Elimination, because in this case not all the Ukrainian National Deputies understood what was at stake in the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u354	Ladies and gentlemen, I repeat the procedure. First, we removed those judges who were denied. After that, we discuss the candidate for each individual judge. In that case, if there are complaints that have been considered by the committee and are not supported, I will put to the vote in the appropriate court for election on an open-ended basis. If such complaints have come to the committee and have not been considered, I am returning the matter to the committee until the committee has considered them. It's very simple to understand. According to the judge, Kapacin reported to the committee’s secretary, who made it clear that those complaints that were referred to by Andri Leonidovich Derkac were considered and rejected by the committee. If they're rejected by the committee, I put to the vote the judge's election on an untimely basis as the reason for the judge's exclusion from the list is not as such, it's considered. Therefore, it was logical to vote in favour of this judge. That's it. What's not clear? Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u355	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. I respect Roman Mikhailovich's knowledge of the Rules and Procedures, but in this case he is wrong, the rightful Head of the Supreme Council. You did the right thing, and so I urge those colleagues who want to protect a judge, don't take the risk, because if we postpone and give the committee a chance to reconsider, it could go through again. And since he only obtained 204 votes, he was not approved by the judge. And he had a chance if we'd gone wiser and put the question aside. So please don't let down the judges you want to protect. Better let the committee take another look. And the Head put it right to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u356	Oleg Lazko. Oleg Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u357	Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Forced to agree with Adam Ivanovich, he is absolutely right. That's why we're asking you, Arsenius Petrovich. To deal with the situation, now put to the vote the question of delaying Judge Capacin's consideration back to the committee, again. Again. Let's vote, let's make a decision, let's let the committee re-examine. We also need to listen to a judge, why do we judge a person without listening to him without being able to hear his argument? Where is justice in this room?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u358	Dear National Deputies! Dear National Deputies! I think we're taking things easy on people. Because individual national MPs didn't want to hear if they actually heard what was at stake in the vote, the fate of this person would be at stake. Therefore I call you both by law and by conscience and by law. Let's call off the results of the vote that's just been adopted. Let's take it to the committee. The committee will consider the matter and we will return to it. That's why I'm putting to the vote the question of returning to the vote for the termless election of Judge Kapacin. Please vote. [[14:11:33]] For 223 Unfortunately, we will continue to consider. Let's move on, fellows. Let's move on, fellows. The next judge after Capacino. Black Irina Kuzminick. Please. The word of Labunsky and the word of the deputy of Lukyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u359	Arsenius Petrovich, please, I don't know how it formed. The fact is that Judge Capuchin is not going to live, she is transferred from the Court of Appeal of Kiev to work at the Supreme Court of Commerce. What we're talking about is what a life-saving appointment a judge is when she's already assigned for life, first of all, and this is about a transfer. That's the first one. Oh, that's different. Individual national MPs now form a separate relationship with a judge who dealt with matters honestly. And today, I don't understand the faction "Our Ukraine" when they support these issues on the committee, and they vote in the hall, and the Ripper runs around the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u360	Dear colleagues, let's go back to the draft decree. Something on the committee must be going on. I'm reading you the Supreme Council decree. I'm reading. In accordance with article 85, part one, paragraph 27, of the Constitution 128 of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides, I read, to elect the judge of the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine, Capacín Nadia Vasilovna. There's not a word about the transfer, nothing. So I'm just saying what's written in the decision. Let us give the word of the Basilica Hope, of which so much is spoken. Please, Hope Vasilyvna.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u361	Ladies and gentlemen, Arsenija Petrovich, I want to say that I am considering corporate disputes, raiding disputes. And to me, Mr. Durres, he came to my head of court and said not to see her as her ears. I talked about it on the committee, and it's a clear resolution. We make decisions by a college of judges. And all the decisions are supported by the Supreme Court of Economics. We were accepted by a college of judges at the Kyiv Court of Appeal. All our decisions are supported by the Supreme Court of Agriculture. A public hearing with the judges. That's not fair. There's no touching. There's no touching. [[B in m in s a l in]] Why did they not listen to the judge, and why did they decide?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u362	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u363	Yuri Carmazin. Dear national deputies, Your Honor! I'm asking you to calm down! First of all, it's absolutely right to choose the judge of the Supreme Economic Court, Mrs. Kapacin Nadia Vasilovna. And the reference work says that she is now serving as Judge of the Kyiv Court of Appeal. The committee considered the issue of complaints against her and acknowledged those complaints as having no grounds. If there's any new evidence, then let's say we have one principle for all the judges: that is, if we're put off for further testing, let's postpone here, but we have to cancel those votes, as proposed by the Chief of the Supreme Council. And let's continue to have one more principle: the principle is: if we postpone, there are new details, if the committee hasn't considered them, then let's look at them. If I've considered it, then we'll report what we've been looking at. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-20-m0.u364	Fellow workers, there is one heartwarming news: 14 / 15 Unfortunately, we have to stop the plenary session because all of our votes are outside the Rules, including statements. I'll see you at 4:00.
