ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u1	Good morning, dear colleagues. I'm asking you to register. [[10:01:17]] There were 372 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council is publicized. Traditionally on Tuesday, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is declared open together with the announcement of a 30-minute break at the request of two factions. The “Julia Timoshenko” and “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” on the third floor are now holding a coalition council for the final formation of the agenda. Therefore, according to article 27 of the provisional Rules, I am forced to start with a productive break.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, I ask you to take your seats. Ladies and gentlemen, I have just had a conversation with the leaders of the factions "Our Ukraine – the People's Self-Defense" and "The Yulia Timoshenko Block" about the visions of these two factions for further work. There is a desire to include individual bills in the order of the day. We now have Bill 2233 for inclusion in the agenda, and we still have a requirement for inclusion in 1408 and 2228. I think after the factions speak, we'll consider including all the bills, and it would be important that this be one vote. We'll take all the bills into the agenda and what the opposition requires and what the coalition requires. I'm asking you to sign up for the performance. Andrew Naydenov, Communist Party of Ukraine Peter Mikolaiovich, are you? Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich. I'll take five.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, honourable voters, events of recent weeks have shown that Ukraine has finally become a hostage of an orange regime built on social populism, a rewritten history, and the sale of Ukraine’s sovereignty. As shown by the preparations for the elections in Kiev, the objectively needed early elections in Kiev have turned into political absurdity. First, it impresses the cynicism of the President and his team, who directly intervenes in the re-election process and publicly impose their favorites on the mayor. Secondly, in an effort to ensure political control and domination in the capital, they are increasingly resorting to immoral and anti-legal acts, their conduct is the embodiment of political corruption, the struggle with which they imitated, causing the dissolution of the Supreme Council. The order to withdraw from the position of Rector, the known man, Skopenko Viktor Vasilovich, is therefore a powerful confirmation. Thirdly, it is absurd that the number of candidates for the post of capital measure has reached 150. Under the terms of order, the cessation of corruption, the conversion of Kiev into the European capital into a war over Kiev, various clan groups have entered. Whatever they're promising the Chinese today, whatever social bribes they're giving away, their main goal is to get full authority over municipal property and the city budget. Today, every candidate in Kiev's measure, with a single exception, has the interest of specific powerful business groups. The struggle for a city head in these elections is not led by representatives of the Kyiv community, but by business groups led by oligarchs. In the lists of parties and blocks, except for the Company that are competing for the vote of the Chinese, you don't see the workers, the intelligence -- you see the owners of the construction companies, the directors of supermarkets, the bankers, the representatives of the land business. As in the parliamentary elections, they try to hide closely behind the figures of the so - called party leaders, but just look ahead to the first five, and everything becomes clear. Then it is clear what to expect from such elections. Based on the quality of most party lists, apart from the Company, it is not difficult to assess the nature of the future Kiev authorities and to predict the effectiveness of their activities. There is no doubt that after the Chinese elections there will be new trials -- tariff rises and price increases, as was the case, and after the election to the Supreme Council. To that end, they are investing in the technology of lying, the purpose of which is to deceive the Chinese, take power in the capital of Ukraine, and continue preparing for presidential elections. The Chinese have to wait for another wave of land division, wars for property, clan bickering - the oligarchs will not deal with the problems of the city and the protection of the citizens' interests, this axiom, which has already proven life on many occasions and, by the way, the honorable kyans, has also led this Kyiv Council that is working today. They promised a lot, but only one thing they did -- they destroyed children's sports courses, destroyed green plantings, destroyed everything just to build a future for themselves and get millions. The start of the election campaign in Kiev demonstrated the overwhelming desire of the ruling coalition to deepen the state - run chaos. Obviously, the election in Kiev is another experiment, the circulation of new political technologies. They have already become a tool and a victim of destruction. a devastating race of oligarchs for political primacy. This means only one thing: Kiev’s voters, like Ukraine’s future voters, will again be deceived. For oligarchic political politicians, kyans are just a political resource, an object of their political agenda. the cynical political intentions. That is why Communists warn that if one or more clans rule in Kiev, it will be a judgment for all other regions of Ukraine for the territorial communities, which will also expect the share of pedestrians in the political game before the presidential elections. We urge the people of Kiev, like all Ukrainians, to give up the support of the oligarchs and their blocs, the adventurous politicians, not to believe their sweet speeches and the belligerent zeal. Today, when the orange regime and the business clans have established absolute control over urban life, none of them will act in the interest of the Chinese. For the communists, participation in the Kiev elections is a continuation of the active struggle for the rights of the Kyiv. So Kiev doesn't need a vice president or oligarchs, Kiev needs an independent city self-government and an effective city executive committee, that is, the capital today needs a capital government. This is exactly what we will stand for, protecting the interests and the Chianas and all of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u4	Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich, "Club of Yulia Timoshenko".
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u5	Dear Head, fellows! Dear voters! Ukraine now needs serious, balanced decisions and especially unity, both in all branches of power and in political power, more than ever. Our lives are filled with events that are changing like that of a kaleidoscope, and each of which is very resonant and preconceived. Every problem that confronts Parliament, government, society is already a full-scale challenge. Ukraine’s very situation makes it both geopolitical and geoeconomic. Convincedly, you and I have long realized that we are fully in the midst and context of world events and trends. Responsibility for the fate of the nation, for the further development of Ukraine, is colossal. So we don't have time to delay. Borrow yourself: It was only the first decade of April, but what a decade! The Bucharest summit is at the forefront of Ukraine. We haven't been able to make statements on one side, as the other side said. And we realized that there was a challenge to our sovereignty and security. Next. Last Thursday in this room, an absolute majority of the political forces made a responsible decision regarding Ukraine’s final membership in the World Trade Organization. Indeed, we are among the last, all the previous 145 countries have dictated their terms. It's going to take serious effort to win the projected place under the sun in this prime minister of the world trade. And that's what we need to do right now. Are there any risks? Of course there is. Against what background are these risks: for almost a year now, we have been facing a severe and devastating global financial crisis that has put the world’s currency completely at the brink of stability. Threat? Absolutely. In addition, since the end of last year, there has been a second dangerous food crisis, which experts estimate will take a long time. Also, there is an ever - increasing shortage of extractive energy resources, and their price is rising at a high rate. As a result, in most countries of the world, price indices, especially the consumer basket, have broken sad records. In recent years, fuel and gas in Europe have nearly doubled, and food prices in the United States have increased by one and a half. But notice, in no country that respects itself and survives these difficult times, no panic, no accusations, and no opposition, on the contrary: difficulties unite nations. The BUT faction is convinced: and in the light of these events and processes, it is time for us to end the 16-year-old war of ambition, intrigue and fruitless political struggle that has almost drained the elite of the country. We have a society waiting for us to act quickly, decisively and together, and I stress that. First, there is a need for immediate legislative strengthening of adaptation measures to protect the national producer from unfair competition and, equally important, to protect the Ukrainian consumer from inequitable consumption and food surrogacy. These measures are taken by the government, and we insist that they be included in the agenda and considered immediately. Secondly, immediate energy measures are needed to contain inflationary processes. At the forefront are antitrust activities, especially the establishment of a system in the realm of numerous brokers and trading networks. Why, then, are we delaying the primary consideration of human resources in this area? Thirdly, in two years, money has doubled to the population. This money mass is high on the consumer market, especially food, because Ukrainians consume only 60 percent of meat compared to the 1990 ’ s. In the world, this is done peacefully, without pyar, through regulated imports. And we need to do this in a balanced, reasonable, reasoned way. Is it someone who is interested in protecting the manufacturer to provoke a further explosion of prices that will bury both the income of the peasants and the consumer’s budget? There is no dispute, people need to be supported and protected, and the government is doing it. But let's shout: Give me a new budget! We don't mind. Come on. But 9 billion dollars coming from privatization -- plan, fact -- zero. Why are we blocking the resolution of human resources here? Why are we blocking the cancellation of the MP's benefits? And there's 180 billion, millions of economies that would be enough to finance more than one social program, especially unprotected ones. We, the BUT faction, are responsible for the deep, balanced, decision-making decisions that are based on the unity of all around the fate of our people and all of Ukraine. Thank you, I hope for your understanding and support.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u6	Andrey Parubius, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u7	Honourable deputies, Ukrainians, recent anti - Ukrainian statements by Russian high officials testify that a targeted information attack is taking place against our country. This propaganda war on the part of the political, diplomatic leadership of the Russian Federation testifies to their Russian, cynical chauvinism and aims to intimidate Ukrainians, to force them to give up their future prospects of membership in Euro-Atlantic structures, to renounce their own history, to renounce the veneration of the victims of hunger, and to restore historical justice for the heroes of the UPA. Special attention was given to the statements made by the military. In particular, the head of the General Staff of the Armed Forces of the Russian Federation, Valujewski, who stated on April 11, that he did not exclude the use of military measures aimed at securing Russia’s interests. For the first time since the conflict around Tuzla, Ukraine has faced a threat to Russia, which openly claims aggressive ambitions toward Ukraine through its leaders. We remind ourselves that the Russian Federation is one of the countries that gave Ukraine security assurances that were secured in the Budapest Memorandum of 1994 after our country gave up the third nuclear arsenal in the world. In addition, statements by the Russian leadership call into question international agreements that guarantee the inviolability of existing borders, such as the 1975 Helsinki Declaration of Principles, which provides for the non-use of force or threat of force, the inviolability of borders, the territorial integrity of the state, and noninterference in internal affairs. This situation forces the faction "Our Ukraine – the People's Self-Defense" to appeal to the Ukrainian authorities, political parties and the general public to unite their efforts to protect the national dignity of Ukrainians, territorial integrity and state sovereignty. The terrible lessons of Ukrainian history show that the external enemy has always used our disunity and the lack of unity of Ukrainian patriots. This was at the time of the announcement of the Ukrainian State at the beginning of the last century, when the disunity of politicians led to the death of young Ukrainian patriots under the Kruts. This was the case in the 1940 ’ s. That's why we urge our partners in the democratic coalition of the Yulia Timoshenko bloc to reject all misunderstandings, to continue their cooperation for the effective work of parliament and government, which, alongside the President of Ukraine, should become an effective tool for protecting national interests. Today, we need more than ever to unite around the position of President of Ukraine, who is called upon by the Constitution to defend the sovereignty of our nation, territorial integrity, and the national security of our nation. So today, any discussion of what might be the order of our daily parliament to eliminate or weaken the role of the President is actually an anti-Ukrainian action. We claim that in the face of external encroachment on the territorial integrity and national statehood of Ukraine it is necessary to reject all its narrow party interests and to share in giving back to the imperial ambitions of the Kremlin. We also believe that we should pay attention to the fact that the Russian Federation, which on the one hand is actively calling on the international community not to recognize Kosovo, based on international agreements, at the same time, allows for the same aggression with regard to Crimea in relation to Ukrainian territory. This once again testifies to the politics of double standards that the Russian Federation is now leading in its international actions. And this should show us once again that Ukraine's only effective defence against the expansion and aggression of Russia is the introduction to Euro-Atlantic structures. We must unite Ukraine’s entire national elite in order to inform society as quickly as possible of the importance of Euro-Atlantic integration to the realization that only Ukraine’s entry into NATO can ensure and guarantee the territorial integrity and sovereignty of Ukraine. At this time, I urge all politicians to unite, to think about the future of Ukraine, to think about what we now have to do to ensure the statehood of Ukraine and its future, and the future of our children. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u8	Grenevetsky Sergey Rafailovich, “Block of Lithuania” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u9	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! People's deputies from the Lithuanian Blok faction held mass meetings with voters in the regions last weekend. Following the exchange of impressions and thoughts at a faction meeting, a general conclusion can be drawn, unfortunately, that legal nihilism is based on State policy, and corruption and irresponsibility are the means of government. Obviously, the narrower the legal field, the wider the space for legal nihilism, and then, to widen the gap between the state and man to the limit of antagonism, which is already signs of a systemic crisis. For what else can be explained is the contempt of the government for the implementation of the State Budget 2008 Act? The Cabinet of Ministers was requested to develop a draft of the 2008 State Economic and Social Development Programme for Ukraine within two months from the date of entry into force of this Act and to submit it for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the same time as the draft law amending the Ukrainian State Budget Act. This has not been done. And I understand that by Easter, it won't be done. In the same way, all projects and programs in the regions are stopped, people are abandoned, and everyone is concerned about big politics. So can we seriously talk about major structural transformations, energy conservation programmes, agricultural reform, increasing the competitiveness of the region's economy in the internal and external markets, building affordable housing. By the way, it's the last one. I want to focus your attention on the implementation and funding of the State Programme for Youth Housing by 2012. It is relevant and necessary, primarily for many young families and young people in the budget sector who are unable to obtain their own housing without the help of the State. Only 50 million dollars are available for the implementation of this programme in the 2008 budget. These funds will allow housing for an average of 6 young families in each region, although more than 100,000 young families are currently in line to improve living conditions. One more thing. Zarubinsky’s colleague from this rostrum claimed that the so - called independent external testing was unconstitutional, unthinkable, and ineffective. You'd hear what the reformers say about such innovations when, say, children from Ishmael and the city of Rennie have to travel nearly 300 kilometers across two state borders in the Odessa region and arrive at 9 a.m. in the morning for independent testing. I’m not saying that many organizational issues are not settled today, such as pay, food, and so forth. And for the rest of the price. We're assured of overcoming inflation in five to six months. Great. So logically, this is going to happen either in the late summer or in the early autumn. In fact, after harvesting a new crop, when it is understood. But we have to have a reasonable forecast, and so far we see that exports because of what is happening in Ukraine are not and cannot be, there are only different levels of incompetence. As a result, instead of reforming social policies, such as wage reform, there is a steady increase in social transfers. And how not to mention the classic. In the original language, “Our fast-growing incomes cannot be diverted at your slow-to-use prices”. A more realistic analysis of the National Bank of Ukraine, by Vladimir Semenovich Stelma, last Friday in this room, appears to be on the backdrop of government forecasts. That is, the economy is overheating, and our main task with you is to keep the security techniques in place so that our society doesn't get burned. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u10	Victor Slauta, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u11	Dear chairman, distinguished national MPs, voters! Ladies and gentlemen! Now you either have to look for a reason for a statement, you don't have to look for a long time -- that's not the day, that's the news, that's the reason. Everyone was so angry and mean that I remembered the story. When an overseer enters the prison cell and says: “What, my friend, is bad news for you? You will be executed today.” “And what’s today’s day?” asked the non-worker. Monday. "Well, it doesn't start a week." It's about the same way we do. Mid-April, Monday, evening. People came back from work, turned on the TV, and on "First National," the lead man immediately asked everyone: “Will the coalition break down soon?” The “ICTV” is even better later – the leader asks: “Is the conflict between the President and the Prime Minister threatening stability in Ukraine?” In general, everyone in Ukraine today is both a financier and an economist. Life is forcing. Everyone already knows about prices, price index, pricing, inflation, galloping, hyperinflation, stagnation. And this, remember, at the end of last week, is the honorary colleagues, after the show “the hour of government” which the coalition stubbornly refused, where they reported to themselves, where they asked themselves questions, where they were laughing and applauding themselves. Another phrase remained inconceivable: “Ukraine is nearing stagflation.” This was quietly said by the head of the National Bank of Ukraine. Helpful. Stagflation is a state of economics in which depression, stagnation in production, in trade, in the social sphere, while developing the inflation process at the same time. These are no longer applause, no joy, no great optimism. Indeed! Durkomstat announced annual inflation data. The first quarter is 9.7. This is more than a government forecast for a year. Worst score in seven years. Higher inflation was only in 2000. The president said that inflation would lead to an annual rate of over 34 percent. The rate of growth in industrial production, in the agricultural sector, in the income of citizens has declined dramatically. We hear statements: no further inflation. True, when and how is it not understood?Oh, my God! There are only premonitional hopes for a record crop, as well as restrictions on the value of goods in the fairy tale order for everyone and everywhere. By the way, about the crop, about the record. First of all, to break a record, you have to have 50 million tons of grain, not 40. In 2004, the bunker weight of the grain was 46 million, and it was cleaned 42. Second, we have to plant the spring itself, and the main thing is to care for and harvest the crops. The crop has been sown by people who have sown 8 million in the winter, but the frenzied increase in prices in the eighth year on fire, minibars, plant protection products makes it impossible to protect not only their own, but what you have not sown. Specialists say that in many regions the winter is yellowing from a lack of nutrients. So the record crop will be when it's in the chamber. That is what our parents and children said. What about state support? Where is she? It is not possible to activate it, since the budget provides for 70 percent of the cost to farmers in the third and fourth quarters. In such a situation, the World Trade Organization will be a very difficult experience for a domestic farmer. And the meat of 300,000 tons that try to import will not save the situation by lowering taxes and duties. Let's get 3-4 million corn out of here that's already spraying on the elevators and warehouses. Therefore, respectable colleagues, respected coalitionists, do not quarrel over nothing. Party of regions and we all ask: Don't fall apart! We beg you to consider the State's proposals. The faction of the Party of Regions for Ukraine, for the Ukrainians, will support all your benefits. Get away from populism! It's time to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u12	Thank you, dear colleagues. The time for statements by members of the MPs has come to an end. Once again, I would like to remind you that, as a result of an appropriate interruption, the two factions, which have a majority in Parliament, are asking Parliament to consider the inclusion of Bills 2228 and 1408 in the agenda. We have a requirement of opposition to the inclusion in the agenda of Bill No. 2233. That's how I propose. All right, I'll tell you what, colleagues, half a second. So I would like to consider the inclusion of Bills 2228, 1408 and 2233 in the agenda. As far as the substance of the bill is concerned. I'll tell you all the names, half a second. As far as the substance of the bill is concerned, we will consider it when we vote for inclusion. So Bill No. 1408 is a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy; a bill. What are you yelling at, comrades? Let me read the names of the bill. Well, what are you yelling at? I'll finish, I'll give you a word of that. What are you worried about? All by the Rules. I repeat: 1408 is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Ukrainian People's Deputies and some other Ukrainian laws; 2228 is a separate regulation, not a TSC report, on the appointment of alternate members of the Kharkiv City Council and the Kharkiv City Head, and 2233 is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Privatisation Program. [[concerning the limitation of the benefits and the suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian National Deputy]] Please sign up who wants to speak. Do you have a wish to make a statement? Alexander Sergiyovich, is it? I'm asking you to sign up for three minutes. Zibenko Peter Stepanovich, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u13	Thank you, the Communist faction Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, first of all, as far as Bill 2233 is concerned, we have a list under the heading “Inclusion into the agenda”. We don't, in principle, deny it. As far as the last drafts are concerned. You know, there was a consensus council yesterday, and they agreed on today's issue, and they slept through it, and they woke up with other opinions. So we're just gonna keep jumping around all day for a week just to please someone? That's why I think there's a set-up for today, and we have to work on this agenda, not do anyone's puzzles. They've put together a coalition, they've borrowed, they can't make a deal with each other, so let's spin the whole Supreme Council. This does not honor the Supreme Council. So I'm convinced that there's an order of the day that's been formed today, let's work in accordance with this order of the day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u14	Welder Roman Mikhailovich. Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich, I'm sorry, Vjacheslav Anatoliyovich. Kirilenko Viacheslav Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u15	Viacheslav Kirilenko, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense". Dear colleagues, we are certainly interested in having our Parliament work effectively and, at some point, it is desirable that it focus as quickly as possible on issues that will lead to structural economic reforms and respond to challenges that have been brought about by some negative phenomena in the economy. And the bills that urge us to think about it have already been introduced by both the President and the government enough. But right now, since there's a three faction proposal for three issues, you have to figure out how to put these issues into the order of the day. We believe that since the Kiev issue has been resolved in Parliament, the Kharkiv issue must also be resolved. Reports were also appropriate, and documents were given to the deputies regarding the appropriate abuse of officials. We're here today to make the Kharkiv decision to accept and give the start to the Kharkiv out-of-order elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u16	Terjehoin Sergey Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u17	Something Tomenko has to say, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u18	Something tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u19	Dear colleagues, I wanted to draw attention to the right side of the hall so that they could examine the order of the day. And I'll tell you that we didn't dream in the opposition last night that there would be six or eight drafts proposed by the opposition on Tuesday or Wednesday. Here are the laws of the government of Janukovic, who, by the way, on the faction, a large number of them, concerning the order of criminal responsibility, will support our faction because it's not about who passed the bills, but about who should accept them. So we insist that our position be taken into account. Ukrainian society is awaiting order with the benefits of national MPs, with the political responsibility of national MPs. So we are confident that the entire session room will vote in favour of inclusion in the agenda of 1408. And so Parliament has to put a dot on the Harkow question -- and stop the discussion, whether we're in charge of the election or not.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u20	According to Rule 34, paragraph 4, each faction has a guaranteed right to speak on a matter of order. Therefore, do the factions of the Party of Regions and the “Block of Lithuania” insist? Is he insisting? I beg you, Oleg Zarubinsky. The region's party is Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u21	Thank you. Dear Arseniy Petrovich, my fellow dignitaries, it is quite clear that the desire to put the daily bill or other bills into order now, when the Conciliation Council met today, it is a desire to destabilize the work of the Supreme Council, which is the result of disagreement and mistrust among members of the coalition. It's perfectly understandable. But I want to ask you something else. Arsenius Petrovich, see how the order of the day is formed. This bill, which deals with the introduction of a fair pay in Ukraine, the introduction of an hourly pay for work has been delayed for a month, and it is always done in such a way that it cannot be considered. I think it's important for my fellow Members to put first the issues that are being raised, which are needed by the voters, by the people of Ukraine, and not by corporate internal political bickering, to the forces that want to destabilize the work of Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u22	Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u23	Thank you, Arseny Petrovich. I think our meeting today is being printed by yesterday's coalition meeting. And what they did this morning is once again saying that issues that are not being resolved within the coalition are trying to move to the hall for their resolution and that coalition supporters are, unfortunately, not willing to work in the hall, it is obvious. That's why we're trying to get rid of the rope and the food today, Arsenius Petrovich. I would like to say separately about Project 2288, which is the third time you have considered in this room. I would like to recall that if we hear reports on the work of the TSC, we have the right to submit only two records during the session. If we have voted, let us go back to the transcript of the conference, according to article 102 of the Rules, this bill is considered to be rejected. If it is deemed to be rejected, it shall not be entitled to be introduced at the current session and at the extraordinary next session. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u24	Let me finish. Do you need to finish, Alexander Sergiyovich? Well, I get it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u25	Yes, therefore, what we are trying to do today is contrary to the rules and will lead to the blockade of the work of the Supreme Council. If the coalition's supporters set themselves to do so, they would be able to achieve their goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u26	Thank you. Dear colleagues, time for discussion is over. Allow me to make a few comments. The first is about the formation of the agenda. It seems that the order of the day is formed in an extremely just, in fact, fifty - fifty times fifty. That is 50 percent of the drafts that the opposition is proposing, 50 percent of the bill that the coalition is proposing -- and that's the principle of justice that should exist in the walls of Parliament. The second issue is the introduction of Bill 2228. Dear Alexander Sergiyovich. You know I'm never going to break the Rules, so I picked up the transcript. It turns out that we didn't vote in favour of Bill 2228 because it's a bill, a decree made by the committee. And we voted in favour of the day-to-day report of the TSC, after a positive report, 22,28, respectively. Thus, we do not violate the Rules when we are solely questioning the inclusion in the agenda of 2228. And the third question that Zarubinsky's colleague has said is that the bill that provides for the social package. We will definitely arrive today, or tomorrow, to a corresponding bill, which provides for a suitable package. Two factions have already been requested, now two other factions have requested a recess – the faction of the Party of Regions and the Communist Party of Ukraine. Would you mind? Let's vote for inclusion in the agenda and then you. [[B in m in s a l in]] Comrades. Well, we started the question. We started to consider the matter. In accordance with the Rules, if the issue is being considered, the suspension shall be announced after the inclusion into the agenda has been considered. I tell you again that the issue of inclusion in the agenda is being considered without interruption in accordance with the Rules. You're forcing me to break the Rules. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I ask you all to take your seats. There is a requirement for you to take a break, although this is an unregulatory requirement. Take a break for 30 minutes. Don't yell, please. Go on, get some advice. In 30 minutes, you'll be making a statement. Don't shout, please. Please take a break, go. I'm calling it a break. Go on. Take a break.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u27	That's why we'll give them a chance to work, and we've got till 12:30 p.m. under the Rules. So let's let the two factions -- the Communists and the Party of the Regions -- work together and come out at 12:30.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u28	Dear colleagues, let's go into the hall. We're starting a meeting. We continue the morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. To announce the results of the respective recess, I invite Efraemov Alexandr Sergiyovich to the rostrum of Parliament. Please, Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u29	Dear colleagues! Given that I think we all agree in one thing that the Supreme Council should work, and we must find compromises in dealing with emerging issues, we propose the next package vote on the bills that have been proposed today. To vote by package under bill 2228, 2228-p, 2233 and 1408. What was proposed was 2228 Harikov, 2228 P was Harikov's. They are going through a package of issues. 2233 is a matter of privatization. And 1408 are benefits, an imperative mandate. We propose a package to vote in favour of the inclusion of all these bills on the agenda, and then everyone will be determined when considering a matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u30	The position was understood by the factions of the Party of the Regions. I'm asking you to sign up for three minutes. According to the Rules, respected Peter Mikolaiovich, one faction of two has the right to speak. One! All right, then we'll hand over the rest to Peter Mikolaiovich Simonek. Okay. The amount of time left. Turn on the microphone for Simonnck, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u31	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues! Dear radio listeners! This is about the continuing speculation about what the Supreme Council is doing today. Obviously, the coalition is already incapable of organizing the work. Yesterday at the Conciliation Council, we agreed on today’s agenda and started work. But the coalition today is unable to provide. The main thing is to figure out what their reason is, why they're repeating everything that happened in 2005, when they were working three or four months, and then five months later, they kind of bounced, like they weren't involved. Dear radio listeners! Promises, one more time. And they've been fooled by what's in the power of certain interests -- the acquisition of property. And they don't hide it anymore. It's being talked about openly, it's being speculated on openly, it's what they're trading with each other about. We have not only a right but also a responsibility. So they took the right after the election, and the responsibility, they gave it up. So today, chaos in the administration continues to divide property. And as we see with you today, and the result for our citizens, that's inflation. The president, and that's what television says all the time, from morning to evening, he does skulls and bones, he doesn't do anything anymore. Maniac desire to have unlimited authority. This also characterizes the President today. Because he started the constitutional process by trying to force everyone, first of all the Supreme Council, to accept that draft Constitution he considered necessary. What he thinks is going to Donetsk to gather the heads of the administrations and there to practically start the referendum process, it's also obvious to us. Thus, the Communist faction once again warns that the coalition is deliberately blocking the organization of the Supreme Council’s work today because it is ineffective. She is not ready to organize a work in the name of the people of Ukraine. It's just a grab today.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u32	Dear colleagues, I would like to return to our constructive work. It would be very good if Parliament worked on procedures that were agreed upon and that were handed out to you, namely, the timetable for the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I sincerely hope that the political vacchanalia that we have at the end of the year will end. But there is a coalition position, there is a position of opposition. In view of this, I understand that this is a constructive option. So we're not going to block, and we're going to go on a day-to-day basis, because today we have a lot of social bills, starting with bills for supporting families that adopted the child, and ending with hourly pay, self-pecilizing, and so on. So, please, we now put three bills into the agenda: one, opposition, two, coalition. We vote 1408, inclusion in the agenda. We are voting 2228 with the corresponding decrees, which are here introduced, a fraction of “P”. We vote 2233 if I'm not mistaken. Is that right or wrong, colleagues? That's right. Thus again three bills: 2228, 1408, and 2233. Please, cook again. Welder and Ephraim and Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u33	Dear Arsenia Petrovich, fellows of honor! In this case, we need to work on the Rules, not as anyone would like, more than opposition. The principle remains to coalition the question of holding consecutive elections in Kharkiv by the Kharkiv mayor and the council. So we would strongly like to ask the question that this issue should be voted separately, as it is urgent, obvious today, especially since the Supreme Council of Ukraine has created an investigative commission on this issue. Instead, it is proposed that the opposition vote on 2228/P, where it is envisaged to vote on the issue, change the voting method and vote on it with a raise of hands. I would like to draw, Your Honor Arsenija Petrovich, your attention to the fact that in the Rules the possibility of changing the voting method in the roll-call mode arises only when the electronic system does not work. In this case, we don't have the smallest ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u34	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u35	This does not indicate the smallest, even the smallest, fact that the electronic system does not vote in nominal mode. Therefore, there is no reason to apply the norm, as the opposition suggests. So we insist that we include 22,228 in the agenda and vote on this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u36	Alexander Ephraim, please, and Oleg Zarubinsky, and Sergey Sas.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u37	Dear colleagues, I have great respect for Roman Mikhailovich, but something must have happened to my memory. If you remember when we voted on the election of the Prime Minister, the question was that we did not have the “Council” vote as it was meant to vote. And even at your suggestion, the establishment of a temporary commission had been initiated, which was considering the issue and had not yet given its opinion. During this time, we have had dozens of appeals on your part, and on our part, they are recorded in the transcript of the sessions for failure to respond to the "Work" system. Therefore, if you want to formally rely on this rule of the Rules, please confirm our work at the full moment. As for Arsenius Petrovich, we insist that if the coalition does not want to work, let it say that we do not want to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u38	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u39	Because question 2228, which for them, coalitions, is fundamental, where clan analysis on Kharkiv is arranged, is fundamental to us that we do not want to bury our legislation in Ukraine, which is successful every day there, there, does not work. We will therefore, in principle, advocate either consideration in package 2228, 2228-P or leave the right to act as we deem necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u40	Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u41	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues, you, Arsenius Petrovich, rightly said that there are coalition interests and there are interests in the opposition hall. I want to add, and I want to add, the interests of common sense and simply the human policy that we are characterizing -- the Block of Lithuania. And I'm asking you to do that. [[Applause]] Yeah, yeah. Thank you for your understanding and for your support of this thought. I suggest you take a different course. Since no question was raised at the Conciliation Board yesterday regarding today’s inclusion in the order of the day, it is accordingly of an entirely conjunctural nature, evidently after a meeting there yesterday, fighting, fighting, and so forth. Therefore, our position is to put to the vote first and to consider the issue of State support for families, the state aid for families with children, the increased responsibility for violations of land laws, the imposition of hourly pay for work, and those who want to engage in politics stay and vote here at night.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u42	Sergei Sas, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u43	Thank you. Dear Arseny Petrovich! Dear colleagues! I would like to remind my colleagues in the Regulatory Committee that we have prepared a regulation of 2228P for consideration by the Committee, but we have concluded that it is not possible for it to be considered in the Supreme Council in such an order, given that part of Article 37, part 5 provides that the Supreme Council may make a procedural decision on the definition of the type and method of voting on the question that is being considered if the species and manner are not established. In this case both species and ways are established, and then we should be guided by article 47, section 2. If my colleagues wanted the ruling to be considered, I wanted to remind myself of the Constitution 91 article, according to which laws, decrees are adopted by the majority, and other acts are adopted by a majority of the constitutional order. Thus, the provision in accordance with article 5, part 5, of article 37, article 49 of the Rules cannot be adopted by 150 votes. I'd like the opposition colleagues to pay attention to that.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u44	Thank you. Dear colleagues, as always, I propose a good decision for the entire Parliament, we are not currently considering the bills in fact, we are discussing the inclusion in the agenda. Wait a minute. Only for inclusion in the agenda. So let's vote on the inclusion in the order of the day phrase that Sergey Volodymyrovich said, absolutely right. Under any circumstances, any faction can ask a 37th question about how to change the voting system. So when you look at the question of Harkov, then you'll be fighting how to vote that vote, but we need to now make a decision to put into the agenda 2228, 2233 and 1408 respectively. And after that. It's in the bag, absolutely. It's not in the package, because 91 of the Rules provides. I quote, this is not a deviation from the Rules. Comrades, I'm telling you once again, if we're considering a bill, you're right. Can you listen to the chairman? In accordance with the Rules, you have the right to ask the question of how to change the voting procedure. There is your determination, you will insist on this decision. [[B in m in s a l in]] Look, go with God. You do not enter the Presidency, please go with God. Don't stand still. I'm telling you again. I'm telling you again. Listen. If we're 2228-P, you listen to what Sass said to you, it makes perfect sense. You don't need 150, you need 226 votes. So when we look at the question, you're going to raise questions about how to change voting. No one can take you out of this under the Rules. [[B in m in s a l in]] Then I need 226 votes.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u45	This should be included in the agenda and 150 should be voted on.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u46	I'll tell you what. Colleagues, there's an offer like this. Let's put 2228, 2228-P, 1408 and 2233. Is that gonna work or not? It doesn't play any more, it's where you put it. What is involved in a procedural decision does not require a decision. Can I keep my ear shut and get a little further away from me? Comrade Lukyanov, please don't stand above your soul, please. Move aside a little bit. Once again, colleagues, we're making a decision of 2228, including "p." We'll work it out on the march, dear friends! Well, let's go meet our colleagues and the brothers from the opposition. Is that a decision to make? No objections? I'm voting 2228, 2228-p, 1408, 2233. Okay? Okay. I am voting on the question of the inclusion in the agenda of these four draft regulations. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[12:47:42]] For 323 You see. Alexander Sergiyovich, I ask you to speak with Lukyanov before he enters the Presidency. As soon as he's elected his first deputy, he'll be sitting right here. Please. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I now propose: emotions are cleared, everyone calmed down. These bills will be considered after the break, and in the morning we will consider the laws that the state is awaiting: we will consider 1315, we will consider 1452, we will consider 1453, and in the afternoon, as agreed on by the factions, we will consider the bill on the coalition, which will necessarily call for the blockade of the rostrum. [[second reading]] [[Wait a minute!]] I therefore declare Bill 1315 to be considered. Question: Are we looking at it as a shortcut or as a whole? Short cut. I am voting on the summary procedure of Bills 1315, 1452, 1453. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[12:49:05]] For 225 Thank you. “For” – 225, decision taken. That's 150, a procedural decision. Colleagues, the Rules need to be read. Temporarily. Proclamation of Bill 1315. Reported to Alexander Vitaliyovich, First Deputy Head of the Ukrainian Secretary of the Republic of Ukraine. Please, Alexander Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u47	Dear Arsenia Petrovich! Dear National Deputies! By a bill that I have the honour to report in this high hall, the President of Ukraine proposes only to initiate discussions on the state regulation of natural monopolies and adjacent markets. We need to identify with you the role and place of so-called national regulators and other government authorities, which are by nature not executive authorities. European world experience has long produced basic requirements for national regulators. I'll remind them. They are created to control businesses operating in monopolies and adjacent markets, financial markets, and so forth. National regulators should be independent of any branch of authority, European tradition calls them “quasi-vascular authorities” whose task is to make an objective decision in a natural dispute between the service provider and the consumer. Finally, national regulators are made up of unpopulated professionals who are better in their field. What do we have? In fact, we have constitutionally prescribed only regulators such as the National Bank of Ukraine and the Antimonopoly Committee. In major monopolistic markets, national regulators are either not created, such as transportation, utilities, or the structure of executive authorities, including, which means that apriors are managed by those who control natural monopolies. This is about electricity and communication. The situation was exacerbated by the adoption of the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers. The point is that the Ukrainian tradition, unlike European, called national regulators “executive authorities”. True, when I realized that things weren't that simple, I added such a tail with special status. Yet, for two years now, this so-called tail has been rejected, and these organs have been recognized by the ordinary executive authorities, which, once again, violates the very nature of national regulators. I can give many examples of the harm that this cooperation of executive and national authorities can do.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u48	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u49	caused the Ukrainian economy. To give examples of how Oblenergo was privatised, as gas tariffs were set for industry last year, as executive authorities are raising more than 30 per cent of the tariff on rail transport this year. And this is not to balance the interests of consumers and service providers, but only to raise financial capacity in this case of the “distractors”, ignoring all other interests. Ukraine today is in dire need of a European world system of national regulators. Ukraine urgently needs such serious administrative reform. We have also added to the law amendments to the laws on the State Border Service and the State Service for Special Liaison and Information, since in accordance with article 106 of the Constitution both of these structures work in the sphere of national security and defence of the State. I would like to support this bill of MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u50	Thank you, Alexander Vitaliovich. I invite the head of the Economic Policy Committee, Mr. Anton Vladimirovich, to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u51	Dear colleagues, the Committee considered the bill at its meeting on 25 January. It was only because he was a coalition that it was decided to support him in his first reading. Of course, it requires substantial further work on second reading if it is now approved by the Hall. And basically, here's the thing, actually, before that, Schlapak Aleksandr Vitalevich put it all together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u52	Head of the Committee on National Security and Defence, Gricenko Anatoly Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u53	Dear Arsenia Petrovich, fellows of honor! I liked the beginning of Mr. Schlapak's performance. He said that the President is proposing to start a discussion on natural monopolies. In fact, the president is proposing to adopt a bill, which is insistent. The bill is called “To make changes to certain laws of Ukraine”. To be honest, it should have been called “Concentration of power in the hands of the legislator through the violation of the Constitution”. So on the four pages of the conclusions of the General Scientific and Scientific Administration, this document is in conflict with the current Constitution. New organs are introduced that are not foreseen among branches of government. Let us see if there are two structures that belong to natural monopolies: the State Border Service and the State Special Liaison and Information Protection Service? In no way, according to a decision approved by the Supreme Council, the State Border Service is in fact a military formation of 50,000 people, including 42,000 military personnel. It has a land component, an aviation component, a marine component, and a weapon. DSSI is also a strong structure, over 8,000 people, over three thousand officers, 10 generals per state, and so on. These are not natural monopolies, and these are structures that will actually, once this law is passed, only be closed to the President. Our committee has considered this bill carefully and proposes that it be rejected unanimously, not accepted in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u54	Two for, two against, please. Naydenov, the Communist faction. Who Speaks From Communists? Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u55	Thank you. Matthew, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, the proposed bill and once again reaffirms that the guarantor of the Constitution and his team do not want to accept that we are now on a completely different political scale. We live in a parliamentary-presidential state, not the other way around. Today's current Constitution does not provide the constitutional and legal basis for granting the President authority and supervisory powers in the executive sphere, but the proposed project proposes to change the legal status of the specially authorized central executive bodies, including the composition of the committee head, the State Border Service of Ukraine and the State Special Liaison and Information Service. So it's about excluding them from the executive system. What is the purpose and purpose of this? The answer is, they say, on the surface: the President's proposed know-how aims to focus the controls on all without being excluded by strong structures. What, though, about the principle of the division of state authority in Ukraine into legislative, executive, and judicial? Or acting on another principle: If we are willing to do so, we may not be guided by the requirements of the Constitution, which, unfortunately, are often demonstrated today. Therefore, this bill cannot be supported in any way. The Communist faction will vote against the legislative act proposed by the President of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u56	Xenia Lapina, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense."
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u57	Dear colleagues, it would be very sad if this bill, as a matter of fact, became a victim of another political debate. I'd like to divide it into two parts. The first part refers, indeed, to the need to create bodies that are not public authorities, i.e. they do not have functions specific to public authorities, but have only one function – an independent regulator. This is the control and setting of tariffs for monopolies. And today's system, it makes tariffs for monopolies a victim and hostage to the political movements of one or the other. And I mean, it's equally destructive for the economy, or it's a populist approach, when tariffs don't just increase to satisfy citizens and be nice citizens. And equally destructive, when tariffs go up uncontrollable, solely for the purpose of monopoly gains. And one and the other, I divided it into two parts. I'm talking about the first part that's in the bill about the creation of independent regulators. And I want to point out that there's a second part that really applies to foreign service issues. But it's a completely different ideology. Here is the question that the President, as a guarantor of our territorial integrity, must have his tools to implement this constitutional function -- to guarantee integrity. But, colleagues, for the second reading, we can leave this bill alone on the first part, and a separate bill will be passed on the second part, which will be discussed separately by experts on matters of our own, state, state protection, state border protection and all that. But in the first part, if we don't take this step with you today, tomorrow you're going to go out on your own and tell us how bad things are with the tariffs.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u58	Let me finish. Thank you. Please, Lavrinovich Alexander Volodymyrovich, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u59	Dear Mr. Head, my dear colleagues, the project that is being proposed to a large extent, even though it consists of two components, has the only common ideology, a common approach. And the point is that when it comes to the necessity of independent regulators, it's absolutely right, it has to be, and in order for such regulators to be, it's necessary, clearly in accordance with the laws, to follow the way in which these regulators form their composition, the way in which they adopt their decisions and the way in which they can challenge these decisions. And as for the natural monopolies in which military formations occur, I think that's the answer to the question, and what is the way in which monopolies regulation and the work of government regulators are planned in general. And to ensure that both the first and the second parts are essentially subordinate to the head of state. If we say that there is a conjuncture in Kabmin regardless of who makes it, and the President has a conjuncture, there can be no conjuncture, because he is out of politics, he has no political activity, he has no sympathy for any party policy, and he has no sympathy for the President's name. It is not certain that this is also a delusion and, if you mention that the rules of this law now conflict in many ways both with the legal framework in force and with our basic law and that there is a decision of the Constitutional Court that has already drawn up one of the regulators in the part that was concerned, that it was already in accordance with the law under the leadership of the Head of State, then I think the answer to the question whether this project can be supported is already obvious, that such a project cannot be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u60	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. The Rules allow the factions that have not taken part in the discussion to have a say – the Lithuanian Block. Don't you insist? Don't insist. Dear colleagues, given the proposal, once again, I would like to point out that this is actually about a bill that has two blocks, the key to this is to stop, to try to actually create in the state really regulators, regulators that. [[Alexander Vitaliyovich, you don't have the word]] Regulators who really have to play an extremely important role in the economic policy of the State. With regard to other suggestions, we will work on them before we read them again. But this bill needs to be adopted in the first reading in order to start work, if there's a second reading point, we'll always be able to work on this bill and submit it accordingly to Parliament. Dear colleagues, attention! I am voting on the first reading of Bill No. 1315 of the Ukrainian Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts introduced by the President of Ukraine, adopting the bill as a basis. Please, I'm calling a vote. Please vote. [[13:04:02]] For 208 The decision is not taken. Please show by factions. Region Party – 0, "Club of Timoshenko" – 149, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" – 59, Communists – 0, "Club of Lithuania" – 0. Then I suggest we re-read it, fellows. I'm putting to the vote the question of re-reading Bill 1315, please vote. [[13:04:43]] For 214 The decision is not taken. Please show by factions. Region Party – 0, Timoshenko Yulia Block – 150, Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense – 64, Communists – 0, Litvina Block – 0. The bill was successfully broken, unfortunately too. Dear colleagues, let us move on to the next issue of the order of the day, which will necessarily unite the entire hall. This is Bill No. 1452, a draft of the Ukrainian Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. It's about State support for families who adopted a child of orphans or children who were deprived of parental care. I invite you to the rostrum of the minister’s parliament in matters of family, youth, and sports, Pavelka Yuri Alexiyovich. Please, Yuri Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u61	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! This bill is extremely important in a package with another one that will be put before your consideration. As we know, and certainly the responsibility of the State is to create conditions to ensure the maintenance and upbringing of orphans and children deprived of parental care. In accordance with the Ukrainian Law on the provision of organisational and legal principles and conditions for the social protection of orphans children in the event of the loss of a child's parental care, the relevant body of care and care is obliged to take comprehensive measures to bring the child into the family of Ukrainian citizens into adoption, care, care, foster care, foster care, and a family-type children's home. According to state statistics, there were 102 thousand orphans, children deprived of parental care, in Ukraine at the end of 2007. Of this number, there are legal grounds for the adoption of more than 30,000 children. At the same time, the adoption of Ukrainian citizens is insufficient, and only last year has it become larger than the adoption of foreign citizens. That is why the President is proposing the following initiatives, which relate to the provision of State support to families who adopted an orphan child, children deprived of parental care. First of all, it is to provide one - time assistance to Ukrainian citizens in the adoption of a child that is set up to pay for the first child’s birth. A month’s support for an adopted child is one of life’s minimums. Once paid vacations of 90 calendar days to care for an adopted child over 3 years of age. The introduction of these aids will no doubt allow for the harmonious development of the child in the family environment in an atmosphere of love and understanding.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u62	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u63	I would also like to point out that this kind of support from the state of the families that adopted the child is quite common and examples, and on a much larger scale can be called Austria. In both Ireland and Denmark, and in many other countries, Ukrainian children are adopted. That's why, I'm sure, the adoption of the bill proposed by the President of Ukraine will allow the right of an orphan child. Children deprived of parental care in the family It will boost national adoption and improve the demographic situation in the country by raising the standard of living of families with adopted children. It will have a positive effect on the child’s adoption process in the new family. What's more, I'd like to remind the distinguished National Deputies that this year the President's decree announced the year of national adoption and the development of family forms of foster care. Thank you for your attention, and I look forward to your full support.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u64	Thank you, Yuri Alexiyovich. I invite the head of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport, and Tourism to the rostrum. Please, Catherine Eugene.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u65	Honourable Arsenija Petrovich, honourable colleagues, met on February 20, 2008, to consider a draft law amending some of the laws of Ukraine, introduced by the President of Ukraine. [[on the State support of families who adopted an orphan child or children deprived of parental care]] The bill proposes to amend the Ukrainian Law on State Assistance to Families with Children in order to provide one-time assistance to citizens with an adopted child of the size set for payment of assistance, as at the birth of the child, i.e. for adoption of the first child of the first child of 12,000, for adoption of the second child of the second child of 25,000, for the third and next child of 50,000. The findings of the Legal Policy Committee were drawn, which believes that the legislative proposals presented in the draft correspond to the provisions of the Constitution of Ukraine. The Committee on Social Policy and Labour decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the draft law be adopted on a basis. The main scientific and expert office concluded and, as a result of the first reading of the bill, it is appropriate to adopt the bill as a basis for further consideration of the comments it has made. The Budget Committee has decided that the bill is such that it has an impact on the budget's spending, increasing it, the bill's adoption by the drafters will require expenditure from the State budget of Ukraine of 290 million, 654 thousand dollars, and may be adopted under the official promulgation of the law by 15 August 2008. It takes effect not earlier than January 1, 2009. The committee supported a legislative proposal aimed at strengthening state support for families that adopted a child of orphans and children deprived of parental care, and unanimously decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law amending certain Ukrainian laws on the basis of further consideration of the findings of the General Scientific and Scientific Administration, and by setting a deadline for the introduction of the law as of 1 January 2009. [[on the State support of families who adopted an orphan child and children deprived of parental care]] I want to make one more point.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u66	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u67	It is said that the introduction of monthly assistance to an adopted child until it reaches the age established by law of subsistence minimum for children of appropriate age. This aid is provided irrespective of the child’s other forms of assistance. And there is a 90 - day social leave for adoptive parents to adapt the child to the family. Such a vacation is not available at this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u68	Thank you, Catherine Eugene. Two - "for", two - "against". Miroshenko Yuri Romanovich, faction of the Party of Regions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u69	Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear voters, dear colleagues! I would like to pay attention to all those present in the hall and those who are now outside our hall, but have to take part in the vote that this is an extremely important law that we have to adopt, because hundreds of thousands of Ukrainian children who have no parents today are waiting for the decision of our legislative body. I graduated from boarding school myself, and there were a lot of orphans with me. I know how important it is for every child to have a parent so that we do not take our children abroad, so that we do not hear or listen to them be treated well or badly abroad, and we in our country have no children, we have no strangers, we put them on our feet, we give them a chance, we surround them with the love of our parents. And that is why, in my opinion, we must unite now. This law must unite everyone, whether it is a coalition or an opposition, today we must demonstrate that we care for the Ukrainian future, so that we know that every child born in our country will have parents, whether their biological parents have left her or somehow they have died. Dear colleagues, I would like to invite all of you to join us: let's support this bill, work with it, and act immediately so that Ukrainian children feel protected. In this way, we will also encourage a solution to the demographic situation in our country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u70	Bondarenko, Timoshenko Street.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u71	Vladimir Bondarenko, Timoshenko Yuli Block. Dear friends, childhood problems, especially orphans, are important in any society. You know that a whole range of basic religions in the world define a person who is going to help an orphan as a person who becomes a saint. I want to tell you that for a long time, I had to head the board of trustees of the entire large area in Kiev, and we were the authors of the first family boarding house in Kiev. The only boarding house for children with cerebral palsy is also in the Sanhedrin region, which functions on a totally different level than there are today, principles. Thank God this bill changed its orientation a little bit because it was initially referred to as “legislative provision for the adoption of Ukrainian children by foreigners and the export of these children abroad”. Today, it is more about how to ensure the adoption of children in Ukraine. I want to tell you that, with all the above-declared child support policy, we today have all the gaps in legislation, which, in particular, relate to financing the activities of boarding houses, helping families that have decided to take children, especially children with disabilities. I want to tell you that these families need special attention in transportation, special transportation, since this is usually more than 10 children in children’s homes or in family homes. In view of all these circumstances, I would like to ask this room today to get acquainted with this document and to support it in the way it is today, so that we can also work out some of the positions of this bill. I think any rejection of this issue and the unwillingness to work in this area is very harmful. That there are also many problems in this document, we know that, but we need to work on it and accept it in the way that we are interested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u72	Thank you. Colleagues — Are There Desires With Motivations? There's a wish. I'm asking you to write it down for reasons. Sergey Shevchuk, “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u73	Thank you. Of course, most, the vast majority of the national MPs, are voting in favour, but I cannot help but make some warnings. Dear colleagues, in the pre-election contests, every political power competed to offer more to families with newborn children. And unfortunately, this has resulted in some negative phenomena when disadvantaged families put it, sorry for such cynicism as on a conveyor belt, to earn money for newborns. This was noted primarily by physicians, who accept childbirth, and who monitor the health of newborns, when disease rates, birth defects, mental, and physical infirmities in such families began to increase rapidly. I fear that there are some warnings and dangers in this law regarding orphans ’ income when these children may be in poor families for such profit. So in support of the idea itself, of course, I think that the second reading needs to be done.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u74	Grigorovich Lilia, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u75	Lilia Grigorovich, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. The honourable colleagues are no doubt the legislative initiative of the President of Ukraine is timely and appropriate and will be supported by this Hall. So I'm not even surprised that there's no anti-promotion, because there can't be. Another thing I would like to point out is that by supporting the family institution and the adoption process, we should be aware that, unfortunately, a lengthy transition period and many other circumstances that are the subject of discussions, pedagogical conferences have led to the fact that today the family institution is somewhat inopportune. When we bring home a computer or some other equipment, we have instructions. Is there an instruction for young parents today on how to raise a child, and in view of that, it is not just to compete in payments that will pay more. Obviously, the Academy of Pedagogical Sciences needs to develop a whole program to promote preschool education, a program for young parents, and obviously it is appropriate to combine it with the bill, or later.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u76	Kilincarov gives the word to Zybenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u77	Thank you. The Communist faction, Zybenko. Of course, the faction of the Ukrainian Company supports this bill, because the idea of the bill is, firstly, to support families that have children, and secondly, to compare those families that have given birth to the child and who adopted it, that is, certainly, it deserves all the support. The only thing we want to draw attention to, and we want to look both to the Ministry of the Family, Youth and Sports, and to the Committee of Profiles with a request, when preparing the document for second reading, is to anticipate the risks that society, unfortunately, faces today. What do I mean? Well, let's say that if the family adopted the baby, they took advantage of certain preferences, and then they returned the baby, which is that some of the insurance mechanisms have to be foreseen. Because, unfortunately, adoption for a certain part of society today is becoming a business. Therefore, these points must be taken into account. The faction will support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u78	Oleg Zarubinsky
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u79	Dear Arseniy Petrovich, your honorary colleagues, "Block of Lithuania" will be a complete component of the faction to vote for this bill, but I can't help but say that obviously its quality should be better because only the vacation law is being amended. This is a vacation to care for an adopted child. In our view, we also needed to make appropriate changes to the Code of Laws on the Work of Ukraine, and that is perfectly clear. On the other hand, we would like to ask questions about the need, obviously not to splinter the legislative field in such an important area as the demographic problem. In our view, it would be necessary for the Cabinet of Ministers, or for the President of Ukraine, to present an entire bill that would include and synthesize all questions relating to the assistance of a child, helping families who adopt a child. I think I should go deeper into the legislative process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u80	Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u81	Thank you. Dear colleagues, of course, 1452 and 1453 – these two Bills will be supported unanimously by the factions of the Regions in the session room. But I would like to draw the attention of the Minister here to convey to the President's Secretariat: the introduction by the President of this and other bills speaks of the lack of understanding in the President's Secretariat of the essence of social policy in the context of the transformation of social life on market principles. I'm sorry, it's not social laws, it's trying to patch holes, it's trying to be chaotic, and it's not systematic. Instead of doing good, such actions bring new problems and financial losses. Colleagues, since 2005, the President of Ukraine has not introduced any draft legislation aimed at reforming socio-working relations in the transitional period. This is the basis of social policy. More than 1 billion dollars a year for the services of the President's Secretariat, and for that money there should be a greater return. And there is no guarantee that these bills will not be a disaster.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u82	Thank you, Your Honor. The time for discussion is over. I would like to point out that, according to the Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Budget Affairs is now providing us with guidance and we now see clearly the conclusion of the Committee on Budgets on the necessary level of funding for the bill. The same is true of Bill 1453. In view of this, I would like to appeal once again to the national MPs to support the Presidential Initiative. In the second reading, we will be able to finalize the bill. We have every opportunity to make our own proposals. Thus, I am putting to the vote the issue of adopting a draft Ukrainian law amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the State support of families who adopted an orphan child or children deprived of parental care]] Bill No. 1452. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[13:23:42]] For 423 The law is adopted as a basis. Based on the base. In general, they were not ready to vote; they should have said, they would have put it in general. 1453, the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Aid to Families with Children, Yuri Alexiyovich, I ask for Parliament's Chamber. Think about the purpose of adopting the bill as a whole, I'm going to refer to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u83	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished national deputies, I thank you for supporting this bill. Unfortunately, there is no question-answer procedure, but we will certainly send out all the questions that have been raised in the discussion, the answers to the relevant factions so that you can get to know the policy that has been consistently pursued since 2005 by the President and the Ministry, and the government to protect the rights of children, children and orphans; children deprived of parental care. With regard to Bill 1453, the bill, introduced by the President of Ukraine, provides for increased assistance for children who are cared for or cared for up to two subsistence minimums for children of appropriate age, as provided for children raised in foster homes and foster families. Today, in Ukraine, over 63,000 orphans, children deprived of parental care, are raised by caregivers or caregivers. Even though this is the most common form of family education for this category of children, it remains one where the child has the least financial security that does not meet the requirements of article 52 of the Constitution of Ukraine. Children who are cared for or cared for receive twice as much as children who are raised in foster homes. And six or eight times less than the children who are kept in a residential facility. The legislative aid provided for today significantly improves the material condition of caregivers’ families, their size. Its size today is not enough to provide a child’s welfare. I ask the honourable national MPs to support this bill, which will allow us today to balance the rights of orphans, children deprived of parental care.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u84	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u85	Who are brought up by caregivers and caregivers. In addition, I appeal to the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the first draft of 1452, which was adopted, to provide for a second reading and adoption as a whole of the shortest, which is foreseen by the Supreme Council procedure and we are prepared to work with the factions concerning the bill, so there were no special comments, it could in principle be accepted as a whole. And there was one observation that was extremely important about the whole system of child rights protection in Ukraine. I would like to inform the Supreme Council that the Law, the National Plan of Action for the Implementation of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, was introduced in 2006. He was allegedly approved by the Supreme Council, but he was apparently not approved in connection with the fact that at that time it had already been illegal. I had a conversation with Arsenius Petrovich and I appealed to the Supreme Council to renew the bill, to re-vote it and put it into effect, because it has been in the Supreme Council of Ukraine for two, more than two years. I thank you for your attention and I look forward to supporting this initiative by the President.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u86	Yuri Alexiyovich, you can go back under the transcript that you insist on, because we made a decision on the Conciliation Council yesterday, once again, it's the one that's been adopted. Yeah, yeah. What's his name?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u87	Draft National Action Plan for the implementation of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child until 2015.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u88	We've included this bill in our schedule, and we'll look at it in the first, second, and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u89	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u90	Please. I would like to invite a member of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport, and Tourism, Suslov Evgeny Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u91	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues! The committee at its meeting on February 20, 2008, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Assistance to Families with Children on the Size of Care or Care for Children. Number 1453, introduced by the President of Ukraine. The bill proposes to double the amount of assistance available to care or care for children to two subsistence minimums, according to the age of children. The main scientific and expert office believes that the results of the first reading of the bill can be adopted as a basis. The Committee on Social Policy and Labour decided to recommend a bill to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The President of Ukraine in the bill sets the deadline for the entry into force of the law as of April 1, 2008. In view of the fact that 2008 is determined by the year of adoption. However, the Committee on Budgetary Questions has decided to support the bill, but with some observations. In particular, the bill takes effect on 1 January 2009, subject to the official promulgation of the law by 15 August 2008. Otherwise, its standards may enter into force no later than January 1, 2010. According to article 27 of the Ukrainian Code of Budget. The bill is such that it has an impact on the increase in the expenditure portion of the budget. And it's more than 311 million bracelets. A special committee on family and youth, youth policy, sport and tourism at its meeting reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Assistance to Families with Children on the Size of Child Care and unanimously decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u92	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u93	Take it as a basis, setting the deadline for its entry into force on January 1, 2009. The only thing I wanted to say was, Your Honor Arsenius Petrovich, is that it's impossible to accept it now in general, because a joint group was formed along with the budget committee to finalize the bill. All MPs understand it's a positive bill, but it needs to be worked out to be effective, and we didn't accept it, and these people didn't get the money. Thank you. Children.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u94	Thank you. Two — “for”, two — “against”. Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u95	Dear colleagues, I am pleased to say that the Ministry has begun to protect national adoption because it protected foreigners who adopt children last week. Obviously, changes take place for the better after we overcame the veto of the Presidential Bill of 387 votes. So, of course, I'm a member of the faction committee, and as one of the leaders of the faction, I'm glad that in the matter of national adoption, we're moving one step at a time, even though I'm dividing the concerns and doubts of my colleagues from all the factions here that sound like money is not the only one. That is, the system of government needs to monitor clearly and analyse the situation of these payments. You know that Timoshenko's government, after the pre-election discussions, made a serious payment for the birth of the first, second, third child. I'll remind you. The first is 12,240, the second is 25,000, the third is 50,000 and the next is the right thing to do. That they're divorced. Let's say for the third time, 36 months, so that we don't have, as our colleagues say, the birth of a child and the transfer to a children's home. It's the same here. We need to examine and see very clearly that there is no abuse in this matter when we are seriously increasing material support for the adoption process. So we support this bill, and of course we have to agree with our colleagues on the budget committee that since April 1st we've been living, as you understand in April 15, so the real government can calculate it, prepare it better since January 1st, 2009.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u96	Alexander Pecklusenko, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u97	Dear colleagues, respected by Arsenius Petrovich, I believe that we have made a mistake today without having these two laws fully examined. Because more important laws than these are, perhaps, difficult to find. And today the adoption of these two laws is probably not a solution to issues, it is not a fight against causes and consequences, but a painting with the President of our sins before the country. The main reason is the country's economy. Wars are not war. Orphans are wartime. So we need to look at the root causes, and we need to look at all the issues that are now related to orphans. In this regard, we support all two laws. The only thing we ask the Minister of Control is that no one else earns money on this disaster. And second moment. In all these processes, the financing of shelters and children's homes should be kept in mind. When we're in county receptions, we see that there's real patriots working for money. We therefore propose changes to the budget of this budget, which will be designed to increase the maintenance of children's homes and to increase the salaries of the people working there. In general, our faction believes that this law can be passed in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u98	Thank you. Are there insistences on factions that did not share in the discussion? Lilia Grigorovitch, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u99	Lilia Grigorovich, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. Dear Arsenija Petrovich, distinguished colleagues, in this room we held several parliamentary hearings aimed at optimizing the adoption process. But political battalions seem to have forgotten their commitments. That is why we must give due credit to the President of Ukraine, who has come up with such legislative initiatives as the opposition today proposes to support in general. Of course, children who are deprived of their social rights, whether they are raised in an adoptive family or in a foster family. At the same time, as on each occasion, I appeal to our distinguished Ministry of Family and Youth and, thanks to him for the work he is doing, ask: Take the initiative, along with the Academy of Pedagogical Sciences, to conduct a program of the State to promote family education and preschool education in general. It's very important today. Please support our bill from the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u100	Colleagues, in principle, in a reduced procedure. You know the problems, but the 34th Rules are giving me the opportunity to give you three more minutes, please, colleagues? Please sign up for three minutes. Peter Cibenko, Communist Party
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u101	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, indeed, differing thoughts today on the bill, but they differ only at the moment of implementation of the law. As for the very idea of a bill concerning the need for adoption and the security of families that have children, it's certainly perfectly normal here that most members of the Supreme Council are, in fact, all of them, the only ones that have to accept this document. It's the only thing. There is a warning of a budget committee with a reference to the 27th article of the Codex Budget. I don't think we can, let's say, miss that warning, and the thing is that we really need to get the optimal deadline for this law to be implemented. I want to say that the faction of the Ukrainian Company will certainly support this legislative initiative because it is aimed at social protection. This is one of the few documents that is extremely important today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u102	Taras Stacks.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u103	Please pass the word to Catherine Lukyanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u104	Katerina Lukyanova, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u105	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that this bill provides for increased assistance to children who are being cared for or cared for up to two subsistence minimums. As of January 1, 9, if we put this bill into effect, I think we can accept it as a whole, but I want to remind you that 63,000 orphans who are being raised today by guardians or caregivers are being raised by grandparents as a rule. And that's why I think we should put this law into effect right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u106	Kirilchuk, Timoshenko Street.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u107	Thank you, Arseny Petrovich. I want to make a general comment. There are members of the Committee of Budgets. We are very closely considering such laws on the Committee of Budgets, but there is one problem. You remember the Constitutional Court's decision that we can't implement chapter 2 of the budget because there are so many populist laws that are practically impossible to implement today. In order for this not to continue, that we have not completed chapter 2 of the Budget Law with similar bills, there is an urgent need for those laws that have a significant budgetary impact to be given the floor to a representative of the Budget Committee in this regard. And that's why this bill can't be introduced in this budget period, it's only from a new budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u108	Konovaluk Valerius.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u109	Thank you. Please pass the word to Michael Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u110	Mikhail Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u111	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the Party of Regions, you know, in the pre-election program, when you went to the elections in 2007, that's exactly the position I fixed in the program, I would ask all the national MPs to support this bill. But I'll draw your attention to the next one. The payment is made in the double size of the subsistence minimum. Let me remind you that so far, the government of Tymoshenko has not published the actual size of the subsistence minimum, and that's three months in a row. Today, even if we vote on this law, thanks to Timoshenko's government, every child will not get about 270 dollars, because today's actual size is unpublished and there's no change to the State Budget, as expected, by March 31, 2008. Dear colleagues, I am calling on the coalition faction to somehow encourage the government to make changes to the Ukrainian State Budget Act. Thank you. The faction of the regions will vote unanimously in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u112	The time for discussion is over. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? There are two options for events. Option one: we accept this bill as a basis, as recommended by the committee. Option two: we take the basis, we put forward a proposal for a committee at the end of the bill, namely: to put the bill into effect from January 1, 2009, and to accept it as a whole. But I have two personal fights, let's put it this way: first is humanity, and second is banking history. So, if it's about humanity, it's got to be accepted, and it's about the financial aspect, then look, these two bills carry plus at least 700 million extra dollars for the 2009 budget. I mean, don't let it happen like we always do when we're running for things and then we're not going to find funding. Formally, we'll get it right if we introduce this bill from January 1st. That is, according to the Budget Code, this bill will be included in the 2009 budget, that is, everything is beautiful. But we just have to realize the amount of funding we put on the government budget. You accept the offer I've made you. So it's like that, colleagues. I lay the groundwork for the adoption of the Ukrainian Law, registration number 1453, “To amend the Ukrainian Law on State Assistance to Families with Children”. Dear colleagues, I ask you to vote on the ground. Based on what I'm about to say, colleagues. We'll vote in favour and we'll take care of it. [[13:43:13]] For 423 So, now I'm putting in this whole bill taking into account the committee's proposal: the final position, paragraph one, as follows: “This law takes effect from January 1st 2009.” Okay? Okay. Michael Alexio. ‘ Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, you’re going to be in a good mood right now, I'm telling you. I know what you want from July 1st. But you are well aware that if you were a minister of employment and social protection, you would ask that this law be put into effect on January 1, 2015. So let's do it honestly, let's do it human, not banking. Once again, this law takes effect as of January 1, 2009. In general, we vote in favour of this bill, please vote. And Papiev wanted to overthrow the work of Parliament. [[13:44:20]] For 434 That's what I'm talking about. Mikhailo Mikolaiovich calls for replicas. He'll turn on Mikhail Mikolaiovich Papiev's microphone. I called his last name.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u113	Thank you. Dear Arsenia Petrovich, I'm grateful you reminded me. By the way, when our faction formed a coalition, we brought all the social benefits to a minimum. My suggestion was that this law should take effect as of July 1, 2008, and I will explain why. First of all, you can't put that off because it's about kids. Secondly, I would like us to be able to encourage today's government, Timoshenko and the ruling coalition, to enforce the law. If the final provisions of the Ukrainian State Budget Act stated that they had to amend the State Budget Act by 31 March, they were obliged to do so. Today, Timoshenko's government and the children are suffering, and what was dragged back to January 1, 2009, I don't think it's the right decision, since July 1st, would be the best. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u114	Mikhail Miklaiovich, we appreciate you, but I would like to point out one thing that you should not have asked these questions in this room right now, but you had the opportunity to ask these questions to the Prime Minister on Friday. You have, unfortunately, ignored this possibility. Colleagues, are we still looking at the bill? We're not yelling. Please, Oleg Zarubinski. With motive? Let's write this down. Who else wants motive, colleagues? And Yuri Alexiyovich, in the end, you have a winning day today. Please, Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u115	Thank you, Arseny Petrovich. Yuri Alexiyovich, I want to welcome you with these two laws. But also to ask this question: “Block of Lithuania” certainly voted in favour of this bill, but you know, I personally remember that in 2005 a campaign started, in any case, yes, verbally, for the destruction of interns, and that all Ukrainian children should be in the family. I want to ask you, Yuri Alexiyovich, you're working very constructively today and you're saying that you're going to answer to the factions in writing. Please tell me, over the three years of this campaign, this is really campaigning, how many children have been adopted, what has happened to the boarding schools, or how many boarding houses have been eliminated, why are there a number of people who want to adopt children and children who are not adopted? Maybe there's some corruption schemes here, maybe foreigners are being sold. So you'll answer the letter? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u116	Comrades, who else? Then let's write it down because I won't see everyone. Please, five minutes, let's sign up. Let's talk. Please sign up. Yuri Miroshnichenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u117	Dear colleagues, I would like to say that we have now done a very useful and right thing: we have saved many children from poverty today. And we don't need bankers and parliamentarians to fight in our souls, because for the next year it's possible to redistribute our expenses in such a way that the most needy get the help, and those who can earn the money. And in this context, I am convinced that the Supreme Council must now continue the path that we have begun: to regulate and stimulate not only material but also other forms of stimulation and control to organize. And family support. And so this question is solved once and for all. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u118	Thank you. Kravchuk, Timoshenko Street.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u119	I give you my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u120	Oleg Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u121	Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Our opponents say that Timoshenko's government doesn't seem to care about orphans. In fact, it doesn't fit the reality, because the faction of the "Julia Tymoshenko Block" in its entirety voted for it, the laws and in the first reading and in general, and why from January 1st? Because according to the 27th article of the Budget Code, laws that provide additional budget spending — an additional 700 million dollars — should be adopted by August 15 and introduced from the new year. So you don't have to, Your Honor, put a shadow on your knitting. THE future is always in its government program, which you still can't, here you block and you don't allow it to be considered, it gives a lot of attention to the issue of child protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u122	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u123	Yury Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Block of Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense”. Ladies and gentlemen, the President of Ukraine issued a decree on 11 July 2005 on the first-ever measures for the protection of the rights of the child, and we now have these laws to develop. And you didn't do it with the authority. That's the first one. The other one. When we're in pain for children today, for other problems, let's think about what we've had from the holding fund more than a billion dollars now in the budget. Now we have 215 million dollars, which is 12.4 percent. I'm talking to colleagues who today call themselves opposition, and in fact they're doing everything to make it worse for the coalition to get out of the situation and harder to get out of the situation. I'm addressing you because the personnel issues need to be resolved and we need to unlock the funds coming into the budget, because we're going to be adopting laws, plus 700 million now we've put them down and done the right thing, but even if we don't, we're going to be able to find them because they're holding the Fund.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u124	Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u125	You know, dear colleagues, I've just come to the idea that we have two enemies of the legislative field, in this case, what's going on with the problem of adoption and helping children is fragmentation, which is why we are, because two lines change. Changes are not complex or profound. And the second moment, it's really a company. And here I'd like to explain my position a little bit, and I've already talked about it. We've been told that Ukrainian children have to live in Ukrainian families, that boarding schools are not the kind of thing that they can raise. I'd like to know what the result of this company or the company, what it ended up like, how much it was adopted. And also, Yuri Alexiyovich, I would like to tell you why there is a paradox when a number of Ukrainian citizens are behind the adoption of Ukrainian children and, at the same time, Ukrainian children cannot find their parents. Obviously, there's something wrong with the organization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u126	Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u127	May I have the floor to Mr. Stoyan Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u128	Stoyan's word.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u129	Dear colleagues, it is good that such a child protection law has been passed, but I want to draw attention to the following. It was announced that Wednesday would be a day of opposition, and the Party of Regions, our colleagues, had formed a whole block of social issues. Here are four weeks of social issues that have been coming up, and today, Mr. Leader, Mr. Yatsenuk, once again, after lunch, the political issues that you've had for lunch will be thought out. So I'm making a proposal, laws like Hara, Stoyan, Dry on living minimum need to be changed, about minimum wage, about hourly pay to vote and put the first out of 16 hours, and then there's going to be as much time as you want to vote on politics. Let's show that we all care about social protection not only for children but also for people who are underprivileged. I propose to put the vote to a vote at 16 o'clock to consider social issues, because they'll be taken back to the unknown for a week, I emphasize, five weeks we don't consider them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u130	The only remark is that the head of the circus and the chairman of the parliament. Colleagues, I think we've talked about the drafts. All of it. So there were proposals for a return to 1452. I think we should give the floor to Yuri Alexiyovich. Yuri Alexiyovich, please have a series of questions for you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u131	Ladies and gentlemen, no doubt I would like to thank you all for the decision you have made virtually unanimously. I also support the position expressed in the Chamber that the reduced procedure is perhaps not the approach to considering similar laws, so I am ready at any time to hold a Government Day or parliamentary hearing, if that is the will of the Supreme Council and to report on all actions, all decisions made today by the Ministry of Family, Youth and Sports are carried out by the government and, in fact, this policy today is under constant attention by the President of Ukraine. On April 17, the city of Donetsk will hold a large, fourth council on the development of a system of child rights policy. With regard to the questions that have been asked by the distinguished Deputy Zarubinsky of the People, I would very much ask, regardless of whether a national MP, simply a politician, party leader or simply a citizen, in matters relating to a child, an orphan child, to be as correct as possible. Especially if this is true of a child who, under different circumstances, lost his or her parents. Because as far as I'm concerned, there's no way that I, or any of the members of the government or the ministry, talked about the destruction of internal institutions. It is a matter of implementing the basic position of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, which clearly states that a State is obliged to ensure that every child is brought up in the family. Family education is now, according to Ukrainian legislation, care, adoption, foster care, and a foster home. As far as the interns are concerned. This is a difficult discussion. The relevant state program has been approved. But in this matter, the government, the President, does not act revolutionaryly because there are children. It's a very consistent, very cautious policy. So that no child can play sports, not blow up the future of life, in order to protect every single person who works in boarding school today. That is why the government program is now in place. It's been approved for ten years, reforming internal institutions. And I'm willing to be very detailed about both national and interstate adoption in numbers and even in specific facts. Because today we've owned in the last three years, in the last three years, I'll say the fate of every child, especially if it's adopted by foreign citizens. There is a problem in 2007. Now we're going to do some analysis and I'm ready to report it. But I'm asking you again. And I want to testify that the Ministry and I, as ministers, are going to act very hard whether it's a national MP, whether it's a street bandit, or whether it's anyone if the rights of the child are violated. I thank you for your attention and ready, ready to report at any time on this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u132	Thank you, Yuri Alexiovich. I have a request to my fellow national deputies. Please form the questions you need, and if you don't, we'll just take the transcript and I guarantee you that the Minister of Youth and Sports will give you the official answer as Ukraine's national deputy. I'm assigning the machine to send an appropriate request to the Ministry and an answer from the minister to Zarubinsky. Colleagues, please, I'm continuing the plenary session for 15 minutes. We have a second reading of drafts where all the amendments are taken into account. So we can get through them very and very quickly. Because we need to get to the social bills, or else our favorite opposition will be right to criticize us. That's why, dear colleagues, 0955 ad. Second reading of Moses ’ book, Volodymyr Romanovich. Volodymyr Romanovich, I beg you very, very quickly. If you don't mind, everything's included in the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u133	Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman! The bill on the humanization of criminal punishment was introduced by the government of Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic. The government’s support for Volodymyrny Timoshenko is for the mitigation of many forms of criminal punishment. I'll tell you what, there are more than 140,000 convicts in Ukraine today, absolutely. Unorthodox for the European state. The bill had 55 proposals from the national deputies. So the law is the gain of all of us together. 54 are fully accounted for, one in part. I'd like to support you. The chief legal office called for a bill without notice.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u134	Roger that. Dear colleagues, I'd like to take another look at the comparison table. All the changes are accounted for. Is there one of the national MPs who insists on changing the wording or changing the rights? There are no such national deputies. In view of this, I am voting on the second reading and in general Bill No. 0955. Dear colleagues, I vote. [[13:59:06]] For – 238 Decision taken. 0982, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u135	Dear colleagues, whether they have failed or not, all the factions have supported, all the remarks are taken into account, but thanks for the decision. Your opinion is proposed in Bill 0982 on amending certain legislative acts. [[on strengthening the responsibility for violating the requirements of land law]] This is a double increase in the minor fines applied for offences in this area. All proposals made by deputies over the course of two weeks are fully taken into account. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u136	Dear colleagues, you have a comparative table. All the comments and suggestions made by the national MPs are taken into account. Are there Ukrainian national deputies who insist on amendment or vote on their amendments? There are no such national deputies. In accordance with the Rules, I put the 0983 bill on second reading and in general. Please vote. [[14:00:30]] For – 238 Decision taken. Please show by factions. Draft law 0880. I don't really understand why these bills don't go to the vote, because the same thing is that the committee's unanimous decision is taken, and all the amendments are counted. That's why it's hard. 0880. Please, Grizzenko Anatoly Stepanovich. Gricenko Anatoly Stepanovich. There is no Anatoly Stepanovich. It's moving. 0906. Terjehoin Sergey Anatoliyovich. There is Sergey Anatolyovich. He does not leave the Parliamentary Hall until his drafts are considered. Please, Sergey Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u137	Ladies and gentlemen, you have before you a bill on the order of importation, transfer to Ukraine, customs and taxation of personal goods, goods and means of transport that are imported, sent by citizens to the customs territory of Ukraine, number 0906. This bill was submitted by the previous government, about a year ago it was adopted in the first reading. Since then, no corrections have been made. This is about incorporating into our national legislation the rules of the World Postal Union. So this makes it easier for our citizens to send shipments, dispatch, and so on and so on, and on the other hand, it closes the possibility of using this channel for smuggling. The committee suggests that, in view of the fact that no action has been taken, the bill has been adopted as a law as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u138	Can I ask you a question, Sergey Anatolyovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u139	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u140	What is the position of the government of Ukraine and the State Customs Office in the bill?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u141	They support both of us.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u142	Right?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u143	Exactly.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u144	Is it backing up or out of words?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u145	Yes, there is written support.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u146	Dear colleagues, are there any comments and suggestions to this bill? He's with Sulkowski's deputy. Turn on the microphone, even though the amendments and suggestions are made to the committee in accordance with the Rules, and the dawn may simply be a conversation and no more.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u147	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, I have come to understand that Mr. Terjochin today confirms that he is from the BUT faction, from the team of Yulia Timoshenko, that this project was prepared by the government of Yulia Timoshenko, because they have no experts and the like, prepared by the government of Yanukovich. And that's why you're confirming today that you really need to take the experience from the government and Janukovich's experts, that you've already said it outspokenly today. I welcome you, and we will really support this and we will, if our bill is, we will probably be determined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u148	Dear colleagues!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u149	I am. It's literally one replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u150	Sergey Anatolyevich, please! We have to vote!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u151	You know, not the achievement of Mr. Janukovic, but the achievement of the World Postal Union. And Timoshenko's government is smart because it supports the World Postal Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u152	Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, I am the only one making a warning under the protocol that if the drafts adopted in the first reading, during the period of powerlessness, then the vote goes first, the second reading as well. It's to be under the stenographer. Now for Bill 0906. There are no proposals, so I'm voting on the second reading and on the whole bill number 0906. Please vote. [[14:04:23]] For – 409 That's what I'm saying, colleagues. Sergey Anatolyevich, next 0907.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u153	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! On 6 February, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Tax and Customs Policy considered a draft bill submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Yanukovitch, amending the Ukrainian Act "The One Customs Tariff" 0907 and decided to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on second reading and in general as a law. There's two positions. First position that we are. If Ukrainian goods come back from abroad to Ukraine, it is not now determined at which rate they are taxed either in the same way or in full. We set tax rates for our products. On the one hand. On the other hand, we're closing any slides for the 1st and 24th groups, i.e. for agriculture, which used diastolic schemes to bring genetically modified products here and so forth. It's all closing up, too. Thus, the government of Timoshenko supports the decision of the government of Yanuković at 0907.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u154	Sergey Anatolyovich, you can hardly speak from the government. But is there any written support for the decision taken by the Ukrainian government?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u155	I've got it. That's right! That's right!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u156	Please indicate whether the decision corresponds to the ratified WTO Protocol.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u157	That's right.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u158	All of it. Under the stenogram. Dear colleagues, I'm voting on Bill 0907 as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u159	Please be supportive. [[14:06:10]] For – 410
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u160	For – 410, the decision is made.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u161	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u162	0880. Sergey Rafailovich Greenewecki, please. Eighty, Greenewsky will report.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u163	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, distinguished colleagues, the draft Ukrainian Law on the State Service for Special Liaison and Protection of Information of Ukraine of February 23, 2006, defines the legal basis for the organization and activities of the State Service for Special Liaison and Protection of Information of Ukraine. The draft law complements the Ukrainian Act on the Retirement of Persons Released from Military Service and Some Other Persons, under which the right to receive a pension under the law is also granted to persons released from the State Service for Special Liaison and Protection of Information of Ukraine. The adoption of this bill will allow the Ukrainian Act on the State Service for Special Liaison and Protection of Information to be aligned with such laws as “On Pensions of Persons Released from Military Service and Some Other Persons”, “On Rent of State and Municipal Property”, “On Military Duty and Military Service”, “On Pensions for Special Service to Ukraine”, “On Economic Activities in the Armed Forces of Ukraine” and “On Electronic Digital Signature”. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u164	Dear colleagues, there's a comparative table in front of you. There is one small problem in this comparative table: that changes are being made, that changes are being made to the Act on the purchase of goods, jobs and services for public funds, which does not exist. [[please, third page of the compare table, last paragraph, right side]] So you have to remove these things from this table. And I'm having a hard time putting it to a vote now, so we don't break wood, I'm sorry. I suggest you do it this way. Let's put it this way: let the committee work, colleagues, it's going to be the right thing to do, it's going to have to be removed, because now we're going to stress from the voice that we're not going to be able to figure it out. Come on. [[I'll give it to you, Adam Ivanovich, I hear it, I hear it.]] My suggestion is to look at it, or today after lunch, if the committee brings another table, or second reading. We're putting the day in order right now. Please, Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u165	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear Arsenius Petrovich, you have rightly pointed out that there is a change in the law that does not exist, but I think it's very easy for us to get out of this colossus right now. We are now taking this amendment into account in this law and giving a protocol order, a protocol commission to take into account the Cabinet of Ministers in its provisional position this rule. Because the Cabinet of Ministers has already adopted a temporary position that we are in charge of public procurement. Or another way to write it down is by the Cabinet of Ministers to take into account when passing the law, we still have to file a tender for the purchase. So we're subtracting from this law, but we're giving protocol orders and we can adopt the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u166	I think it's a good offer. Let's see, it's a complicated law, in a voice, and I suggest you take a look at it. We'll look at it tomorrow, it doesn't burn. Sergey Rafailovich, I ask for such a position. Okay? And there's no committee head. I'm announcing the next bill, colleagues, 0898. Igor Fedorovich Sharov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u167	Dear Mr. Head, Honourable National Deputies of Ukraine, draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Act on the Equal Rights and Opportunities of Women and Men. It was presented by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and accepted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fifth call on the basis of 14.03. In 2007 16.01.2008, the committee adopted a decision at its meeting: to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian law amending certain legislative acts in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Act on the Equal Rights and Opportunities of Women and Men and to adopt it in a second reading. In the bill, the bill was drafted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Legal Authority. It's not about a bill that changes electoral legislation. All the corrections are taken into account, and there is no other species. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u168	No, no, it's not about the election, colleague. This bill does not apply to elections. Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u169	I would like to point out that the election does not apply.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u170	I ask you to look closely at the comparative table: there are no regulations that change electoral legislation. This is an exclusive position for strengthening gender policy. Dear colleagues, the proposals from the legislators have not been introduced, there are no suggestions in the hall, I cannot see the bill. Please vote on the bill as a whole: 0898. If you don't mind, Igor Fedorovich, I want to say one thing under the transcript. Okay? [[14:11:45]] For - 398. Thank you, "For"-398. Allow me to address Igor Fedorovich as head of the committee with a request. Igor Fedorovich, you have a decision on the state program for the Crimean Tatars. This is a very important decision that was prepared as a result of a trip to the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. If you could just ask the committee to consider it, and we've considered it this week, and we've instructed the government to prepare an appropriate state programme on the basis of a Supreme Council ruling.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u171	Let's count it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u172	Thank you, Igor Fedorovich. Comrades, three more minutes, we'll take 0944. Very briefly, Kseniya Mikhailna.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u173	All comments are taken into account, the bill amends a series of laws with a single editorial amendment, which states that regulatory acts are adopted in accordance with the requirements of the Law on Principles of State Regulatory Policy. The law has been in force since 2004, but a number of normative acts have not been brought into line with it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m0.u174	Dear colleagues, a comparative table in front of you. There are no rights which have been entered and are not counted. There's one amendment to Kseniya Mikhaylovna that's completely taken into account. Are there any proposals for Bill 0944? There are no proposals, and in view of that, I am voting on Bill No. 0944 as a whole. Please vote. [[14:13:21]] For 182. Comrades, let's concentrate, please, this good pace was and taken down. So I suggest that it be democratic -- for re-reading, comrades, is that a decision taken? A wise decision. Let's re-read the second reading, please vote in favour. [[14:13:55]] Z - 212 Yeah, by the way, Victor Fedorovich's project was. It was a good project, and you turned it down. Colleagues, don't we want to go back to the vote for a second read? To the second again, to the second again. Are we going back to voting for a second read? After lunch? Let's do it again. Don't you want to? All right. Then I declare, your honor, to close the morning plenary session before. 16, maybe 15. 4:00, okay. I'll be there by 4:00.
