ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u1	Good morning, colleagues. Please register. [[10:01:34]] Registered -377 There are 377 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. Colleagues, the morning plenary meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare open. I invite the faction leaders to work on the schedule. At 11 o'clock, we begin the plenary session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u2	Colleagues, I'm asking you to take your seats. Let's start by asking, and then I'll offer you C.V.C.C. information. In addition to Jeanne Ousenko-Black, who will report to the CBC on a protocol decision, we'd like to request five minutes of information. Then Bill 3140 and Bill 2540. Bill 3140 is a draft amendment to the Ukrainian Television and Radio Act and Law 2540 is a bill amending certain Ukrainian laws to increase requirements for statutory capital requirements for professional participants in the stock market. This is the order of the day that is proposed. And also my colleagues, in accordance with Rule 131 of the Provisional Rules, I would like to suggest that the Head should not make his own decisions, not entirely, in other words, legally speaking, we have a few technical disagreements after we have passed the full test of the Road Traffic Act. 131st of the Rules, I'm going to put a motion on your vote to support the Head's proposal and to remove these technical differences. Dear colleagues! I propose that we vote for today's schedule first. Attention, colleagues! I ask you to vote for the schedule. I said a calendar plan. Changes to the calendar plan, too. [[11:03:55]] For 279 Colleagues! Before asking questions, I request my proposals in accordance with the 131st Rules on clarifying the disagreements that have arisen in amending some of Ukraine's laws on improving the regulation of road traffic relations. First. In order to reconcile the provisions of part two of article 30 of part three and article 130 of KUAPu in part of the definition of the time limit for the removal of the right to drive the means of transport is proposed in part two of article 30 to replace the words “up to three” and the word “three years” with the words “up to ten”. In the second part of article 130, paragraph 2, replace the words “ten years” with the words “up to ten years”. The committee has considered it, the proposal is, I ask her to support it. The other one. It is proposed that the words “persons for whom an emergency situation has been created” be deleted from Part Four of article 123 of the KUAP. And I'm teaching you, remember, there was a final position, I've formulated this final position, now I'm offering you how it's going to be formulated in the very text of the law. “The Cabinet of Ministers, on a monthly basis from the date of entry into force of this Act, shall develop and submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a bill on the implementation of the fines and the provision of measures to ensure the implementation of this law in accordance with the established procedure for the creation of an automated system for the registration and control of means of transport, their owners and administrative offences in the field of road traffic security. In the three-month period from the date of entry into force of this Act, the law shall carry out its legal acts in accordance with this Act.” Please vote for my offer, colleagues. [[11:05:46]] For 322 Thank you, colleagues. Decision taken. Please sign up, three minutes. Petrenko Vadim Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u3	Petrenko, Timoshenko Street. Please give the floor to Ivan Grigorovitch Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u4	Dear colleagues! Dear Arseny Petrovich! Dear voters! Unfortunately, I regret to find out about the sad story that happened to us yesterday and today about the formation of the order of the day. We agreed yesterday at a joint meeting of two factions, parts of two factions, that we would form the only working group to form the agenda for participation and the Lithuanian Block. Unfortunately, our colleagues from the faction "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" didn't show up yesterday to form the order of the day, not today, even though we officially and unofficially invited. And today, when colleagues showed up for the Conciliation Council 10 minutes before entering the Hall, proposals that had not been considered in three were offered. Sadly, then, today we have failed to form the order of the day within three. And it was formed on the Conciliation Council by four factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u5	Let me finish. Everything? All of it. Demyanchuk
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u6	Please pass the word to Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u7	Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u8	Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues! Every day you and I start our session by correcting yesterday’s or yesterday’s mistakes. When we adopted the Road Traffic Act, I was just stressing that let's stop, let's not work with the voice that someone wrote and distributed in the hall as we voted in favour of the amendments of one of the national MPs, but vote as required by the Rules. I wonder why you, Arsenius Petrovich, have been so liberal in the last days of the Rules and the Supreme Council? I understand your condition, I understand that. But let's just get out of the fact that we're members of Parliament, because we're now turning Parliament into one or two, forming a day's order, then what we want to accept is the next day we start by correcting yesterday's mistakes. "Don't chase horses"! Come on!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u9	Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u10	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! I don't know how else to beg Block Timoshenko to stop voting with the Party of Regions and to stop with the Party of Regions and Communists forming the agenda. I officially declare, despite the shouts of the BJTs in the hall, that as soon as I made a five-point offer: First. BUIT and the Party of Regions are refusing to change to the calendar plan and are refusing to continue the joint voting next week because they are creating a coalition with us “Our Ukraine” and with “Lithuania Block”. We need to negotiate and consult, not vote with the Party of Regions against Ukraine and against the Constitution. That's the first one. The answer is negative. The other one. Bill 1375, decreed, “Cancel of parliamentary immunity”, response “Blank of Timoshenko” is negative. Two bills 1311, 1313 are self-government and local administrations. The answer is negative.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u11	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u12	And Bill 1143 at the time of the celebration of the 75th anniversary of the sad, terrible event of Holodomor as the genocide of BUT against it, to now put into order the day-to-day issue of the Presidential Bill on the imposition of criminal responsibility for the non-recognition of the genocide of the Ukrainian people. Here's the whole new coalition from Block Tymoshenko. Five offers of “Our Ukraine” and five negative answers, this is their true position.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u13	Thank you. Colleagues, I'd like to move on to the day-to-day issues. First, Bill 3219, Efraemov Alexander Sergiyovich. Alexander Sergiyovich, please. Alexander Sergiyovich, 3219 from the scene.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, the committee at its meeting on September 25, reviewed the proposals made by national deputies, committee members for changes to the calendar schedule for the holding of the third session of the sixth vocation, namely, the week from October 29th to October 3, which included September 30th, October 1nd, October 2nd, plenary meetings and committee and factions. October 3rd is a plenary session and has decided to present a draft resolution to the Supreme Council for its consideration, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u15	Colleagues, we're going to have a faction leaders' meeting on Monday, which is the standard meeting of the Conciliation Board for this project not planned. Dear colleagues, I ask you to vote on the basis of Bill 3219 as a whole. [[11:11:44]] For 329 Let's see the factions. Regional Party - 154, BUT - 150, “Our Ukraine” - 5, Communists - 0, “Block of Lithuania” - 20. Yes, dear fellows, the next question is now proposed for your consideration. We have voted with you to inform the Central Electoral Commission about the formation of a voter register. We will have two officials who will provide information to Parliament. I am grateful to the Attorney General for the opportunity and desire she has expressed regarding the provision of relevant information. First. We will be informed by the Vice-President of the Central Electoral Commission, Jean Ivanovna Usenko-Chorne, who, according to a protocol decision of the Central Electoral Commission, is defined as the person responsible for the formation of the voter register and will report to Parliament. Within 10 minutes. Jana Ivanovna, I have not yet invited you to the rostrum, but nothing. The other one. This is Tetjana the Sovereign of Korniakov, Deputy Attorney General. It also has a considerable amount of information. Hence, Jeanne Ivanovna has up to 10 minutes and two questions from the faction to Jeanne Ivanovna and Tetjana the Sovereign 5 minutes and one question from the faction. Please, Jeanne Ivanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u16	Honorary Ukrainian National Deputies According to the law, the National Electoral Register is maintained electronically as a database with a single database containing the personal data of all voters. Thus, the necessary technological basis for initiating a register is the formation and implementation of an automated information and telecommunications system by all registering authorities. Such an automated system is a complex engineering complex that provides for online exchange of information, and according to an article of the law is created in order and time-bound by the Cabinet of Ministers. The government's September 5, 2007, change of September 12, 2008, approved the plan of action for the creation of a telecommunications register system, which was set to be implemented by December 15, 2008. The action plan provides for 14 stages, one of them being implemented, the first to become virtually impossible after the issue of Decree No. 499 by the President of Ukraine on June 2, 2008. The decree suspended the Cabinet of Ministers' decree of 17 April 2008 on the purchase of services related to the formation of the register information and telecommunications system. In connection with this decree, the Deputy Attorney-General to the Central Electoral Commission on 23 June 2008 stated: “The immediate application of measures to halt the procurement of software, to create and bring the automated registry system to a decision on the constitutionality of the Cabinet of Ministers decision.” Thus, the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine has banned the Central Electoral Commission from making purchases for the first stage of the plan of action, not only in the manner established by the government, but also in general through the application of any other tender procedure. Instead, the rest of the process of automating the registry system is implemented by the Central Election Commission in its established order and schedule. To date, the commission has ensured that all necessary purchases of appropriate equipment and services are made available to form a register system in full terms of allocated budgetary allocations. Yes, the 2008 government budget for Ukraine has allocated nearly 45 million dollars for registration, with the commission fully completing the necessary tender procedures. In addition, given the existence of lawsuits aimed at impeding the implementation of individual stages of the action plan, the Central Election Commission carried them out on its own. I mean, without buying appropriate services from a professional service company. At the same time, the commission saved more than 2 million dollars in budget money. In particular, it should be noted that the purchase of technical equipment and services to form a registry system of 92 percent of budget allocations was carried out by an open tendering commission. It should also be pointed out that foreign companies were not involved in the creation of the register by the commission. In order to ensure that an automated system is formed, the Commission has carried out such measures. To implement paragraph 2 of the Action Plan, the Commission held open auctions on 29 August for the purchase of server hardware, the winner was TV "Biomes Consulting", the cost of service of 2 million 177 thousand dollars. On September 18, the commission concluded a contract to purchase rating conditioners to ensure that the system is functioning in a reliable and unbreakable manner. To implement paragraph 3 of the Action Plan on 26 August 2008, reduced purchases of user identification tools were made. The winner is defined as the “Edaps” consortium, the value of the service of 830,000 bracelets. To implement paragraph 4 of the action plan, the commission opened a tender for the purchase of system-wide software. The winner is the Yedaps consortium, with which a contract of 3 million 895 thousand was signed on August 6th. To implement paragraph 5 of the plan of arrangements for the installation and maintenance of server and telecommunication software software, appropriate repairs and electrical engineering have been done to ensure the installation of server and telecommunication equipment. In order to ensure the smooth operation of the server equipment, a contract has been concluded with MiraMIX United. To implement paragraph 6 on September 16, 2008, a reduction in the purchase of technical equipment for the creation and implementation of the system was completed, the cost of service was 29 million 69,000. To implement paragraph 7 of the plan of action for the formation of a telecommunications network, a contract was signed with VAT on June 3, 2008 and the cost of services was 946 000. It is important to note that the formation of a special autonomous telecommunications network that will transmit information between the registry authorities and the CEC has been practically completed. Today, the functionality of the so - called end points in the registry departments, which are integrated into a single network created through separate communication channels, is being tested. At the moment, the functionality of 633 of these points is actually connected and demonstrated. A network capable of providing the capacity needed to ensure the transmission of information to the network, including periods of maximum load. The supply of modem equipment for registering departments is carried out by the Cortel domestic company. To implement article 35 of the Ukrainian State Budget 2008 Act, the Central Electoral Commission fully ensures agreement of the contracts made in accordance with the established order with the national general contracting authority of the National Information Programme of the State-Formatization. The Commission carried out paragraphs 8 and 9 of the plan of action for the development of a technical task to create a comprehensive information protection system and documentation for the technological design of this system. A technical task developed by the Commission and documentation of the technological design of this system. The technical work and documentation of a technology project developed by the Commission are in line with the State Service for Special Communications and Information Protection. Today, the commission continues to implement paragraph 10 of the plan of action for the implementation of a comprehensive information protection system. Thus, on 20 August 2008, with the aim of implementing the provisions of article 24 of the law on the granting to political parties of digital signatures of electronic copies of the database, an agreement was concluded with the Author Society on the development of appropriate software. To implement paragraph 11 of the plan of action for the implementation of the State Expertise on the Integrated Information Protection System and its results, the Commission agreed on a draft contract with the contractor, which was designated on 7 August 2008 by the State Office for Special Liaison and Protection of Ukraine, namely, with the state-owned enterprise “Ukrainian Special Systems”. The estimated cost of services is 900,000 dollars. In addition, in accordance with the agreement between the Central Election Commission and the OSCE Project Coordinator in Ukraine, an international tender for the purchase of computer technology for registry offices, which is transmitted to the Central Electoral Commission, has been held in Vienna as an international technical assistance for more than 19 million dollars. However, the provision of such international technical assistance to Ukraine was put at risk in connection with the introduction by the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine of a prescription for the termination by the Central Electoral Commission of the purchase of services for the development of application software for the adoption by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of a decision on the constitutionality of the Cabinet of Ministers. Despite circumstances that have led to mistrust of the reality of Ukraine’s desire to register, the Central Electoral Commission has succeeded in convincing international experts to investigate the situation in connection with the reality of the State’s desire to establish an electoral register. Thus, the commission’s efforts to implement the register received a positive expert conclusion. Then the tender in Vienna was extended, and international technical assistance will soon be transferred to Ukraine. Thus, under appropriate conditions, this year the commission has the opportunity to put into operation the information and telecommunications system of the register, to create the original database of the register, and to give access to it to all registering authorities. In this case, the Central Election Commission will set a three - month time frame for the primary clarification of the personal data register in accordance with Article 37 as early as 2008. Considering that all 755 registering bodies have been established in all regions of Ukraine, and the Central Election Commission has adopted a series of necessary legal and regulatory acts, the implementation of the register is in the final stage. Thus, the removal of appropriate obstacles that prevent the CLTC from completing the automated formation.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u17	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u18	will allow the first half of the following year to conduct initial details of the personal data register and complete the implementation of the transitional provisions of the law. Yes, after the initial clarification has been completed, the registration authorities send each of the voters information about their inclusion in the register. The transitional stage of implementation of the register will be completed by the Central Election Commission in the public and regional media reports on the completion of the initial clarification of personal data. In addition, to date, the Central Election Commission is working on the organization in October-December of this year for the staff of the registering authorities, according to the 13th paragraph of the action plan. At the same time, this does not mean that there are no other issues that are urgent for registration. First, for the original creation of the register database, it is necessary to make appropriate changes to article 36 of the law, which will allow the primary registration of the electoral registers used during the last election period to be used for the initial completion of the voter registers, since the current edition obliges the CEC to use outdated lists in 2006. The relevant bill, including on improving the individual aspects of registering, has been drafted with the participation of the Central Election Commission. In addition, a legislative solution is needed to create permanent polling stations that are provided for by registering technology. Hence, the commission requests the Supreme Council of Ukraine to approve the necessary changes to the law without delay. Secondly, despite the numerous requests made by the CFC, there is still no solution to the question of the return of a commission of premises located behind it in an administrative building in the Forest of Ukraine, 1 which is in the use of two parliamentary committees. Because of the absence of service facilities, the CEC is forced to organize jobs for staff members of the registry service in the corridor. At the same time, further orders from the President of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers and the Kyiv Authority were made available.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u19	I'm asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u20	A long-term leased VAT. However, although these premises are legally secured by the Central Electoral Commission, they are actually used by two parliamentary committees. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your attention, as well as the ability of the Central Electoral Commission to provide information on such an important issue, especially when the implementation of the National Electoral Register is being seriously and systematically hampered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u21	Colleagues, I'm asking, two questions from the faction. We're doing a recording. Repeat the recording as if it were a faction. You make a record of the deputies, you make a statement of the factions. I'm going to the machine upstairs. I told you twice, from factions. Please repeat the entry again. Yeah. Sorted? It's Roman's. “Julia Timoshenko’s Block”, Zabzauk Roman.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u22	Apparently, Jeanne Ivanovna, Banking’s involvement in the CIA’s activities in registering, including certain recommendations of the CBA’s controlling criminal proceedings against members of CIA, contains the signs of crime provided for in part four of article 157 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code. Because this is an intervention in the electoral commission's work to prevent the implementation of the statutory powers of the CLTC, including, in our opinion, stopping the process of registering. In view of this, do you not think that the Prosecutor's Office should give a proper assessment of the actions of certain officials of the President's Secretariat from this point of view and that the CEC should take a principled position on these issues?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u23	Thank you. The Central Electoral Commission takes the principle of a position on the implementation of the national voter register, which is reflected in the unanimous vote of all CLTC members on all issues relating to the implementation of the register. At the same time, the Central Electoral Commission has actually faced unprecedented pressure on a commission that completely ignores the requirements of the Central Electoral Commission's independence laws. Then the creation of such a temporary commission would really be useful in making it impossible in the future to put pressure on a commission that is going on today in all sorts of forms.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u24	Demyanchuk, Communist faction
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u25	Demyanchuk, Communist faction Please pass the word to Matthew Valentine Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u26	Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u27	Thank you. Matthew, the Communist faction. Dear reporter, you said in your information that there would be international technical assistance in creating a voter register. I have a question: first of all, how will it be provided with this international technical assistance, by which countries or by international organizations? In particular, what does that mean? Are these electronics or something? What is it? The point is, can't the entire voter registering system be controlled and managed from abroad? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u28	The fact is that the Central Electoral Commission's agreement with the OSCE project coordinator in Ukraine was reached in 2007 when Parliament itself did not support the government's proposal and allocated less than 20 percent of the necessary amount for the registration. Of the 74 million, a little over 14 million were allocated. Then, for nearly 20 million dollars, the OSCE provides international technical assistance to the Central Electoral Commission, and for these costs, computer technology will be purchased for the registry offices, which will be transferred to all regions. The purchases of this technique take place in Vienna. The project's donors are the European Commission and the Canadian International Development Agency. At the same time, I wanted to stress that the provision of such international assistance is provided by a memorandum of understanding between the government and the OSCE, which was ratified by the law of Ukraine back in 2000.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u29	Katerina Vaschuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u30	Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u31	Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u32	Thank you. Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear Jeanne Ivanovna! I have this question, maybe not a technological plan, but rather a strategic one. Please tell me, in the absence of a single register, was it fair to say that the elections that had taken place in Ukraine before were transparent, fair, fair? Given that we know very well that there was a great deal of cross-section in voting. People who were not in nature voted. And by the way, not only in Western Ukraine, it was in all regions of Ukraine. If we don't have a real voter register right now, we can talk about Ukraine holding its first election, where the vote will coincide with the announced results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u33	The fact is that registering is really just a qualitative step in facilitating the work of election organizers. And first of all, that base will make it easier to work, really, and the quality of the voters' lists. However, this does not mean that the pre-election processes without the application of the register indicate that the election was either falsified or untrustworthy lists contributed to the falsification of citizens’ will. At the same time, the electoral campaign was evaluated by the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine. Then, I think this question has absolutely found its solution in a court decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u34	Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u35	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear Jeanne Ivanovna, we understand from your statement that the Central Election Commission in 2007-2008 has done everything in its power to implement the electoral register in a timely manner. In doing so, we understand that the main obstacles on this path have been and continue to be pursued by the efforts of the officials of the President's Secretariat and by the President himself. But it bothers the other. Current legislation provides for a register to be available as a prerequisite for holding the elections that are so much spoken of today. But there's no register. That is why please tell us whether elections can be held now and whether you believe that the lack of a national voter register can affect the results of future elections and their recognition as legitimate and honest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u36	In accordance with the Law on Elections of National Deputies of Ukraine, which amended the order for the holding of out-of-order elections, in particular article 102 with the “3” sign, the compilation of election lists in the case of early elections is carried out using only the basic mechanisms and procedures laid down in the Law on the State Register of Voters. Legislation then allows that only partially basic mechanisms, which are provided by law for the congregation, for the processing and generalization of voter reports, can be used until the state register is fully established. Then, I believe that such provisions of the law allow for the application of the relevant provisions of the article of the Law on the State Register of Elections, such as 22, and for the establishment of reliable and high-quality lists of voters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u37	Thank you. Polishchik.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u38	Please pass the word to a colleague of Bezig.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u39	Princely Ruslan. Ah, Veziewski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u40	Vladimir Viezowski, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense". Mrs. Jeanne, in September 2007, the CBC approved a technical assignment for the National Electoral Register. As early as December 2007, the Head of the Interministerial Procurement Commission, Alexander Tkachenko, signed the decision by which the CEC made changes to the technical task, i.e. the CEC, was to make changes to the technical task in accordance with the recommendations of paragraph 3 of the Intercom’s decision, to accept these changes from the DRC and only then to conduct a tender. Failure to make changes to the technical task or to reconcile it with the Complaints means the illegal conduct of tender purchases. When were changes made to the technical task, and when were these tasks agreed upon by the Complainant?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u41	Thank you for asking. First of all, I would like to point out the absolute groundlessness of the conclusion that the Central Electoral Commission is in violation of the requirements of the law when it approves a technical task. The approval of a technical task belongs exclusively to the Central Electoral Commission and to the State Department. The technical task was unanimously approved by the members of the CLTC, without notice, without any suggestion agreed on by the State. Instead, there was no reference to the competence of the Interministerial Commission to deal with such matters under Ukrainian law. Then the Interministerial Commission makes such a decision, which does not contain a single word other than that contained in the complainant’s complaint, is totally not part of the authority that has ceased to exist for all the reasons.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u42	Oleg Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u43	Please pass the word to the People's Deputy Ulkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u44	I've been stabbed. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u45	Dear Jeanne Ivanovna, I think it has become clear to all the society and voters of the recent Banking actions that the voter register has become another line of the President's front against his government. At the same time, the register and the CLK were held hostage by cynical drafts from the President’s Secretariat, which had already fallen off their feet, hanging tags on the CLF, in order to achieve their own employment in the post of head of the Centre. So I have a question, as you might think, whether there are grounds for reacting by the Supreme Council to such unwholesome activity that is detrimental to both the international authority of Ukraine and the interests of the electorate, by creating an interim commission of inquiry that would reveal the facts of interference with the work of an independent body under the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u46	Thank you. With regard to the creation of such a commission, I really believe that the situation surrounding the blocking of the State voter register actually has signs of systemic interference with the work of the Central Electoral Commission, the pressure on the Central Electoral Commission, including the use of law enforcement authorities, in order to prevent the Central Electoral Commission from exercising its statutory powers. Then, in my opinion, there is really an object for study by a commission in accordance with 89 articles of the Constitution of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u47	Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u48	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. When you answered my colleague Matthew's questions, you said that technical assistance, essential technical assistance, would be provided by Vienna. OCCJE. By purchasing computer technology that depends on the honesty or dishonesty of the elections, Vienna will provide. Where does it guarantee that things are going to be the way they should be? Is there no reason to doubt that someone from abroad will control the course of our elections, because it is clear that everything can be put into technology. That's one question. And the second question. Is it not considered the possibility of using such techniques as was used in some of Moscow’s locations during the last elections, immediately through the scanner, to accept the ballot papers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u49	I'll start with the second question, the current legislation of Ukraine does not provide for the possibility of using this technique. Regarding the purchase of computer technology for the registration offices, I wanted to report that this technical assistance relates to the acquisition of personal computers for the registration offices, the corresponding printers, and so on. This does not apply in any way to the purchase of equipment for the creation of a comprehensive information protection system or telecommunications equipment. At the same time, I would like to remind you that a similar project had been carried out in 2006 in the OSCE and the CLTC, and much of the technology had already been transferred to the electoral working groups during the preparations for the 2006 elections. And it was thanks to such international technical assistance that very tight deadlines made it possible to compile lists during the preparations for the 2006 elections.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u50	Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u51	Thank you. Dear Jeanne Ivanovna! To be honest, I was surprised by the answer to my question. I can quote when you said that not exactly folded lists don't affect the reliability of the results. I don't understand. I'm convinced that unreliable lists affect election results, maybe not globally, but they deform and distort the will of voters. And in that regard, I do have questions for you. Is there a register to be created in December? If not, please tell me, this is already planned, and what is the company currently running for the term elections, which are finally decided that the term elections will be held when this is done without a register - will be the true outcome of the election? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u52	The automated registry system can be introduced by December 15, 2008. At the same time, the compilation of voter lists, including without the use of national voter records, and with only the basic mechanisms and procedures laid down in the law, the State Register of Voters, may or may not be able to ensure the proper quality and reliability of voter lists. Moreover, to my profound conviction, the list of voters, their quality, completeness and credibility are essential to ensure transparency, democracy, and the adequacy of the will of Ukrainian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u53	Ivan Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u54	Pedestrian faction “Parties of the Regions”. Please pass the word to Oleni Lukash.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u55	Olena Lukash.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u56	Please pass the word Lukash.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u57	Thank you. Dear Jeanne Ivanovna! After your report, I would like to thank, on behalf of the entire House of Deputies, those who have destroyed not only all the efforts of the CEVC to create a register, but even the hope that we will have it someday. First of all, I would like to thank the President for the decree that he has stopped the procedure for registering voters and to date the decree is in effect, and the absence of a register is an absolute merit of his secretarial clerics and his personal identity. Secondly, thank the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, which, by its prescription, obliged the CEC to stop fully working on creating the register and carried out the audit at the request of the same President. We should also thank the Constitutional Court, which will not take a decision on the President's orders to block the process of registering. The very names I think are personal.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u58	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u59	Personal responsibility for the fact that there is still no voter register in our country. But I would like to hear your opinion more clearly. Who do you think is the biggest obstacle to the creation of a state register today, and what can Parliament do to begin its creation?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u60	In fact, today the only factor that stops Ukraine's national registry is the availability of the U.K. Attorney General's Office's prescription, requiring purchase, in any way, of application software for an automated registry system. Prior to the issuance of the relevant decree by the President of Ukraine and the introduction of this prescription by the Attorney General's Office, the Central Electoral Commission fully ensured that appropriate measures were taken to create the register. Then, in my view, the removal of such obstacles will as soon as possible fully unlock the implementation of the Law on the State Register of Voters.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u61	Andrew Parubius.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u62	Papuy Andri’s faction “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense”. Mrs. Jeanne, we're talking about political issues, or maybe the whole problem is not political, but it's political. I read the findings of the Ukrainian Court of Auditors on the results of an audit of the efficiency of the use of public budget funds by the Central Electoral Commission. And it's clearly stated here, in these conclusions, that the tender documentation for the registration system is confirmed by a violation of valid legal acts. It is also noted that at the time of the audit of the technical and economic justification for the construction of the register as a basic document has not been developed. It may not be a political ban, but it may simply be that the funds were to be passed on to someone and somewhere without the necessary and legally prescribed procedures. The question may be much more banal and not so politically relevant, but it lies in another plane. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u63	I thank you for quoting the conclusion of the Court of Auditors in this part, because it very vividly illustrates the absurdity of the conclusions regarding the violation by the Central Electoral Commission of any legislative requirements. In particular, the priority of the register is established by law. Instead, the preparation of such a justification, referred to by the Court of Auditors, provides for the submission of a corresponding project to be agreed upon by the Government of Ukraine, which will be approved by the appropriate authority, as well as for the appropriate conclusion of the Ministry of Transport and Communications. I would like to point out that the national register of voters is not drawn up in accordance with the conclusions of the Ministry of Transport, nor according to the list of programmes from the National Information Programme, but according to the law and its priority is established not by the expert conclusions of the Mintrans experts, but by the Law on the State Register of Voters.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u64	Thank you. Dear Jeanne Ivanovna, could I ask you for a few things personally to give me an answer. First question, Jeanne Ivanovna. When the voter register is created, the date.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u65	The government's order of December 15, 2008 was set to complete the implementation of the automated registry system.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u66	Am I correct in your understanding that the status of 15 December of this year's CEVC will announce the completion of the register?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u67	For revoking the relevant prescription of the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u68	Got it. Now let's ask the Attorney General's office. Second question, with your permission. If you hypothetically imagine that the Supreme Council of Ukraine will adopt amendments to the Ukraine Elections Act and vote will follow open lists. Are we able to vote in the shortest possible terms for open lists?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u69	Arseny Petrovich, I don’t think this question is related to the introduction of the National Electoral Register, because I feel that open lists refer to a different element than the compilation of voter lists.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u70	Voting count, colleagues, that's where the specifics go in the vote count. I mean, in principle, you could say that even under the conditions of open lists, you could have an election. Did I get it right, Jean Ivanovna?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u71	I don't think I fully understand you, Arsenija Petrovich, but the listing of voters on which citizens will receive the ballots is completely unrelated to the question that you are currently addressing?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u72	Jeanne Ivanovna, it's unrelated -- electoral lists with open party lists -- are unrelated. I'm talking about the general electoral process right now, do you just not have this information right now? Got it. And the third, just a simple question. In this case, if hypothetically Ukraine is declared to run-time elections, is the CEC capable of ensuring transparent democratic elections?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u73	The Central Election Commission is prepared to ensure that the functions and powers imposed by Ukraine's laws are fulfilled.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u74	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u75	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u76	I invite you to the rostrum of Tetjan the Sovereign of Korniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u77	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! In accordance with the Ukrainian Law on the State Register of Voters, the national accounting of voters using automated processing of information is provided for from October 1, 2007. At the same time, the automated electoral registry system of the Central Electoral Commission has not yet been created. One of the reasons for the breach of the deadlines for the implementation of the national voter register is the failure to take steps to ensure technical protection of the register and the adoption of illegal decisions in the procurement of goods and services. In particular, the Central Election Commission announced on 28 August 2007 a tender for the purchase of goods and services for the creation of an automated information and telecommunications system, the State Register of Voters, under the open trade procedure. Against the decisions of the Inter-ministerial Commission on State Procurement on 20 December 2007, the conduct of the listed purchase was cancelled in connection with the violation by the buyer of the requirements of the Ukrainian Law on State Finance Purchase and the lack of information protection requirements in the tender documentation. In 2008, the Central Election Commission initiated the adoption by the Cabinet of Ministers of a decree of 17 April 2008 on the purchase of services related to the formation of an automated information and telecommunications system of the electoral register, which provides for the procurement of services by one participant without agreement with the Ministry of Economy of Ukraine. On 5 May, the Central Electoral Commission concluded an agreement with a closed-circuit “Atlas” company to develop and manage software, create and maintain an automated information and telecommunications system, the National Electoral Register. However, as you know, the President's decree of June 2 of the Cabinet ruling was repealed, with a simultaneous appeal to the Constitutional Court. Thus, there is currently no legal basis for the continuation of the purchase of software for the creation of a national voter register. Well, regardless of that, the commitment under the Atlas ATZT treaty is continuing. And on June 5th, the Central Electoral Commission was doing 330,000 dollars. You know, there was an arraignment filed with the Attorney General, who was accused by the Central Electoral Commission. However, Kyiv’s district administrative court was confirmed. The U.S. Attorney General's Office has received materials from the Ukrainian Security Service, which are now being tested. But I would like to point out that, after studying these materials, we have further addressed the Ukrainian Security Service, where we have proposed to send additional materials on the materials previously provided, including those collected by means of operational counter-intelligence measures, which have confirmed the conduct by CSA officials of deliberate actions, as described in the materials aimed at providing the Atlas stockholders with illegal advantages during the conclusion of an agreement on the purchase of services for the development and development of software for the creation and introduction of this programme. An increase in the cost of equipment purchased by the Commission for budgetary costs for its formation, as well as the possibility of unsanctioned remote intervention in AIT by outsiders as a result of the use of the Kiza production device in technological equipment. In addition, the Office of the Attorney-General with the materials sent by the Security Service concerning violations of effective legislation by the Central Electoral Commission in the process of creating an automated telecommunication system, the State Register of Voters, requested the appropriate and involved specialists of the State Department of Special Liaison and Protection of Information of Ukraine. I want to point out that no pressure from the Attorney General's Office on the Central Electoral Commission is being exerted. Only three officials were interviewed.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u78	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u79	I'll be right there. There's a hardware purchase going on right now. We don't deny it. And the final decision on these materials will be taken by the Attorney General’s Office when the final materials, if any, and the Ukrainian Security Service will arrive and an appropriate competent opinion will be given from the State Security and Information Protection Service of Ukraine. I've got everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u80	One question from each faction, please. Please sign up. Elbrus Tediev, Bondik. Out of the way. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u81	Dear Tetian the Almighty, I agree with your statement. And I think that the report we heard before, by the way, from the official of the Central Electoral Commission is, like, you know, Jaroslava's crying, someone is guilty, but not the CWC itself, and not the answerer himself, who should be developing and giving the text of a voter's register. So, Tetjana Vyvoldovna, I've been very careful about the report of the Court of Auditors, and I believe that the Public Prosecutor's Office has performed its statutory supervisory function not to create a register of voters. And notice, in the future and in the lawsuits that the CEVC is filing with the prosecutor's office, and in the further response to the Central Election Commission, the system hasn't changed. The same artists: “Atlas”, “Procom” and “Legend” about the parallel server that they masked by their disregard for the law, because the register is not created, and it must be created. So I think you're on the right track, and I'm asking you to respond accordingly.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u82	Valentin Matviev.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u83	Please pass the word to Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u84	Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u85	Dear reporter, I have practically one question, but a few directions to this question. Well, first of all, we understand that the Central Electoral Commission, at the final stage, can falsify the results of the will, and then the system falsifies the results of the will. Because we know with you how influential the same administration of the President, who uses the administrative resource, law enforcement agencies, commercial structures or businesses influence. But in order to figure out how the law on voter registration is being implemented, so that we don't really vote dead souls, those who are abroad, we need to create this register. But I do have a question for you. 800 criminal cases were committed as a result of the third round of presidential elections. Please explain how this process ended. How was this investigated? Who Was Punished? That's what
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u86	Dear Peter Mikolaiovich, as far as I know, 80 percent of the criminal cases that were committed under the falsification of the elections went to court, and there are judgments against them. But separately, to analyze it, you need to do a separate piece of information to the Supreme Council at your request.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u87	Aunty the Almighty, if you could send this information to the Supreme Council, I'll send it to the faction leaders.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u88	Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u89	People's deputies in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u90	We'll hand it over to the Attorney General and get that information ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u91	Thank you. Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u92	I'd like you to pass it on to a colleague of yours by the faction of Philippenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u93	Thank you. Please tell me, Your Honor, we are all aware of this. You can explain when the illegal pressure on the Central Electoral Commission of officials by the Attorney-General of Ukraine and the Secretary-General of the President's Office will be stopped. Why are we depriving us of actually a voter register as a result of your pressure? And I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that, taking into account the entire report, and yours, and the report of the representatives of the Central Electoral Commission, there is now no other case left for us to talk about the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry that will investigate the situation of pressure from officials of the Ukrainian Secretary of the President who, by the way, are now present, and the officials of the Attorney General's Office who are blocking the State voter register. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u94	Dear People's Deputy! If such a commission is created, we will put all the verification materials that are in the Attorney General's office to this commission. And once again, I want to emphasize that there is no pressure on the board from the Attorney General's Office, and Jeanne Mikolayevna can confirm that.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u95	One last question. Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u96	Yuri Carmazin. I want to ask, what is the role of the prosecutor's office in the prevention of non-abuses: tenders, everything else? And how do you see: can the creation law and the operation of the register be fulfilled? What are the terms? Because the law is blocked. Which is why I'm not going to talk right now. Here are the different versions, starting with the blockage: someone thinks it's an edict, someone thinks it's a non-execution of the law. What is your vision, first of all, of prevention? And secondly, what is your view of compliance with the requirements of the law that it should still be fulfilled? Please tell me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u97	Dear Yuri Anatolyovich, well, we don't do prevention. But from what Jeanne Mikolayevna explained, it must be understood that the State Register of Voters will be made in time. And with regard to the Attorney General's Office directly, we're very careful about studying these materials and making an appropriate conclusion, a legal conclusion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u98	Thank you, Aunty the Almighty. Please sit down. My colleagues, there were questions about the President's Secretariat. If there is a wish, we can easily express ourselves, invite Stavniyczuk to the talk. Don't you want to? You don't want to. Would you like that? Do we have to vote or should we not? We vote to give the floor to Marina Stavniychuk. Vote. [[12:01:27]] For-53 Question taken. For 53. Colleagues, 12.01. The question is closed. But before we consider the matter, I would like to ask that we welcome our colleague Dubil Valeri Alexandrovich, who has his birthday today, 35 years old. Let's say hello. [[Applause]] A break is being announced.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u99	Colleagues, we continue our morning plenary session. In accordance with article 25 of the Rules, we today need to consider parliamentary questions. The request by Vladimir Polochalo to the President of Ukraine regarding the ignoring by the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine and other law enforcement authorities of the facts of corruption, abuse and substantial violations of the effective legislation by the directors of the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine of the State Department of Intellectual Property and the State Enterprise “The Ukrainian Agency for Copyright and Neighbouring Rights”. Please vote in favour of the request. [[12:32:24]] For 124 The decision is not taken. Igor Ribakov's request to the President of Ukraine for a non-response to the MP's request for gross violations and abuses during the processing of natural gas imports into Ukraine, the task of Ukraine's state budget for billions of losses and the immediate involvement of the leadership of the Ukrainian State Customs Service in the responsibility. We vote in favour of the MP's request. [[12:33:05]] For-98 The decision is not taken. A request from a group of Ukrainian national deputies to the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the purposeless use of the funds of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the non-admission of such cases in the future. [[Carmagina, Samuel, and others]] Vasila Petyovka To the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the work of the capital repair of apartments and homes of disabled people living in the town of Mukachevo Zakarta. Vladimir Lithuania to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to change the mechanism of counting and recalculating monthly insurance payments to coal workers from accidents. Vladimir Lithuania to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the inactivity of Ukraine's Cabinet of Ministers in the production and implementation of State policies to support domestic food producers. Igora Ribakova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the failure to respond to a parliamentary request for gross violations and abuses during the preparation of natural gas imports into Ukraine, the task of the State budget for Ukraine for billions of losses and the immediate involvement of the leadership of the State Customs Service in Ukraine. Igora Sharov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the inclusion in the 2009 project of the State budget of Ukraine of expenditure on financing measures aimed at the creation of a single central executive body in the field of migration. Mikoli Komara to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the development of nuclear energy in Ukraine. Mikoli Yankovsky to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Industrial Policy of Ukraine, Minister of Environmental Protection of Ukraine on the ecologically dangerous situation at the Gorlovska Chemical Plant. Alexia Baburin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the continuous decline in the quality of communications services in Ukraine, the inability to lead the sector to improve matters in Ukraine and the actual government representation in this direction. Paul Silent to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the conservation of the unique flora and fauna in the Conca-Sasp Bay. Victor Slauti is acting as Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Minister of Agriculture Policy of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the State Tax Administration in Kharkiv Region for the illegal absorption and seizure of the land of the teaching and research farm of the Kharkiv National Agrarian University. Boring in the Dragon and Pervomayan regions. Vladimir Kaplienka to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine on the abuse of office by the Director of the Donetsk University of boarding school No. 4 for mentally retarded children Tetjana Pohézny. Edouard Prutnik to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the examination of the situation regarding the referrals of a citizen of Boris Uncrowded to the law enforcement authorities of the Chernig region and the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine. Irina Bilousov to the finance minister of Ukraine regarding the unsatisfactory state of funding of the Kupyan City Council of the Kharkiv Region for the execution of delegated state powers. Catherine Vaschuk to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine, for the delay in investigating the beating of a resident of a town-type village called Kolka Menevic district of Volin Region of Anatolia Bilaan. Mikoli Kravchenka is under the responsibility of the head of the Ukrainian Security Service and the Attorney General of Ukraine to participate in the destruction of the national manufacturer. Alexander Kemenyash to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine and the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the legality of the actions of the Zacarpathian Executive Service and Prosecutor's Office regarding the forceful capture of the premises and the theft of the business documentation of the Baranian Rural Council of the Zakarpatsk Region. Sergey Gordienka to the Minister of Environmental Protection of Ukraine on the inaction of the Chief State Inspector for Environmental Protection in the Poltava region of Sergija Krugljak on the issue of preventing pollution of the village of Terna Lubensky of the Poltava region by discharges of unclean sewage from urban treatment facilities. Jury Crook to the Minister of Environmental Protection of Ukraine on the extraordinary situation in Odessa 9-11 of September this year. Yuri Litvina to the Minister of Health of Ukraine on the need for urgent purchase at the expense of the State Equipment Budget for the Kyrovograd district oncodispancer. Jury Litvina to the Minister of Industrial Policy of Ukraine to ensure the financing of the viability of the Crevice mining and enrichment combination of oxidized ores. Igora Sharov to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the inaction of the Zaporozhye District Prosecutor's Office in the illegal allocation of 24 plots in the village of Lunacharski Berdjane district of Zaporozhye. Mikli Kravchenka to the Attorney-General of Ukraine to appeal to the citizen of Yulia Jarova regarding the speeding up of the case of her father's death as a result of a road accident. Aleksandra Kemenyash to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the legality of the actions of the officials of the Svalya District of Zakarpat. Olga Gerasimük to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the unsatisfying reaction of the procurator of the Herson district of Vasil Chernikov to a parliamentary appeal regarding the illegal construction of a building on Lenin Street, 8 in Hersson. Olga Gerasimük to the Attorney-General of Ukraine for ignoring the criminal case against Igor Nikolayenek and Galina Rajevsky by the Office of the Prosecutor-General of Ukraine and the Prosecutor-General of Kiev. Sergija Gordienka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the protection of the rights of Lazrkowska Pajovska Pajovice with limited responsibility for the Oxamite Region of Poltava. Vladimir Sovkovic and Hennady Moskal to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the criminalization of the prosecutor of the Kyiv region of Alexander Gardecsky for obstructing the activities of the Ukrainian national deputy. Andrija Pavlovski to the Head of the Kiev City Public Administration for the Protection of the Rights of Peoples of the Houses, located in Kiev, on the street: Cracow, Red Vladimir Yavorowski to the Head of the Kiev City State Administration on the ability or inability of the Kiev authorities to solve the growing problem of car congestion in the capital, which could result in the complete paralysis of Kiev’s inaction. Mikoli Derkach to the Chernigev city head for the protection of the housing rights of the residents of the hostel in Chernigow on the street of Semibotka, 120 and the non-refoulement of people without giving them other housing. Let us now consider other matters of the order of the day. In view of the fact that we have to have a “Variance” today, there is a proposal that the two issues of the agenda should be dealt with by a reduced procedure. No objections? I'm voting on a reduced procedure to deal with two issues of the agenda. [[12:40:23]] For 287. Decision taken. The draft Law “On the Amendment of the Law of Ukraine on Television and Broadcasting” is under consideration, 3140. Please, Edward Anatolyovich Prutnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u100	Dear colleagues, honourable representatives of the media, the adoption of the Law “On Making Changes to Article 14 of the Law on Television and Broadcasting” requires the introduction of the Law “On Television and Broadcasting” in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine and democratic norms and the elimination of readings when applying it. The existing edition of article 14 of the Ukrainian Television and Radio Act effectively makes it impossible to appoint heads of the National Television Company of Ukraine, the National Radio Company of Ukraine and the approval of the compositions of the public councils of national speakers. And it's actually a dead norm that in principle it can't have practical application for the following reasons. The public councils, which have been in operation for more than two and a half years, have not been formed by an essentially abstract procedure whereby a board member should be represented, both by the President of Ukraine and the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and by the public organizations that operate in the field of production and distribution of television and radio programmes for no less than three years. Dear colleagues, such public organizations as these do not exist. So if we agree that the leaders of NTCU and NRC should appoint the Ukrainian Parliament, why should we create another bureaucratic and obviously not effective link to manage these structures. In dealing with such matters, we need to get away from the very essence of a public organization. We all remember the last appointment of the performing duty of the National Television Company of Ukraine by decree of the President when the appointment procedure was not followed because of the diversity in this law. NTCU is not a news channel, but, to my deep conviction, it has to act as a communication function of the state with society. As former head of the State Committee on Television and Radio, I would like to stress.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u101	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u102	I would like to stress that, in analysing and taking into account the appeals made by citizens from different airlines, in cooperation with colleagues, it was concluded that the functioning of the public councils of national speakers would be appropriate only after the creation or along with the creation of social television and radio in Ukraine, when, under the political will available, the authorities decided not to receive public media. With regard to the proposals for the appointment of NTC and NRC government managers, as suggested, I would point out that if these institutions were to be considered solely as subjects of economic activity and from the point of view of public property management, this proposal would be correct. But, dear colleagues, we have to assume that NTCU and NRC are primarily national media. Parliamentarianism, multi-partyism can protect freedom of speech, independence, and the non-involvement of public media. The bill provides for approval by the Cabinet of Ministers of the statutes of these companies. Therefore, honourable colleagues, in order to ensure the further democratic development of our country, please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u103	Thank you, Eduardo Anatolyovich. I invite you to speak to Anna Mikolayevna Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u104	Dear colleagues, we all understand that time is changing and our seats in this room are changing. Today we are in opposition, tomorrow under power, and vice versa. Therefore, the principles of freedom of speech must always be guided in their actions so that opposition has the same freedom of speech as power and vice versa. If we're here to appoint the people who run the NTC, then those people will depend on us all, both on the opposition and on the authority. And those people will never have any one-sided politics. Today you know what it looks like, you know, in whose hands is the "First Channel," I'm telling you this quite frankly, who dictates how you can get through there and so on and so forth. So by upholding the law that my colleague Prutnik is initiating here, we support freedom of speech in action regardless of whether we are in power or whether we are in opposition. That's what's important in this law. Everything else. You know, you can agree with everything or disagree with it, but you and I have to be the owners of freedom here. and freedom of speech can be limited by Parliament and no one else. And Parliament is all of our constituents, that's the people. Thus, apart from the people, no one has the right to limit freedom of speech. And by adopting this law, we're going to take the first step on this path. Please, support this.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u105	Thank you, Anna Santa! Please write two "for", two "against". National Deputy Kolisnichenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u106	Please pass the word to Elena Lukash.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u107	Dear colleagues, our faction will support this bill, except for the requirements of increasing parliamentaryism and developing freedom of speech from the following. The appointment and dismissal of the leaders of NTCU and NRC by the President of Ukraine for the submission of the Supreme Council is not in line with the President's mandate, as defined in the Constitution of Ukraine, in particular in parts 13, 106 of the Constitution, that the President is authorized only to appoint and release half of the Nacrada for television and radio. In contrast, contrary to the Constitution, on February 18, 2008, the President released Dokalenka and appointed Leschuk Vasil Stepanović, although he had no constitutional right. That's why the bill has an important legal component, provides for the establishment of an appointment order and the release of directors of relevant state-owned television organizations at the suggestion of at least one third of Ukraine's national deputies from the Constitution of the Supreme Council. I also draw your attention to another important thing. The composition of public councils and the order of their formation, as defined in the original edition of article 14, do not give rise to public opinion, since 13 of the 17 members of the body are not representatives of the public and these shortcomings are removed by the Edward Prutnik bill. I ask you, let's change legislation, remove the unconstitutional actions of the President and support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u108	Irina Volodymyrna's character.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u109	Dear colleagues! Our faction is concerned about some of the provisions of this bill, especially when it comes to world standards and when it comes to social television, we will see that in all parts of the world, social television information has a very important role to play in public councils, which take control of both the editorial statutes and the distribution of funds, and in order to protect freedom of speech standards. This bill essentially kills the public council, which today, you have to admit, is working completely formally around UT-1 and Ukrainian radio. And if we're talking about supporting Ukrainian radio and Ukrainian television, we need to focus on strengthening the role of public councils to increase the impact of public councils on channel work, and then it's really going to be our very good service to the National Television Company. The second issue that is of great concern not only to our faction but, above all, to UT-1 journalists, is that when we adopt this law and take into account the frequency of elections and elections of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we put the National Television Company in a situation where every six months a new head of the National Television Company is elected. And the third question. Today, a minority of parliament cannot even claim to include in the agenda the issues that our faction has been trying to put into the agenda for a week is the situation in Parliament. What we can talk about is the protection of freedom of speech when, in fact, national television is placed in such conditions and under such a bill is controlled not by Parliament, not by all legislators, but only by the majority. We agree that today's bill on the National Television Act needs to be finalized, but in our view, if we go to social television, we need to reinforce the role of public councils, where we don't include, as is the case today, representatives of the political forces.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u110	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u111	Thank you. And the professionals, the lawyers in the media, the financiers in the media area, that's going to enable UT-1 to develop, not change managers every year, and change the vector and vector of its broadcast. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u112	Silent Pavel Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u113	The faction “Blocca timoshenko” by Paul Movchan. Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! We are always guided by the best intentions to make the Ukrainian information space the way the Ukrainian state needed it. What we have today. You know very well that in this room we gave all the media resources and UT-2, and UT-3, which Ukraine has turned into, it even has the National First Channel in its contiguous form, it's the Eera in the morning, and it's the Era in the end. Why do we not raise the question of making the National Channel whole, rather than solving the issues that I think are most appropriate not for some political power or political majority, if it is possible, and it will be in that format, it will form a national ideology? We're turning the channel from a national to a narrow political channel. And that's why I have some warnings about this bill. I don't want what's left to be destroyed with our hands, to have at least a tint. I regret to say that when the previous president of NTCU was assigned, which sold the entire resource by the end of the year, he actually sold all the time and we are witnessing that there is no National Channel as a whole today. Let's think about this one. It's called the National Channel, it's being paid by the whole of Ukraine, by the entire population, to be, in fact, national, as it is in France, Germany and all European states. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u114	The people's representative of the Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u115	Ladies and gentlemen, we are now looking at the next “sedevre” of the Parliamentary Union of the Yulia Timoshenko and the Party of Regions. The solidarity vote of these two factions was initially aimed at weakening the national institutions in the sphere of national security and foreign policy because of changes to the Cabinet of Ministers Act, the BSS, the Constitutional Court and so on, which the President, as you know, vetoed, was then struck by a national Ukrainian language because of the changes to the State Service Act, but this proved to be too little. So we went to the media in the person of national and national television and radio companies. What the drafters propose. They now propose that the status of the media as the fourth authority be effectively eliminated and that they be attached to the chariot of the majority in the Supreme Council. Because when previous standards were issued, we came out of the need to be a public council, a body that is actually independent of the Supreme Council, from the President, from other authorities. That the statute of such media should be approved by law itself. And that guaranteed their stability, guaranteed their independence. That the management of the Cabinet of Ministers, the management of such radio companies and television companies will be assigned again, taking into account public opinion, taking into account the Supreme Council and taking into account the President's opinion. Today, we are offered a statute of limitations. Today, we are invited to throw out the public council. Today, we are offered to form the leadership of such television and radio companies at the initiative of a third of the deputies by simple voting. What does that mean? This means that even the rights of opposition will not be taken into account. That is, it means the full attachment of such media to
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u116	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u117	to the authoritarian trends that have unfolded today in this room. Therefore, the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" and I, as a representative of the Ukrainian People's Party, invite my colleagues from the "Julia Timoshenko Block", do not vote. Because you're not bringing this bill into line with the current legislation, but instead you're implementing a scenario that violates current legislation. Because these companies aren't simple state enterprises, they're the media or the fourth government. Think of it, men of honor!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u118	The discussion is over. Please, from the German Hanna Mikolayevna Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u119	Fellows, you've heard that the president is consulting someone when he's assigning the head of NTCU. When did this happen? When did anyone consult you? When did someone consult with the public councils? Where are those public councils? Anyone who knows this area of activity knows that no such counsel has ever been gathered. It's not working. And when they were last time, they were shoved up by their own people so that the public council and the wetting could not resist what the President had said. We were in opposition, and I remember the day of the Constitution when UT-1 invited the leader of the opposition to speak directly. Half an hour before his speech, we received a call from UT-1 and were told: "The President's Secretariat has been banned from speaking to the head of the opposition because the President's statement on Constitution Day must be repeated at this time." Again, once again, rather than allowing the word of opposition. But never has UT-1 and its leadership been balanced or tried, at least, to try to track the interests of all of us with you. It's always been the hand of the President and his secretary. That's right, that's right. And if we don't adopt the law today, it will. Let's take a step towards press freedom in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u120	The discussion is over. I lay the groundwork for the first reading of draft Law No. 3140 amending the Ukrainian Television and Radio Act. [[on the transposition of individual provisions of the law in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine]] Please vote. [[12:58:30]] For 352 Decision taken. A proposal in general? There's a denial of national MPs, we can only shorten the term on the committee. Please, who supports the abbreviations in accordance with the Rules for the second reading of the bill? Please vote. [[12:59:05]] For 343 Decision taken. Please work on the committee. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to increase statutory capital requirements for professional participants in the stock market is under consideration. I urge the Head of the State Commission on Securities and Stock Market of Baluk Anatoly Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u121	Honourable Alexandre Volodymyrovich, honourable national deputies, is proposed for your consideration by the draft Ukrainian Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to increase the statutory capital requirements of professional participants in the stock market. The drafting of the bill requires an increase in statutory capital requirements for professional participants and a reduction in the risk of securities transactions in the course of professional activities in the stock market. The bill under consideration provides for amendments to the Ukrainian Securities and Stock Market Act, the Non-State Pension Insurance Act, the “About Joint Investment Institutions”, the “On National Depository System” part of the establishment of a higher statutory capital of professional participants in the stock market compared to the statutory capital size established by the legislation in force. It should be noted that the stock market has shown an increase in the number of financial instruments in the securities market in recent years. In the last three years, the volume of the issue of securities has increased fourfold. At the same time, the reliability of the professional participants in the securities market should correspond to a steady increase in the investment that they serve. In this regard, the minimum statutory capital of professional participants proposed by the bill is on average 3-5 times higher than the minimum statutory capital of professional participants currently established by legislation. In doing so, such professional activities in the stock market as asset management activities of institutional investors, securities management activities require sufficient statutory capital to ensure the reliability of asset management companies and traders operating securities management. The specificity of the listed professional activities in the stock market is that a company that manages assets and traders that operate securities management operates securities, money and other assets that belong to the right of ownership of other persons. In this regard, the minimum size of statutory capital for securities traders and the minimum size of statutory capital for a company’s asset management is proposed to be set at the same level.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u122	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u123	The adoption of the bill will increase the reliability of the operation of the stock market infrastructure, reduce the risk of securities transactions in the course of professional activities, and increase the guarantees for professional customers to carry out their obligations. In the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, it is stated that the bill can be adopted on the basis of the proposals made. These proposals can be taken into account when preparing the draft for second reading. The Committee of the Supreme Council on Finance and Banking recommends that it be accepted as a basis. Please support the bill. Thank you for your attention. VOICES FROM THE PLACE. Vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u124	Thank you. Praslov Igor Mikolaiovich, please, from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u125	Dear colleagues, the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws to increase the statutory capital requirements of professional participants in the stock market, registration number 2540, is indeed very relevant. The number of professional market participants is increasing every day. However, the quality of their services has deteriorated proportionally. The existing requirements for professional participants in the stock market for the size of statutory funds do not even allow them to be called professional participants. Strengthening statutory capital requirements is a necessary step to dissipate random market participants who are created either under a scheme or for two or three operations. A sufficiently high barrier to entering the stock market is needed for people to be aware of the amount to be invested in the creation of a business and, above all, the liability to the customer of services. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concluded on 2 July 2008 that draft law 2540 could be adopted as a basis for subsequent management comments. The Financial and Banking Committee, at its meeting on 10 September 2008, reviewed the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws to increase the statutory capital requirements of professional participants in the stock market and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, following the first reading, that the bill be adopted as a basis. Dear colleagues, please support the decision of the Committee on Finance and Banking. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u126	Thank you, Igor Mikolaiovich. Two in a row, two in a row. National MP Arjevetin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u127	Thank you. Stanislav Arjewitin, “Our Ukraine”. We really supported this bill on our committee. But I would like to point out that, on second reading, it is imperative to correct those standards that are already in conflict with the National Depository System Act and the characteristics of electronic circulation of securities in Ukraine today. There are also some inconsistencies with some parts of the Ukrainian Law on Non-State Pension Insurance. And I also think that it is necessary to examine for the second reading whether all the functions that are assigned to the State Securities Commission should be central to the definition of these functions. Thank you. In general, the first reading can be accepted.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u128	More desirable national MPs have not been registered. Thus, the discussion is concluded. I am voting on Bill No. 2540: amending some of the laws of Ukraine to increase the statutory capital requirements of professional shareholders in the stock market. We are voting for acceptance in the first reading. [[13:06:15.]] For 322 Decision taken. The statement by the Ukrainian national deputy Arjevetina denied acceptance in general. Because there are proposals for this draft law and the committee also recommends that we adopt it as a basis. I think the task force will be working and we'll take it to the session room as soon as possible, after the committee's decision. Let us move on to the next issue of the agenda - “Variable”. Please log in. Olinik Viktor Stepanovich, please. Olinik Viktor Stepanovich. The People's Deputy of the Woodlands.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u129	Well, to do that, you have to write it down, or at least you have to say it in the microphone. Please, from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u130	National Deputy Koshin, Timoshenko Yuli Block, Plainshin. Dear colleagues, this room has repeatedly been plagued by the demographic situation that has taken place in our country. The violent facts of empty villages have been cited, and the media write about this every day. During the election, politicians compete with each other in the amount of money they promise to pay for the birth of a child, and a series of Supreme Council legislative pacts, Cabinet regulations, Presidential decrees have been adopted. Or are we ready today to improve this demographic state, increase birth rates. And the situation in the northern parts of the Plains region, I am confident that I am “not ready”. Specific examples. The Rokitnian region of the Plain region is the trio of the largest area in Ukraine, one of the first places in Ukraine to be born. The old village of this area, just one village, has 97 heroin mothers, about 800 students. The distance from the center is 80 km. The problem with assigning the name mother hero for the birth of children is the subject of another conversation. Today, we are talking about the material security and needs of this community. Two school buildings, built 40 years ago from old houses and moved people out of the hamsters. The problem of building at least 20 classrooms for the normal education of children in at least two changes. To this day, there are many children in this village who do homework with kerosene lamps. Another school, Kopilovsky, in the 14th class, is being taught in two changes in the building built as a king in 1911. We need to upgrade 25 rooms. Another example is the Gliny general school, a school where on September 1st, due to a catastrophic accident, the parents didn't let the kids go to school, and the school year started late. School facilities have been an emergency since the 1980s. In the 14 crash classrooms, 680 students are being trained in two complete changes. Three years from now, 80 students are going to go to the first class, and that's going to start learning three ways. Like the restoration of the 2004 frozen construction of a new school by the district council, 6 million dollars is obviously not enough, since the project cost of construction is 22 million dollars. And I can continue with these examples in Poznan, Berezovsky. High schools in this area and dozens of schools. Zaricanski, Dimerianski, Dubrovicsky and Districts. In addition, all the schools listed above are located in areas contaminated by Chernobyl. The measures taken to eliminate the consequences of the Chernobyl AES accident remain solely on paper. My personal appeals, the other national deputies of the Plains, the local self - government authorities, remain unattended for a long time. Therefore, I would like to refer once again to the Ministry of Education, Health, Emergency Situations, personally to the Prime Minister, with a strong request to develop a separate national programme on the development of social infrastructure for population sites where social security is not catastrophically successful with a sharp improvement in the demographic situation. And this question, I think, should go through a separate line.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u131	Thank you. Please have a seat. The People's Deputy of the Woodlands.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u132	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! To deal with the effects of the disaster in the Ternopil region of Kabmin, he has contributed 80 million dollars of the 96 planned dollars to date. Rejoicing in the yield of such millions of dollars, the head of the Chizmar district administration and his subordinates began to launder heavy funds on the mountain. Former Head of the Emergency and Population Protection Administration of the Chernobyl disaster The Inserves bought a motorcycle and a faulty pump out of the allocated 100,000 budget funds stole 55,000 dollars. There's an act of verification by the CIA. An open criminal case. Today he is relieved of his position. The head of the district administration shouted when three criminal cases were committed by the district police in the Ternopil region. But all these cases began to get stuck in the district attorney’s office. Re-examined crops with the participation of CPR representatives in 4 areas on 20 August warned of illegal spending of 7.5 million dollars. So it was all attributed to about 3,000 hectares of crops. Today, it can be said responsibly that if there were no agreement from the leaders of the RDAs of these areas and of the ODA, the heads of agriculture or the managers of agricultural enterprises would never have drawn up fictitious documents on their own. This must be the roof of the head of the ODA. It is worth serious attention in the area under the direction of Chizmar. It's probably time for the Attorney General's Office to take urgent action to establish a legal order with the district attorney's deputies. Some simply sign notes on the appeal of members of the various levels, others cross the MPs of the Ternopil City Council, the heads of the RDA and others like them, robbing state funds and human land, and others demanding rewards, and carrying out political orders from the heads of ODA Chizmar. For example, for an article in the local newspaper No1, Chismar, in a rude, humiliating form, accused journalists of this newspaper and, through his deputy prosecutor, Leonid Orehovsky, started political repression. Today, anyone who doesn't refer criminal cases to the district attorney's office, the district attorney's office is going to dissolve and shut down. If the Attorney General does not stop these round-the-clock harvests in the district prosecutor's office, then the public will have to defend its interests and interests within the framework of valid legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u133	Kosov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u134	Mikhailo Kossov, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, Party “Reforms and Orders”. I want to emphasize once again my party and block membership, because in the media earlier this week, there was a fake about the fact that the three of us came out of the block: Yavorowski, Kosov, and Mokchan. I want to calm our supporters and answer our opponents. I don't have any personal differences with Yulia Timoshenko and I'm not leaving this block or I'm not leaving the party. The other one. Last week, when we had the opportunity to work in the constituencies, I had 32 meetings in the five districts of Lviv. At that time it was clear that a coalition of two factions was lifeless. My voters have been very active in supporting the creation of a new coalition of three: NH-NS, BUT, and Block of Lithuania. But so I see, dear friends, that this is a very difficult option to make. I am part of this group of people who have been conducting comparative meetings with representatives of two other factions. The first thing we're going to see today is our colleagues from the N.N.U.S. blame us: it's like we don't want to agree with them on a day-to-day basis. I testify with all firmness that yesterday I personally told representatives from the NH-NS: “For God's sake, call those projects that you would like to see tomorrow in the agenda, we will now vote them and they will be introduced by our votes.” To what did the Head of the NSO present Roman Zvaric tell me that I, Mikhailo Kosov, was accustomed to the “Soviet, Communist voting system”. I was in “Soviet” times, I say to Romano Zvaric, sitting in prison for my political beliefs. And what this man has done, I will not speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u135	National Deputy Corge.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u136	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear colleagues! The problem of the Black Sea fleet of Russia in the territory of our country has not been the case since today. This is one of the most painful points of our relative sovereignty, which reminds us of itself for over 17 years now of the existence of an independent Ukraine. Especially in the last few months, for known reasons and in the context of military action in the Caucasus, the object of this pain, namely, the Black Sea fleet of Russia, does not cease to be at the centre of attention not only to mass media, but also to the authorities of the state at all levels, including the head of state. But in the spotlight of society, the problem of the deployment of the Black Sea fleet of Russia in Ukraine did not become more transparent, it did not become clearer for the citizens, it did not unite the Ukrainian people in a shared concern about the day tomorrow of our homeland. Even vice versa, the subject has become another subject of disunity and the destruction of social tranquillity. Today, this topic gives numerous commentators enough reason to build the most dramatic forecasts of events by 2017 and after 2017, when the term of the Interstate Ukrainian-Russian Agreement on the Russian Black Sea Fleet ends in Ukraine. As we can see, the vast majority of so - called experts who comment and interpret the position of this agreement have never actually seen it, have never been prevented from having a hot discussion in front of microphones and cameras. Instead, I am convinced that the agreement on the presence of the Black Sea fleet of Russia in Ukraine applies not only to so-called experts and not only to senior officials of the state, but especially to every citizen of Ukraine. I am convinced that every Ukrainian citizen should know not only that it was on his behalf that high-ranking nationals signed the document, but what responsibility this signed document placed on each citizen personally. Therefore, in order to create conditions for a clear understanding of the problem, to bring together society, I propose, in truth, that our parliamentary newspaper Voice of Ukraine publish an active agreement in one of the nearest numbers on the presence of the Black Sea fleet of Russia in Ukraine. Please consider my statement to be a parliamentary address to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u137	People's MP Prokopchuk. Poluniev instead of the Redeemer.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u138	Dear Head, honourable colleagues, in the face of a political crisis in the country, against the backdrop of elections, should not go unnoticed by a few facts that have a strong influence or may have macroeconomic stability in the country. Fact number one. In the West, the financial crisis has spread the deepest since the great depression. For nineteen trillion dollars, think about it, trillions of dollars have been set aside by the largest companies in the world. Five hundred billion dollars have been lost by international banks in writing and credit losses. The last two giants of the investment business Goldman Sacks and Morgan Stanley have disappeared, turning into universal banks. Fact Two. This crisis is already affecting the state and financial situation in the new markets. Russian companies lost $425 billion in stock. Foreign investors have taken $35 billion out of Russia’s markets. This crisis has already caused a direct and tangible impact on Ukraine. We know with you that the PFTS index has dropped to a record number in all countries of the world -- 65 percent. Portfolio investment inflows declined from 3.3 billion in the first half of 2007 to 350 million in the first half of this year. The liquidity of the Ukrainian banking system has deteriorated and there are problems with financing the real sector. The latter was the culmination of a decline in Ukraine’s International Credit Rating Agency. Among other factors, political instability in the country has affected this decision. The downgrading may result in a further 3-4 percent increase in the value of credit resources for Ukraine and Ukrainian companies. Fact three. The further consequences of the global financial crisis for Ukraine are to fly as international investors who will choose the least risks from all possible; the second, to run in the traditional field of the real economy with the least risks; the third, the main focus will be on the country's capacity to pay, which is determined by its strength. Fact four. Does this mean that the financial crisis is inevitable? No, it's not. But urgent action is needed. What you need to do to avoid or minimize the possibility. First thing you don't have to do. In turn, elections are bad for financial stability in the country and will lead to further destabilization of the financial situation. The other one. We need to develop and adopt a package of measures between the government and the National Bank in order to prevent such a crisis. This requires an active government, an active parliament. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u139	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u140	So I urge you to focus, including on this important issue that can affect not only Ukrainian financial institutions, Ukraine as a whole, but also the pockets of our electorate, the common people. Let's think about the real economy, about our finances, about the banking sector, not just about the choices that will be destructive to the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u141	Odarchenko Yuri Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u142	Mr. Odarchenko Yuri Vitaliyovich, House of Julius Timoshenko. Unfortunately, what is happening in Parliament requires an artificial reasoning for some politicians. the argument of artificially created, destructive content. And if there are no factors to support their own political authority, the worse the scenarios are included, the better. What Herson’s Governor Boris Siliekov said at the Herson City Council session ahead of the heating season is that it is fair to tell the residents of the district center that Herson’s TEC, which provides heat to 30 percent of the citizens, will not work and do not need to allocate funds from the local budget to repair the network because the condition is critical. An absolute irresponsible and provocative statement, because shutting down even one house from the heat supply network is a P.P. that needs to be fixed immediately. Having an election for the term, as the head of the District Administration, is nothing more than an attempt to publicly accuse the Cabinet of Ministers, Julius Timoshenko, of his own shortcomings. Dear Boris Vitaliyovich, the Cabinet of Ministers in Ukraine, unfortunately, is changing very often. And you've been governor of Hersonian for almost four years. And Herson's T.E.S. has always been in your area of responsibility. And that's why you're asked to stop provocative statements and start working honestly. And I think it's going to raise the authority of the political power that you represent, the One Center, rather than the intrigues of the opposing Cabinet of Ministers of Yulia Timoshenko. If you look at specific issues, the budget of Hersonschi, after which six months, has been overrun by up to 101 percent. This is a total failure. Because in the light of the overall wage rise, this overturn must be at least 20 to 30 percent. So there is no action to fill the budget. Hersonia is located in a unique place in Ukraine, on the seashore, where very many lands are located in recreational zones. And today, those lands that are in the governor’s area of responsibility, the land of insecurities, are artificially distributed by the governor with one stroke of feathers. No auctions were made. In local councils, where different political powers and regions, both BUT and Communists, and “Our Ukraine” such auctions are not being held. But other political measures are under way, essentially unique to Ukraine. You know, there's a walk in the desert in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u143	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u144	Herson had a unique walk in the Herson Desert. Well, we don't have a Goverly, so we've had substitutes and executives in the desert in the city of Turupinsk, and I don't know what they might have been looking for. But this is an action that has no effect. So, Boris Vitaliyovich, roll up your sleeves and work. This will be best for the area and for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u145	National deputy of the school.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u146	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable voters, of course, that the processes that are currently taking place in the Supreme Council are drawing the attention of all of Ukraine. Because there is really a simple choice between the next stage of disorder, chaos, and the incomprehensible situation in general, resulting in the formation of a coalition. We have proposed a very simple, understandable and acceptable principle of the formation of a coalition for two political forces, besides us it is “Our Ukraine” and “Block of Lithuania”. And you have noticed, I hope, that the honourable electorate that out of three subjects, only one subject of the arrangement is making an ultimative statement. I want to say, by the way, that we don't need to speak the ultimatum language, but I want to speak the language and we're ready to consider and agree to all the suggestions. Because, first of all, we know very well that the task is not to create a coalition, but to prevent the creation of a coalition of democratic forces in the three factions of the Supreme Council. So, in principle, we can agree on things that can cause discussion. Because the question has to be clear: either we once again let Ukraine go to a stormy sea of early elections, or we will finally start a Ukrainian ship in a peaceful harbor, where it needs to be repaired, that is, reformed, that is to see about the change in the crew, that is to be done, and that we will prepare for the processes of the world that are really waiting for Ukraine as part of the world and the whole world in connection with a sufficiently serious financial crisis that is now on the United States market. In principle, Ukraine’s fate now lies in a very limited number of hands. I wanted these hands to eventually join not only not to steal, but to sign the relevant legislative acts to be involved in the formation of a coalition of democratic forces in the Supreme Council. I'm sure there's now targeted agitation by all the state structures that have subordination in the Bank, in order to destroy in the minds of the Ukrainian electorate the need to form such a coalition or its impossibility. So I would like to make a clear statement that the Yulia Timoshenko bloc is clearly in the position to form such a coalition. There are no warnings about the formation of coalitions in the “Livine Block”. The only thing that needs to be done is to start forming a coalition, not tell us what steps we need to take in the direction of the room where these negotiations are to take place. We need to sit down and start talks about saving democracy in Ukraine because it's actually going to be threatened by this early election.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u147	Bachteyev Tetjana Dmitrovna. Next Koleschenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u148	Dear People's Deputies, to go to the Supreme Council's rostrum today, and to speak up today, make the Ukrainian authorities indifferent to the problems of everyone's life, which is, of course, health for all years of independence. After a thorough review of the budget for the next year in the area of health, I am responsible for the fact that medicine remains alone once again with its problems. Finally, it must be understood that it is simply not possible to provide quality medical care to the population in full on an older and physically ageing facility. In Ukraine, there is a critical situation with cancer, tuberculosis, HIV, AIDS. The wages of health workers are 1179 grevens, the lowest in all spheres of the economy. Every year, 170 new malignancies are registered in Ukraine. 100,000 people die every year. Every hour in Ukraine, four people suffer from a new form of tuberculosis and one sufferer dies of tuberculosis. While the Government is talking about good deeds, the Fund for the Development of Ukraine, headed by the People's Deputy Ahmetov Renat Leonidovic, has allocated a colossal amount to the Tubercules programme of 100 million United States dollars. and 311 million a bracelet for cancer cure. This is 10 times more than the amount allocated by the State — 30 million. The bracelet is allocated for the purchase of equipment under the Oncology programme. Today, Renat Leonidovic is doing what is not possible under the Ukrainian health budget. We don't have that kind of expensive equipment yet, it's an unprecedented event. It's just the first phase. The second stage is the training of our doctors, it's radiologists, it's doctors oncologists, it's Phtysiatricians from Western Ukraine, from Lviv, from the National Institute of Cancer, from the east in Europe's leading clinics, in order to be able to diagnose and treat our patients today. And of course, we must all understand that today's older equipment cannot make any progress in our medicine. If this continues, then we are doomed, our medicine is doomed to death. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u149	National Deputy Koleschenko Vadim Vasilovich. Next Victor Terrence.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u150	Deputy Koleznichenko, faction Party of the region. Respectable citizens of Ukraine, colleagues! In October-month, Ukraine or Russia could declare that they were coming out or that they were prolonging the Great Treaty of Friendship and Cooperation between Russia and Ukraine for the next 10 years. The Russian side stated two weeks ago that it was ready to extend the treaty. Our party, in the face of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, thought for a very long time, wrinkled the forehead and stated that it agreed to extend the contract just two days ago. It would seem to have happened. But the second question is, why do we need this treaty? Why has the Supreme Council not discussed the situation of the implementation or non-compliance of the terms of the Great Treaty of Friendship and Cooperation with the Russian Federation in ten years? The Russian Federation, unlike our fellow parliamentarians, recalled on time, at least this spring at the committee level and in the summer at the State-level, the situation of compliance with the terms of the treaty. The Russian side acknowledged its mistakes and shortcomings, both in the economic and humanitarian parts. The Russian side suggested that economic preferences should be discussed in pursuance of the treaty. What about the Ukrainian Supreme Council? There is very much one side that tells of the bad Russians who are trying to humiliate our independent Ukraine. The other side of the hall says it's all good. What are the realities? Because we didn't hit our finger to do anything in the execution of the contract. No commission has been established, no meeting has been held, no protocol has been signed, no mutual claim document has been issued. Therefore, for the next 10 years, there will be the same stagnation. I have a strong conviction that some of the deputies have not read this treaty at all, but, among other things, it states that the Ukrainian side has undertaken not to be forcibly assimilated into the Ukrainian State of Russian ethics and Russian-speaking citizens and national minorities. At the same time, the Russian side has committed itself to supporting ethnic Ukrainians in Russia. Who among the national citizens and deputies of interest were interested, and how do our Ukrainians live in Russia? Nobody cares. One task is to drown the essence of this problem for the sake of the red word. That is why I am again addressing citizens and citizens of Ukraine. The Supreme Council, the Government of Ukraine, the President has failed to discharge their responsibilities, they have not even been able to consider within the framework of the Supreme Council, and how the 10-year basic treaty with the Russian Federation is fulfilled, on which Ukraine depends very much: this is also a matter of trade balance, this is also a question of gas security, this is also a matter of humanitarian cooperation, and the protection of ethnic Ukrainians living in Russia.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u151	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u152	Here is the result of our nationalism and our attitude towards human rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u153	Victor Terrence. The next one is Gnatkevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u154	Victor Terrence, Timoshenko Street. Even in my memory, the CD Company made decisions about conducting various ideological campaigns. For example, in the wake of atheistic propaganda, there was once such a campaign to fight angels. Well, that's true. And then of all the poems, of all the books, of all the stories of the Ukrainian writers, the word “angel” was deleted, or it was changed to “bowl, ” or “lightworms”. According to the same principles, according to the same unhealthy principles, from the same street, the same facilities are now given to the media and hysteric campaigns are launched. For example, a campaign in connection with the election of BUTU for the law on a civil servant. I'm not talking about people who put people on cheap information, I'm telling you the truth. So we voted in favour of this law in the first, just in the first reading, because this law helps to sort of solve social issues, such as the granting of housing loans. But it was because the bill provided for a standard that required officials to speak professionally and in Russian that violated the principle of equality in the language of national minorities that the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko decided deliberately that we were in the second reading and, as a whole, not to vote in favour of this law until this rule was removed. This is precisely because of our faction's position, and this position is clear that the state language should be one bill by MP Yanukovic was not adopted. And secondly, the position of BUT is clear because of the democratic coalition of three political powers, because after the elections last year, the ideology and strategy of Parliament can be completely changed. And then Ukraine will become not Ukraine, but a territory in which, after the speech, I say, the deputy Kolesnicka - her colleague, on which Girinowski will walk by the hand with the Koleschenkas and there will be simply no “grandmothers” banals and Ukraine. That is why we cannot allow the ideology of Parliament and its strategy to change. And the first step to forming our common coalition would be to form a common force of order. And I'm very sorry to say that the Kosovo deputy here was telling the truth. Well, indeed, the N.E. leaders did not come to this meeting in a banal way to form the agenda together. I'm sorry. But there is also happiness. Fortunately, the vast majority of the deputies who are part of “Our Ukraine” are the leaders of those political parties that are part of “Our Ukraine” for the formation of a democratic coalition. I underline, "for" as well as "Blank of Yulia Timoshenko" and "Block of Vladimir Litvina". Against just, let's say, a souffler, who, unfortunately, is still being listened to in the theater of absurdity that the Ukrainian Parliament has become today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u155	Gnutkevitch, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u156	Yuri Gnatkevitch, Yulia Timoshenko Block. I actually wanted to add something to what my colleague Victor Terrence was talking about in the first part of his speech. This is about the State Service Act, authored by Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic. I'd like to make it clear, dear colleagues, that Victor Fedorovich is a good man. You see what he wrote down, because there is not only a 21st article, but a 9th article, where among the duties and rights of civil servants is written, paragraph 4, “to use the State language in the performance of official duties”. For some reason, the spears beat around the 21st article, but the fourth paragraph of the ninth article clearly says “use of the national language”. By the way, with this formula, Victor Fedorovich seemed to have told his colleagues and associates: “Do as I do.” After all, he learned English perfectly and spoke it in the ministry and when needed. So did Anatoly Kinach, so did Raisa Bogotirov, as did our leader, Julia Timoshenko. By the way, this formula, which is mandatory in the language of the State, frightens someone. In fact, there is no need to be afraid, for in Ukraine virtually everyone speaks Ukrainian. The other thing that we don't know the two levels of ownership is ownership is active, reproductive, when we know how to talk, and passive possession, when we know how to listen and understand the texts we read. Of course, people are afraid to use the national language. One of the things that they will say about them is: “What has happened to you, because it is not so established for us. Others will think that they will be told that he has become a nationalist. But the greatest number of people are afraid of making mistakes. And I would, by the way, write here that I'd like to use English in a literate way. I would like to remind you that I have issued a dictionary for the members of the Supreme Council, which is called “Participation is not accepted and questions are not raised”. Because they're actually taking part, and they're breaking questions. In our Supreme Council, questions are usually raised. And there are so many questions in it, and they're all so difficult that if we don't break them, we're going to raise them, we're going to have to apologize. Now it is an article that has caused so many misunderstandings and misunderstandings. Article 21. Free to speak both national and Russian languages. She's a good article. It does not deny the statehood of Russian. But this is the Russian language. Of course, there are some contradictions to the Constitution, for it does not have to know languages that are not national. On the other hand, our colleague John Popescu may say: Why not Romanian, because Romanians live compactly in certain areas in Western Ukraine. Therefore, perhaps if we go another way, we should mention the rights of national minorities. But it was.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u157	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u158	It has already been reported that our faction is offering to eliminate this article. I mean, I'm actually like a linguist. Don't worry, we don't want to poison the Ukrainians with Russian, it's impossible and it's not necessary. We just want Ukrainians as cultural people, as a cultural nation, to learn their own language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u159	Instead of the National Deputy Sameilenka, National Deputy Kolesnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u160	Respectable voters, colleagues! Today much is said about the draft law, which was adopted in the first reading, on public service. The issue of Russian is our duty and the implementation of existing legislation. When we talk about language, we forget that language is an integral part of human rights. I recall that in the referendum on the independence of Ukraine, people voted in favour of our declaration, which was voted here, where the implementation of Ukrainian laws was guaranteed. The Ukrainian SSR Act on Languages guaranteed the right to Russian and the rights of national minorities. It's an amazing thing, but today there's a law, but it's not being implemented. The Constitution also guarantees the right to Russian and the rights of national minorities. And we're forgetting that again. Again, we forget that 12 million Russian-speaking citizens, 8 million Russian nationals voted in favour of independence, confident that no one would restrict their rights. Today, however, these rights are deliberately and deliberately ignored. This is because the Russian-speaking people have never said that the Russian language, the Ukrainian language must be destroyed, but our opponents explain that the Ukrainian language is the main language, everything else is nothing. Well, a great guarantor, the great President of Ukraine Yushchenko is introducing a bill amending the Charter, a law on ratification of the Charter, where he recognizes today that seven areas of Ukraine are Russian-speaking areas. And how can you do that? On the one hand, recognizing that the Ukrainian language in these areas is a minority language, the vast majority of citizens use Russian as their native language, we are invited to destroy their right to choose their own language freely. But isn't that fascism? After all, the next stage after the language is the shooting. Is that what they're offering us? It is much easier to work if we are indeed Democrats, not pseudo-democrats and false Democrats, to work within the framework of European rights. Human rights are above all the rights of the language and above the rights of the State. The European Charter, which we have ratified, at least in a slashed context, but provides a guarantee of human rights. Without prejudice to the Constitution, we can ratify the Charter in a new edition, where we will ensure the rights of all national minorities: both Hungarian, Romanian, Greek and Russian, but it will be a European approach that will unite our State. Respectable citizens of Ukraine, the Party of the Regions is doing everything to unite Ukraine, because language is not the issue that unfortunately unites us today. We want to protect human rights so that there will be peace and tranquillity in Ukraine so that we can live without oppression, without domination, without violence. Only a happy person who is free to choose his culture and language can protect his State and ensure its territorial completeness. I therefore call once again, to return to European values, to our Constitution, to the Law of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u161	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u162	and ensure the rights of our citizens to free choice of language. I assure you, this will bring stability and peace to our independent State of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u163	Corporal Vladimir Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u164	Dear colleagues! Dear National Deputies! Dear Radio and Television! I took this call, to this answer, and I was moved by the situation that happened, and after the citizens at my public reception for the territorial constituency No. 39 of Donetsk, this is the Kuybishev district of Donetsk. What is it? When we come to the elections, each of us says that our future is children. When we say that our future is children, we say that education, social protection and the right to choose, the right to a future, children have. And in line with the appeal I received from the heads and teachers of this school, boarding school No. 4 for the mentally retarded children of Donetsk, namely: Olga Mikolayovna and Abbreviated Irina Alexandrovna's belt with a collective complaint about the numerous abuses of officials by the director of this facility, Tetjana Mikolayovna. What is it? In fact, a few years ago, when he came into office, this director divided the group into two blocks: the first block received the label – "its"; the second block received the label – "not its own". And torture began. Therefore, we demand answers to the following question. Why, in January 2007, instead of curing 12 children of orphans who were raised by this boarding school, the travels provided by the state district administration in Crimea, only 7 people went instead of 12 and 5 people were adults who were not just orphans, and I had nothing to do with this facility. The answer was not given by any agency to which I referred: neither the district attorney’s office, nor the city’s attorney’s office, nor the district attorney’s office, nor even Minister Vakarczuk Ivan Aleksandrovich, to whom I wrote two parliamentary appeals. A parliamentary request was made today. The second. On what grounds does a dental doctor of this boarding school, with the permission of the director, instead of the children, during working hours, using communal medical equipment, accept residents on a commercial basis. Who gave the permission? Third. On what basis, eight children were expelled from that boarding school at the end of the eighth grade, even when they did not receive secondary education. A. that their mental status is nowhere, at this time, being taught nowhere. I call for three things. First. I call on all members of the national parliament to draw attention to the situation that has taken place in closed and special educational institutions to enforce effective legislation and to the unpunished monopoly that some leaders have received regarding the exploitation of not only state money but also the souls of our children. Secondly, I demand that the Minister of Education, Mr. Ivan Alexanderovich, personally address this issue. Abuses that were given.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u165	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u166	which will be given in my parliamentary address and in the question that has been announced today and given a public answer. Why there is no such answer so far. And the third. If in Ukraine some officials believe that poor children and their teachers, who have a heart and a soul, have no protection, then I want to prove to you that national MPs who have morals on their own, not their pockets, exist and we will meet our demands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u167	Yavrovsky Vladimir Alexandrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u168	Dearly beloved are our very patient electors and the distinguished seven national deputies who are now in the hall! First of all, I would like to thank Koleschenk's colleagues for speaking out today, thanking him for his speech, I think, convincing all the Ukrainian citizens who are listening to us today, once again convincing us that, of course, no political hugs, no alliance with the Party of Regions, if there are people like Koleschenko in the House of Yulia Timoshenko, there simply can't be. Period. Yesterday I was on the 5th channel, maybe someone saw, with the representative of NUNS, and we demonstrated absolute peace-lovingness after the negotiations were very long, but we agreed that everything, we're taking down any claim to each other today, and we're starting constructive negotiations. I just want to prove to the Ukrainian citizens that we've come up with, that we haven't had a chance recently, a unique chance not to make any major compromises, not to sacrifice national interests, creating, let's say, a coalition for the Supreme Council to work. This was only because, after negotiations with the Block of Lithuania, he agreed to be the founder of the new coalition in BUT, NUNS, and the Block of Lithuania. I want to get to the voters because we actually had a joint vote in both the BUT and the NUNS, most of the political parties with NUNS took a completely constructive position. I can call and call here a lot of names and the same Knyazevitch, and Katerinchuka, and Yuri Carmazin, and Gristenka, these are the people who are absolutely ready today to create a coalition. And I, the person who can't be blamed for swinging this boat, I have to say that what happened today is that, in fact, none of them came here to agree to our common order of the day, this is a big mistake, first of all, Roman Swaper. I really want the diaspora that I know and they know me, and they said that you had no one better to send to Ukraine than this destructive man, who literally everything that could be destroyed in his path, he's ruining it. And most of all, he's being sung by a patriot, a great patriot named Lilia Grigorovitch of Ukraine. Excuse me, she's a professional patriot, and Vladimir the Yavorovian lover, a pathetic patriot lover that they are today, in fact, destroying and taking away from Ukraine this opportunity, which is left to civilize the normal way out of this possible catastrophe. Let's think about it, Mr. President, who's going to take us into this P.D.H. and into this Europe when we have this kind of anger here in power. We think about it, there's still a chance, and I'm going on to the Conciliation Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u169	National MP Bondarenko. None. Zosul's national deputy. None. National Deputy Grigorovich. No, I'm not. People's deputy Karpuk. None. Cibenko Peter Stepanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u170	Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Having held a huge number of meetings with voters, I know very well that Ukrainian citizens have a large number of claims to the quality of current legislation, especially in the social protection of the population. Most of those claims are absolutely fair, indeed, in Ukraine there are laws at the level of better world and European standards, there are those to which an official needs to add a little bit to his mind and everything will be normal, and there are frankly weak, I admit that. But the biggest problem with our legislation is that most officials in places that are called upon to ensure the implementation of current legislation are very free to treat this function on the basis of the principle of "I want execution, I want mercy". For example, there is only one of them. Ukraine's "On the Status of War Veterans and Guarantees of Social Protection" Act obliges the local authorities to provide all kinds of support for the activities of veteran organisations, I stress. How this requirement of law is fulfilled, for example, in the city of Heroi Kiev, and is not being fulfilled. In 9 months of the current year, the Kyiv City Administration has not made a single donation to the statutory activities of the veteran organization. Meanwhile, in the city of Heroi Kiev, there are over 500,000 veterans united in 22 veteran organizations. This is not the case, despite the clear and direct requirement of article 20 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans and Guarantees of Social Protection, despite preparations for the 65th anniversary of the great victory over Fascism. Despite numerous promises, even though the Kiev City Veterans Organization concluded a corresponding agreement with the city’s administration and the city council in 2006. I understand that the city administration and the city’s head, Kiev’s Chernewecki, have spent somewhat on the next election. But why are there veterans and our parents and mothers who are trying to make hostages? Mr. Chernewicki, I am addressing you in this case. I urge you to resolve the issue of financing a veteran organization immediately. Don't make me solve the problem through the U.S. Attorney General's Office. Our veterans, by their triumphant work, deserved to be treated as humans on the side of the earth, not as useless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-26-m0.u171	Thank you, Peter Stepanovich. National MP Ungurian. I won't. On this we have a list of those who wish to speak. The morning plenary session is closed. The next meeting will take place on September 30th at 10 a.m. I'll see you later.
