ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-02-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies and guests of the Supreme Council. Please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:50]] There are 432 Ukrainian National Deputies registered in the Hall, and the morning plenary session is publicized. Dear colleagues, according to article 25 of the Rules on Tuesday, we have half an hour’s time for statements by authorized members of the MPs with their statements, suggestions, announcements. I ask all factions to sign up. Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-02-m0.u2	Dear voters, today even the blind see that the loans from the International Monetary Fund taken by today's authorities and their political supporters not only limited the political independence and sovereignty of the state but also opened up a new stage of financial and socio-economic crime. Under the general noise of the need to save the banking system, and in fact of its own capital, commercial banks, after taking what are known as anti-crisis measures, have taken nearly 20 billion abroad. So that's the kind of money that had to be focused on saving jobs, paying wages, filling up the Pension Fund and the Employment Fund, financing schools and hospitals. And at the same time, at the same time, high credit rates are destroying the remainder of Ukraine’s productive potential. While playing at the exchange rate, devalued by the bracelet, bank oligarchs deliberately destroy small and medium - size businesses in Ukraine, and at this rate, they deliberately reduce citizens’ income. And even that's not enough. They began demanding extraordinary authorizations to confiscate property that had been mortgaged without trial and investigation. I mean, someone's got to get their car back, their housing, stop teaching their children at higher education institutions. And that's all the money for so-called attractive loans. Even now, 1 out of every 5 credits can't be recovered because they took it on one condition when the bracelet was five, and they should pay it off on the other, when the bracelet is seven, and tomorrow and tomorrow will be nine. How can such loans be granted when thousands of people are on the street as a result of mass layoffs? We Communists propose to approve the following measures at the legislative level: currency loans should be accounted for and returned according to Nazbank's official exchange rate at the time of signing the loan agreement. Secondly, during a period of economic crisis, it was illegal for banking institutions to remove the property that was in the mortgage. And thirdly, set a maximum credit rate of five percent per year for domestic and agricultural enterprises. And when I talk to bankers today, I'd like to remind you once again that your wealth should grow, not from speculative operations, but from how businesses work. Dear voters, unfortunately, but in today’s economic crisis, you and I have once again witnessed how senior officials of the state are engaged in empty talk and self-balancing. There is still no government-level program for recovery from the economic crisis. Instead, we have only political boasting. Recall the Saturday convention of our country. At the level of confidence of the citizens, Yushchenko officially appointed himself leader of the party. And by taking this step, he not only violated the Constitution once more, but he boldly testified that he was not the President of the whole state. So he's the head of a bunch of nationalist extremists and de facto, and de jure. And for Ukraine today, it has been a test of a three - hour test on television when, as it were, new abuses against the people of Ukraine are taking place. It is no wonder, then, that all of his actions are directed at just one thing: the total gangerization of Ukraine, and the people he cares about, both the living and the dead. Under hypocritical claim to preserve the memory of the ancestors, he instructs the mercenaries to endure monuments and barbaric ruins to the Soviet liberators. Yashchenka as a sadist is trampling on the shrines today. We have a typical pattern of political necrophilia. How can the authority led by such a person unite the nation? Clearly not. Unless a multinational nation is able to unite a man who is waging an undeclared war with the nearest neighbor, the brotherly people of Russia. There are unfounded accusations at Russia's address every day, covering up new allegations of new threats in Europe, linking military and air defence forces and air defences across the border with Russia. The Black Sea fleet is demotically removed from Sevastopol. He continues to call Russia guilty of the armed conflict in South Ossetia, and this, despite Saakashvili himself admits that it was him who started the war in Tskhinvali. This behavior of the orange president is not just political stupidity, it's a direct treason of the state. Yushchenko is consciously doing everything to make Ukraine buy 400 dollars of gas so that our domestic industry will lie down and people will refuse to burn at the expense of such expensive gas. He and the orange willfully lead Ukraine to economic bankruptcy, the only way out is to get the president and his team out of the political arena. They themselves will not do so; we urge the people to help us. Ukraine without Yashchenka and oranges is possible, with them is not. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-02-m0.u3	Kenzior Jaroslav Mikhailovich, please. Kirilenko Viacheslav Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-02-m0.u4	Viacheslav Kirilenko, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense". Dear colleagues, honourable voters, surely there is no point in answering that nonsense that has just been delivered from the rostrum in front of all the Ukrainian people, for it is ridiculous. And those who make such arguments should remember how many millions of human lives are behind their criminal backs and atone for this guilt the Company will be hundreds of years, for it will never repent, but it will be judged by the Ukrainian people. It's a common place, I think a story will tell. I'd like to say other important things. Now that we need to talk about the economy and the rescue of people, many people, including in our room, are talking only about coalition, and we are convinced that we need to talk less about coalition and more and more about laws that have a specific anti-crisis orientation. What a situation now in Parliament. 26 anti-crisis bills have been introduced, by the way, the whole procedure has been passed and is ready to be adopted only by the one that introduced "Our People's Self-Defense," and the rest of the bills are not even considered on the committees. At the same time, all political leaders, almost all, are busy just around the coalition chatter. This is a totally unproductive waste of time, because Parliament must at least adopt anti-crisis bills at the committee level and bring them to the parliamentary room. At the same time, discussions about various forms of coalition continue. We've been hearing for a week about the formation of the Party of Regions and the Block of Timoshenko. Please make your decision publicly available to the people and let us also know, because it will mean, in addition to everything else, including what, apart from the current government, the responsibility for the state of the economy takes on itself and the opposition government, it will mean that the corresponding redeployment of posts will clearly indicate to people and those representing their interests in Parliament that the responsibility for the present situation will be divided between the two factions of Block Timoshenko and the Party of Regions. If such reports are not true, we look forward to correction, even though every political force is entitled to adopt decisions that are acceptable to it. Now here's the next one. Now there's a big deal going on around 2010, 2015 and 2016 even years, the two biggest political powers are already distributing the presidency for the 10th year and the 15th. Dear colleagues, we need to talk about the crisis, we need to talk about what we've done for the coal industry, metallurgy, chemistry, construction, automobile construction, not divide who's going to be president in Parliament in 2010. No one will! Because the president in Ukraine is elected by the public. And that is why we, “Our Ukraine”, warn all the presidential candidates who are in this room, or their factions are in this room, the one who goes to bring the President's election to Parliament will commit a crime against the state system. Because in the 91st year, an independent Ukraine took place largely, and because December 1st, aside from the referendum, there were also the popular elections of the Ukrainian President. And all the presidents stood on the watch for national sovereignty and the territorial integrity of the country. All three that have worked since the 91st. The one who is now plotting against the president's institution, which is being elected nationally, is plotting against the integrity of our country. One who has already taken on the presidential toga that he will receive in parliament from 300 deputies should begin to think about his responsibility for the disintegration of Ukraine. These are serious questions. And if they get into the daytime order, then we don't want to get into an economic crisis, not even a social crisis. And then we have to be, save the country. Because this parliamentary clocracy, which is now in Parliament, will then become final and systemic. And the figure that will protect the country as a whole will simply not be on the political map of Ukraine. We call on both BUT, and the Party of Regions not to scream from place, because it doesn't help anyone, but to think about these serious things. And about the speaker. I think that if we need a speaker quickly, this speaker should be an extra-composition speaker that will unite the entire parliament. That's our Ukrainian position. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-02-m0.u5	Litvin Volodymyr Mihajlovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-02-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, 70 years ago, when the Munich Conspiracy took place, Churchill responded: out of two options, war and disgrace, the participants chose disgrace. In view of what is happening in Ukraine, it is worth saying that Ukrainian politics simultaneously chooses two options of war and disgrace. War - for the country and shame - for the countries. In this regard, I consider it necessary to make a statement. Me and the faction don't claim any preferences, they don't apply for any positions today. Our position is that. We don't steal victory. I want to emphasize again. We don't steal victory. For us the best, the best estimate is that last Sunday, in the country and village head elections, our party received almost 40 percent of our seats and this is an estimate of our position. We only have one requirement. Demand and appeal to you, fellow officers of honor. Give me a chance to work. Allow us to work on what we are talking about so much. In the end, make your arrangements public. In the end, I'm convinced that factions can work. Let the chiefs agree on what needs to be shared. To whom will the Savings Bank, to whom Eximbank will withdraw, who will take Odessa’s transportation plant, and how you will divide the country by 2015, and ensure stability as a cemetery. And we must, we must, and I ask, honourable colleagues, not take a break in the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. To talk about why there is no State budget so far. On December 1st, the State Budget should be adopted. Why is there no talk of the State Budget at all? Because I don't want to take the State Budget outside as people have to say difficult things. Why they were promised that life would be better, and now we have to face the reality that they will live worse. Why people were told that the State would take care of them and now abandoned them. We need to hear a report from the National Bank. Why do these actions occur when uncontrollable refinancing money is passed on to banks: what are the discounts under which programs will give it to Ukraine? Saving the banking system to preserve the private sector is too much luxury for Ukraine. Do we have to answer the questions and listen to the report that was made to eliminate the effects of the flood? Why didn't people get what was declared from the center? Why didn't you get it? That's right, they did. We should ask, perhaps, harshly that the sin of stealing is in the cemetery. Next. We need to tell people how they can survive today. When a female teacher receives a pension of 600 dollars, life is ordered that she stay alone in a two-bedroom apartment, and she has 550 bucks to pay for her apartment. Why don't we consider the housing-communal issue? Why don't we make a decision to make the gas of our own production today go solely to the needs of the residential sector and at the price at which the gas is extracted with a small percentage of the income that the owner is to receive. Why did these gas wells end up in private hands? We need to answer the question: How can we survive parents whose children suffer from cerebral palsy in the city, such as Fastov, that they cannot care for their children? And we're talking about who will be behind whom and who will be behind whom. So our proposal, our esteemed society, our distinguished national MPs, is now to continue the work and to consider that anti-crisis package of laws that many have talked about and that no one has ever seen before. I'm sure we should stop talking about the technical government, about the technical speaker, because that would mean that we would agree that Ukraine would be technical. I am convinced that we are more at risk today than ever that we are going to talk about Ukraine as a state that has never happened. The people will curse us all for this scenario. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-02-m0.u7	Herman Hanna Mikolayevna. Kinakh Anatoly Kirilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-02-m0.u8	Dear National Deputies! Respectable citizens! We are forced to make a very hard diagnosis of what is happening in Ukraine, and the clear conclusion is that there is a growing systemic, socio-economic and socio-political crisis in Ukraine. And the problems are not in the world's crisis, the main problems and risks are within Ukraine. And, as we have repeatedly stressed, the authorities have crossed the line. Instead of shaping the conditions of strategy and development, carrying out smart human resources policies, social consolidation policies, government and presidential verticals have been working for a long time in a regime of mutual destruction and making hostages of this opposition virtually the entire Ukrainian people, the economy and the state. [[in quotes]] And that is not only us but also the international community. About a week ago in The Hague, world-renowned experts concluded that, in times of crisis, negative indicators of the decline of socio-economic parameters in Ukraine were much worse than in other countries, and a very negative assessment of the lack of systems, non-professionalness, and non-consolidation of the Ukrainian authorities. In October, the unprecedented decline in production volumes, minus 20 percent, is a record inflation in Europe -- all of this creates for society not just uncertainty before tomorrow, but Ukrainian citizens feel fear of tomorrow. It's very important that today we don't think of this as a state, first of all, as power, as our future. And today, it's not just us here in Ukraine, but once again, the world's co-op is worried: citizens in Ukraine from 41 countries in Europe are the 40th, only Moldova is behind us. The UN is concerned about the deepening of disease that threatens society: HIV-AIDS in Ukraine is practically the first place in Europe and Central Asia. And at the rate of AIDS, we're being compared to Africa in the early 1980s. And against this background to this day, we can't look at a consolidated package of actions, as all nations in the world do: Germany, Russia, the United States, France, Japan and so on -- where clear systemic anti-crisis measures are taken as a joint result of the government -- parliament -- the central bank. The whole world today is overcoming the problem of not allowing the economy to cool down: tax cuts, creating favourable conditions for access to credit resources, improving the social protection system, doing everything to protect national markets, supporting the exporter. We have a reverse result. We don't even have a situation of chaotic, corrupt foreign exchange policy, even an insinuation, I stress, to the joint actions of the same National Bank and the government, which all our citizens suffer from. A completely broken budget process in 2009, and we understand that only highly professional, consolidated actions can overcome the crisis. The state budget, which should be based on development, the monetary policy issue, the state socio-economic development programme, our priorities, which should be in line with the priorities, first of all, of Ukraine -- all of this is gone. And this uncertainty every day deepens the systemic socio-economic, socio-political crisis in Ukraine. And we see that even in a crisis that millions of our fellow countrymen are already suffering, the authorities are trying to use the crisis not to overcome it, but to carry out cheap action by the political pianist and try to create more or less powerful positions in the future elections. It's a cynical policy, we'll never support it. The faction of the Party of the Regions introduced its anti-crisis package and clearly, if they are unable to correct the situation, step aside and do not torture the Ukrainian people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-02-m0.u9	Cord Vitaly Terentiyovich, please. Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-02-m0.u10	Dear voters, it's not too bad to say, but the truth is the truth. Ukraine and the people are too expensive to deal with. And it's not just the last month. For a year, we were essentially alone and built a nation and a country. There are huge problems, challenges, risks, threats behind the window, and what did we say to answer? Apart from the introduction to the WTO and the most unfavourable period of time and the adoption of an antichrist law, we are especially to boast of nothing. But what, in fact, some of us have achieved high skill is in dog fights on various TV shows. For people, it was spectacular, as long as everything was okay in the country and in every house. Today, it is no longer funny when a metallurgy father or miner is out of work for a second month, and a family is out of livelihoods. So there can be only one conclusion: we need to unite immediately, take responsibility, and start working. And for starters, let's do what we can do, just us. First, the collapse in the banking system is obvious, the National Bank is broken, the lending of the economy is paralyzed. And who defines monetary policy? To whom is the National Bank accountable? Answer: The Supreme Council, which means no one under the present conditions. That's why we have this result. And from whose easy hand today half the foreign banks, they gladly came to Ukraine to make money and not small. Because there's about 3 percent of the loans for the bog, and we have 5 times the cost. They were published in currency and not in specific fields, but in consumption. What Did It Buy? And the same cars, just a foreign manufacturer. Within 10 months, they were transported for $9 billion. Is that a critical import? Today, the entire Russian gas cost 7 billion dollars in 10 months, and now we're raising a cent to pay off the debt. In the last month alone, over 40 billion bracelets have been printed by the regulator and distributed to their favorite banks for a ridiculous percentage. And where are these giant sums now? Were they given to airplanes or shipbuilders? Is it a metal or grain export organization? No, it's not. These huge funds went to the currency market and warmed it up. They bought the currency, and where is it now? In points of exchange, zero, zero in the economy. What about the course games? Whose policy is this? Who should ask? We're on vacation! It is precisely that we need to make immediate decisions and move the country's monetary and credit system out of stagnation. To that end, we have an appropriate committee. Let's go, fellows, immediately make a strong offer. The second, total, and devastating crisis clearly demonstrated that there is a huge human resource problem in Ukraine. At all levels of the state vertical, you need people who, in these incredible conditions, should not just work, but also produce effective results. We need to put every political power to better managers in power. It's not a party of favorites, it's a nation. The only flag we have right now is Ukrainian. I would like to remind you that at the central level, the human resources issue is also decided by Parliament. Third, the most important problem to be solved immediately at all levels is unemployment. Experts estimate that an increase in the unemployment rate of one percent is 6 percent of the crime rate. We need to give people a job, an opportunity to earn their own money, and a family’s livelihood. How much are we going to talk about for our free system? But it's not allowed, it's forbidden. Ten years of talking, and the machine's getting bigger. For every piece of paper, money, money. After all, who does it depend on? We have an appropriate committee where the decision is made. It is necessary to simplify the system as much as possible, allowing people to register quickly and work for themselves and their families. Four. Today, practically, all world markets are paralyzed and most agrarian. Mineral fertilizers, a powerful producer and exporter of which is Ukraine, are not being implemented. Even non-experts understand that there can be a repeat of the hungry year 2007, there will be no crop in the world, which means that our currency, our gold, is bread. The APC is the only sector in the country that makes a net profit to the state in the form of monetary revenues. Therefore, if there is a possibility of helping agrarians, we are primarily obliged to help them. Fifth is the State Budget. It's absolutely clear that the populist talk that we can raise a salary by 35 percent next year is absurd. Not to the fat. We're proposing to the government, together with the government, with the ministries to work closely on the socio-economic forecast for next year and the budget without population. Give people real, at least keep what was in this year. And the last. In a crisis of special relevance, the issue of our benefits and the maintenance of the Supreme Council was objectively raised. So let us, without undue political crackdown, adopt, at last, an appropriate law. For a third, it is suggested that the cost of your loved ones be reduced. So we're going to be able to save 180 million dollars in the State budget. This cost is a separate tape where the defenceless parcels of Ukrainian society are located. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-02-m0.u11	Please finish, Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-02-m0.u12	In all, more than 50 anti-crisis projects have been prepared for consideration, both by the MPs and by the government. Wisely, colleagues, it's a week's work. Why don't we try not to kill him some time? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-02-m0.u13	Dear colleagues, yesterday a council of leaders of all parliamentary factions took place. We have now heard authorized representatives with statements and suggestions that have been made. I want to inform you that yesterday, during the exchange of thoughts, during the meeting, none of the faction leaders said that the factions were ready for us to start work today with the election of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, because the consultations on this issue are not complete. Another mandatory ingredient that has been mentioned today is the consideration of a series of bills that should slow down the development of crisis in Ukraine. And now we've also heard the call that we should do this as quickly as possible. We have the conclusions of the committees that have discussed the previous projects that have come up with 26 draft laws that fall within, let's say, the definition of anti-crisis measures. And it's about getting us to look at them as soon as possible. The ten days that were, of course, provided for a calendar plan to work with voters, so I can't say right now that the committees didn't work this week and that's bad, but the fact is that there's only one draft law that's been discussed in the parliamentary committee today. I am now addressing the heads of committees, especially those with a large number of such bills, the Committee on Budget Affairs, the Committee on Finance and Banking, the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, we should have quality products for consideration in the session room. It was about the need to approve the State Budget project for the following year. We don't have a state budget project in Parliament today for the next year. The one that was filed in September, called off by the Cabinet of Ministers and a new one for today's project, did not reach the Supreme Council. It is the constitutional duty of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to submit to the Supreme Council a draft budget for the following year to be approved by the end of this year. And we all, I think, understand very well that this is the country's most important anti-crisis document for 2009. In summary, yesterday’s authorized representatives of four out of five factions suggested that we allow committees to work today and tomorrow, and that factions should conclude consultations so that we could start our work on Thursday by electing the Supreme Council Head and considering a series of draft laws that are defined as anticrisis. That's the deal, that's what happened yesterday. In this regard, if there is no objection to representatives, faction leaders, or if they have not changed their position during the night and last night, I can put them to a vote. Is there a denial? There's no objection. I'm voting on a motion to call a recess by Thursday. I'd like to make up my mind. [[10:33:44]] For 340. Decision taken. Dear colleagues! I ask you again, please use these two days to allow us to consider quality draft laws on Thursday. And faction leaders are required to work these two days so that we can start effective work on Thursday. I call the morning plenary meeting closed, and the next one starts Thursday at 10 a.m.
