ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u1	Good day to you all, the country's distinguished deputies of Ukraine! Please register. [[10:02:35]] There were 446 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. In accordance with article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the honourable national deputies of Ukraine announce the opening of the third session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call. Dear colleagues, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, members of the Cabinet of Ministers, is present at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Commissioner of the Supreme Council for Human Rights, Head of the Court of Auditors, Head of the Central Electoral Commission, Head of the High Council of Justice, Head of the District Councils, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the diplomatic representations of foreign states and other officials and invited. Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, on August 25, 2008, at the age of 53, our colleague, our friend and the true patriot of Ukraine, was tragically killed, a real person who is really the father of the Ukrainian Constitution. This is a very wise politician, Mikhailo Dmitrovitch Orphan. I ask you to honor our colleague’s memory. Please sit down. Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 127, paragraph 6, of the Ukrainian Supreme Council's Provisional Rules of Procedure, I report that the mandate of the Ukrainian National Deputy of the Orphans Mikhail Dmitrovic has been terminated on a permanent basis. I ask you to submit the relevant documents to the Central Electoral Commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u2	Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, dear Ukrainians, I would like to welcome you all once again with the start of the new session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the new political season. In society, there have been quite lengthy discussions about trust in the Ukrainian Parliament and, unfortunately, such trust is really, very low. But I would like to look at this question, not from the point of trust in the institution, but from the point of view of trust in the political forces, the politicians and the factions that are represented in the Ukrainian Parliament. It should be about raising trust in Ukrainian politicians. And the Ukrainian Parliament is nothing more than a reflection of the social processes that are now in Ukraine. The point must be that the individual national deputy of Ukraine, each individually, is the bearer of power, and there is no need to hide behind the shoulders of any political party, or factions, or other political power. Each national MP is independent in making decisions and is responsible to the Ukrainian people for making such decisions. The role of Parliament. The role of the Ukrainian Parliament cannot be reduced to mechanical adoption of laws. This is a means of implementation. This is the way to attain the goal. But the mechanical adoption of laws is not the role of the Ukrainian Parliament. The role of the Ukrainian Parliament in the preservation of democracy, in the preservation of democratic values, in the progressive development of the Ukrainian state and Ukrainian society, and we as parliamentarians are obliged to do so. Today, democracy is under threat, and today we must be honest to say that Parliament alone can stop the threat of some kind of dictatorship, or the dictatorship of a clan, and we are solely bound by our own hands as a parliamentary institution. Ukraine’s political environment is extremely aggressive. No game rules. Even in war, there are rules. In the Ukrainian political environment, everything happens to self-destruction. Betrayal, con and Byzantineism are the main signs of today's Ukrainian politics. But history is very cruel and fair. All the triumphs of the Roman Empire ended the same way, so the triumphs of modern times would have the same end as they had in the history of the Roman Empire. Dear colleagues! Despite the struggle between the political forces, the State must unite, and Ukrainian politicians must unite at national priorities. We don't have another way out. It must be that what is sacred in the Ukrainian Parliament and what is sacred in us is the Ukrainian State and its values. This room may have different positions in Georgia, Abkhazia, or Ossetia. But there can be no different positions in this room in Ukraine, not for that we were chosen. This room should have only one consolidated position on the part of the Ukrainian State. The first thing that should be in the agenda and not the first year is the Law on Internal and External Policy. This is the map, this is the road that needs to be consolidated by the entire Parliament, which needs to determine how and where Ukraine moves, what results we want to achieve, and what systemic reforms we will bring to the Ukrainian state. And it is by this order of the day that Parliament must unite, adopt such a law, and appease society. The most important thing is stability and peace in Ukrainian society, which can only be achieved at the expense of one, by the consolidation of positions near national priorities, and all the rest by the repurchase of politicians, everything else, is a normal political struggle between political opponents and not political enemies. I would like to take a brief look at those priorities, except the Law on Internal Policy, which will be in the order of the day. This should, of course, be about systemic reforms and the 2009 State Budget and the Ukraine's Social and Economic Development Programme. The important thing is that we need to understand that there is money in the state. Ukraine is a poor state. What needs to be done is to concentrate the financial resources and not allow them to stretch. I think it would be crucial for 2009 to set clear priorities for budgetary policy. Paragraph 1 is education, paragraph 2 is health care, paragraph 3 is infrastructure and paragraph 4 is an infallible policy of the Ukrainian State. Because the world is suffering from a series of crises, such crises have provoked and given Ukraine a chance, new opportunities, and new opportunities. I'll start with the agro-industrial sector and our agrarians. We have every opportunity to be restored as a vital part of Europe and as a powerful agrarian state. Because both in the 2009 budget and in systemic reformists, we must immediately adopt a package of legislation that would stimulate the development of the APC and that would lead Ukraine to the first stages of agrarian development in the world. The second block is about energy. Gas is not an instrument of foreign policy, gas is nothing more than a commodity. Therefore, there should be a long-term contract with the Russian Federation with clear and clear pricing conditions. In doing so, we need to understand clearly that under any circumstances, we will not be able to solve the energy issue unless we adopt a package of legislation on energy efficiency. The country that consumes most energy in the world for one dollar of GDP, no gas prices will be saved unless energy efficiency measures are taken. Third, the State Development Fund. In time, the creation of a development fund for the Ukrainian State, which would finance infrastructure projects, which would be based on the proceeds of privatization and which would share this parliamentary hall. Ukraine needs to be built up, not just spending money on social programs, although the social standards and social status of the Ukrainian are number one priorities. I can't help but think about the market economy. Without a powerful economic police, what is the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, without a hard fight against clan issues, without a hard fight against anticompetitive conspiracies, the market economy will not build. It therefore seems essential to form both the governing bodies of the Antimonopoly Committee and the definition of a clear and rigid economic policy by the body concerned. Well, not the last but extremely important is the Euro-2012, and I hope that Parliament will consider a package of legislation on the Euro-2012. It's not a sporting event, it's a test of Ukraine for Europeanism. I'm going to stop very briefly at the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The first thing I insist on is the adoption of the Act on Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In that case, if there is no clear regulation of how Parliament works, there will be accusations of both Parliament's leadership and individual factions of pressure, whether it's the governing body or the conspiracy or the agreement. The law should clearly provide for a legal mechanism for making decisions. The second question is the personal vote of the Ukrainian people's deputies. I cannot explain why a doctor in Crimea, a teacher in Donetsk, or a teacher in Lviv comes to work, and why some Ukrainian national deputies have not appeared in the Parliamentary Hall for years. That's why I'm calling on the faction leaders to be there for the people's deputies in the Parliamentary Hall and for personal voting, and this system will be secured. Dear colleagues, this is not an exhausted agenda. And I hope that faction leaders will express their strong positions on some of the issues that Parliament should consider. We have serious problems. But I am convinced that these are temporary difficulties. And if we unite, we can overcome these challenges. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I welcome you to your work and I wish you a fruitful but, I am sure, extremely difficult and intensive work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u3	Ladies and gentlemen of the national party, you are about to proceed from the factions. Then we will discuss the formation of the agenda that we agreed on yesterday at the Conciliation Council. Please write down the faction leaders. "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense", Viacheslav Anatolyovich Kirilenko. Please, Viachelav Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u4	Viacheslav Kirilenko, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense". Dear voters, dear colleagues! We would like to encourage the opening of the plenary sessions of this session to consider only the substantive and key issues at the meetings of the Supreme Council. We urge everyone to give up questions that are somehow related to intrigue, politics or second-, third-rate things, to focus only on the main. In this regard, we feel that today we need to discuss issues that are most important now in the order of the day. This is certainly a matter of Russian-Georgian armed conflict in the Caucasus. This is certainly a matter that needs to be evaluated by the Ukrainian Parliament. It is certainly desirable for the Ukrainian Parliament to look at this problem from a consolidated point of view. We are naturally aware that it is not that simple. There will be different thoughts. But we urge all of us to unite in a position of respect for the territorial integrity of each country: Georgia, Russia, Ukraine and any other state that adheres to the principles of international law. That is why this issue must be discussed first and foremost today, and we look forward to a consolidated decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. If such a decision is not for the position of all factions, surely we come from the fact that unity should be demonstrated by a coalition of democratic forces. We have the necessary number of views, the number of opinions and, in this case, the number of votes to vote if the positions are agreed to by the Supreme Council, which will demonstrate respect for Georgia's territorial integrity and demonstrate the Ukrainian Parliament's attitude towards the fact that, from our Ukrainian sovereign territory, ships of the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation have allowed themselves to participate in hostilities near the shores of the brotherly Georgian State, with which, by the way, Ukraine is bound by a mutual assistance agreement. We look forward to supporting our position by colleagues from the “Julia Tymoshenko Block”. We are convinced that we should take the same stand on this issue. We can discuss privatization issues, we can have different views on land reform, We may have different views on the pace of privatization and the way in which we can find additional sources of income to the budget, but we cannot have two different views on the future of Ukraine; we cannot have two different views on the foreign political values of the Ukrainian State; and we cannot have two different views on the civilisational choice of Ukraine, which relates to the family of democratic peoples, which is associated with those countries that have become on the path of prosperity and international law. We are convinced that such a position should be demonstrated by the coalition today. At the same time, we were saddened by our view of the unbalanced statements made by the leader of the Party of Regions. The position that envisions recognition of the independence of Ossetia, South Ossetia, and Abkhazia is completely unconstructive and contrary to all international law. Dancing the Kremlin is not the largest fraction of the Ukrainian Parliament. ((Mw w w w w a l i) I want to say that no one in the world has recognized the independence of Abkhazia and South Ossetia. If you look the truth in the eye, the independence of Abkhazia and South Ossetia was recognized by Russia, Hamas, Hesballa and the Party of Regions. This is not a Ukrainian position. We look calmly at the different political views, we look at a different view that the Party of Regions has for the future of Ukraine, but we cannot see when the principle of territorial integrity for each state, some sacred and unbroken, is being drowned here in the Ukrainian Parliament. The call for Georgia's acquisition is a call for a possible takeover of Ukraine. We must take a common position.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u5	Let me finish. We agreed to meet with faction leaders for up to six minutes, up to seven minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u6	And if the Party of Regions is interested not only in whistle and scream, but in the Block of Timoshenko not only in its own rating and in its Prime Minister's ratings, today the Ukrainian Parliament will adopt a consolidated statement by the Supreme Council regarding the attitude of the Russian-Georgian conflict and will emphasize respect for Georgia's territorial integrity and any European civilised state. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u7	Ivan Kirilenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u8	Dear Head, colleagues, distinguished voters, the venerable Ukrainian government! The political and calendar autumn, as you can see, began, unfortunately, long before September 1st, and this is our Ukrainian reality in recent years. Our faction realizes that our opposition and mutual brotherly verbal warfare will no longer surprise people, only to deepen and aggravate our trust in the legislative body and increase our frustration at the ability to do something useful, and finally we can advise only one, strictly business approach to our direct work. The analysis shows that the government, individual deputies, committees for consideration are prepared only in the second reading of several dozen bills and their adoption will allow for the improvement of the lives of two thirds of the population of Ukraine, half of the sectors and almost all regions. 20-30 minutes for every profile committee project, and in one or two weeks, we can have a result that we haven't been able to achieve in almost a year. What our faction is offering. First. Today, one day, we will put an end to organizational and political differences. Take steps to ensure that the Supreme Council is fully competent, in particular, to elect deputy heads, to vote on the Law “On Temporary Commissions Investigating”. We have so many in the projects that there are no more deputies. This indicates only one problem that has accumulated too much in the state, but now their work is essentially a hobby that has an impact on zero processes, because there is no law, the conclusion of TSC is just good intentions. In fact, they have no effect. Therefore, we ask for the support of the law on TSCs to be a really strong instrument of parliamentary control, as provided for in the Basic Law. We also propose to bring the laws on the Cabinet of Ministers, the Security Service, the Constitutional Court, into line with the Constitution. And at this constitutional level, put a dot in a long and fruitless struggle for authority. There's a Constitution that needs to be followed. The other one. The faction suggests a systematic review of laws that relate to individual fields and spheres of life. In particular, today’s solution to problems, today’s solution to the problems of the coal industry and the fate of miners. When coal is 96 percent of the fuel-energy balance in Ukraine, the sector is the strategic base of the economy not in words. In the last 15 years, its development has not provided or met the status indicated. The heavy physical work of miners and the risks to their lives must have an appropriate level of pay and social security. And I think we're not alone in this room. Therefore, it is imperative that we both accept the Law on Enhancing the Presence of Mining, both in the first and second readings, which will bring about positive disruptions. Sailors will have firm guarantees of wages, safety of life and work, and solutions to a range of socio-economic and environmental problems. And, of course, make the right adjustments to the budget so that people can go not only with paper in their hands but also with money. Third. We suggest that this week, clearly, we set aside one day to consider agrarian bills. All issues related to the APC have been introduced by both the government and the deputies of all factions without exception, about twenty. In the summer, the Cabinet of Ministers, having held several key meetings, including with the support of animal production, the grain market, suggests discussing and supporting them already this week, starting with the VAT law for agriculture. holdings. There are many in this room who want to support the village, and that's the truth. Let's both adopt this very necessary law for the village, and others, in particular, land and agriculture, which have already received support from the professional committees. We will really improve the position of the leading sector of the Ukrainian economy, as it has long deserved. Thank you to all the factions who have already supported the village in the next session by amending the State Budget Act 2008. In particular, the agrarian fund has already been earmarked by the budget for more than 1.6 billion dollars, allowing it to form a national food reserve of grains in its expected volume and to forget inflation in terms of bread prices. There has also been a significant increase in the volume of credit to agriculture and some other measures have already been taken. Four. Another plenary day we propose to devote to investment problems in Ukraine. The state’s investment climate in connection with political events is indeed unforgivable. So the first priority of the Supreme Council is to improve the status of investors, especially our nationals. Provide a qualitatively new level and maximum transparency in the field of investment. To do this, we need to consider and adopt four bills. The Board of Investors, the government has asked the Supreme Council to do so without delay. Let's support it. Fifth. One day, it is comprehensive to consider and approve all normative acts concerning the implementation of the Euro-2012 in Ukraine. Less and less time remains before this momentous event in not only Ukraine but also all of Europe. It is a key national programme for the state and a means by which Ukraine can make a breakthrough in the development of road, airport, hotel, and sports facilities. Our nation is obliged to demonstrate the world’s highest grade in the preparation and conduct of the European football championship. We're still a clot on this path. Take other bills. For two years now, we have not put the Seaports Act in order. Three governments and two callings of the Supreme Council were working on the project, and the law has not yet been passed. Ukraine is a maritime state. We have 18 seaports in all the southern areas. In every area, it's a budgetary sector, starting with Mariupul and ending with Ishmael. If we legislatively regulate the activities of ports, we will improve not only the hundreds of thousands of workers and their families, but in general the socio-economic situation of almost a third of our fellow countrymen living in coastal areas. People will tell us thanks for that? Of course. We're not lobbyists of this project, not our strength won in these regions. We're just for the public interest and the same approach as, by the way, all the other bills. As you can see, the faction is set up exclusively for business mode, as today requires. With regard to the events in the Caucasus, the faction will speak when it presents its drafts. Thank you for your attention and call for the fruitful united work of 450 members of this Hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u9	The faction of the Party of the Regions, Janukovitch Viktor Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to begin my speech by declaring a minute of silence for the dead in the Georgian-Ossetian conflict: the civilian population and the peacekeeping contingent. Dear voters, distinguished national MPs! For the first time in the history of Ukraine’s independence, the Supreme Council is meeting to open another session under such dramatic circumstances. Never before have Ukrainian parliamentarians been in the session room with a sense of real security threats to Ukraine, even in the most difficult times of this rostrum, heard warnings in which the word “war” sounded in a direct and not figurative sense. Who changed the course of history so suddenly? In the name of what did Ukraine turn from a completely secure state to an almost frontal state in these days? Today in this room, we need to answer these questions and do more than that. We must make a decision that will stop the processes that are already causing irreparable damage to national interests. We must demonstrate to the Ukrainian people that the Supreme Council is a guarantee of peace and security in Ukraine. The fact that no other superior authority can be that guarantor, Ukrainian citizens have already been convinced. Dear National Deputies! It is now clear that if the decision of the Ukrainian leadership to intervene in the South Caucasus war on the side of one of its participants had not been made, Ukrainian interests would have been ensured. However, the active authorities left Parliament out of the process and engaged the state in the struggle for foreign interests, and the leadership of the Supreme Council apparently lacked the spirit to initiate the convening of an extraordinary session immediately. The result is known. We see an artificial problem that threatens Ukraine’s territorial integrity. In fact, there was no such problem to this day. The statements of individual Russian politicians are not the position of the leadership of the Russian Federation. No statements were made on the part of the official Kremlin. Yet, we can see that the official Kiev is doing everything in its power to bring the problem to an end. The goal is to dispel the Ukrainian and Russian peoples, to instill in the mass consciousness of the citizens the image of Russia the aggressor, who will not attack our nation tomorrow. The question of joining NATO in this case is becoming purely technical. It is now announced that the North Atlantic Alliance supports Ukraine’s territorial integrity and sovereignty. This is mentioned in the application for the results of the session of the “Ukraine-NATO” Commission. Thus, it has been decided that there is a threat to Ukraine's integrity and sovereignty. The fact that such resolutions in European states are adopted solely on the basis of the relevant parliamentary resolutions is not even mentioned. Meanwhile, this development threatens the integration of Ukraine into the European Union. The conflict with Russia will directly affect the pace of our economic growth. They're going to fall sharply. When passions come together, and that's what's going to happen, and we see it already, by a decision of the European Union, the West will build relations with Russia in full form, at least in economic terms. Powerful nations cannot take offense at each other longer than their economic interests will allow. The strong agree with each other, but we'll stay in the dark. Ukraine's economically weak, whose borders are also a zone of tension with Russia, with such a service list, we will not be able to claim membership in the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, I am aware that the decision the Ukrainian Parliament has taken to neutralize the negative consequences of unacceptable mistakes made with power is not an easy matter. I am aware that internal interests, personal ambitions of politicians and the factor of future presidential elections will be involved. However, I am convinced that I am in pain. What's going on, knowing the responsibility for preserving the great benefit of the people, which is called “peace”, will take the mountain over political strife. We must, we must act reasonably, we must invite the international community to work out new UN approaches to solving the problems of regional conflicts. A pillar of these new approaches should be the mechanism to make it impossible to apply double standards in solving the issue of the nation's right to self-determination. I am sure that most of this room is able to unite for the sake of Ukraine’s future, regardless of party colors. [[Applause]] If there is a moment of truth in the fate of the states, for Ukraine it is, this moment of truth has come for both our parliament and our state, and it is the neutrality of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Parliament must become a body of collective wisdom, collective responsibility and a collective guarantee that Ukraine will develop as a democratic, prosperous and secure state. Otherwise, the Supreme Council should accept the role of a statistician who will only be required to be present silently.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u11	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u12	They're long overdue. That's why we're calling for a connection.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u13	The Communist faction. You will? Matthew Valentin Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u14	Thank you. Communist faction, Valentin Matthews. Dear voters, dear colleagues! The events at the military warehouses in Novogoddanówka, Artemovsk, Hmelničky, and now at Lozov in Kharkishte caused great concern for the population of all Ukraine. After the latest events in Losovia, we all became convinced that the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Defense, is struggling with the consequences of their own inaction. I can ask the question, and this raises the question of very many Ukrainian citizens: How could a strategic object have been in such a neglected, pitiful state? But I was forced to go to this rostrum today, too, and yesterday, when I was admitted to a session of the District District Council of Kharkiv, where I was asked to speak out of a gruesome problem that disturbs the entire population of the region. This applies to the military area of the city of Balaklia, the “A-1352”, the 65th so-called artillery arsenal, whose activities relate to the conservation and processing of various types of missiles, ammunition and explosive objects. Along with the military, there are residential areas of the city, the Balaklia Railway Station, an oil base, a public school, a military town, a number of enterprises, including chemically unsafe facilities. But despite this, since July 1, 2004, the Ministry of Defense has not allocated funds to maintain the operational and complex activities of the arsenal, so think about it: over a period of more than four years. At present, the company has virtually stopped carrying out maintenance, repair, disposal of ammunition and missiles. In accordance with the Ukrainian National Budget Act for this year, the necessary funding is provided to ensure the viability of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Unfortunately, however, the funds for these needs are not fully allocated to the military. Today, respected colleagues, there is a particular need to eliminate overcrowding with missiles and ammunition, which accounts for more than 20 percent of the standards. For several years, this 65th artillery arsenal regularly carries explosive cargo for storage. According to experts today, ammunition is stored in the arsenal — think about it, dear colleagues! – make up nine and a half equivalent of the Hiroshima explosion. It's a disaster. It's a tragedy. In the event of an emergency, there are rockets, ammunition, stockpiles of dust that are stored there, and they will remove what is called part of the Kharkiv region from the face of the earth. In addition to the destruction of buildings, there will be numerous human sacrifices that cannot be avoided. As a result, residents of the region are rightly asking how much worse they are than those who do not walk on explosives every day. The members of the Balaklia Paradise twice, in 2005 and 2006, addressed both the President and the government, but when they analyzed the answers received by the high officials, it became clear that the mechanism for solving the problem at the state level did not exist yet. No one is seriously involved in this problem in Ukraine. So a faction of communists requires the President and the Government of Ukraine to take concrete measures to ensure security on the 65th artillery arsenal in the city of Balaklay Kharkiv. My countrymen, the people of Balaklish and all of Kharkiv, cannot continue to live in constant anticipation of danger, a terrible disaster that could lead to terrible, tragic consequences, and therefore, first of all, it is necessary to resolve the issue of preventing the shipment to the area of this arsenal of munitions from the 61st arsenal from the city of Lozov from providing sufficient funding for the military force, which would allow it to maintain all the activities of the arsenal at an appropriate level. Taking into account the overcrowding of the arsenal by missiles and ammunition by 20 percent, as I said, to resolve the issue of bringing the arsenal into line with the regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u15	"Block of Lithuania," Vladimir Litwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u16	Dear colleagues! Good people who still have patience to listen and hear us -- I mean, our countrymen. So we listened to the faction leaders' speeches, the opening statement by the Chief of the Supreme Council, and I personally became convinced that we all have our rights, each of us has our own Ukraine. And what the separation of Ukraine continues, and why everyone wants to set up this division for themselves in order to preserve their electoral support. Ukraine, as it was in 2004, is being cut up lively in both internal affairs and foreign policy. Dear colleagues! I think it's never going to happen again when, think about it, for the third time, I don't have my memory released, I don't have my associates allowing the President, I don't want him to go to the session room, and I don't think he's going to speak to the Ukrainian people and the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Applause]] For the first time, I remind you, it was not allowed in 2005 to take judges to swear. For the second time, no longer allowed in today’s chamber. And now they're not allowed to, because they're offended at each other's accusations of treason. Please tell me what we're talking about. What village? What miners we're talking about when, in April months, the President's comrades accused the President of treason of ten counts of treason, and now we've received an answer in the days that the comrades again accused the Prime Minister of treason of eleven counts of treason. Tell me, is that the kind of authority the country needs?Oh, my God! Is it possible that such authority would have to be replaced by a nation? Obviously, a replacement is needed. What are we talking about? You want to go through the session room, and you think it's the work of the Supreme Council. Let's say there is no Supreme Council in Ukraine! The collective voice of Parliament and the people does not speak! And now, in fact, respectable colleagues! And now, essentially. We need the President of Ukraine to speak out and say what's going on in the country, why this is happening, who's responsible, who's responsible, what's to be done next, and who's going to do it. And we have to discuss here, write together the basic principles of internal and external politics, sign and accept, and start acting, everyone spins a state-run in their own direction as anyone wants to. So it can't go on as long as you don't vote, which means it's true. And now, in fact, on the basis of what we need to do, respectable colleagues. First of all, we need to identify ourselves in the session room sooner or later and talk about the objective situation that is taking place in the country. This is absolutely what needs to be done, to take the basics of internal and external policy, not to think about how to enjoy yourself right now before the elections, and to make absolutely dot-to-tut decisions, but to take the approach now that the 2009 budget is going to be formed, there is no word for it. There's no question, we have to make a decision on the miners, really, we should have taken it earlier. But, honourable colleagues, by adopting this law, let's say, and who's already sorry to steal coal companies by accepting joint venture agreements there, it's obviously so that, on the one hand, the money from the state budget doesn't go wrong as a token of their gratitude for taking these enterprises, and on the other hand, these companies. Let us be objective, at least in front of ourselves. The next question is the situation that has arisen in different regions. I'd like to hear these screams in Sachs, in Sachs, in the spinal hospital -- 750 people who begin to receive, stand, stand in line for 10 years' travel, and travel begins to be published only from April of the month. People don't work, sanitariums are closed. There's nothing for the unions to do with the 750 people who are resting there. I'd like those people who hired a physionomy to go to the backseats and tell them how well they work. I'd like these people to go to Zaporozhye. The school rallies have begun! Think about it! Schools and territories, children’s institutions are taken away. Who's taking it? Those in power. If the authorities didn't want to, there would be no raiding in Ukraine. I'd like those who are yelling that they're going to the Kharkiv Air Company, which has previously launched 56 planes a year in a criminal regime, now it can't release any aircraft outside the enterprise that's dying, that's stealing! And the authorities can't make a decision. I had to scream. And until the director was appointed. Because they thought without the principal, we'd have to steal this company. I would like those who are so active to cry out for continued impunity and not to answer for going to the Plains region, to Gosch, to listen to what they are saying about the situation in the village. Please tell me, does any of you know how many grains were produced by Germany this year, how much did France release? This is confidential information. We've been yelled at, the price's down! By lunchtime, they work exclusively in government institutions, after lunch — grain traders. So we ask, we beg, and we demand, along with the miners, let's consider the Village Support Act. It's cynicism of a higher degree. The village law, previously registered, was considered only by miners because there is a plan for an electoral campaign. I think we'll bring the dwarves here, and we'll dump this Supreme Council until you've come to your senses, and you'll make the right decision! And I'm addressing the deputies. You're smart all people, why are they taking you to the latrines? You're looking at our faction. We never offer confrontation. We offer what the country needs. Let us unite and make decisions together, for today another configuration has been drawn up to resolve our own selfish ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u17	Let me finish. Comrades, please be quiet. Dear colleagues, yesterday there was a meeting of the Conciliation Council, as always transparent and democratic. We made a number of decisions yesterday. So now we're looking at the issue of assessing the situation in Georgia. We've registered a whole series of orders. Yesterday, a decision was made on the order of the day. Yesterday, a decision was made to set aside questions about the formation of the day’s order. Turn on the microphone. Anyone who wants to sign up on a daily basis, sign up. Three minutes. Please. Anatoly Kinach. Alexander Efraemov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u18	Thank you. Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues. I would like to remind myself that yesterday and at your meeting in office and on the Contingent Council, Arsenija Petrovich, we have agreed on an order of work for the entire day. At the same time, we have determined what order and what issues we will consider. We are surprised that, in the order in which the secretariat of the Supreme Council has printed, there are not a number of issues or some issues have been moved. We are surprised that the personnel issue that we agreed to consider immediately after the declaration on Georgia has been discussed in the secretariat at the end of our meeting today, while yesterday we agreed that this issue will be addressed immediately after the situation in Georgia and South Ossetia. We also agreed yesterday, and most factions agreed that today will be introduced and considered.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u19	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u20	The bill on the Timetables to the various commissions has been reviewed and introduced in the Hall. And we have found a common understanding that today it must be considered in the Hall with the veto of the President. It is also reported that the matter has not been considered by the regulatory committee and is therefore not on the agenda. That's not true. On 11 February this year, the Regulatory Committee considered the matter and recommended that the Supreme Council should consider, in part taking into account the President's proposal, but nevertheless raised the issue of overcoming the veto under the bill. We would like to see that what we agreed on during the work on the Conciliation Council and at your cabinet meeting today is voted in the Chamber, and we have been working in this regime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u21	From the faction of the Party of the Regions the next Stoyan. Do you mind if we pass the word on to the factions, who has the question? Peter Mikolaiovich, you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u22	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I think that the issue of the agenda for the third session should be considered very carefully, separately in factions and committees and only after that consideration. Why am I having this conversation? We have noted that I am referring to the faction of communists, that the Supreme Council is once again becoming a hostage of the political divides initiated by the President, and more so at the initiative of the President of Ukraine. See what is proposed on this agenda for the third session. It is the rehabilitation of the bandits and those who have covered their hands with blood, with the blood of Ukrainian citizens who fought against Nazi Germany. Next. It is a matter of essentially restoring rights to those who have been evicted from the Territory for various reasons, and it is necessary to deal with them then, and this is indeed a nuisance to Ukraine. This is the same century as Bandera, who is the ideologist for mass ethnic cleansing and murder in Ukraine. And not only in Ukraine, it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u23	Peter Mikolaiovich, thank you. We do. Olena Lukash, Party of Regions. You don't mind if we pass on the next word to "Timoshenko Street"? They wanted to express themselves. Let Peter Mikolaiovich finish the phrase and then. [[B in m in s a l in]] Turn on the Simone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u24	Therefore, I propose to postpone consideration, delete those projects, which are in fact anti-historic and all the more against what has already been assessed since the Second World War, the Great Homeland War and naturally exclude them from the agenda so as not to corrupt Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u25	Olena Lukash wants to pass on the word to Alexander Ephraim. Alexander Sergiyovich, you have one more word. I ask you to continue for two more minutes until BUT says both "Our Ukraine" and, if there is a position in the "Lithuania Block" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u26	Thank you, Arseny Petrovich. I'd like to continue. That we also agreed on the Conciliation Council in a package of the Law on the prestige of mining work, that we will further consider the three bills. I emphasized the number of these bills specifically yesterday, and again, I am surprised at why Bill 1033 “falled” from today's meeting. As I recall, we also agreed, in the course of today's meeting, on a change under the Constitutional Act. on the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, Bill 2219, and we have also agreed by most factions that it will be considered today in the sessional room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u27	"Julia Timoshenko's Block" is next. Ivan Grigorovich, are you? Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u28	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, your honor, yesterday we made a clear agreement on the conciliatory council that every day, to start working part-time, every day, we form a daily order. You have an appropriate draft of the ruling on your hands registered to Portnova. He is considered by the Committee and approved for consideration by the Supreme Council. Therefore, Arsenija Petrovich, we insist that the voting order of the day be put to the vote today. And one more proposal, we're not leaving the hall until then, let's vote in favour until we've exhausted the agenda. Today we can complete all the political and organizational issues, and then bring the work of the Supreme Council into line with business. What do we propose? To be clear on the terms discussed by the profile committee, we put it to a vote. So, the profile committee has been reviewed and the hall can be replicated, given any moment of budget change in order to ensure the Safety of Mining Act, reviewed by the profile committee of the Cabinet of Ministers Act, approved and approved.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u29	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u30	the law on the TSC is under consideration, already said, and ready. Consider the law on the Constitutional Court. Arsenija Petrovich, the profile committees approved these bills in the hall will not cause much discussion and time. Therefore, I ask now to give the floor to Portnow, to vote in favour of the agenda for today, and I ask my colleagues to support us until we conclude our consideration of these bills today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u31	Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u32	Viacheslav Kirilenko. "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense." Dear colleagues, honourable voters, I must inform those people who support the forces of the democratic coalition that there is no agreement on this moment's position on the Russian-Georgian armed conflict between the two factions of the coalition. In view of the fact that we would like to reduce the discussion in the hall, and immediately propose a consolidated decision, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" has written to the colleagues from BUTU to hold a 30-minute recess and hold a coalition meeting at this time with five or even six documents on the assessment of the Russian-Georgian opposition to agree to a consolidated text that will clearly support Georgia's territorial integrity, evaluate the activities of the Black Sea fleet and place all the necessary emphasis. Sadly, our colleagues do not yet agree. I'm officially, in the transcript, asking them to sign the application for a break and hold it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u33	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u34	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues! There are two issues that need to be addressed: the order of today's plenary session, which is to be discussed and then voted, and the question of the order of the day of the third session is a separate one. As for the order of the day’s third session, yesterday the Conciliation Council agreed that it would be considered by factions, committees, and voted in a week’s time. Moreover, it is not clear why some committees provide a list of the bills of the national deputies that they propose not to include in the agenda for the third session. I want to say that it is not the committee's competence that national MPs have the right to report their bills and to have them considered at a meeting of the Supreme Council. And one more moment. You know, we need to get close to the local, rural, and urban elections. There are regions in which this question is being asked, it's going to take six or seven.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u35	Dear colleagues, I'm first of all referring to Alexander Sergiyovich. Dear Alexander Sergiyovich, thank God, Ukraine is a democratic state and we have freedom of speech. All meetings of the Conciliation Board were documented yesterday. I'll tell you what we broke up with yesterday. The first item is the opening of the meeting, the second paragraph is the announcement of our late colleague Siroto, the third paragraph is the speech by the Head of Parliament, the fourth paragraph by the faction leaders, the fifth paragraph by all the decrees in Georgia, and the sixth paragraph by all the laws on mining. I'll tell you what. Wait, Alexander Sergiyovich! All the mining bills, including those to be introduced by the committee today. Paragraph five. This applies to the State Budget Act. If the Pickle Committee changes, we put it in the agenda. Paragraph six is the deputy's election. There is no problem in choosing an alternate. Because we understand very well that the election of an alternate is not for the organization of the work of the Supreme Council. Therefore, the matter must be resolved long ago. I'd even be the first to put the Gordy political node through the election of deputies. But let's go through the Georgian question, we'll go through all the mining issues, we'll go through the budget question, if it's introduced, and you'll continue to insist, we'll put everything into the agenda. I don't see any problems. It's just that we split up on this yesterday. That's why I'm proposing the next one. As the Conciliation Council has decided: now we have to put 9 or 10 orders in order of the day, and I'm going to give them a lecture on the Georgian question. After the Georgian question, we announce the election of the deputy heads of the Supreme Council. Okay? It's okay. Great. And once you've chosen deputies, everyone will have a much simpler form of negotiation. Dear colleagues, we have made, listen carefully to the number of regulations. I shall now put to the vote the inclusion of 3053, 3054, 3070, 3076-d, 3076-1d, 3082-d, 3083, 3089-d, 3059. And as soon as you get the rulings that are now going to be handed down to you, that's Decree No. 3093, 3094. So all the decisions, I emphasize, all of them, if any of the decisions are out, tell me which one is out. Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u36	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear Arsenija Petrovich, based on the events that took place in South Ossetia, we have also proposed a project of 3072, which concerns participation, in this case, in support of this aggression of the NATO Block and Ukraine's participation, which is foreseen.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u37	Give the machine an order to multiply 30, once again, Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u38	And it is, 3072, it's multiplied.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u39	3072. Then so did he. Next. It's a day's work. The second question is the election of the Vice-Presidents of the Supreme Council. [[Ivan Grigorovich, sit down. It's gonna be okay.]] Next. The next question, as decided by the Conciliation Council, is the inclusion in the agenda of Bill No. 3093 is the Turmanov bill. And now for 1033, Alexander Sergiyovich. 1033 is a bill that was adopted on second reading and is not prepared by the committee. So we don't even have to vote for it, we can read it for the second time without being included in the agenda. It'll be handed out, we'll look at it. Next. Draft Law No.2001-D. This is about compulsory government pension insurance. And in that case, if there are other bills that apply to changes in the state budget, because there is no committee decision now, we will immediately vote on it. Now it's about other bills that you want to include. What else do you want to include in the agenda?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u40	That's all on the list. The draft decree, here's the order of the day. It's all on.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u41	I called him. I did. 3070, that's right. He named all the projects. Then let's move on. Dear colleagues, the BUT faction and the Party of Regions require the inclusion of the following bills: 0857. [[Wait, Andrew Petrovich, could you not run the presidency? Thank you.]] Yes, 0857 is a temporary commission of inquiry, 2219, 3086 and 3085. Is that right? It's on. 3097, you've heard. It's on. [[B in m in s a l in]] This is the proposed agenda. Please, you want out of the rostrum. Turn on the microphone of Deputy Thurmanov from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u42	Dear Arsenius Petrovich! You inform the deputies, so this is Law 1033. I would like to stress once again that this law was considered on first reading in April and received 226 votes. What kind of law is that? There is an amendment: we have widows of dead miners who receive a survivor's pension and domestic fuel and are not taxed; and there are widows of dead miners who receive a pension, receive domestic fuel, but are taxed. Terehin, we looked there, 100 percent there supported on first reading, we had to adopt it as a law. There is no problem today, Arsenija Petrovich, to enact it as a law as we agreed yesterday: the prestige of mining work and the complexity of these laws. Please include this bill in the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u43	So once again, I say 1033 votes don't need to be included in the agenda, there'll be second reading, there'll be just bringing in, now the committee's going to hand it over and we're going to vote now. Yes, Andrew Petrovich, take your seat, take your seats. The entire agenda is formatted for you. Konovaluk, we're going to vote now. I'm asking if you have any suggestions for the agenda, I'd like to sign up for five minutes. Vladimir Litwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u44	Dear colleagues! Let's do two terms. The first is the order of the day session. This is a document that we have to accept for the entire session; and the second is a schedule for today. To a lesser extent, the order of the day is the order of the day, although we suggest that the factions now allow it to be reconsidered and approved by the factions in the next plenary week. And with regard to the schedule of meetings for today, we ask that we include Bill 3087, which relates to amending the budget in part of the financing of the village. I'd like to draw your attention again, my dear colleagues, to the paradox: a bill that was later registered by the committee is 3088 and is proposed today to consider and adopt a bill registered earlier, which has previously been submitted to the committee is ignored. That's why we need to look at these bills together.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u45	Volodymyr Mihajlovich, again number, 3088?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u46	3088 is from miners, it is already proposed, and 3087, which concerns the APC, has somehow been ignored by the committee. I understand that a new coalition majority has been formed, so let it storm and be responsible for the whole country.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u47	Okay. It's a bummer. Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u48	Arsenius Petrovich, we have the opportunity to calm the hall with one gesture of yours. 3092 is a bill introduced by the national MP Portnow, who is discussed, approved by the committee of profile, and is prepared to report it to a colleague. All the things you've just dictated, everything in this bill, let the report come out, and we'll vote, and that's the end of it. It's all here. Please give the word to Portnow, because that's what we agreed yesterday, and it's in order of the day.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u49	Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u50	Every day we form an order of the day. The faction urges 3092 to vote now. And you know, there's not one faction that offers that. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u51	Dear Ivan Grigorovich, the decision of yesterday's Conciliation Council, the schedule of meetings you all heard, has just been announced. We don't make separate decisions every single day, and all our lives in Parliament, the head of Parliament announces and puts to the vote the inclusion in the agenda. What article? 19. Next, who wants to perform? The faction of the Party of the Regions. Alexander Efraemov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u52	Thank you, Arseny Petrovich. I think we've got a syndrome that we're getting used to, that there's someone working against the Supreme Council, and I think today's the first time everyone wants to do something for and for. And I think everyone understands, Arseny Petrovich. No one is going to work against anyone by approving the Vice-Presidents of the Supreme Council. You've often said you need help. And in the end, thank God, all the factions have matured to solve this problem without noise and without any political insinuation. And let's do it. Second question. We agreed on a number of drafts with you in your office yesterday. We believed that they would be on the agenda of the work of the Supreme Council today. If we do not know how to act, let us act by law and by the Rules. There is an agenda - let's take it as a basis, add the additions that the deputies have, vote on each individual supplement.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u53	Dear colleagues! Here's the next offer, pay attention! We're discussing the same things. First of all, I pay attention to the "Blank of Yulia Timoshenko". Article 19 applies only when the entire calendar plan and agenda of the entire session are approved. Hence, it does not extend to this case. But I heard everything. And once again, all the decisions that are dictated under the transcript in Georgia are included. They're on! After that, he's a deputy, deputy head of the Supreme Council. Is that what you're looking for? Let's see. After that, it's mining questions. All of them are dictated. Is that what you're looking for? Let's see. If you are ready to read 1033 for the second reading, do you consider? Let's see. The committee will make changes to our budget and I insist that both 3087 and 3088 be included. Is that what you're looking for? Let's see. Next. Attention! Next, the block that wasn't discussed yesterday regarding the inclusion today in the agenda, Reverend Alexander Sergiyovich. But I understand that it's made it sleepy. Once it's over, we'll turn it on. These include the following bills: temporary commissions of inquiry. Is BUT and the Party of Regions insisting? Let's put it in the agenda for the vote. Then there are 2219 changes to the Constitutional Court. Are you insisting? Okay, we're on. 3086, do you insist? This is the Security Service. Now. Peacocks. You insist. And the 3085th Law on the Cabinet of Ministers. So that's what I'm offering. I ask the factions to comment on the proposed agenda. In one minute, please log in. Yuri Sergiyovich Serbin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u54	We have Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u55	Ivan Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u56	Dear colleagues, respected Arsenija Petrovich. We support the order of the day that you announced, it corresponds to the Portnova bill. We support it. The only thing we're asking is for you to continue your work. We urge all colleagues to consider these bills today and make decisions. And we demand that this issue be put to the vote. If our colleagues don't object, consider the first question, we've got a lot of coal mining representatives, vote first of all mining issues and let people go, and then we can look at our political and other actions. That's our offer. We ask that the main thing is to conclude today with a full discussion of the agenda that you announced. Please put this question to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u57	The faction of the Party of the Regions, Alexander Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u58	Thank you, Arseny Petrovich. We support the order you last read out today's plenary meeting. In doing so, I would like to say and, if possible, Arsenija Petrovich, it is possible to include in the agenda a further bill of 3097 is a single tariff network for amending the budget. Because the budget committee considered this issue and, as I thought yesterday at the Conciliation Council, we all found a common view that these issues should also be addressed as a matter of priority. And there is a huge request, Arseni Petrovic, to first vote that we are working all day today; and secondly, to change the voting procedure for the election of the Vice-Presidents of the Supreme Council, possibly by proceduread hoc, so that we do not waste time on the ballot papers, but rather use the time to constructively work on the bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u59	Peter Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u60	Simonenko, the Communist faction. We propose to put this question to a vote and thus determine whether the future or the future fate of the organization of work today is the Supreme Council. But I would suggest, Arsenija Petrovich, in order to appease these passions and the opposition that really exists, depending on the interests of a bill that he is interested in and who he serves, that if we don't consider it today, we will consider it in the same order tomorrow before the end, in order to resolve all these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u61	Sergei Greenewecki. Vladimir Litwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u62	We will support the adoption of this agenda today on one condition if the draft amendments to the budget are reported at the same time and the vote takes place at the same time. I don't think we need to swindle here in front of each other, but let's make a compromise decision to immediately vote that we want to find a common position, a common platform. Please support this approach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u63	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u64	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. Dear colleagues, honourable voters, the situation now begins to repeat on January 12, 2007, when the BET, together with the Party of Regions, overcame the President's veto to the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers, and thus an anti-democratic coup d'état took place in the then Supreme Council. Now our partners with BUT refuse to call on the coalition board to agree on a common position on Georgia, on the Black Sea Fleet and on other issues, instead of with the Party of Regions in common BUT now wants to consider amendments to the Law on the COP, once again changes to the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers, which we have only voted in general, amendments to the Law on Service and other legislative acts that unlock the process of impeachment in Parliament. This is not a partnership that does not serve our common cause. So we call on the beaters, shake hands until it is too late, and call on the coalition board to agree on a common position. There's still time.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u65	No one has an application for a break? [[B in m in s a l in]] Right. So, colleagues, now it's a step in order not to let anything go. The question of the first agenda is the question of Georgia. I remind you of the bills: 3053-d, 3054-d, 3070-d, 3076-d, 3076-1d, 3082-d, 3083-d, 3089-d, 3059-d, 3093, 3094. One minute. What else? Everything? All of it. We're voting for inclusion. I'm going to vote every single paragraph in a step. Every part of the day! It's Georgia, it's just Georgia. Every part of the day. Let's go. Let's vote for the first item. Please vote. [[11:22:55]] For 249 Decision taken. Next question. It's being announced. Listen carefully! The next question is raised, but you can't vote for it. If you want, we can vote. It's part of the agenda. It's the appointment of the Vice-Presidents of the Supreme Council. You want to vote or you'll believe what we're saying. Okay. Next. Next question. Draft Law 2708 is a draft law on the promotion of the prestige of mining work. Vote. [[11:23:42]] For 429 Next question. Draft Law 3091 on enhancing the prestige of mining work. Vote. These are different numbers, colleagues. [[11:24:04]] For 431 The next question, given the committee's submission of 1033, is the second reading, we're looking at the third. You understand, secondly, after the first two bills. The third issue, 2001, is the draft law on the amendment of the Ukrainian Act on the National Compulsory Pension Insurance, the Turman Act. It's also a mining block. Stop the voting procedure, Turmanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u66	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues, if we are today, I think we will consider today the issue of the Law on the prestige of mining work and accept it today not only on first reading but also as a law. Because the miners came and listened to us today as we passed this law, then the law, what you said, and we've got the prestige of mining work with regard to pension insurance, we're taking it down.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u67	I have a proposition: let's vote for inclusion in the agenda, and let's talk about it on the march. We'll go through the agenda when we feel we've passed the previous drafts, then we'll make a decision about 2001. I'm betting on the vote for inclusion in the agenda of 2001. [[11:25:32]] For 433 Now, colleagues, after consideration, under the transcript, for consideration in 2001, in the event that the budget committee introduces a bill amending the Ukrainian State Budget Act, it's 3087 and 3088, because you don't even have the bill in your agenda, then we'll vote for the inclusion in the agenda after the consideration of mining bills. Okay? Is that understood? Come on, now interesting: insistence 0857 – The Ukrainian Law on Temporary Investigation Commissions, a Special Investigation Commission, and Temporary Special Commissions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It's about overcoming the President's veto and simplifying the President's impeachment procedure. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's vote, colleagues. [[11:26:35]] For 373 Bill 2219. By factions, please turn it on. Region Party – 171, "Club of Yulia Timoshenko" – 154, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" – 2, Communists – 27, "Clocus of Lithuania" – 19. The next bill is 2219, amending some laws of Ukraine. [[concerning the powers of the Constitutional Court]] Vote. [[11:27:23]] For 359 The factions, please. Region Party 174, Timoshenko Yulia Block 154, NUNS-3, Communist 26, Lithuanian Block 2. The next bill is 3086, a draft law amending the Ukrainian Security Service Act. [[11:28:01]] For 366 Please include the factions. For 366, the decision is made. Region Party – 173, "Julia Timoshenko Block" – 154, "Our Ukraine-People's Self-Defense" – 1, communists – 27, "Litvina Block" – 11. And the last bill is 3085, amending the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers Act. Vote. [[11:28:33]] For 376 Decision taken. Please show by factions. The Party of Regions – 175, "The Block of July Timoshenko" – 154, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" – 1, communists – 27, "Block of Lithuania" – 19. What about your respectable colleagues? Continued work? For continuing work. Let's vote. [[11:29:17]] For 382 I told you this frozen conflict was gonna get hot. That's what's happening. Thus, the frozen political conflict begins to resolve itself successfully. Colleagues, let's move on to the political issue. Let's see the factions. Let us turn to the political issue, fellow believers. And so, by the turn of the bill. The first bill, No. 3053-d, is a draft decree condemning military intervention by the Russian Federation in the territory of Georgia by the People's Deputies Ariev and Stac. Please report. Vladimir Igorovich Ariev, please come to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u68	Dear colleagues, we have witnessed today that the world is in a very difficult situation. And we found ourselves, Ukraine itself, the Ukrainian State, facing a very dangerous conflict, which began on August 8, 2008, in the territory of the independent Republic of Georgia. I want to remind you a little bit of what happened in independent Georgia before we start discussing who was right in this conflict or who is responsible. On May 31, 2008, the Russian Federation’s railway forces entered the territory of Abkhazia and began repairing the so - called demilitarized zone of Georgia and Abkhazia. It's a repair, it's been done for months. This was followed by a heavy armoury of the Russian Federation’s armed forces. On August 2, 2008, six days before the conflict in the North Caucasus, Russian Federation Armed Forces, known as the Caucasus 2008, completed their training. For these trainings, they were transferred to the North Caucasus military district of T-80UD and T-90UD tanks, which are not armed at the usual time in the North Caucasus military district. Since August 6, 2008, the Georgian villages, located on the border between the Republic of North Ossetia and the Georgian territory, have been bombarded by Ossetian positions. The leadership of Georgia repeatedly appealed to Russia to have the Russian Federation’s leadership influence on so - called Russian peacekeepers to put an end to the fire that was being waged by Ossetian positions in Georgian villages. On August 7, 2008, Georgia’s president, Mikhailo Saakashvili, officially warned that Georgian troops would start a peace operation in their own time, which would have to stop the attacks on Georgian territories by Ossetian positions. Similarly, the peaceful population of Tskhenvali and the villages surrounding the city were warned that a military operation would be carried out. At that time, refugees left South Ossetia. Although a few days earlier in North Ossetia, Vladikakuzi had already prepared bases for the reception of South Ossetian refugees. So we see clearly that the conflict was clearly provoked by one side and prepared. I can tell you that the butt side, in my personal opinion, reacted very harshly, unjustifiably hard on my part. And this could be considered if the international community were to be able to stop the fire quite quickly. But what happened? Eight numbers after the beginning of the conflict in South Ossetia were immediately introduced tanks of the Russian Federation Armed Forces. The Black Sea fleet, to be prepared for a two - week journey, will tell you that, from two weeks to one and a half months in a few days, within two days, it has been near Georgian territorial waters. And by the way, the question is, where is South Ossetia and where is the Black Sea? And why did the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation come up in advance prepared for the tushin shores? In fact, what happened next was a humanitarian disaster in Georgia when Russian troops entered. I've got a lot of videos from my Georgian fellow journalists that tell me about how they killed in Pota and also in villages near Pota, peaceful Georgian citizens. These are videocadres, videocadres that show military bombers of the Russian Federation bombing residential quarters of Georgian cities. Please tell me, what right did the Russian armed forces have to destroy the Georgian Coast Guard boats? And the rest of it -- it's also footage, like large trucks with the inscription so-called "peacekeepers" are taking Georgian patrol boats right out of the port. I'm not talking about looting anymore, which is also evidenced by many videos. Above all, Ukraine was involved in this conflict, not because of the position of Ukrainian leadership, but because the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation, which is temporarily based on the territory of Ukraine, came from the territory of Ukraine. And we can fully understand if we see all the confusion of international agreements that Ukraine was involved in a serious international conflict, because, by violating all international norms and by no means agreeing to its conduct with the country of temporary deployment, the Black Sea fleets came to the shores of Georgia and carried out military intervention, particularly on the territorial waters of the Republic of Georgia and also participated in military action. Dear colleagues, I propose that we, in view of all these things, and we could say much more, I suggest to you, those who have a conscience and a heart, and those who understand that there has been direct aggression, military intervention against the Georgian people, I suggest you support this determination or determination of the same content that will be more to your soul. On my part, I would like to express my sympathy to the families of all of them, without exception, those who died during the Georgian-Ossetian conflict, and also to all the civilians who died as a result of military action. And as a Ukrainian citizen who still supports Georgia’s independence and territorial integrity, I want to say: “ ’. ” [[speak Georgian]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u69	Questions, enrollment, questions-answers we have yes, please log in. Vladimir Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u70	Vladimir Matveev, faction of the Company of Ukraine. I agree that we must, of course, honor the memory of those who died during this conflict. Only I propose to honour the memory of those southern Ossetians that were destroyed by Georgian occupiers or Georgian aggressors prior to the beginning of this conflict. That's my question. You understand that you are embarking on a path of support for the genocide of the Abkhaz and the South Ossetian people by Georgia to defend Georgia's territorial integrity through the ethnic cleansings that Georgia has carried out there and in Abkhazia. Do you realize that you must be responsible at the same level as the Georgian authorities?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u71	I'll answer you in Russian. In Russian. I am merely quoting the News newspaper of 13 August 2008. It's a Russian newspaper. “After entering the village and dividing by three, the Special Forces and militias broke into the houses.” This took place in Georgian villages. “First, they examined the basements and then they ran around the rooms, took all the valuables: TVs, microwaves and music centers. The tractors that were found nearby. We didn't stop them. After clearing the houses of values, the militia started burning them down. Grenades were thrown around rooms with burning torches. A few hours later, all of Zero, the Georgian village, was dusting. The fire was running from house to house. The old man ran away because of one of the guards. He screamed and begged not to burn down his apartment. "I don't have anyone, everybody's gone. I was not to be taken from anyone,” said the old man, 78-year-old resident of Zero Nestor Cevchavadze. - I'm almost blind. I don't have family in Georgia. I want to stay here and die."
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u72	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u73	And I want to ask you, where was the genocide? Here's the testimony that's on every side of it. When Human Rights Watch, an international legal framework, has already testified to the theft and murder of Ossetian Georgian militiamen, peaceful Georgian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u74	Oilworks of the Yulia Tymoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u75	Thank you. Mr. Volodymyr, please tell me so that it becomes clear to me and just the citizens who read the newspapers are watching TV. How, really, to be in this situation, when, well, we find that, in fact, there is, unfortunately, a cover-up of this conflict. A conflict involving two fraternal nations. I think there is no doubt that both the Georgian and Russian people are fraternal to our Ukrainian people. Is it really worth it now to go out with harsh statements and talk about the fact that one nation is better at this conflict and the other nation is worse when it comes to two of our own nations? That's the first question. And does our position have to be more radical than the position of the European Union of the same one that clearly stated yesterday that it sees no reason to apply even economic sanctions to Russia, although formally, and condemns its actions towards South Ossetia? Should we go to hell in front of our father, as they say? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u76	Thank you, Your Honor. I'm not talking about the relationship between the nations that have to be, I'm talking about always being good-neighbourly, I'm talking about the behavior of power. And I can say that today the Russian authorities are gradually moving toward neophasism. And if we don't notice it, we won't notice it the same way that all of Europe didn't notice it in 1938 when it joined when it was saving the Sudets? The Germans and what happened after that. Europe, by the way, I'm answering the second question right now. I made that clear. She condemned Russia’s recognition of independence, the so - called independence of South Ossetia and Abkhazia. I'm not calling for economic sanctions. But Ukraine today will either show an ostentatious position, or it will make it clear that this is what happened from August 8 to 13, in the territory of independent sovereign Georgia, this is aggression. And we have to say it clearly once and for all. But the peoples, the Russian peoples, the Ukrainian peoples, the Georgian peoples.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u77	Stanislaw Arzeviteen.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u78	Give the word to John the Rabbit, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u79	John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u80	Reporter, Russia's aggression against Georgia means a peace-promotion operation. But it's actually military aggression, I agree with you here. The aim was to overthrow the elected government; the second, to stop the emergence of transport corridors in energy, particularly in Ukraine; the third, to involve Ukraine in this conflict through the involvement of the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation; the fourth, to clean up the territory of Abkhazia from the Georgians in the same way as the territory of South Ossetia. Because, as you know, it was in 1993 that more than 300,000 Georgians were expelled from Abkhazia. So the current march is to clear it to zero. This is a real genocide. And that's what they wanted to do. They wanted to take Ajariah away. And only the protection of Ukraine, the protection of the world did not allow it. As you wish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u81	Thank you for asking. I believe that today, if the entire civilized world, the European Union, and the anti-terrorist coalition that once formed do not express their clear view of what took place in the Caucasus, we will, for the indulgence of such a few years, reap the fruits that Europe has already reaped since September 1, 1939. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u82	Viennese.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u83	Comrade Volodymyr, fully supportive of the position you expressed in your statement and gave us an offer to support it in the Supreme Council. And for those who have asked questions like me, they're completely invalid. Is it worth taking such a clear and ambiguous position on Georgia’s integrity? There is no doubt about it, for the fire is moving very quickly from one house to another. And so if we don't respond very quickly today enough to put out the fires in Georgia that we've caused outside, and that's what we understand, then there might also be fires in neighbouring countries, including Ukraine. That is why I would like us to consistently condemn the intervention of the external factor in Georgia’s affairs, for to the truth, when the house burns, never to be seen as a brother and brother living under that house. I think that within Georgia's territorial integrity, both Abkhaz and Ossetian and Georgians will be dealt with as they live and settle in their home if there is no evil will of an evil neighbour.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u84	Thank you. I completely agree with you. Here, a leader of the Party of Regions has actually stated that Ukraine is a weak state, so I propose that we, the Ukrainian Parliament, demonstrate that Ukraine is a strong state and demonstrate its strength precisely by telling the truth in the eyes of a neighbour who is stronger.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u85	Zybenko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u86	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, I am an education historian, and I would like to remind you of the expression of an ancient manuscript: “The earth has become a potter’s circle.” It's me that some of our colleagues today are trying to call white people black, fascists a Democrat and so on and so forth. When the MP of the Ukrainian Parliament was wrapping the flag of a foreign state as a reference to a psychiatrist, we think that everything that's going on is going on normally. I want to remind some that Georgia began aggression the day before the Olympic Games, and it's a festivities, and then during the days, the civilian population -- the elderly, the children -- was destroyed from heavy artillery. And after that, it is proposed to condemn not Georgia but Russia!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u87	Dear colleagues, you were just talking about one of my colleagues who took the flag of Georgia on his shoulders as a sign of support. Please note that you have a flag on your jacket. This is the red flag, the flag of a non-existent country. I think it's more about. There can't be any questions here.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u88	Vladimir Igorovich, please sit down. Next bill. Sit down, Vladimir Igorovich. Did you call your last name? [[B in m in s a l in]] Right. 3054 Bill, Reporter, National Deputy of Ukraine Kostenko Yuri Ivanovich. Please, Yuri Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u89	Dear colleagues, I'd like to introduce you to the bill, more faithfully. A draft statement developed by the Ukrainian National Party deputies. Many other projects do not reflect this claim. So I'm going to quote the basics of that statement. So, the statement, does the Ukrainian People's Party's draft statement give a clear answer to three questions: first, what happened in Georgia; second, why did this happen and third, what the reaction of the Ukrainian authorities should be? Thus, in its assessment of what had happened, the Ukrainian People’s Party had come out of the United Nations Charter and from the final provisions of the OSCE. According to our experts, we suggest that the Supreme Council of Ukraine find that the actions of the Russian authorities are in principle out of the form of peacekeeping and that we consider them to be Russian military aggression against sovereign Georgia. Second, the reasons for such actions by Russia to the sovereign state. We believe that because of Russian military incursions into Georgia, Russia has begun to practice, the practical implementation of its aggressive military doctrine and foreign policy, which are aimed at the establishment of Russian political, military, and economic interests in post-Radians space. When it comes to what took place directly in Georgia, it is an act of annexation of the sovereign state and full - scale military aggression on the Caucasus. We also note that Russia's military aggression has to some extent been the result of a policy of placating aggression by some of the governments of old Europe regarding Russia, which has been found, particularly in blocking the leadership of Germany and France, the process of joining Ukraine and Georgia in the NATO membership plan. We also believe that the invasion of Georgia poses a significant threat to the development of new additional ways of transporting energy from Kaspia region to Europe as well as to Ukraine. And the long-standing anti-European Kremlin policy of introducing a new system of dependence in Europe -- because of energy dependence -- is the answer to the question of what's going on in Georgia. Third, Ukraine’s position as sovereign, European, democratic. We note that Russia's military aggression against Georgia poses a potential threat to Ukraine's security, which seeks to have a zone of peace and stability throughout its borders. Russia’s plans to use the forces of the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation, which is temporarily based in Ukraine, pose a particular threat to Ukraine. This factor, in turn, involves Ukraine most directly in the military conflict. Therefore, all discussions about Ukraine’s neutrality in this conflict need to be stopped, since Ukraine’s actual Russian fleet is getting involved in conflict. We also suggest that the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in its operative part, strongly condemn Russia’s military actions in Georgia. And we urge people of goodwill to stop this action. The Supreme Council of Ukraine must also demand that Russia withdraw all its troops from the territory of a sovereign state and stop supporting secessionism and ruining the territorial integrity of an independent state. The Supreme Council should also call on citizens of Ukraine and the European community, the world society, the United Nations Organization, the international security structures -- NATO, the OSCE -- to condemn the Kremlin's military aggression and to show all solidarity with the Georgian people. By the way, this is what the GUAM Agreement, of which both Ukraine and Georgia require. The Supreme Council should urge the international community to replace the so-called Russian peacekeeping contingent in Georgia, which has become a direct participant in the conflict and its long-standing involvement on the side of separatists has discredited the status of international peacekeeping forces. Finally, the Supreme Council of Ukraine should address the President and the government actively promote a peaceful settlement of the conflict in the international arena and take action against Russia's non-use of the forces of the Black Sea fleet, which is temporarily based in the Ukrainian Sevastopol. We also appeal to Ukrainian journalists, media outlets, to objectively highlight the tragic events in the Caucasus and to avoid using ourselves for the retranslation of Russian foreign policy doctrine and imperial propaganda in Ukraine. The Supreme Council should call upon the entire democratic world to assist the Georgian people in restoring peace, constitutional order and territorial integrity of the State. This is what the Ukrainian People's Self-Defense faction and the Ukrainian People's Party MPs are doing. Now I'd like to say a few words about what a friendly Ukrainian-Russian relationship looks like today and what Russia and the pro-Russian forces are offering us in the Ukrainian Parliament to maintain this fraternal relationship in the same direction and at the same level. As an expert involved in negotiations with Russia on nuclear disarmament, on the division of the Black Sea fleet, I would like to remind you that Ukraine's so-called neutrality and fraternal relations have a specific dimension. For example, we've refused, and that's almost 200 to 300 billion dollars, from dividing the assets of the former Soviet Union. All of this is used today exclusively by the Russian Federation. I would like to remind you of the 132 billion Ukrainian citizens' savings that the Ukrainian authorities have passed on to the Russian Savings Fund, which has been used by Ukrainian citizens for 17 years, and the Ukrainians today cannot get thousands of dollars of their savings. I would also like to remind you of the transfer of the third power of nuclear power to Russia, practically for nothing. I would also like to talk about the free lease to Russia for valuable Crimea lands, estimated at $2.5 billion to $5 billion a year. Today Russia is paying us 97 million dollars for the Black Sea fleet. I would also like to say that at Soviet prices we are transporting Russian gas to Europe, for Soviet gas, not European gas. At the same time, we are already paying almost European prices for Russian gas. Well, last of all, I'd like to remind you. Dear colleagues! Russia and I are counting on a lot of fraternal relationships — both economics and huge losses. But when Russia today asks the question of secession from the Ukraine of Sevastopol, Crimea, I'm not talking about things like Tuzla, it's an attack on our territorial integrity. And we can't agree with that if we represent Ukrainian power if we represent national interest. I propose that we accept our application and vote for it in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u90	Dear colleagues! After the break, the question will be addressed to Yuri Ivanovich. 30 minutes off.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u91	We continue our morning plenary session. Yuri Ivanovich, please to the rostrum. Ladies and gentlemen, we sign up for a question-and-question answer from the Ukrainian National Deputies. Ten minutes of format. Roman Zabzaluk. Mr. Roman, you will, won't you? Do you pass on your word to anyone?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u92	Teeth! Teeth!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u93	Teeth. Microphone, please, Teeth.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u94	Yuri Ivanovic, Valentin Zubov, "Bloka Yulia Timoshenko" faction. Yuri Ivanovich, you are an experienced man in politics, not the first day in Parliament, and you are well aware of how serious and relevant the problem we are facing today. I have one question for you, please tell me, do you think that the position of the President of Ukraine, Victor Andreevich Yushchenk, who took part in this conflict, protects Ukraine's national interests or makes them problematic? None of them are in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u95	Dear colleague, the position of the President of Ukraine is based on the norms of international law, on what the entire democratic world has done. Infringement on the territorial integrity of any state is a sign of aggression by definition of the United Nations, the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe. Thus, the assessments made by the President personally regarding events in Georgia are in line with international law. The second thing I'd like to point out. The position of the President of Ukraine is based on the protection of Ukraine's national interests, as required by the Ukrainian Constitution, which guarantees security in Ukraine. We cannot avoid a clear position, considering that the Russian Black Sea fleet is based on what unites us with Georgia.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u96	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u97	We have a common position with Georgia on GUAM and mutual commitments. So avoiding the answer to the principle of the question is primarily a repetition of what Georgia has today in Ukrainian-Russian relations. That's why the President here is acting adequately and clearly.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u98	Jojik Jaroslav, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u99	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People’s Party. Honorable Yuri Ivanovich is known to have been preparing early for this aggression in Georgia through the introduction of an additional contingent and railway, and other types of troops, and began this aggression under the protection of Russian citizens who had previously received Russian citizenship. Today we are witnessing a continuation of the same scenario in Ukraine when thousands of people in Crimea receive Russian citizenship. We are witnessing today that Russia’s leadership prefers to demonstrate that the Russian forces in Ukraine will act as if they were at home. Do you not think in this situation that Ukraine should initiate an extra NATO summit at which Ukraine should be
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u100	Thank you, Your Honor. I think that Ukraine should not only address international organizations, because it is such a Ukrainian tradition, all of its problems trying to translate into other leaders or other states. First of all, Ukraine should clearly avoid double citizenship, whether it is Crimea, or other territories of the sovereign Ukrainian State, and it may be necessary to make changes to existing legislation. Ukraine must clearly achieve European standards of economic, social, democratic development in internal politics, and in this way we will be able to become a member of the European security system, a member of NATO. Consider the case of the Baltic countries. Russia also expressed territorial claims to them, particularly to Estonia, it was also a two - year energy blockade, but these nations defined their strategy as a European community.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u101	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u102	And once that was achieved, these tiny nations sat down at a table of negotiations with a huge Russia on an equal footing. This is the kind of policy that the Ukrainian authorities, the Ukrainian Parliament, the Ukrainian government have to make. And only in this way can we minimize the threats facing Ukraine today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u103	Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u104	Thank you. Dear Yuri Ivanovich, at one time I was surprised and even so irritated by the remote position of Ukraine, the State of Ukraine, regarding the unilateral, one-sided declaration of Kosovo. You remember that well. It was really very remote. There was no position at all. But you, as an experienced politician, realize that these are, in principle, chains of one chain: both Kosovo, and Abkhazia, and South Ossetia. Because the world order is falling apart because the Helsinki Council was in 1975 and was followed by very serious changes, including those related to the collapse of the Soviet Union and its frozen conflicts. It was also in Czechoslovakia, but in another plane and so forth. Do you not think that the optimal option in this situation, given that Kosovo is not recognized by the UN Security Council and will never be recognized, and just as well, you understand, will not be recognized by the UN Security Council as South Ossetia, Abkhazia. In order to go to zero and cancel the recognition of these, really, unilateral ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u105	Thank you. From the point of view of the formalities of Ukraine, a respected colleague took an extremely balanced position. As you know, there has been no recognition by Ukraine of Kosovo's independence, so, I hope, there will never be a recognition of Ossetia and Abkhazia by Ukraine. As far as world order is concerned, it is impossible to settle these issues by the forces of only one Ukraine or even such great state as Russia. I think that what happened in Georgia should be an object for looking at all the basic positions of the organizations that are responsible for the security and cooperation of the world. Only the search for a common format of its response to such separatist movements can stop those 150 frozen conflicts that threaten to escalate into World War III. If there is no clear and strong position on the part of the entire world democratic community, unfortunately, I do not want to be a bad forecaster, but this is not just Ukraine, Transnistria.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u106	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u107	Or Moldova, or other countries, and this is a threat to global stability. I wouldn't want that kind of development for both Ukraine and the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u108	Stanislaw Arzeviteen. Kenzier.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u109	Jaroslav Kenzior, National Movement of Ukraine, faction “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense”. Yuri Ivanovich, Russia, as the only successor to the Soviet Union, “the feats” we remember very well: both Hungary, and Czechoslovakia, and the order of Baku, Alma Ata, in the same Tbilisi with the sword blades and so on. How do you explain from your point of view the position of our allies – BUY, when we all made our position clear, the Prime Minister kept silent, and today's statement is reviewed, we managed to write a statement where the words of Georgia and Russia are not? It's a grand political document at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u110	Thank you. From a formal point of view, our faction and the BIT faction must be governed by a coalition agreement. This agreement clearly defines both the principles of our internal politics and foreign policy priorities. By this agreement, we made a commitment to gain NATO membership, to bring Ukraine to a European standard of living very quickly, and then to become a member of the European Union and much more. So the coalition agreement clearly gives a direction that should be governed by both the NH-NS faction and the BUT faction. Unfortunately, we have not seen in the position of BUT, especially on the part of the government, adequate estimates of those who have made virtually all the governments of the democratic world. Unfortunately, today's debate in the Supreme Council, and especially the first vote, shows that the BUT faction is moving away from the coalition agreement, which calls for an urgent council of coalitions to be held in order for us to either confirm our favor.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u111	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u112	in the direction we've chosen and which we are. who supported the Ukrainian citizen, or then our colleagues should declare a change in their principled position. This is how it is supposed to work in the democratic countries of the world, without which Ukraine will never become a European state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u113	Thank you, Yuri Ivanovich. Please sit down. Next bill, 3059. Reporting by Ukraine’s national deputy, Konovaluk Valerius Ilchi.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u114	Dear Arsenius Petrovich! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Respectable voters! Draft Decree establishing the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council on the verification of the supply of Ukrainian military equipment to Georgia, in violation of Ukrainian law and international law. The very situation of aggression in South Ossetia shows how much politics today can lead not only to human sacrifices but also to the consequences that the peace-loving people of Ukraine can have today, our country, to an absolutely political and distant adventure. We understand that the situation of the transfer of arms to Georgia is a provocation of a conflict that could have been largely avoided. The Russian side had a mandate and was governed solely by international law. We understood that the supply of arms to the conflict zone would have some consequences. And I have repeatedly stated that Ukraine is morally responsible for the pressure of Ukrainian tanks in Tskhinvali on the elderly and civilians — the elderly and the children. We have a moral responsibility that our shells that have been delivered, I am sure that in Georgia absolutely uncontrolledly, the city's fire systems have destroyed Tskhinvali. I am sure that the provocation prepared by the political top of Ukraine was, first of all, the nature of the country's involvement in the NATO-military bloc without the will of the Ukrainian people. I am convinced that any arms scandals that concerned parliamentary control and I wish to emphasize. That our Supreme Council is mandated by Ukrainian law to exercise parliamentary control over the supply of arms and ammunition. We therefore propose that the draft regulation should first of all establish a commission and monitor the supply of arms and, according to the United Nations, Ukraine was the largest arms supplier to Georgia. We also propose the introduction of a moratorium on the supply of weapons to conflict zones, including today in Georgia. We are also in favour of public investigation of the facts, and I am convinced that there have been illegal weapons transfers, as we see artillery ammunition and weapons stockpiles burning in Ukraine. I am convinced that today's position is that of the governing authority. In fact, it poses certain threats to Ukraine's national security. Therefore, I would like to propose and do not wish to politicize this issue at first, but to understand that we are under an obligation not only to investigate the circumstances but also to tell the Ukrainian people the truth. In conclusion, I would like to add that today's situation in the Caucasus and attempts to transfer this conflict to the territory today. Ukraine is not only condemned by our citizens, the voters of Ukraine, but also requires us today to make immediate decisions that would not only contribute to certain control by the Supreme Council, but also to ensure that Ukrainian weapons do not commit illegal acts, that peaceful people do not die, and that we understand that the means that Ukraine receives as a State from the arms trade do not provoke conflicts and create tensions in our region. Therefore, my distinguished colleagues, I would like to tell you that this is the commission of all the people's deputies, all the factions have been determined with their representatives. And this is a commission that will be able to provide, as soon as possible, a sufficient amount of information already available, not only an answer to the interesting questions that have arisen with us, the people's deputies, but also primarily with Ukrainian citizens. I therefore propose that this draft regulation be supported and done everything necessary to enable us to respond to all these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u115	Please, question-answer, 10 minutes. Bondarenko, Timoshenko Street.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u116	Please pass the word to Victor Terrence.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u117	I thank you so much for passing on the word. Question one. The leader of the Party of Regions proposes to recognize the independence of South Ossetia and Abkhazia. Question: "Please tell me, does the leader of the Party of Regions also acknowledge Chechnya's independence?" That's the first question. And the second. Georgia’s city system and other weapons were sent by Russia. It's Russia. Russia sends weapons to other regions, including Iran, Iraq. And today Russia, you have to know that, takes second place in the world in arms supply, including the bloodiest dictators. You're talking about Ukraine being responsible for sending tanks. Do you think that Russia is responsible for all dictators worldwide? Are you here, shaking your knee, saying that Russia is right?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u118	The first is the issue of status and legal rules that relate to the definition of Chechnya. You know that there has been a referendum, and this people in Chechnya have determined their future destiny and the right of autonomy in the Russian Federation. That's why I don't think they're appropriate. I am convinced that there is much to do with the supply of arms to Georgia today — first of all, that a fairly large corruption scandal can actually start in Ukraine. We are well aware that the country's highest officials may be involved in this. However, I am convinced that our decision today should first and foremost be to impose moratoriums on the supply of military equipment to conflict zones. I am sure that for us, for the position of the Party of the Regions faction, we will not accept any forceful solution to any conflict. First of all, there is a need not only for a consolidated decision by the entire Supreme Council but also for the most important decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u119	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u120	Make sure that this does not happen again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u121	Kulczynski, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u122	Mikola Kulczynski, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". My dear report, the whole world is aware that Russia has begun to reproduce ancient imperial politics. And events in Georgia testify to what happened in the early nineteenth century when Russian royal armies burned vineyards, destroyed babies, killed old people, poisoned wells. Russia is doing the same today. Don't you think this policy is primarily harmful to the Russian people, because we remember what it ended up like, what a bloody riot it was in the 17th year. Imperial politics is doomed to failure. And you're dirtying the Ukrainian state, and I have doubts, for example, whether you're a member of the Supreme Council of Ukraine or even a citizen of Ukraine? You're working on Russia's imperial ambitions and you're hurting it, primarily the Russian people. I no longer speak for our Ukraine or for all the former colonial states of Russia.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u123	You know, I hate to answer such questions on the one hand, but on the other hand, I would like to say that today the overwhelming opinion of the Ukrainian people is in solidarity with my position. And what you today call an imperial policy, other than Georgia and today's political leadership of Ukraine, no one declares that. None of the countries of the Commonwealth of Independent States today spoke of Russia's imperial policy. Russia is truly a strong, great Power. Russia is protecting its national interests. But there is no need to replace the notion that today we are trying to investigate the facts of the illegal supply of arms and corruption in the country. And you're justifying this today because we are somewhat contrary to our President's official policy. I do not wish to have a president who today justifies the aggression and death of peaceful people while attending a rally in Tbilisi.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u124	Vladimir Stretovic, "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u125	Vladimir Stretović, Party of the Christian-Democratic Union. Of course, your appeal for aggression against South Ossetia is understandable, and that makes sense. But what I'm saying is that from the Georgian side, there are also civilian casualties in the cities that have entered the Russian occupation zone. So why do you apply a double standard, so do you mourn the victims of South Ossetia and not talk about peaceful Georgian citizens who died from shells and bullets from the Russian army? First question. And the second. You're an ex-military man, don't you think there was a plan of response, of peace at the top of the Russian headquarters? Why Russian troops crossed the border and entered Georgian territory rather than stopped in South Ossetia as a peacekeeping operation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u126	He wanted to draw your attention and factions to the fact that in the statement made today by our party leader Viktor Yanukovic, we had just begun to remember all the victims who had died not only in Ossetia, but also in Georgia. We have always consistently advocated a solution to any conflict issue politically. I would like to give you an example of the problem that arose in Yugoslavia in Srebrenica, which was 300 kilometres from Belgrade, but nevertheless the bombing of Belgrade, a peaceful city, the capital of Yugoslavia today has not raised any objections. We opposed the situation with Kosovo and the policy that the United States is trying to pursue in Ukraine today. So I want to tell you one thing, let's not politicize the question that requires us as the people's deputies of clarification. We must give people an answer to what kind of weapons have been delivered, and why have the funds from the sale of weapons to Georgia not fully returned to the Ukrainian budget? That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u127	Bondik. Valérie Bondick.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u128	Valery Ilyich! First of all, I would like to thank you for the legislative initiative, a truly timely draft regulation. And we need to understand the methods of parliamentary control, whether we participated or did not participate in Ukrainian crews, as accused by the President of the unrecognized Republic of Ossetia, Kajta. This is indeed the path of self-cleaning and we must conduct a clear parliamentary investigation. However, I would like to ask you my question. Do you support the bill that I passed in the past, and it is the nationals who have brought the flag of another State to the Supreme Council Hall that have not voted in favour of the bill. It dealt with only one, enabling Parliament to regulate and monitor the provision of assistance to any State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u129	Of course, I support this initiative and I would like to say that we cannot unilaterally help one people, one country, not to notice real aggression and the victims of civilians on the other. You know, it's a policy of double standards, and it has a lot to do with the domestic political situation in Ukraine today. As we further share our citizens'positions today, we are even more opposed and divided into Ukrainian society by such actions. And we wish that today any authority by whom it would not be represented, if it commits unlawful, unlawful acts, if it has become corrupt, it should be held accountable, regardless of who today represents what political power represents the President or the Cabinet of Ministers. We must today find objective information, investigate this situation and provide an answer to the people.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u130	Jaroslav Jojik.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u131	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People’s Party. Mr. Valérie, much of your speech was focused on accusing the leadership of an independent Ukrainian state of supplying arms to an independent State of Georgia, which, knowing its northern neighbour, was aggressive and very well aware of history, had to increase its security. So I have the following questions, what rules of international law did Ukraine violate by supplying arms to a Georgian independent state, and are there international sanctions against Georgia today? First question. And the second. Where was it to be granted permission for the leadership of the Ukrainian State to supply arms to the Georgian independent State? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u132	You've obviously misheard the presentation of the draft order. I can say that, of course, Georgia was not subject to the sanctions of the international community concerning restrictions on the supply of arms. We speak of Ukraine's obligation today to consider the possibility of escalating this conflict as a direct consequence for itself. I can give you another example that the country of Georgia, which today has 50 per cent of unemployment, where the life of a mere citizen today is spent on one and a half dollars and the living standards of Georgian citizens today are the lowest in the CIS countries, spending enormous resources on the arms race, militarizing their own armed forces. Would you please tell me why today this peaceful democratic country is under attack? How does it resolve conflicts in South Ossetia and Abkhazia if these problems have been sufficiently resonant around the world? Therefore, I would like to reassure you and say one thing that while there is a faction of the Party of the Regions, other political forces in this Parliament, we will not allow the political adventures of our country and our people.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u133	Peter Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u134	Thank you. The Communist faction of Cibenko. Dear reporter! I know you're a member of the budget committee, I know you're the first deputy head of the budget committee. And that's why I wanted to address you both as the author of the document and as the first deputy head of the budget committee. According to various experts, up to 40 percent of weapons, such as firearms, which fell on the heads of civilians in Tskhenvala, are of Ukrainian origin. Please tell me, is there any information on the budget committee, or did they receive the money from the sale of arms to Georgia, the cost by volume, and how did the funds work to establish Ukraine’s international authority? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u135	Thank you for asking. You mean my work as a committee of the Fourth Supreme Council, I have indeed been the first Vice-Chairman of the Budget Committee for four years. We are not saying that the supply of arms took place only now. We are saying that this is the period when the actual new power, the new President of Ukraine, began to sell, Ukraine began to sell arms to Georgia in 2004. I would like to say that today enough information is sufficient to deal objectively with this issue in the commission of inquiry. But I have, you know, not only a serious fear, but also many Ukrainians who are located in places where military weapons and ammunition are stored. Because if we pull on the establishment of an investigative commission, I can assure you that not another warehouse will be on fire. Trust me, this will be a direct attempt just to hide the existing flaw that exists. Therefore, we too are responsibly responsible and say that once and for all, let us keep this matter in order. We must not leave unpunished what today poses enormous problems, conflicts in our Ukrainian country.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u136	Have a seat. Thank you. Next bill. Bill No. 3070, introduced by National MP Simonenko Petr Mikolaiovich. Please, Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u137	Respectable citizens of Ukraine, respected colleagues. On 8 August of this year, in violation of all the international law that remains after which the United States and NATO destroyed the post-war agreements, the Helsinki peace and security in Europe, the regular parts of the Georgian army attacked the positions of Russian peacekeepers, launched a total attack on the residential quarters of the capital of South Ossetia from Tskhenval, as well as the surrounding Ossetian villages by a fire system, and virtually by weapons of mass destruction, which, by the way, is prohibited from being used against the peaceful population. An analysis of the situation suggests that the military-punishment operation that was carried out by the Saakashvili National Militit regime has been pursued for several purposes. First, to clear South Ossetia of the natives, in any way: either physically destroy them, or convert them into refugees. By the way, this is Georgia's third aggression against South Ossetia. Secondly, to turn the internal conflict into an interstate conflict and to involve Russia in it, which had to engage combat forces to protect its citizens, including the peacekeepers who were then in South Ossetia. What Saakashvili did on the day of the opening of the Olympic Games, by opening a live fire on peaceful sleepers, including children, from the city's installations, is an open crime in which there is no excuse. That is why the Communist faction is introducing a draft decree to condemn Georgia’s military aggression against the people of South Ossetia. We hope that the criminal Saakashvili will be condemned and punished for his thefts, and the beautiful free Georgian people will be rid of the bloody puppet of Miho. My dear colleagues, unfortunately, Ukraine has not, by its own volition, found itself involved in a shamefully solved Georgian radical nationalists led by President Saakashvili, a bloody conflict in the Caucasus, and also on the side of the aggressor. Unreserved support from Yuschenko, a Georgian dictator, organized by the United States Goddepa, the Ukrainian President's army to Tbilisi in a company with the same “independent” leaders made four other American protectorates hostage to Ukraine and our people in a dangerous geopolitical game run by the United States for world domination. [[in quotes]] There is no doubt that President Yushchenko has long been aware of the intentions of his Georgian godfather to abandon the civilized course of resolving and settling relations with Ossetians and Abkhaz and to attempt to subdue these nations with weapons. Unusually, according to official UN data, Ukraine became the largest supplier of weapons and military equipment to Georgia, and Ukrainian military units and instructors were rapidly preparing personnel for the Georgian army. Indeed, Georgia is not on the list of countries to which arms are prohibited, but this does not mean that the country has provided Saakashvili with weapons and military equipment legally. First, in 2006, we had already raised questions about the investigation of the conditions of supply to Georgia of Ukrainian weapons and tanks in the form of humanitarian aid. Sadly, then, we were not supported in this room, including those who did not support you, on your conscience too, those thousands of dead who shed blood and lost their lives. And everything could have been different. Now that we've published a demand for immediate, comprehensive inspection of the economic activity of all the entities involved in the arms trade system and, in particular, in the supply of weapons to Georgia over the past years, all of a sudden, military warehouses in Kharkishte have been set on fire and blown up in New Goddansk. This is an indication that they are trying to cover up the traces of their crimes under the leadership of Yashchenka’s superior officials. This is a trend, as soon as the test is ready, the military warehouses are on fire. It was, once again, in New God's day, Alexandrovny, that's what happened in Lozov. It's different. As I said, Yushchenko knew about Saakashvili’s intentions and didn’t even rule out that. I do not rule out what about the day the City starts beating on Tskhinval. Help for Those Who Have Doubts Today Two hours before the start of this punitive operation, observers from the OSCE immediately fled Tskhinvali, that is, they knew that this military operation and double standards would not protect the people who had broken and destroyed by killing the same old men, children, and women in their dreams. Ukraine. And the one who deliberately put the gun in the hands of the killer. It's me who's talking about the arms trade here. Saakashvili killed a peaceful population. Who put a gun in his hand? President Yushchenko. Yushchenko bears the same responsibility for killing people in Tskhinvali. Ukraine does not need a president who is involved in military thefts that implements the politics of militarization, nationalism and the rehabilitation of fascism, to promote neo-Naziism in the territory of our country. We don't need a president who's turning Ukraine into a country of disunity. Concealing the circumstances of the armed conflict in the Caucasus and the actions of the Saakashvili regime, which have resulted in the genocide of the Ossetian people and have led to the humanitarian disaster in the Caucasus, the faction of the Communists in its draft decision first paragraph invites the Supreme Council to condemn Georgia's aggression against the people of South Ossetia; secondly, to recognize President Yushchenka's actions to unreservedly support Saakashvili's military aggression, which conflict with Ukraine's national interests, do not match the Constitution and the laws of our State and to initiate the procedure for its empire; and thirdly, to establish a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council to verify the legality of supplies in 2005-2008, military technology and weapons to Georgia. Dear colleagues, the draft Supreme Council Decision condemning Georgia's military aggression against the people of South Ossetia, which I represent, is also proposed in an urgent order to review and adopt the Ukrainian Law on Basic Principles of Internal and External Policy. The absence of such a law, which would provide for the acquisition of the status of a neutral state by Ukraine, does not allow us to respond quickly and adequately to the challenges posed by international peace and security, the threat to our sovereign sovereignty and make our country dependent on the sick whims of one or the other. Yes, Ukraine, in the person of President Yushchenk, has not yet been able to determine whether Kosovo is to declare its independence. There is no clear reaction by the President of Romania, who has in fact challenged the independence of Ukraine, Ishmael and Bukovina. August's events on the Caucasus and information hysteria, organized by the Bank and Ukrainian nationalists around Georgia's seemingly annexation of Russia and its takeover on Ukraine's territorial integrity, particularly in Crimea, have raised questions about further strategic partnerships with the Russian Federation. I would like to stress here in particular: Russia had every reason to adequately respond to the armed attack by the Saakashists and to carry out the military operation forcing the Saakashvili regime into peace. Russia had every reason to respond to the request of the people of South Ossetia and to protect them from physical destruction, such as, by the way, Russia’s right to admit. Whether to recognize the independence of South Ossetia and Abkhazia, taking into account the nation’s right to self - determination and the request of the peoples of these republics. Turning back to Ukraine, I would like to stress that in the third post-war division of the world, our independence, our sovereignty, our territorial integrity is also a guarantee of stability in Europe. But that's only possible if we get guarantees of our neutrality and declare ourselves a non-locked, neutral state. Any attempt to drag Ukraine to one side or another, an attempt to involve our nation in a military bloc, such as NATO, where Yashchenko is desperately seeking, could turn into a disaster for the people of Ukraine and all of Europe. Both Europe and Russia and the United States have to realize that. To conclude, I appeal to my fellow MPs to support our draft decision on the Caucasus, to condemn Georgia's military aggression against the people of South Ossetia and to acknowledge the actions of President Yushchenk, who supported this aggression, such as those that conflict with the national interests of Ukraine and lead to the initiation of an impeachment procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u138	Let's sign up for a question-answer. John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u139	Sir, if I didn't know you as a pro-Russian politician, I'd think you'd just talked about it when you said that Georgia wanted to clear North Ossetia of the indigenous population when you said that Georgia had committed aggression when you talked about what the Ukrainian authorities had put in the hands of the gun killers. Because you know very well that North Ossetia is the original territory of Georgia, and there the Ossetians were only those who didn't want to serve Russia, because most of them were in North Ossetia. How could this be an aggressor in relation to Pot when Russian troops shot people like that? Or in the Kodori Valley? How is it possible to be an aggressor in your territory? And why are you so silent, who sold the City system to Georgia? Isn't Russia? If you were thinking about Ukraine’s national interests, you would call Russia the one who armed this government and you want to bribe.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u140	I hope that you, as a colleague, know a little bit about history and how it all happened. By the way, and how it happened in the early 20th century. And there's the same South Ossetia, and the same Abkhazia itself was territorial, so let's say, units, and then, so let's say, when the first aggression started in Minorist Georgia, and you should know that, and they destroyed that people at the same time. With regard to the City system, these are the facilities that have been left after the Soviet Union. And you're exactly, including, part of it, after the Soviet Union was destroyed, before these. This weapon was in the hands of nationalists. I didn't say it by accident, my dear colleague, what's going on is the militarization of nationalism. And Georgian nationalism, Ukrainian nationalism is a disaster for the people and Ukraine and Georgia. And that's exactly what they did. For the record, let's say the same Abkhaz signed the same treaty as the State itself. So you just don't know how it happened and you only say what you're comfortable with. And the last. Dear colleagues, let's do some more.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u141	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u142	We don't confuse the concepts that are currently being used. The right to sovereignty is the right of the people of South Ossetia and Abkhazia, not Germany, or Ukraine or others. They themselves admitted during the 1992 referendum when you destroyed the Soviet Union that they were independent territorial and national groups. So you don't respect their will, you just support the aggressors who want to destroy this will of state sovereignty.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u143	Dear colleagues, before you speak, I would like to address our highly worthy and respected miners. We're not going to start discussing the matter before four o'clock. So I'd like to ask you, we've arranged a proper meeting for you there, in the fourth hour, you have free time to walk through the walls of Parliament and talk to the people's deputies. Ruslan Knazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u144	Dear reporter, I think it would be absolutely urgent for you to condemn Russian nationalism, and especially the presidential statement of former Putin, as it was during his last visit to Italy, in which he officially declared to the world that he and the next President of Medvedev were real Russian nationalists who would defend Russian interest until the last drop of blood. As far as OSCE is concerned. Indeed, within a few hours they left the Kodori Valley and South Ossetia because the governments of the undeclared republics had announced it. And that's what the salt problem is. Why don't you say that in fact the City systems didn't bomb the civilian population, but they bombed the military forces that had shot six Georgian military personnel before. This was a completely planned provocation, which began a few days earlier, and some misunderstandings in the South Ossetian market exploded six explosions, and immediately undeclared governments accused Georgia of preparing these explosions without even starting to investigate. Let us be objective in dealing with this problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u145	Once again, I would like to stress the following. One thing is, when you're trying to analyze President Putin's statements, peaceful statements about his civil position as President, how he's going to do and what he's going to do to protect the rights of Russians to live in an independent state. And the other thing is, under the terms of the so-called democracy, they destroy and kill by the weapons of mass destruction of the peaceful population, and that's a fact. This was acknowledged by Europe and the world community that Georgian aggressor Saakashvili killed and shot civilians at night. By the way, it seems strange that on August 8th, at 12 p.m., peace negotiations were to begin, which was a common agreement between Georgia, namely Tbilisi and Tskhenvala. Then why does the same Saakashvili discuss diplomacy and democracy with the “city” installation 12 hours before these talks? I think it's a waste of time that there's no reason to talk about what's called democracy. And the last. Dear colleagues, let's think about the following. That's where my colleague is right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u146	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u147	It's a state of poverty. 2003 is Georgia’s military budget of $30 million, 2003. 2008 - $1 billion. That's exactly what they're saying. They've been preparing for this aggression. They've been doing everything they can to use weapons and military formations. By the way, 30,000 were weapons, three thousand, four thousand were military formations, now 35,000. So I think we have every reason today to acknowledge this act by aggression. It was Georgia's criminal operation against the people of South Ossetia, and I think we should do it consciously to prevent other actors today from threatening to split Ukraine, again, so let's say, to use this topic to speculate and virtually destroy our independence.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u148	Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u149	Peter Mikolaiovich, what you just said here, Lord, you just didn't say. I feel like it's the stylistics of Soviet troops entering Budapest, then Prague. It seems to me that you represent the interests of Burkina Faso, not Ukraine, forgive me. And my question is very specific. Do you realize what service you are doing to Russia because, apart from Russia, no one has accepted this so - called sovereignty. No one, there are some extremist organizations. So if, God forbid, the Supreme Council voted in favour of your text of all this, do you have any idea what kind of service you're doing to Russia? You provoke Chechnya immediately. You know the moods in Ingushetia, you know the moods in Dagestan. You know the mood in Tatarstan, you're tearing Russia up from Ukraine. Do you realize that or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u150	I wish you wouldn't confuse each other. When we talk about the threats that exactly like President Yushchenk's actions in support of the aggressive policy of Kakaashvili, these are threats to Ukraine. And when we talk about that, besides Russia, no one has admitted -- first of all, I recognize the will of the Ossetian people, who in 1992 and Abkhazia, having held a referendum, declared that they were independent states. And the right to sovereignty and independence is not determined by Russia or Ukraine, and the right of the people of South Ossetia and Abkhazia is their right. And let them know about it, so let's say they do. I believe that your statements, this unnecessary time, testify to the great threat to the world community of nationalism that you are exercising.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u151	Taran "Club of Yulia Timoshenko".
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u152	Dear reporter! Question one. Are you for admitting South Ossetia? Are you the same as admitting North Ossetia, which is in Russia? The second question. You're talking about an existing violation of Georgia's international law. The question is: Do you think that the violation of international law by Russia, which spilled the blood of Chechnya, burned Grozny, put tanks in Prague, spilled blood in Baku, the Baltic Sea, in the same Tbilisi? And why have the Communists never condemned the Kremlin for its military aggression? And the last. You tell the deputy rabbit that we need to look at the historical aspect of the event. That's right, you have to. But when, historically, do you consider violations of international law by Communist Russia, which, under the command of bloody Lenin, bled an independent Ukrainian national republic, and in just two days, the Muraviov gang, the Bolshevik Muraviov, shot 5,000 kyans.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u153	You've got it all mixed up here, so let's say you've moved from one part to the other. First, once again, I want to say that we are discussing with you the specific problem of Georgia's aggression against the people of South Ossetia and Abkhazia. That's what we're talking about today. If there's a problem with Chechnya, let's talk and express our point of view separately. And today it is a fact and the world has acknowledged that it is aggression. They killed people and the aggressors must be condemned. Secondly, if the North Ossetia you're talking about is the right of the people of North Ossetia. If they hold a referendum, they admit it, it's their right. I can't stop them. I can't stop them. I can't stop them. And about what happened to the Ukrainian People's Republic. Yes, representatives of the so-called Ukrainian People's Republic first two and a half, two and a half thousand arsenals cut off at the Arsenal here, destroyed, slabmed here. It was then that you fought for independence against your own people, who threw you out of Kiev, meant what happened in the 17th year. That's what we have to be responsible for. And answer for throwing the boys away.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u154	Comrade Sas, colleague of Taran’s, would you not deny whether you would like to speak in person? Is he asking a lot? May I? Put the sasu on, well, tell me who you want to tell.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u155	I ask you to pass the word to the school, he asked even more.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u156	Andrew School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u157	Thank you, thank you, colleague! I would like to ask the speaker one question. You know, South Ossetia was acknowledged by Hamaz. Has the Communist Party established diplomatic relations with Hamaz? And what are they developing right now, is there some kind of revolutionization of these processes going on? I think it's important. And I'd like to clarify my attitude towards Kurdistan. The company will ask the Supreme Council to acknowledge the independence of Kurdistan, will it not? Because there's also your brothers -- the Communists, they're fighting for the independence of Kurdistan. How do you feel about this, your personal position? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u158	I want to urge all of us once again to understand that there are various facts in our history, so to speak, about what is happening today to justify crimes, but crimes are modern. And that makes it possible for those who try to justify modern criminals to continue to be unpunished. I don't support your position on protecting criminals. And I think that Yushchenko today is a criminal who needs to be held responsible for our children and grandchildren living in peace, in peace, in a free and independent state. And what you're suggesting today is that we're back under somebody else's cable so that we're back on the scene of crimes that contribute to the bloodshed and the spilling of much more. I mean, let's say those events that you're talking about very often here. Once again, I urge you to understand that all 17 years of independence in Ukraine testify to only one thing -- the threat to Ukraine -- is nationalists. And we need to get rid of them as soon as possible and really give the people of Ukraine the freedom to choose their own course of development, not as you suggest today.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u159	Thank you, Peter Mikolaiovich, please sit down. The following bill, the honourable national MPs, No. 3076, introduced by the Ukrainian national deputy Kirilenko Viácheslav Anatoliyovich. Please, Viacheslav Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u160	Viacheslav Kirilenko “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. Dear colleagues, before starting my report on the decision I have proposed, I would point out three points, including by responding to some of the mildly ill statements of the previous speaker. First, the President of Ukraine, Viktor Yushchenko, is elected primarily by the majority of the votes of the Ukrainian people and is legitimately elected President of Ukraine. Now, for those who don't know the Constitution and other than the swearing words that they haven't learned yet, I say that according to the Constitution, which the truth they hate, because this is the Ukrainian Constitution, President of Ukraine, whosoever it is, it is the general leadership of the foreign political state. And that's why all his actions, according to the Russian-Georgian conflict, all his claims and peacekeeping efforts are absolutely constitutional and legitimate. It's just that the Ukrainian people will never elect a Communist president, it's true, and you're not comfortable living from it, but you're going to have to report to the Kremlin. And the third point. Unfortunately for us, the BUT and the regionals have again introduced a bill on changes to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. So it's a question of the same thing again. In the same project, a return is made to the one who appoints a foreign minister and a defence minister. According to the President or the coalition itself, there is a 25fold burning desire for some shortsighted politicians to take these powers to the head of the Ukrainian state. I repeat, whoever he is and whatever political power he represents, but they do not yet know what this can end and, I hope, we will convince them that this position is wrong and that we must leave a valid and coalition-backed Act on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, voted by Parliament, signed by the President literally two months ago. This is the trailer before the show. Now for the substance of the draft decision. Historical experience and present - day geopolitical realities leave no doubt if now the societies of democratic countries do not convince Russia to return to peaceful coexistence with its neighbours and respect for international law, we can soon become not only witnesses but also the object of the next aggression. Having signed a peace settlement plan under the pressure of the world community, Russia immediately disrupted its implementation for the entire Ukrainian community, including Ukraine. Contrary to this plan, Russian troops are still in Georgian territory and that is a fact. For this reason, official Moscow cannot provide any official explanation and cannot explain what Russian forces are doing in the territory of sovereign, independent Georgia. Moreover, Moscow took an unprecedented step, recognizing Abkhazia and South Ossetia as independent states. Having rejected the record, such a step was a clear violation of the UN Charter and the final act of the Helsinki Security and Cooperation Council in Europe in 1975, which even your USSR signed at that time. This is a direct demonstration of contempt for international law and a challenge to the whole world. It is known that such steps by Moscow have been condemned by the world community, which has unanimously defended Georgia's territorial integrity, which is respected by the world as the territorial integrity of any other state. The Ukrainian Parliament, in the opinion of "Our Ukraine – the People's Self-Defense", must demonstrate its commitment to international law, support the active efforts of the President and Minister of Foreign Affairs to restore peace in the Caucasus, and remove all questions about the adjustment of most of the Ukrainian Supreme Council's parliamentary corps. Now here's the next one. The proposed draft application is entirely reasonable. I'm less restrained in my grades than the formulations that I've proposed to Parliament for a joint vote. It's a restrained formulation, and I did it by getting the support of my colleagues, even though they did make some projects that I think are more accurate. Less comfortable for some, but more accurate. But in agreement with our coalition partners, we're proposing with BUIT -- as long as we're a coalition and if we're a coalition -- to vote on the draft statement that we're proposing, because it's completely restrained in its formulations. True, it is hard to estimate violations of international law on the side of the Russian Federation, unfortunately, what a violation has occurred. So that I don't talk about the substance and content of the bill, I'm just going to read it for the MPs and the voters. It's short. And you will see for yourself that open - minded people have no reason not to support him. Statement by the Supreme Council on the Russian-Georgian conflict. “The Supreme Council of Ukraine is deeply concerned about the Russian-Georgian armed conflict and its consequences for Europe and the world. The Supreme Council condemns the use of weapons by any party and further escalation of opposition. We are deeply saddened by the loss of lives, as well as other serious losses that have occurred in various areas of Georgia as a result of fighting. The Russian Federation's military statement against Georgia, as well as the subsequent recognition by Russia of the independence of Abkhazia and South Ossetia, is an absolute violation of key norms of international law and a challenge to the entire civilized world. We condemn such actions, and we support the independence and territorial integrity of Georgia. The Supreme Council supports the peace efforts of the President of Ukraine, as well as the efforts of the member states of the European Union and NATO, which have contributed to the cessation of hostilities between Russia and Georgia. At the same time, it is clear that Russian troops have failed a peacekeeping mission because they have engaged in hostilities as a side of conflict, including far beyond Abkhazia and South Ossetia. A prerequisite for strong peace and stability in the Caucasus should be the withdrawal of Russian troops from all parts of Georgia and the replacement of the Russian contingent in Abkhazia and South Ossetia to the peacekeeping force of a credible international organization such as the UN, the OSCE, the European Union or NATO. In particular, the Supreme Council expresses its concern about the use of the Russian Black Sea fleet base in Sevastopol to perform tasks that are incompatible with the status of the Black Sea fleet in Ukraine. The Supreme Council calls for European and world co-operation to make an active effort to preserve peace and stability in Europe and to ensure the unconditional observance of international law and respect for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of each state.” End of text of the proposed statement. Colleagues, when approached impartially, there are no deterrents in the text of this statement that would not allow the text to be voted on. Especially for the factions of the democratic coalition. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u161	Dear colleagues, let's sign up for a question. Karpuk, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense."
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u162	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine". Dear Viacheslav Anatoliyovich, on the next day of Russian aggression on August 9, you made a clear statement showing a truly stately approach to the problem. Unfortunately, the situation in Parliament is made up of analysis of all the bills that are only a block of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" that really stands in state positions, and it is a guarantee of the national integrity and sovereignty of our country, because we are clearly aware that by defending the position of one party, namely, Russia in this conflict, we are designing all of these relations between Ukraine and Russia. And those who did not vote did not support the definition of Ukrainian famine as genocide in their statements today call the situation that was genocide against the Ossetian people. This is exactly the vivid example of that dual moral policy. And I want to remind you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u163	Thank you, Mr. Volodymyr, for your question. In fact, you're right that on August 9, already "Our Ukraine" responded to the conflict in the Caucasus, which became a Russian-Georgian armed conflict and we made a clear statement to defend Georgia's territorial integrity. Moreover, this position was followed by all European societies, all civilized countries. It is because the principle of territorial integrity is important for each country and we are more concerned that it will never be violated in relation to our country. This is the main cause of such concern on the part of “Our Ukraine” about the situation that arose in the Caucasus. So we are convinced that today we must make a decision based on the national interests of Ukraine. And in no case should we even seriously discuss the position of at least two influential politicians in Ukraine who have allowed themselves to recognize the independence of Abkhazia and South Ossetia, as if proposing that an avalanche start a parade.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u164	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u165	so that the parades of such unrecognizable nations, which are called all over the world, may begin avalanche. This threatens all world order and democracy. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ask, I'll say, I'll say, ask.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u166	He's a boy.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u167	Viacheslav Anatoliyovich, my question is how Russia’s aggression in Georgia may be reflected in Ukraine. It is well - known that long ago Russian security forces have been funding anti - Ukrainian organizations directly and secretly in Crimea. A few days ago, one of the leaders of Crimean Communists openly claimed that in the protection of autonomy, Communists were ready to seek protection from Russia. And my question is, do you not think that today the anti-Ukrainian, anti-State Communist Party can act as a tool in the hands of the Kremlin to repeat the scenario that Russia had conducted in South Ossetia in Ukraine? That's my first question. And the next question is, as far as I know, to reconcile this statement that you read, you were summoned by the coalition board as the coalition coordinator. Did Fatherland's representatives come to the coalition board, or did they talk about our joint statement and our common position on the situation in Georgia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u168	Thank you, Mr. Andrey, for asking. Indeed, the coalition’s board of directors of the agreed position on the Georgian issue has, unfortunately, not taken place. "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" came to a full coalition meeting, our partners with the BUT were missing for some unknown reason. At the same time, we believe that this is not even a reason for us to be now, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" and BUTT have not given a joint position and a joint vote on the statement on the Russian-Georgian conflict. And if someone has decided to create a new coalition, such as the BUTT and the Party of Regions, which is still happening in Parliament, let's be honest about it, we'll be coming out of these realities. And I'll tell you about Sevastopol. With regard to Sevastopol, I'll tell you that what's happening massively to the acquisition of dual citizenship in Crimea and Sevastopol in particular is a threat to national security. And this could be used as a reason to escalate any conflict if someone in some capital decides to start this conflict.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u169	Ruslan Knazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u170	I ask you to pass the word to Jushchenk Petr Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u171	Thank you. Mr. Viacheslav, I have a question of this kind for you. Today, we are considering this issue from the standpoint of secular laws and regulations. As you think, for example, we will join this spiritual realm, let's say the Holy Scriptures say that there may be a secular being organized with three imperatives: “Glory in the highest God on earth, peace and in the men of goodwill.” It wasn't in the conflict zone. There comes a peacekeeping group that comes to the border of Azerbaijan and Georgia at the risk of life and conducts a mission and says: “Let us seek peace and let us seek favor and think for God’s assessment. And it's called peacemaking. And I'm going to mention another law, the law of the Holy Scriptures.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u172	Thank you, Peter Andryovich. Of course, we need to look for ways to reach understanding. We must now, when this conflict is a little bit quiet, find all the possibilities for the peaceful population that has been affected by military action from all sides to heal their wounds. And for that, Ukraine must take an active position. From the very beginning in this conflict, Ukraine has acted as a peacemaker, a peacemaker who is taking real steps. We've managed a huge amount of humanitarian aid. In our statements and comments, we express our sympathy to all except those who have been hurt and killed, we miss those who have died, regardless of which side of the conflict they have taken part in, because human life is self-worth, and it must be preserved. But we make sure that such events never happen again in the territory of any country, above all in the territory of our country. Therefore, the Supreme Council must support Georgia’s territorial integrity.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u173	Andrew Schlell.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u174	Thank you. I ask you to give the floor to Mr. Kirilenko John.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u175	Kirilenko Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u176	Dear colleague Viacheslav Anatoliyovich! I don't have any questions for you. I only have one wish. We've never been in contact with you in these months. Today, from the first day of work, letters were sent. We are with you in two steps from each other. By letter you invited us to a coalition meeting that I received 15 minutes after you had already held a coalition council in one-sided order. Váchaslav Anatoliovich, this is not worthy. We think it's wrong. That's the first one. [[Applause]] And the second. Viachaslave Anatoliyovich, quoted today at BUT so much so that on ICT yesterday, a journalist on behalf of millions of viewers asked the question “How much longer will you beat them?” We continue to endure despite the wild accusations of our leader, the prime minister of treason, who are nowhere to be proved. We continue to endure. Viachelav Anatoliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u177	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u178	We said clearly at a press conference yesterday, just like you did, so did we. We're with you, but. We don't have a conflict here. Colleagues, were you not thrilled that the leader of the democratic coalition was accused of the most serious crime? You don't have the courage to apologize for whoever did this. Dear Viacheslav Anatoliyovich, I would ask you, we have many points of view on this conflict, in which Ukraine, unfortunately, is involved. Yes, we are for peace on our earth. Yes, we are in favor of supporting the efforts of OBJECT. We're for Georgia's territorial integrity. We're here to work together. But with the language you're speaking right now, the ultimatums, and all the time I've been saying, we can't work like this, sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u179	Dear colleagues, and above all, the honourable voters who voted for the democratic coalition, what the Party of the Regions is now and all day ovating, not us, their coalition partners, is talking about my rights, not theirs. Let's keep clapping.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u180	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u181	Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u182	Dear colleagues, the following Bill No. 3076-1, introduced by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Lukas Olena Leonidivna. Olena Leonidovno, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u183	Dear colleagues! Dear voters! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour to announce a statement about the events in South Ossetia and Abkhazia, which was supported yesterday by the militia of the Party of the Regions and is the official position of the faction of the Party of the Regions. Also, please support this application by voting. Statement by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on events in South Ossetia and Abkhazia “The Supreme Council of Ukraine expresses concern about the situation in South Ossetia and Abkhazia as a result of the armed confrontation between Georgian military units and the peacekeeping contingent of the Russian Federation. The Ukrainian Parliament, on behalf of the entire Ukrainian people, expresses its sincere sympathy for the families and the close loss of life in this conflict. Peoples who find themselves in a conflict zone and are involved in it are friendly to Ukraine. Undoubtedly, the long-standing dispute between Georgia and South Ossetia must be resolved solely by peaceful negotiations, excluding any attempt to achieve the goal of counter-terrorism by means of weapons. The war in South Ossetia and Abkhazia, which resulted in numerous casualties largely among the civilian population, confirmed the persistent threats posed by the so - called frozen conflicts. The process of irregularity in these regions not lasts for the first ten years and continues to threaten peace and stability not only in conflict zones but also far beyond. Ukraine, in spite of the challenges that existed during the 17 years of independence, because of the balance of domestic and foreign policy, has maintained peace in its territory, leaving a neutral status that has excluded the possibility of being involved in any armed conflict. Against this background, there is concern about the actions of individual officials and politicians in Ukraine who have supported only one side of the armed conflict. The political backing of Georgia's leadership by President Viktor Yushchenk of Ukraine, the U.S.S.C. stated on the issue of conflict in South Ossetia and Abkhazia in fact caused a deterioration of relations with the Russian Federation. Particular attention should be paid to the inadmissibility of the unilateral and unfriendly actions of the Ukrainian authorities in relation to the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation, which apparently conflict with bilateral agreements between our countries on the basis of the territory of the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation. For this reason, the adoption of the Law on the Principles of Internal and External Politics, which would determine the appropriate corridor in which power on behalf of Ukraine is entitled, is urgently needed. Events in South Ossetia and Abkhazia require representatives of all responsible political forces in Ukraine to launch political consultations on the adoption of changes to the Constitution in order to define Ukraine's non-block status and to consult with the aim of depriving the leaders of the State of the right to make decisions and act against the will of the Ukrainian people. However, the actual involvement of Ukraine's senior management in the conflict requires an immediate solution to the question of the establishment of a national referendum on Ukraine's accession to NATO. Ukraine's involvement in armed opposition in such cases should be made impossible by effective parliamentary control over the provision of weapons at hot spots, and Ukraine's allegations of involvement in the supply of arms to Georgia should be investigated by the Parliamentary Provisional Special Commission. The same applies to information about the involvement of Ukrainian citizens in this armed conflict. The possibility of countering the emergence of similar conflicts and Ukraine's ability to respond to such challenges raises the question of holding parliamentary hearings on the viability of the Ukrainian army in order to determine the actual state of the armed forces and determine the direction of development of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. We call on the World Society to investigate the crime of mass destruction of civilians during the conflict in South Ossetia. We call on the parties to the armed conflict to its peaceful settlement, to objectively publicize the events by means of the media, and to participate in international organizations with a view to developing proposals to determine the future status of unrecognized state entities by means of the will of the people living in those territories, in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations, the 1970 Declaration on Principles of International Law and the 1975 Helsinki Final Act.” Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u184	Dear colleagues, we sign up for the question. Helen Leonidina, it's up to you, five or 10 minutes, as comfortable as you can be.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u185	As you wish, Mr. Head.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u186	Stallo.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u187	John Stojko, People's Movement, faction "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense". The statement you made is truly surprising. Because today we are talking about the security of Ukraine. And you're talking about the friendly relationship of that state where there's practically neo-fascist Putin regime. Sadly, Medvedev was said to have failed to become a full - time president. Russia got involved in the war. It's not in Abkhazia, it's in Ossetia, it's in Georgia. And today there is occupied territory, now annexed, as it were, to parts of the great Georgian state. And I have a question. Please tell me what you're talking about, about peace, about the war in Georgia, about how Ukraine should do. Why don't you tell us today what your leader has said about the recognition of these republics? And he did what is really done by those who are practically outside the law?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u188	Thank you for asking, and here's what I want to explain. It is also impossible to forget the horror of the peaceful population that was killed by the military during the night. You just have to make one point for yourself, you know, I think a little bit hasty, but you called yourself a democratic coalition. What is important to you? The right to life, the right to self - determination, or the right to territorial integrity of nations living together and killing one another? I just want to remind you of one thing. You very often call yourself Democrats and very often refer to international practices and norms. Thus, I would like to read out the Declaration on Principles of International Law: “Nothing should be interpreted as authorizing or encouraging any action that would lead to the dismemberment or partial or total violation of the territorial integrity or political unity of sovereign and independent States that have respected the principle of equality and self-determination of peoples. That's how it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u189	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u190	It is thus concluded that the principle of territorial integrity is not applicable to a State that does not ensure the equal rights of its peoples and does not allow for the free self-determination of such peoples. Here's the rule of international law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u191	Helen Leonidivna, this is you who read the final Helsinki Act or the UN Statute.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u192	Nope. This is the Declaration on Principles of International Law.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u193	So here's a question. All right, let them ask the following questions. I'll comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u194	Ask questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u195	Stoyan, Alexander Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u196	Your Honor, [[Dry, sit down, please, because I can't talk]] Dear reporter, the events of Georgia’s attack on the Ossetian people took place a week after we had a natural disaster in the western regions. And we saw how the President of Ukraine, not agreeing with Parliament or with the government, committed to driving in a unilateral manner tons of food, medicine, and much more to Georgia while the Ukrainian people were suffering, did not receive the necessary help. Is it not the President’s responsibility to the Ukrainian people for such actions? And the second. Please tell me, do you not recognize what Georgia has done, and especially Saakashvili, this is genocide in relation to the Ossetian people? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u197	Thank you for asking. I am very happy and happy today that the position of the MFZ and the President is not a position of the Ukrainian state. It's not supported by the Ukrainian people and the Ukrainian Parliament, and you'll see it in today's vote. So the main thing for me is awareness. And as for our President, that's a really interesting question. According to article 106 of the Constitution, he represents the State in international relations and directs the foreign political activities of the State. But it's not indulgence to illegal acts. By taking an oath to the Ukrainian people, he committed himself to upholding the laws of Ukraine. The Ukrainian Act on the Fundamentals of National Security, a large treaty with Russia and other acts stipulates that in friendly relations with a strategic partner of the Russian Federation. Today, our President, I think, has exceeded his mandate, committed a violation of Ukrainian legislation and committed an illegal act. Besides, let's just think about one thing: how long have we been trying to hold a referendum on NATO? Unfortunately, the Ukrainian Constitution requires that it be appointed by the President. For how many years you can collect signatures and beg them to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u198	Mikhailo Kosov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u199	Mikhailo Kosov, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear Olenna Leonidivna, I've signed up to all the previous speakers, but I'm so happy to ask you a question. So here I have the text, not of a Ukrainian nationalist, but of an outstanding Russian publicist named Julia Latina. On the Forpost website, she says, "I can't call the regime in South Ossetia even Separatist. Who, in fact, are the separatists: the head of the local KGB, Anatoly Baranov, formerly head of the FSB Mordova, the head of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, Mikhail Monzaev, the Office of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of North Ossetia, the Minister of Defence, Vasily Lunav, was the military commissioner of Permi, and the Secretary of the Security Council, Anatoly Barankevi, former Deputy Commissioner of the Stavropol Region? Who's the Ossetian separatist in that?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u200	Thank you for asking. It's really great that you could get the Internet, use it, print some sites for yourself. I'm happy for you. And I want to remind you of George Bush's recent position. This respectable person, whose child now almost runs a democratic coalition, once said during his visit to Kiev in 1991: “The United States will maintain freedom in Ukraine, but not Ukraine’s independence from the Soviet Union.” The separatist trends that existed in Ukraine were then described by George Bush Senior as "suicide nationalism". Only three weeks later, Ukraine declared its independence. So you might want to listen to your citizens, to your heart, to those mothers who lost their children, and to think that today you are more likely to benefit from printing from the Internet or from the right of peoples to self - determination.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u201	Lilia Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u202	Ms. Lukas, after her return to her countries, the presidents of Poland, Latvia, Estonia, who came to Georgia to support the territorial integrity of the country, and therefore their own, and hence the inviolability of borders after World War II, did not receive the Sabbath in their parliaments, which we see today, because in the parliaments of Poland, Estonia or Latvia, the sons and daughters of their people who defend national interests. We do. I think the voters today are impressed by the 'fifth column', and it is unfortunate. Nevertheless, a small test is not capable of using the Internet. A sociological survey confirmed that Russians, including three friendly countries, recognize Germany and the Ukrainians the Russian Federation. What can we do to improve our relationship with the Russian Federation? It's a test for you. First: (a) 450 deputies should be a “fifth column”, such as how today most of the situation that is depicted or (b) give up independence. Tell me without hiding.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u203	I'll continue with your opinion. It's really a test of independence and really a test of democracy. Even a tyrant like Saakashvili held a NATO referendum in his country. Even during a regime similar to the military, let's not be democratic, but the referendum was held and the mandate of the people was given. We can't have a son or a daughter at all, as you say. But we're here, excuse me, and you've got your undergarments and your seatbelts.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u204	Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u205	Thank you. Elena Leonidina, I have a question. First of all, I'd like to ask respectable colleagues who are losing their heads today because the coalition is on the move. We need to draw a conclusion, and it's like extreme slumbering nationalism as a state policy, that's the way to a breakthrough, that's the way to nowhere. “Georgia for Georgians” as well as similar slogans in Ukraine will always cause resistance and struggle. And very often armed, and very often bloody, and always conquering the nation that seeks its national self - determination, and better without war. You forgot 92nd, 94th, you forgot Hamsahurdy, Jordan, what was it? I want to ask you about something else, please tell me, is that how the Russian peacekeepers did their job or not? Because one of them was eager to tell us that Russian peacekeepers needed to be replaced. If Georgian peacekeepers started shooting at Russian peacekeepers, shot down their Zalp system in human and tank hangars, did Russia do it or not? And how does this meet international standards when they have helped to combat aggression?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u206	Thank you for asking. You know, we can talk a lot about how the West destroyed Yugoslavia, Serbia, when the United States invaded Iraq, when Hussein was killed on suspicion of arson in several Taliban villages, and Saakashvili, who ordered civilians killed at night from the City facility when Washington sold Kosovo. And where were you, those who now speak of Georgia's territorial integrity in the 91st year when Gamsahurdy killed Ossetian under the motto “Georgia for the Georgians”? We can talk about a lot, and we see that we do not have a common language. I am the only one who would like to tell you that a large number of legal acts have established the opportunity and right of peoples to self-determination. Ossetia, Abkhazia, South Ossetia have such rights. There have been referendums and plebiscites to support such rights. To this day, by setting a precedent in Kosovo, we cannot ignore these rights. And once again, we have to answer the question: what's more interesting is to alleviate the President, who has between 3 and 5 per cent of the ratings and who.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u207	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u208	I want to tell you, when you were the opposition, I was still a student that long ago, and I've always heard from you: “With President Kuchma, the rating is 10 per cent, God, it represents 10 per cent of the population of Ukraine, this is total mistrust.” Today, you have three to five. Believe me, you don't express the will of the people. [[Applause]] And you have no moral right to condemn the actions of Russian peacekeepers.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-02-m0.u209	Thank you, Elena Leonidina, please sit down. Dear colleagues, the morning plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed until 16. 00. We have six more rulings. Frg_01577*002*043&lt;14:17: 18&gt; Frg_01577*002*044&lt;14:19: 47&gt;
