ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u1	Invite the national deputies to the session room. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[15:59:53]] They registered in the 416 National Deputies Sessional Hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues! We were about to go to the 2009 draft of the State Budget Act. I had a conversation with the committee, with the committee head. The final argument to the logical conclusion and proposals is now being completed. They will be multiplied and in about a minute 40 will be distributed to the national deputies. In this regard, I ask that we agree to consider draft laws that are set out in the schedule of meetings. A draft Ordinance on Agreeing the Location of Objects is being announced for consideration. The rapporteur is a member of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, Paul Gnatovich Sulkovski. Registration number 3257. Dear colleagues, I'm going to put a motion to the vote for us to consider these bills on short notice. No objections? I just said it for the budget! Please, Alexander Sergiyovich. Microphone. Paul Gnatovich, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u2	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! We are all gathered in this room to consider the budget of the Government. You're delaying our consideration of this document every day. And I don't know how much time is left in Parliament today, if we don't start to consider it now, so that it can be discussed and decided on. Or you are deliberately delaying the adoption of this document in order to accept on the night of New Year what or must be answered, what is ultimately happening under the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u3	Can I answer that? Ladies and gentlemen, I have just had a conversation with the head of the budget committee. The Budget Committee has made a decision: It is now necessary to reproduce and deposit the relevant documents in the session room. There are over 20 pages of conclusions and recommendations. How can we now begin consideration when there are no suitable documents? Once again, I have no deceitful intention. Like you, I want to accept the budget. Pavlov Gnatovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u4	Dear colleagues, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations at its meeting on 30 September this year, reviewed the materials submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in accordance with the requirements of articles 150, 151 of the Land Code of Ukraine, which agree on the location of the site of the particularly valuable land of manufacturing enterprises from the extraction of the Fresor peat company with limited liability “Torfland Ukraine” in the area of the Torfov site “Morčna-1” within the territory of the Human Rural Council and in the area of the Torfovna-2 area within the territory of the Svarzitzevice Rural Council of the Dubrovnik Region of the Plain region. The materials comply fully with the requirements of land legislation, which comply with the requirements of article 151 of the Ukrainian Land Code with the relevant executive authorities and local self-government bodies, with land-useers, land-use authorities, environmental and health-epidemiological authorities, city-building and architecture and protection of cultural heritage. The materials provided have undergone state - owned expertise and are valued positively. In view of the foregoing, the committee invites the Supreme Council of Ukraine to take the stated decision on the basis and generally as a determination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u5	Dear colleagues, the report is in writing. The question is to our colleague? Yes. Please sign in. How much? Is it gonna be okay for five minutes to ask? Please sign up for the question. The national deputy of Haydayav.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u6	Please give the floor to Petra Nikolaevich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u7	Peter Simonenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u8	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Today, we are witnessing another time here for individual commercial structures alone the issue of decommissioning land for the development of the same peat. Well, first of all, why isn't he developing a state-owned enterprise? Why does the state not take the production of such valuable material in order to control, as it were, the extent to which these crops are extracted and how they are developed, how income is controlled today, how taxes are paid, and so forth. What, we don't know that in the face of a crisis, when we give to commercial businesses, who today are taking full responsibility for the state and not for the development, this is going to lead to another robbery by the state? And it's about the home land, it's about the same pea. Therefore, I believe that decisions should be made and the land should be taken only by state-owned enterprises, which will be fully controlled by the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u9	Thank you. I fully support you, Peter Mikolaiovich, only on one side, but I want to say that because I am from the Plains, and I was born there, in these countries, and I want to give you an example. This is agriculture, this is one farm that I led, 15,000 hectares, which is located on these 15,000 hectares of total, for example, four populaces. Riley, out of 15,000, only 500 acres. Eight thousand acres of deep mud, where only wild goats walk and nothing else. And these are the very lands where the peacock is deep indeed refers to valuable lands. Why not? (U in m in s a l i). So if you'd like, Peter Mikolaiovich, to say that I'm protecting some clans there, by no means. God forbid. Because I don't have a business, I don't protect it. And here, Peter Mikolaiovich, what you just picked up if these people heard where we're coming from.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u10	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u11	Peter Mikolaiovich, to finish this speech so that these people will hear it, yes, if you have 10-20 Communist Party supporters to this day, there will be none after today's question. I guarantee it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u12	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions. I'd like to ask, your honor, essentially the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u13	Thank you. Paul Gnatovich, Jaroslav Suhi, Party of Regions, Zaporozhye So that I don't have any suspicion of lobbying any of the structures' interests, first of all, I'm not going to speak in the discussion, I'm going to say. We need to support any bill that makes it possible to create new jobs and stop talking about bad and good oligarchs. Please tell me what the social impact will be, according to your calculations, in particular, what will be the impact on improving social and labour relations in such an extremely difficult and strained region as the region that today is about in our bill? What will this give people? One. What will that give the territory? Two. What will this give the infrastructure to hospitals, schools, and roads?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u14	Thank you. Well, first of all, Mr. Jaroslav, I want one, thank you for not being in those wet places, but you do. Even you were. So what I'm saying is, there's going to be at least 150 or 200 jobs in the first three months. They're ready, they've got engineering, they've got excavators, and so on. They practically can't do this for two years. She's been walking around here before Parliament. I don't know why it didn't go through. It's different. There are two rural councils here. First in history, they have some tax payer, some cash in the local budget coming in. And here's what I'm going to say today, that's how you're not going to stick anyone in there. Let this Communist faction leader try to go, let him try to go and take someone else to that swamp, he'll never take anyone in his life. Local people showed up there to block it. But the other way around is to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u15	A silent faction of the “Julia Timoshenko Block”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u16	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear reporter, Paul Gnatovich. You're talking about those degraded lands that are mostly in Ukrainian policy. Torfi, you know very well that this is a huge resource of ours. And we need to be very careful about that. Today, you just have to run to create some jobs, and they're going to blow it up really fast. They're going to do it very quickly, they're going to do it. And the locals will have nothing to do with it. How do you think that if we apply the standard of rent, is it necessary for those who inhabit these Polish lands, or is it appropriate to make this decision? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u17	I fully support you, Paul Mikhailovich. A hundred percent. But today, listen, only in these two rural councils that I'm about to report on, this decision of the two village councils is made up of three hundred, especially these wet, so-called, valuable peat lands. A total of 23 acres [23 ha] and 56 acres [56 ha] ask for these village councils in the first place. You got it. And so I believe that for years and a whale has not fallen on these peat deep deposits. And when this structure is there, God gives it, it works, you can imagine, people live without gas, they destroy it to heat themselves, the forest is precious. That is why there will be support for the heat of humans, and for organic fertilizers there will be support.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u18	Thank you, Paul Gnatovich, time is up. Please sit down. Dear colleagues, yes, a replica. People's language, please, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko. And I'd like the national deputies to sign up for a discussion. 15 minutes will be enough, dear colleagues? Please sign up.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u19	Simonenko, the Communist faction. I'd like the honourable reporter to understand one thing: By the year 91, his native Equinox had developed. Villages developed, libraries were built, schools, palaces of culture were developed, and material bases were developed in the countryside. Melioration was being introduced, and the villages were rich. Today, there is a decline in melioration. People don't support them. As in your home village, you may find yourself walking barefoot in the countryside from April to autumn, while some, alone, walk in shoes. And the rest, let's say, is poor in the country. So today you must be responsible for what you have done. Because you want people in the village today to have nothing but batteries, including a reporter who is lobbying for his own interests today, not state interests. So the faction of the Company, by asking this question, is also protecting those who have been turned into slaves and batraks in that village that the reporter is talking about today. And the faction of Communists basically insists that the village today have state support. It's going to be a state branch in the country, and then the village will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u20	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like to see the name of the people's deputies on the board. Please log in. Yes, on the board is the name of the national deputies who signed up. Sergey Rybuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u21	Thank you. Sergey Ribuk, faction of the Party of the Regions, Zitomirščina. Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, all those who have asked the questions, and the reporter there, are right on their own. But when we look at this question, we should not have been suspicious or out of what was before, maybe it was much better, and actually it was. But from the situation today, the Agrarian Policy Committee, land relations unanimously supported this bill, so, in fact, Polissa, North, the West are sitting without a job at all. That's the first one. The other one. Of course, it would have been better if we had already had a law on land conservation, about land tenure; if the system of irrigation, of land reclamation, were to work. It would be much better and better with this bill. But realize that on Polissa right now, the same primitive trenches on the peat fields that used to be mined by miners on Donbassa are looking for a piece of coal. So now the villagers there simply, without wanting it, are destroying those valuable peatlands. So if the company were better off, it would be state, and if it wasn't, it would get it right. And we have someone to control, this is the Ministry of Ecology, this is the Committee of Forestry, the Ministry of Agriculture, we have a lot of controllers, so that they can enforce the laws that are and are properly governed by today's state structures, then it doesn't matter if it's a state structure. And why no state-owned throfo business works is a topic of a separate conversation and it's a topic for an active government, and before they implement legislation. I mean, I know that under proper control today, it doesn't really matter if private funds are invested, it's going to have a positive effect: and there's going to be recycling, and there's going to be the land of the state reserve, and then there's going to be restocking, and then there's going to be a clear, consistent action, but there's going to be something to start with. And our colleague, Sulkovsky, 15 years old or 17 years old, worked as the head of a club, and he's not guilty of not being there, today, that's the situation, but he's asking the right question. Therefore, without prejudice and politicization, I ask you, my dear fellows, to support, let work begin, though uncertain, on the ground, on the ground, on the terms of the deep Paulus of Equinox. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u22	Vladimir Matviev, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u23	Well, I have to say the following: however much the saliva is there, the Communists will support this bill, because it does create jobs. But that's not the answer. The State has long been involved in this region in order not only to extract peat but also to extract sappella there is the most valuable fertilizer, organic fertilizer that is needed today not only in southern Ukraine, but in which, frankly, the whole world needs it. There are millions of tons of sapopela to be mined, but a government program is needed. No private enterprise that will be established there, it will not, we will say, solve this problem. If, as the author of the draft, the initiative group that would prepare such a draft law were to support the draft law. He knows the region better than anyone else, so that he can prepare not only for these two settlements, but to prepare a programme, a good programme for the development of the entire region. That's the first one. And the second. I do not agree here with the previous speaker that it is not my fault that the colleges have collapsed. I have to tell you, where colleges have managed to keep the leaders of these farms above all, there are people living a lot richer than in places where all are isolated, where without an organization people are left without an organization, they're doing at least some kind of farming. In addition, the collegiates work well in the western areas, both in the central and southern parts of Ukraine. So it's someone who's saying that it's not his fault that the colleges broke down, that he's deeply wrong here. That system of management, which was established by the communists in the country, is the best management system and this has confirmed all previous experience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u24	Mikola Shershun, Lithuanian Block faction. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u25	Thank you. Mikola Shershun, Lithuanian Block faction. Dear colleagues, I am also a proponent of the state's ability to develop our raw materials base. But it's not happening today, and we're going to talk about it openly. State enterprises that have developed the same peat today are not working at all. People without a job. There's no pay. And where the pears lie, fires are raging today. So, as far as I'm concerned, dear colleagues, there's no matter who's going to work, who's going to create jobs, who's going to pay people's wages to make it happen anyway. Therefore, I would like to ask my honourable colleagues to come to this correctly and to support this decision, to vote in favour, I ask everyone very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u26	People's MP Denkovich, faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u27	Please pass the word to Yuri Prokopchuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u28	Yuri Prokopchuk microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u29	Yuri Prokopchuk, Timoshenko Yulia Block, Ravensk district. Dear colleagues, you know, there's probably no equal in the lobby today. Some lobby beer, others lobby anything else, have now come to the point that they have first destroyed the most powerful enterprise in Ukraine, state-owned, by the way, “Rinetorf”, and now simply not by local self-government authorities as it is according to current legislation and according to the law, as they say it should be, and already in the Supreme Council lobbying their private interests. You can't let that happen in any way! There's a lot of people working today, including businesses that need to be given proper permits and they're going to be filling the jobs, they're going to be trying, but they're just-just being delayed by our bureaucracy for a very long time. And this law, which today, more specifically, is not to be supported in any way, because it is, once again, totally lobbyist and absolutely nothing good will it lead to. It's taking land out of stock, it's a forest, it's not just a swamp, it's a reserve. Therefore, honourable colleagues, request not to support the decision and to give consideration to local authorities. People in places know better who and how. And it's also urgent to re-establish state-owned peat mining companies, gather up a bunch, because it's once again an alternative type of fuel, it's, in the end, as they say, a full budget, which is much talked about, and really a rural council budget. Please don't support me. And thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u30	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. Paul Sulkowski, please. It's the committee again.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u31	Ladies and gentlemen, you know, it's very common. I've been working in Parliament for seven years. The vice-deputy from the Plainshine came – the first year is working. He was just standing in front of me. I was speaking from Plainness and another MP. And you know, listen. Three deputies from the highlands have just made a statement. They ask for local self - government, one for two village councils. All levels have passed: the district council is the district council. They came to Parliament, the Parliamentary Committee passed. And you know, honourable national MPs, it's just a circus on the wire, forgive me on that word, it's a disgrace to such a national MP to have his country, let nothing be done to make it just like he said it would be, that is, worse for him, no matter what the faction of you is BUT. This political power is destined for the future in Ukraine! And I think you're all about to end up with this political power on a garbage can in Ukraine and you're gonna be a goose! So I call on reasonable national MPs to support this project. And the one who won't back me up, I think there's going to be two political forces going to the front: Communist and BET. You're going to find yourself, really, on the trash soon.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u32	Dear colleagues, please, calm down! That's the thing. I'll give, I'll give, I see. The point is, my dear colleagues, that this decision is to be made exclusively by the Supreme Council, that these are the proposals of local self-government authorities, and it's coming from the area here, to the Supreme Council. We have to make that decision. If we come out of what we need to give jobs. That's why now, the last names were Prokopchuk, Shershun and Kravchenko. Whose? Well, please! Well... Anyone else wants to talk, you'll talk more. Please open the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u33	Honorable Head of the Supreme Council, distinguished colleagues! Well, I understand that some bodies are in the Supreme Council, and some minds have been in the trash for a long time. But I'm not, as they say, going to be like this, a similar statement. However, let Mr. Sulkovsky then give you a name, who is behind it, who is proposing the bill, and who is really lobbying for purely private interests. And I would like to ask the head of the regulatory committee to also point out that there's a lot of MP ethics, because I can also, as they say, use not entirely parliamentary expressions. Thank you for your attention and please do not support this lobbying bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u34	I want to remind our colleagues that this is a document that was prepared, starting with the village council, then a district council sent to the Cabinet of Ministers and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine brought an appropriate submission to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So I'd like to ask the lobbyist bill to be more precise and correct. Mikola Shershun, Mikola Kravchenko, and then Sulkovsky will be the last.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u35	Dear colleagues! Me first. Dear colleagues! The first thing I'm not going to say is, "Damn!" I just want to call everyone to sanity. There's absolutely no politics here. It's language so that we can create jobs so that we can pay people's wages. Those people, if someone went to that village and looked at what conditions they were living in, you wouldn't be saying that today. And what I'm saying is that I'm totally behind this decision as a lobbyist, and I'm just calling you all to your senses. Let's throw away politics here, let's finally tackle the problems of the simple, human. And I ask you to vote in favour of this decree. Because she agreed, starting at the bottom, to reach us. What else do you need? People know about it. The village councils, the district knows, the area knows, well, we don't know. What are you gonna do? He can't know everything. So I ask you to vote in favour, support.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u36	Please, Mikola Kravchenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u37	Cowchenko, the Communist faction. I have to tell our voters about Sulkovsky's anti-communism as follows, as a replica. It goes from being in Ukraine for four years, and he has now fled to the Party of the Regions. Most importantly, I am very sorry that the Party of the Regions has entrusted him today with anti-communist propaganda within this very framework. But let the Party of the Regions deal with it. It's about manufacturing technology. Torfayal development is a serious development. And if Sulkovsky, with his general educational level as president of the bad colossus he's broken, he won't be able to carry out normal geodetic development. Therefore, the communists for such local factories, called pigs, will never vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u38	I'm asking for your attention. Paul Sulkowski and we move on to making a decision. Well, what a lineup, dear fellows.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u39	Your Honor, I want the people of Ukraine to hear. The Communists expelled me from the Communist Party several times. The first is that I did not let the tractors of the church break up as the director of the "Starosilski" council. The second time I was released for the fact that there were no children and no roads in the village, and I got to the first secretary of the CD of the Ukraine of Szczerbick. The second time I was expelled from the party. And I want to tell you, I wasn't in our Ukraine. I'm not with her for four years, I'm only with her for a few months. And I went to the Majority District first, not our Ukraine. And I want to say that both Kravchenko and Prokopchuk from the Plains region, these dog-house managers in Ukraine didn't leave them in the party, and I left them.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u40	Turn off the microphone. Dear colleagues, I ask you to stop the insults of each other, please stop the insults. A proposal for acceptance is put to the vote on the basis and throughout the draft decree on the agreement of the location of the objects, registration number 3257. Please vote. Vote please, Your Honor. [[16:29:23]] For 214 The decision is not taken. By factions, please, the Party of Regions – 169, Block of Timoshenko – 1, Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense – 24, Communists – 0, Block of Lithuania – 20. I'll put the vote to the re-examination committee, please vote, project 3257. [[16:30:00]] For 215 The decision is not taken. The draft document was rejected. My fellow Members, I would like to draw attention to the proposal that the following bills should be considered under a reduced procedure, with the exception of, clearly, the draft budget. Please vote. Please vote. [[16:30:35]] For 214 Decision taken. The 2009 Memorial and Jubilee Regulations, registration numbers 3364, 3364-1, are being announced for consideration. Reporters: Head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, Yavorovsky Volodymyr Aleksandrovich, and National Deputy of Ukraine Viktor Mikolayovich Tikhov. Please, Volodymyr Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u41	Dear colleagues, dear voters, the honorable Ukrainian government! A year goes by, and we usually have to fulfill this obligation to mark either the basic dates that the Ukrainian State and the Ukrainian people must observe in the following year. To form this list, these dates, believe me, it was far from easy. We were guided by several official documents, which are -- this was President Kuchma's decree, and then President Yushchenk's decree, and there were two orders from the Cabinet of Ministers, Janukovich, and before that Marchuk. I mean, these are the documents that regulate and build the corridor where you can go through dates. It was about what it would normally be like to give in the first place and only after 60 years, if it was about a person, a political actor, a cultural actor, let's say a scientist. That was the basic approach. In addition, we usually focused on the social weight of that date, or let's say the delimitation of a fact. I want to say here from this rostrum and that we're focused on the fact that the next year will be financially extremely difficult and that normal society will not understand us if we start piling or fatting around one another or another. Another principle is the basic point of this. We tried, of course, to take into account the representation of the various political segments that are in our Parliamentary Hall. This document is in your hands. I also want to remind you that the committee has spoken three times. I was talking to him.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u42	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u43	The committee called on the faction of the Supreme Council of Ukraine three times to make proposals. Unfortunately, I'm not going to characterize it, but there's very little or no supply of it to the committee. This document is before you, and we have later received the document of Ephraim, but he will report it. And then I'll tell you the opinion of the committee on this, I wouldn't say it's an alternative, but another document.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u44	Have a seat. Please, have a seat. Short - term procedure does not provide for questions. I invite you to the words of Viktor Mikolaiovich Tikhovov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u45	Dear colleagues, especially those on the right, often declare that we are producing documents or materials that would have been attempted to accuse Ukraine. However, when I read the document and showed it to my friends, it turned out to be different. And especially after Yavorivsky wrote us the answer, why is he against the alternative bill. The first thing he wrote, it turns out that we have included several people who were born in Luhansk or Donetsk. That's because these people can't get there. We've acted on another principle. We took, connected scientists here, connected museum workers, and they gave us all the people and events that happened in our country. 90 per cent, to pay tribute, the Committee worked and included people. However, there was an attempt to include only Bandera, such as Petlura, Bandera, yes, Bandera. I've studied Bandari's biography. It's no worse for you. Like Petlura. We had to include the Carpathian battle, that, well, if there was a fight in Donbass, we'd have to turn it off. But no such dates were noticed. Not seen as 355 years of the Preyaslav Council as 450 years of the victory of Ukrainian fairy tales led by Baida over Tatars. We have excluded people from here who read everything, including those sitting here in the hall, like Pushkina, like Vladislav Titov, a writer you know, like Pahmutova, like.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u46	Victor Mikolaiovich, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u47	Therefore, I propose, on behalf of our faction, to consider and adopt an alternative project, which, I stress, has approached from the point of view that there are people here who will blame both the East and the West. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u48	Have a seat, please. Let's sign up for a discussion. People's Deputy Cranwall.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u49	Dear colleagues of the national MPs, this is an ancient initiative that has been initiated in the past in order not to take separate decisions on each individual occasion of honoring a Jubilee date or memory of a prominent figure, unite them in all basic directions to one document and develop a correspondingly less plan that would enable both local authorities and the Cabinet of Ministers to properly prepare for this. In this case, I don't think there's a serious problem between these two projects. They're in the absolute majority, I've looked at them, they're covering each other up. One project is going to be part of an article that's important to a very large part of the Ukrainian people, maybe not to take the other part, but it needs to be supported, and it needs to be understood. And in the second project, there's a part that's not seen anywhere on the other side of the country. But in this case, it seems to me that the best way to do it is to act, not in seclusion, but in unification. Let's see, it's about setting dates at the state level only in very limited forms, mostly with the most active marking at the local level. The State gives certain instructions, the State provides some assurance, it may be appropriate hearings, it may be a stamp of the memory of an event, and the main events at the local level. Therefore, the best option would be to unite them in preparation for the second reading. More than that, to me, the best thing to do is to make sure that there is no conflict, that the union is mechanical, and that about 80 percent is overlapping. The 20 percent that do not overlap with one another add to the second reading and the full volume, and do not assume that some things are not perceived politically in Ukraine, or some people are not born in Ukraine. If their memory is honored, they should be included in the list.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u50	People's deputy Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u51	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine". The parliamentary group “For Ukraine!” and the faction “Our Ukraine” supports this bill. This is an attempt to systematize all the memorable dates that are very important to Ukraine. And we are deeply grateful to the committee, personally by Vladimir Alexandrovich Yavorowski, that the UN leader Stephen Bandera, who was born and has a Jubilee in 2009, reveals the list of outstanding personalities of Ukraine. This is really a huge figure for Ukrainian history. And there are also many other memorable dates on the list, but unfortunately our faction's proposal to celebrate the 70th anniversary of the proclamation and defence of the Carpathian Russia has not been included. An appropriate proposal was made by Deputy Stanislaw Arjevetin. Sadly, it is not included. This is also quite a significant position for Ukraine because it was Carpathian Ukraine that first met and gave way to fascism. I also have to say that those Jubilee dates that take place in Ukraine go beyond and beyond the active participation of national MPs as well as government organizations. They are practically celebrated at the local level. There is no funding, there is no support for at least the organizational, and there are no relevant ministries, and there is no support for information. It is also proposed that these dates that we will celebrate in 2009, first of all, 100 years from Bandera's birth, be the appropriate response of the Supreme Council itself, so that appropriate books, materials about these people can be discovered in the towers of the Supreme Council, so that we can really get acquainted with these materials to unite Ukraine to have an idea of what people were born and worked in Ukraine and magnify it in history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u52	Alexandrovska Alla Alexandrovna
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u53	Please pass the word to Simonenko Petra Nikolaevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u54	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Respectable voters! What decision is now to be taken in Parliament? The solution that will unite the people of Ukraine or further deepen the contradictions that exist today. I believe that you should know that this draft regulation proposes to address the challenge of not uniting the people of Ukraine, but, rather, further deepening the gap, even before the problems of ethics and many others are raised again. With the exception of historical data from individuals and anniversary dates, which are proposed to be noted in general, this document deepens the gap. And I would like to draw attention to the fact that this document invites us to raise, not examples of our people's feats, but examples of treason, betrayal and the most terrible, on the basis of the nationalist ideology that Yushchenko is the dominant today. Here we forget that next year we will celebrate the 65th anniversary of the liberation of Ukraine from German-Fashistic invaders, forgets that next year, the 60th anniversary of the reunification of Ukraine, forgets that we have the Kings, the one who was born here and raised as a citizen, formed as a hero of our people, forgets that it also has a anniversary date, forgets that the anniversary dates of such great people as the same Seed of Rudnen as many who liberated Ukraine. It's all written out. The main one is Petlura, who was the hero of the Jewish pogroms. Bandera, who was a supporter of the Fascists, must also be a hero. And many others: Mazepa, who betrayed our peoples, is also a hero here. Therefore, we believe that communists must stop such practices. Traitors are never taught by patriots. Only traitors are brought up in the examples of traitors. That is why I am addressing you, distinguished members of the Supreme Council, as traitors and traitors.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u55	Final word from the Yavorowski Committee Volodymyr Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u56	Dear colleagues, I have listened to this discussion. And I would like to say again, this is not the decision of Vladimir Yavorowski, this is the decision of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, where all the political forces are actually represented. This is our collective product. I said that it was very difficult and difficult to determine on those dates. Because of this, there is this document. Obviously, as national MPs, you have to figure it out. And I'll tell Petra Mikolaiovich. Peter Mikolaiovich, the proposal for a celebration of the 65th anniversary came literally in the last days. Peter Mikolaiovich, I put it to the vote and unanimously supported the committee. And I'm saying that we're going to include the date of the 65th anniversary and we're going to have to. So is the battle under Korsun-Shevchenkovsky. These are the dates. I knew that, of course, there would be different ideological approaches. But we tried to restore some of the dates that had been forgotten for a long time. They're here, and I'm not sure they're going to break anyone up. One more thing that I want to say is about an alternative bill. Well, no one will convince me that Ukraine should celebrate Pahmutov's Jubilee at its own expense. Well, first of all, it's not such a world star anymore, especially since it has no relation to Ukraine. We have moved so many Jubilees to the local level. By the way, this is the celebration of the 70th anniversary of the Carpathian Russia that Arjevetine brought in, and we're absolutely in favour of including it here, all the more so that there's a decree of the Ministry of Culture. Because of this, make up your mind. I just want to remind you that we already had moments like this when we didn't vote for political reasons, for Peter Griegorenko, the Bagron. I would very much like the Ukrainian Parliament to rise above these little political passions. There are, indeed, national dates. This does not mean that they will all be celebrated very widely. It's kind of on a district level. Because of this, I ask you to vote on this document. And not in any second reading, but in the first reading and completely and completely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u57	Dear colleagues, we will be determined. There are two alternative draft decisions. I am voting on Decree No. 3364 on Memorial Dates and Jubilee in 2009. Project of the national deputy Yavorowski. I'd like to make a statement. [[16:46:50]] For 236 Decision taken. The factions, please. The Party of the Regions – 1, "The Block of July Timoshenko" – 149, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" – 67, Communists – 0, "Block of Lithuania" – 19. We're looking at the next issue of order of the day -- the draft decree on the 125th anniversary of the founding of the National Technical University of Kharkiv Institute of Technology. Reported to the head of the Committee, Polojola Vladimir Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u58	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! In 2010, the Kharkiv National Technical University of Technology is 125 years old. The draft regulation that is currently under consideration is intended to implement a series of measures, where you see these measures that do not require additional expenditure from the State budget of Ukraine. I want to say that the university that was created in the past century was the first technical university in Ukraine. Names such as the Nobel Prize winner Landau, the Academy of Beckett, Butnikov, Steblov, and many others are known throughout the country. I think, my dear colleagues, when we talk about the origin of Ukrainian technical science in the fields of mechanics, applied chemistry, aviation, this is the Kharkiv Institute of Technology. Today there are about 200 doctors of science, professors, and 800 candidates. I would like to say, honourable colleagues who are distracted, because science is few interested in this room, that this higher education institution is one of the five-to-seven best schools in Ukraine that need to be preserved and supported. Unfortunately, the funding of our university science is declining today. On the other hand, some pseudos such as a technology called the “Kyiv National University of Culture” have 142 million bracelets today under a budget to support barbers and other important specialties for the country, while Kharkivski National has almost twice as many. I'm calling your attention to being very careful, careful today to save our science and education.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u59	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u60	Two or three years from now, he can just cease to exist. Our committee supported this decision, and I propose that the Supreme Council accept this draft regulation as a basis and as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u61	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Let's sign up for a discussion. Alexandrovska Alla Alexandrovna
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u62	Dear colleagues, respected Ukrainian citizens, who listen to and watch the broadcast from the Supreme Council, I am pleased that there are sometimes such bright moments in the Supreme Council when draft laws are passed that undoubtedly require the support of all those present in the Hall. We must remember and know that the future of Ukraine and the people of Ukraine will be positive, bright if we continue to have such institutions that are developing the intelligence, culture, technical culture of our people, such as the Kharkiv Political Institute. I am confident that you will all support this proposal and that the institution deserves such a public and State influence, and I hope that, given that we will vote on this decision today and that a positive decision will be taken. We will be with you to amend the Budget Act for the following year, which will be reviewed and funded here in the Hall by the Kharkiv Institute of Polytechnics at a decent level, increasing by one and a half times the budgeted figures. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u63	Pavlovsky Andry Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u64	Mr. Chairman, please give the floor to the graduate of this famous university, Valery Kamchatny.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u65	People's deputy Kamchatny.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u66	Dear colleagues! Respectable polytechnicians! Dignified Harkians! Before that, there was a hard discussion about the festivals to celebrate, the festivals that unite, and I want my colleague from the Communist faction of Alexandrovsk to support in that this bill is exactly one that can unite the communists today, and the BUT, and the Party of the Regions. I'm a co-author of this bill, I'm a graduate of this famous university, and in the faction of the Party of Regions there is also a graduate of this university, this is Shentz Dmitri, the head of the Party of the Regions. But now it's not about party colors, it's about the fact that this is really the college that gave the world the famous names of the graduates who work in the East and the West, and this college is worthy of us celebrating a high-level holiday. I thank you very much for your support, I think this support will be from all parts of my hall, our hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u67	National Deputy Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u68	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! There is no doubt that both the determination and the glorious college that we will celebrate are worthy of support. I wanted to stop at the next one. One of the reporters noted that it was urgent to take out cultural funds and call some universities there and so forth. Dear friends, celebrating the bright Jubilee of such a fine and dignified educational institution, I would not like to see us manifest our complete human and political ignorance here. We want a higher culture from our institutions, especially the cultural institutions. And what culture are we showing here? And what example of work and culture did we show in literally this whole year of parliamentary work when most of the time we sat under the Supreme Council’s rostrum? So by upholding the decision, I protest that we should suddenly take it from one side and give it to the other. I think at Kharkiv Technical University and at cultural institutions we should give the money with equal hands. Because these are our children, and parliamentarians have to show a higher culture here, and then demand it from our students and from the universities.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u69	I am voting on draft regulation No. 2471, “On marking the 125th anniversary of the establishment of the Kharkiv National Technical University of Technology Institute”. I'd like to make a statement. [[16:54:44]] For 384 Decision taken. Let us now consider the next question of the order of the day. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Agriculture of Ukraine is under consideration. [[on price regulation, risk insurance, animal recovery and rural social programmes]] Reported by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Špak Vasil Fedorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u70	The honourable chairman, honourable colleagues, who have been assigned to your consideration of the bill, foresees further improvement of the mechanisms of state support for agriculture, especially in the context of Ukraine's accession to the WTO, in the face of a global crisis. I mean, in conditions that are fundamentally changing external economic factors, such as adaptation of agricultural products to severe competition in European and world agricultural markets. Agriculture, as an extremely important component of the state’s economy today, needs increased attention and, of course, much more budget to support it. Therefore, the proposed bill provides a new definition of a state-owned international fund, which is formed by an agrarian fund at the expense of financial intervention. Also, there is a clear delimitation of the functions of the Ukrainian State Reserve and the Agrarian Fund. The functions of the central executive authority for the formation and enforcement of State agrarian policy have been clarified. In the light of past experience, changes to government price regulation are proposed. The bill has extended the price regulation of agricultural and food products, including wheat, wheat, sugar, oil, and other foods. The list of construction costs and reconstruction of animal complexes, animal complexes, has also been expanded. Also, partial compensation for the purchase of technology and equipment for agricultural production. Budget subsidies for rural social infrastructure development are provided. Legally established state support for the damage caused by natural disasters.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u71	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u72	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u73	Everything? Have a seat. Correspondence, Rybuk Sergey Mikolayovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u74	Dear fellow national MPs! I'm going to ask for a moment or two of your attention because, of course, such a bill, it's very sorry that it's being considered as a reduced procedure, because it's complicated and affects a lot of the spheres of life of our nation's agricultural market. You see, we filed, as co-author, and I'm speaking from the committee in parallel, this bill is still April 15th. It's been eight months. And if some people in Parliament didn't bite, didn't settle down, but looked at this bill, there would be no more pressing issue today, both economic and agrarian crises in agriculture itself, the APC as a whole. Why? Because this bill offers eight new, essentially, directions to the development of agrarian market infrastructure. We say here, from the first, even to clarify the very concept of agriculture. Next, we recommend and allow the executive authority to form a state intervention fund. Are we asking questions about the forward monitoring of the agrarian market, so you don't want to turn your back on the whip???? and do not hold back from negative facts. We define subjects and subjects of government price regulation, we expand the space and spectrum of state price regulation, I stress. What's more, we're expanding the functions of the agrarian fund, we're giving it the ability to manage this intervention fund, and, most importantly, what I believe is that the faction of the Communist Party will support because we're here offering 12 to 14 percent of the funds for the annual consumption of agricultural products. I mean.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u75	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u76	and a critical product limit that has to be in public procurement so that there is no critical import, so that we always have to tackle these issues. I mean, it's too bad that we can't go wide, it's open to discuss this bill, but I'm going to convince you that we're going to look at it first, and then there's going to be a possibility, we're going to talk about it and we're going to adopt it, and it's going to be a good bill for, really, building the final infrastructure of the agricultural market. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u77	Sign up for the discussion. National Deputy Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u78	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The Timoshenko bloc will support this bill in its first reading. It's conceptually spelled out correctly. We have taken serious steps this week, both in the past month and in the last month, to make the agro-industry complex, especially its main component – agriculture – more or less attractive. We have preserved a fixed agricultural tax, not for a year, as we have always done, but forever. We have preserved a special VAT system, not for a year, but forever. The VAT is accounted for, remains at the disposal of the agricultural producer to improve its material and technical base. We decided by voting yesterday, by voting yesterday, we decided to fully support agriculture through a special regime of VAT subsidies in animal farming, to extend credits, to essentially ban duties on imports into Ukraine of many types of food raw materials that we produce ourselves. What's next? These are anti-crisis measures, they cost the budget a lot -- 15 billion. And then what? Part of the answer in this law is: the formation of agricultural market infrastructure, the deepening and modernization of agricultural technical services, market-based pricing mechanisms. We need to understand that, in a crisis, the liberal economy has been hit, the invisible arm of the market is no longer regulated as it once was. So it takes really serious state importance for the leading branch in Ukraine to be really leading. So before the second reading, we have proposals that will reinforce this bill. On the first reading, we invite all our colleagues to support us. Indeed, it is a serious bill that looks into the future of our leading field. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u79	Paul Sulkowski, faction of the Party of the Regions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u80	Thank you. Paul Sulkowski, faction Party of the Regions, Equinox. You know, I'm just ahead of the B.U.T. faction manager as I listened to the reverend John Grigorovovich, it's like a villager budget is being created by the Kingdom of Heaven. And I want to tell you, Your Honor, you have to look directly at the peasants in the eye and tell the truth. Please tell the Party of the Regions, the faction of the Party of the Regions will support this law, but this law does not solve the problems of the village at all. Tell me that the budget that Julia Timoshenko presented to us in Parliament yesterday, from 14 billion per year, which is not all of the villages put up to support the farmers, this year is only 4, of which I am convinced that one billion would come in. This says that you're in the budget project predicting a crisis situation, finally putting the cross in support of the village. And that's why you don't have to say populist slogans here and openly. Here's what Mr. Schpak reported here. This is a bill that needs to be maintained there. It's so clear. But look, there's no funding in the budget for protection and reproduction and soil fertility. What does this talk about? This says that today’s government will lead Ukraine to disaster and endanger Ukraine’s food security. Why do I say that? Imagine 52 million grains gathered this year. Of these, only 11 million are food grains, and the rest are practically feedable. What does this talk about? This says that it is a free, inconvenient government policy led by Julia Timoshenko. And that's why if this budget is accepted in this way.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u81	Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! All those who signed up spoke. A committee proposal is being made. May I have your attention, please? Adopt a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Agriculture. [[on improving the national price regulation of the agricultural market, risk insurance, recovery measures and rural social programmes]] Registration number 2375. Please vote. [[17:06:18]] For 411 Decision taken. Yes, is there a head of the Committee on Budgets or not? I ask you to invite the head of the budget committee to move on to the subject. And distribute materials that are multiplied. Dear colleagues, perhaps in this way: shall we begin our consideration of the question next, while there is no head of the Committee on Budgets? Is there no objection? Well, is that how we're gonna wait, or what? [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, the head of the Committee on Budgets must report. Please invite the head of the budget committee here now. Let us now consider the following law: the draft Law on General Principles for the Development of State-Private Partnerships in Ukraine. We have 3 bills there: 3447, 3447-1, 3447-2. Two bills rejected, one left. Please Deputy Minister of Economy Anatoly Arkadyovich Maksut.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u82	Your Honour, Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Let me briefly report on the draft Law on the General Principles for the Development of a State-Private Partnership in Ukraine, developed by the Government and defined. This is a framework law that defines the basis for cooperation between the public and private sectors, first of all, in the implementation of infrastructure projects. And this project extends primarily to projects that are being implemented in the field of road construction, the construction of metropolises. I'd like to say about the need to draft this bill. First of all, in implementing large infrastructure projects that are state-owned, the state does not have the resources to implement them. So today, both in Europe and in other countries, a public private partnership is being implemented, where the state combines its resources with the private owner and on the basis of it implements projects involving funds and an effect both on society and on the corresponding income for the private sector. As part of the implementation of the State private partnership, the proposed law will include concession contracts, State utility leases, government and utility leases, and other contracts. What is important in this bill is the clear definition of the risks that partners pose in implementing the agreement, the guarantees that are offered. And for the adoption of this project, it's very important, from the point of view, that we're signaling to investors and we're going to adopt this law that's been passed in many countries of the world that will enable investors to understand that the state is willing to go into such agreements, ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u83	Yes, thank you. Dear colleagues, please register two-for, two-again. Oh, from the committee, please, Natalia Royal.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u84	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished fellow MPs, distinguished voters! The Supreme Council Committee on Industrial Policy, Regulatory Policy and Enterprise considered Bill 3447. We have also considered two alternative bills submitted by the People's Deputy of Lapin, the People's Deputy of the Royal, Shevchuk and a number of groups of deputies. It was felt that there was a need to support a single bill today that we would be working on second reading, which today would be the foundation of the relationship between power and business. The bill is largely the recognition of business as an equal partner of the State. And today, in a particularly difficult period of crisis, we must understand and maximize the potential of business to create infrastructure projects, to support the public sector of the economy, to support our complex community. The main thing in the bill is that the conditions dictated by the State and all property also remain protected and remains State-owned. Yes, this is some alternative to privatization, which unfortunately, during 2008, when we had the best markets, when we really had the opportunity to get effective owners, we did not use it. This opportunity has not been used by the State Property Fund. There is therefore an alternative to public-private partnerships, when we can attract business in partnership as effectively as possible today. This form works around the world, and it works very and very well. There is a lack of progress in this bill, which is very restrictive. The Committee therefore decided unanimously that second reading should extend the scope of recognition and application of the bill in order to enable local communities to attract businesses today to build the necessary conditions. Therefore, the main thing today is the possibility of private funds to address socially meaningful projects that are so difficult to find money in the public budget today. At the same time, this has spurred the development of entrepreneurship in both crisis and limited budgets.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u85	Dear colleagues, maybe if you don't mind, we'll do it this way: we'll take the project as a basis, and then we'll go over it. All right, two for, two for. It's time to consider the next bill. On board, please, the names of the national MPs who are registered. Vladimir Bondarenko. Then Yuri Karmazin. Dear colleagues, sign up.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u86	Please give it to Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u87	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! I'd like you to take this bill very carefully. First question. It deals with rent, transfer to management, leasing, and concessions. All these matters are regulated by the Committee’s distribution of responsibilities from economic policy. Our committee has not considered this bill, this is a very important issue that should be taken into account when considering the bill. The other one. By regulating this issue in this law, they run counter to existing laws on this issue. So if we adopt this law, all the other concessional laws, leases, leases, leases remain valid, and we won't know what laws we're going to be dealing with these issues. It's also very important that I'm asking you to consider. The science-expert administration has given, made a very large number of observations to this law, and is proposing that this project be returned to work. So to accept it now on the first reading even in the Kabmin version, I think it's premature. He should be sent to the Committee on Economic Policy for consideration, to see carefully what laws would conflict with this adopted law. And another observation. If this is really a project that's being proposed to introduce an alternative to privatization, rent, concession and leasing, then all the other laws that regulate these issues just have to be abolished and come out with that. But if we do have an enabling environment to start the process of privatization, renting and so on, we're going to have these contractual relationships, they're just going to block the introduction of these different systems of effective government management. So I ask the MPs not to take it up on the first reading, to send it to the Economic Policy Committee and to return to it again. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u88	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u89	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Please give the word to Kseniya Lapiniya, a colleague of our faction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u90	Xenia Leapina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u91	Thank you, colleague Carmazin. Kseniya Liapina, “For Ukraine”. I would like to pay attention to the following, distinguished colleagues. Indeed, a government bill suffers from some legal problems. However, we called back our alternatives, as to me, better-made, solely in order to combine efforts at first reading. We know how to complete it from a legal point of view so that it does not contradict the Civil Code of Ukraine. I will explain why this is an important issue for us today. The countries of Eastern Europe and the countries of the former Soviet Union today use this form of combining efforts in such areas as roads, water and heat, mining and other forms. Today, even a special agency is working in Kazakhstan in this form, and they are successfully using it. Today this is Russia's path. Today this is the way Holland is going. Today the Czech Republic and other countries are heading this way. Ukraine is lagging behind, dear colleagues. That's where privatization is undervalued. Inadequate transfer of state property into another form. There you can apply a form such as public private partnership. This is a combination of state ownership and private business resources. The main question today is the legitimacy of choosing a private partner. That is what the law must be about. Today, perhaps all of this is not in the law and is not enough. But we're working on it before.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u92	Paul Sulkowski, please, the faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u93	This is once again confirmed by the Orange Ones that they are unable to prepare a legal basis that would benefit Ukraine. And that's why they argued and argued that Ukraine had been led, practically, to the brink of default, and I don't think that this bill was ever considered by a committee, and it's not needed today. We just have to send him away. And please give it to Landik, my colleague. He wants to add a few words, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u94	People's MP Landik, microphone please. Please turn on the microphone for the Landik People's Deputy. Please speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u95	Thank you, thank you. You know, it's kind of weird. On the one hand, our orange team is trying to remove a single tax in the new budget, thereby making our small business worse. On the other hand, it was as if it were helping through the State with entrepreneurship. I believe, and we, the entire Party of the Regions, believe that this is a secret privatization. As they hurry up, they know that their time will be fast-tracked, faster to adopt this law and get into concessions, rent anything, anything they haven't stolen yet. We believe that this law is irrelevant. What's more, they can't even agree on each other. When, in such a hurry, when there are bills to get out of the crisis, when there is a budget to be adopted, there are changes to it, and we are in a hurry to finish it quickly, it is immoral. We won't vote for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u96	Dear colleagues! Bill 3447 has been completed. The proposal for a committee to adopt is based on the draft Law on General Principles for the Development of State-Private Partnership in Ukraine. Registration number 3447. Please vote. Please vote. [[17:20:21]] For 211 Not accepted. I am voting for re-reading the draft Law, registration number 3447, please vote. And including the Economic Policy Committee, including. [[17:20:45.]] For 260 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the draft State Budget Act of Ukraine 2009 is under review. The committee proposes this policy: 10 minutes for the report, 5 minutes for the rapporteur, 5 minutes for the co-report, 5 minutes for the co-rapporteur, 5 minutes for the interview, 30 minutes for the discussion and decision-making. No warning? Please sign up for three minutes. Please, on the boards of national MPs who are enrolled. Paul Sulkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u97	Thank you. Please pass it on to Smythech.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u98	National MP Smitsuch.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u99	Thank you. Vladimir Mikhailovich, say, please consider a very important bill in a very difficult economic situation in Ukraine today. You know, you just made a whole series of amendments to the State Budget by the committee. The MPs are not able to get to know each other so quickly and react to the vote or not to vote. They're just handing out today in the hall. How can such a document be discussed, five minutes per report, five minutes for answers and questions? It's impractical, it's pointless, and it's clearly demeaning our dignity. So I would ask, if it is possible, to move this important document to tomorrow and to devote the first afternoon of the budget review in order to fully consider and make the real amendments that are important to our people's economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u100	Thank you. National Deputy Karpuk, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u101	Please pass the word to Zebrovski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u102	Paul Zebravsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u103	Dear colleagues, the rather strange procedure proposed by the Committee on Budgets is to be accepted in the first reading and in general. Then we need to vote our way out of the ad-hok Rules. I think we should put up a vote for that. But actually, my friends, I know, they took the budget differently: they took it with their hands, who voted with both hands, and so on. We have a budget as a disaster, we can never consider it human, normal, verified, balanced and understandable. I just want you colleagues to pay attention to the “hotels” that you have expressed to the Ministry of Finance and have written them down for you. And look at the sources of funding, it's like Malinovka's wedding, says, "Take it, I'll draw it for myself." In addition, the billions that have contributed to your “hotels” that they want you to vote in favour of the budget are unrealistic. Through.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u104	National Deputy Olijnik, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u105	Please pass the word to Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u106	Ivan Kirilenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u107	I'm sorry, sir. Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! The faction suggests that the State Budget project be reviewed. We understand that it's not honey, we understand that the budget is not good, it's a budget about 97 years old, we understand that very well. But it was true that many experts, specialists and deputies were told: it's better than no budget. The non-admission of the budget is one twelfth of 2008. Dear colleagues, half the 2008 budget was the development budget and half the welfare budget. And now 90 is social support and only 10 are developmental. We can't go on one twelve, it's a pension failure, it's a failure for wage budgeters and so on, and so on. You can't do that! Dear colleagues, at least the social protection of the least protected sections of the population of the budget should be adopted. Everyone please proceed to the adoption and voting procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u108	Vladimir Matviev, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u109	I would like to remind the people of Ukraine that we have not voted today to extend the work of the evening meeting. That's the first one. Second. I believe that the Rules of Consideration proposed by the Committee are ridiculous. First, we do not comply with the Rules, that is, until 18.15 we cannot consider. If we were to start looking at it at 16, we might be able to consider it. And here we certainly don't fit into the Rules. And third. You know, you can't get out of the budget, as the previous speaker suggested. Yeah, he's really not worth the budget. Why was he budgeted by the ruling coalition in charge of the government? Yes, the draft budget is nowhere to be considered, but it must be considered at least humanly, carefully looking at what is being done. I can see now that the proposals made by the Communist faction did not come to this. So, is it to leave out the discussion and vote for first reading and generally without even expressing an opinion? I am categorically opposed to the consideration of the budget today, and we need to postpone the consideration to tomorrow.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u110	Ladies and gentlemen, we've exchanged thoughts on this subject and we're at the Conciliation Council for the adoption that we're going to be looking at the budget at the evening session. That's the first one. The other one. What was delayed was related to the alignment of positions and the multiplication of documents. Third. Ladies and gentlemen, I have raised the procedure for adopting the budget for the last year of 2000. We shouldn't go back there, but let's remember how we received the budget. Yes, all the deadlines have been broken, but the budget needs to be considered. Why didn't we look at it earlier and announce breaks in the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine? They didn't look at the budget. Therefore, if you understand the truthfulness of the claims you are making, let us start a discussion of the matter. Second. We're now starting a discussion of the issue and we need to finish the consideration of the question, we can't interrupt it. This is because we will not have enough time. Therefore, please invite the head of the Committee on Budgets, Mikola Ivanovich Derkac, to the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u111	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Honorable members of the government and invited! As a result of the Government's submission of the draft State Budget Act 2009 to the Supreme Council of the Budget Committee, it was entrusted with very strict deadlines for the drafting of a bill and proposals by MPs and committees for its consideration and for the preparation of proposals for its consideration. In line with such a decision, the Committee on Budgets, for the time it was allocated, carried out an appropriate work on the bill and made suggestions to it for your consideration. The bill proposed by the government proposes to approve for 2009 the revenue of the State budget of $237.5 billion, which is more than 5.6 billion dollars against the defined plan for the current year. Expenditure and credit is 268.5 billion dollars, which is more than 11.6 billion dollars against the 2008 budget. The government budget deficit is 31 billion dollars, which is 3 percent of GDP and is within an acceptable size by international standards. I cannot overlook the fact that the committee's discussion of the bill was complex, sharp, critical and even emotional. The members of the committee, expressing their opinion on the main indicators of the State and Local Budgets, were quite firm in their assessments. Yes, given the presence of significant external and internal risks, the economic situation of the following year has worsened, there has been a mixed perception of macroeconomic projections for 2009. Then it was critical to estimate the income of budgets, because if the macroeconomic situation worsened, there could be a significant lack of funding for all levels of budgets. The estimate of expenditure is not optimistic either, since other current expenditure and development costs have been reduced in order to ensure the cost of primary social expenditure and to take into account resource constraints. Each year, the adoption of the State Budget Act highlights a number of local budget problems that all levels of government know about, at all levels of government talk about, but that are not finally solved. The bill did not become an exception, although compared to 2008, local budgets grew by 16.9 percent and their expenditure by 5.2 percent. The development of urban budgets has been strongly influenced by negative trends in the country’s economy. Inadequate financial resources remain for the most necessary needs of local budgets for the expenditure on delegated government authorizations. According to the Association of Ukrainian Cities and Communities, this represents about seven billion dollars. This situation will again encourage local authorities to divert funds from performing self-reliant functions, especially in the area of housing and utilities, which is in a catastrophic state. At the same time, the projected revenues of the local budgets are too optimistic because their coming directly depends on the development of the country's economy and the financial and economic situation in the regions. Once again, there is the need to increase the autonomy of local budgets and encourage them to grow a income base, to provide resources for social and economic development and energy conservation, and to implement a state programme to reform housing and utilities. Still, no one today has any doubt about the need to approve the 2009 State Budget by the end of the year. First of all, to ensure the smooth functioning of the entire budget system, including local budgets, spending on supporting domestic production in the context of an economic and financial crisis and other government measures to overcome its consequences. Finally, the adoption of the State Budget next year will be a positive signal for the economy of Ukraine, foreign investors on the forecasting of anti-crisis measures by the government, as concrete government actions can be foreseen in today's economic situation. It should be noted that within such a short period of time, all the MPs were able to generalize the proposals made by their national deputies, present them to the committee, and protect their vision of the problems to be solved in the bill. As a result of this consideration, the committee found agreement with government representatives on how to balance the budget and supported the most important proposals that it considered to be reflected in the committee's proposals for the bills that were given to you. I'll just name some of them. In addition, it is proposed to address the following issues at the expense of the Stabilisation Fund: integrated flood protection in the Tis River Basin in the Zakartat region -- 50 million dollars, acquisition for the State Customs of X-ray and TV scanning systems -- 200 million dollars, acquisition of fire equipment for domestic manufacturing -- no less than 100 million dollars, performance of capital functions, including the construction of a metropolis -- 500 million dollars, the replenishment of statutory state enterprise funds, the acquisition of aircraft under financial lysing conditions. In addition, the possibility of financing the technological refurbishment of machinery for an agro-industrial complex — almost 80 million dollars — has been sought. The state-owned credit of state-owned rural builders is 75 million dollars. The settlement and installation of deported Crimean Tatars is 50 million dollars. Capitalization of the operation block and acquisition of equipment from the Institute of Surgery, the Shalimov Transplantology — 25 million dollars. Increases in current costs for the functioning of government bodies and other budgetary institutions. The corresponding additional costs are proposed as a result of an increase in the forecast of taxes on the added value of goods imported into Ukraine, domestic loans and the return of loans to the state budget. Regarding the proposals made by the Committee of the Supreme Council and the National Deputies, it should be noted that none of them have been formed in accordance with the requirements of the Budget Code, i.e. they are not balanced. Therefore, we propose that they be sent to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for careful study and consideration when amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2009 which will be necessary and even mandatory in today's complex socio-economic and political conditions. It is particularly important to make the relationship between government and local budgets. In view of this, it is proposed to entrust the Cabinet of Ministers with the results of the implementation of the State budget in the first half of 2009, taking into account the state of socio-economic development of Ukraine, to prepare proposals for amendments to this law with a view to ensuring the primary functions of the State. Thus, the Committee on Budget Affairs proposes the adoption of a draft law on Ukraine's State Budget for 2009 submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, number 3,000 on first reading and, in general, as a law taking into account the budget proposals made to you by the Committee on Budgets. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u112	Dear colleagues, please write down the question, the reporter has saved two more minutes so that we can ask more questions. Please have the name of the national MPs on the sign-up table. Alexander Pecklusenko, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u113	Dear Nikolai Ivanovich, you are a responsible person with great experience in your work, please tell us, as you think, what are the risks of this budget, that it has a positive budget, whether, in your opinion, this budget will be met and most importantly, Nikolai Ivanovich, the idea that it is better to accept a bad budget than any budget is obsolete, because this budget is no longer available. Please, your opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u114	Thank you, Alexander Nikolaevich. On the Committee, you expressed your assessment of the draft budget, and I also reflected it in my report. Yes, there are risks, projections of the macro-indicators budget, as well as the revenue of the budget. Therefore, when it comes to tasks and tasks and local self-government and the Government, and we all need to work on the income of the budget, it will be realistic and funded. And the members of the Committee suggested that, unfortunately, most of the proposal did not deserve the attention of each deputy to be taken into account because of the resource, but that it should be considered half a year and taken into account by the Cabinet of Ministers for each item. I agree with your assessment that there are enough risks in the budget for its implementation and expenditure. Let us therefore work together to implement the draft budget, which is proposed, above all, to fill the income part of the budget. In addition, I would like to answer your question that, on all the indicators that are available today, they are very difficult to read.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u115	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u116	Macro-indicators, but we do know that up to 25 per cent of Ukraine's economy is in the shadows. Let us work together on these resources.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u117	People's MP Litvinov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u118	Thank you. I would like to give the floor to my colleague Akimova.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u119	Akimova, National Deputy, faction of the Party of Regions. Microphone, please turn it on. Microphone, please look at the card. Microphone, please, Secretariat, please see what's going on. It's working.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u120	Dear colleague, I have two questions. First, how do you think it is possible to vote in favour of a budget that freezes the actual minimum wage and minimum standard of living at the 2008 level at a time when these revenues were already eaten by half inflation, and next year, all international agencies are planning to infuse 17 per cent. And the second question. How to support the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u121	Give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u122	How can we support a budget that actually puts the metal industry on its knees, where we have half a million people working? The increase in rent payments, the adjustment factor 1.4, would mean, in fact, 1 billion losses, i.e. rising unemployment, falling wages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u123	Thank you for the very important questions of life. With regard to freezing and including minimum wage. I would like to say about yesterday's meeting somewhere at 12 p.m. there were mayors of cities, the Association sat down, and then they came to the Committee on Budgets. One of the proposals, when they proposed to increase the local self-government function, I named 7 billion. I'm saying it's impossible, the balance is negative and so on. They said. Let us be flesh before we tell the people the truth and flesh before we go to a reduction of certain social norms and so on. I do not mean to say that I have supported them on this issue, but such radical statements have been. But at the same time, I would like to say that the inflation index, it's in the budget, you can get to know. With regard to the steel industry. Since I'm from Dnepropetrov region and I know very well, yes, that's the factor for today. And everyone else will take it seriously, and they will lose it. But there was a time, and in this part, by the way, I supported the Wheeler, let's find it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u124	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u125	The impact is exactly at a factor of 1, 435 there, right? But there was no resource balance to be found than this could be covered. Just take it off. There's, you know, a lack of resources. Please suggest, in accordance with article 40 of the Budget Code, that if we remove something from the income section, proposals where we will find the resource or expenditure. Then I'll be on your side.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u126	Vladimir Matviev, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u127	Please hand over to Adam Martinyuk, the Company's faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u128	Adam Martinyuk, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u129	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear Mikola Ivanovich, you are already answering the colleague's question, as we have touched that problem, I want to raise it, because I have also had the opportunity to communicate with representatives of the Association of Cities and Communities of Ukraine, who are screaming about their pains and fair pains. Indeed, they lack 6.7 billion dollars to carry out their delegated powers. It's hard to find. But we have to look. Well, if we don't find this amount, let's at least think about how they could transfer instead of a special fund to the general fund what's related to the cost of gas compensation, the cost of spending Euro-2012 and saving energy supply, energy savings. And another problem. We used to have practice, and I totally support them, that 50 percent of what they're doing when they're collecting budgets is going to have to get them back. They'll have some incentive. Let's at least do some of these minimums.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u130	Thank you for asking, Adam Ivanovich. As far as transferring from the special fund to the general fund, well, for today it's not real. Honestly, I'm telling you, it's not real for today. Indeed, a special fund needs to be handled and filled in to finance. But I think we can come back in half a year if that's the will of the people's deputies. If it's not 6.7 billion dollars, eventually the spending portion of the budget will increase significantly. We will also deal with this in the budget committee. With regard to leaving 50 per cent of them overworked. If it really was this year, next year, you know, in only 600 extra budgets, they will depend on the State budget. And I'm afraid there won't be any overrun.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u131	Mikola Kravchenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u132	Cowchenko, the Communist faction. Dear Nikolai Ivanovich, I would ask you to answer such a question. Maybe I just couldn't find the following in your files. How is the budget programme for the disposal of solid rocket fuels and the disposal of conventional ammunition for their further use, return, non-useable and storage? What's this all about? A very serious arsenal of weapons there. One explosion in Bogdanovka yesterday, the committee told us, 6 billion greven took away from the Cabinet of Ministers' reserve fund to deal with the consequences. If it breaks, Chernobyl will really rest. I would therefore like to ask you to explain whether any decision has been taken on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u133	On the committee today, colleague Alla Alexandrovna raised the question of the Pavlovgrad Chemical Plant. With regard to solid fuel recycling, there is a problem. The amount is minimal, it is paid and does not fully satisfy. A colleague also approached Paul City, a deputy. That's a problem. I think that if there is such a mandate, there are government representatives here, let's see which articles to reduce and increase here. I fully support this problem. As far as Bogdanovka is concerned, the amount is indeed the same, but it is unfortunately reduced, like all other costs, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u134	Thank you. Please sit down for a while. Well, there's still a lot of people here. Time's up. Dear colleagues, we have a procedure approved. We can't change now. Please, from the Cabinet of Ministers, who will be speaking? Please. Anatoly Ivanovich Merkovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u135	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! You are now presented with the draft State Budget Act 2009 in the first reading. I would like to highlight some of the fundamentals that we have taken into account in the drafting of this bill. Well, first of all, that's what we've taken fully into account within the existing legislation all the social pay costs. In particular, it's increased by 2.9 billion. Money to help with the birth of children. And we've also increased the costs associated with the introduction of minimum wage, it's increased, and by the end of 2009, it's going to be 669 dollars. The amount of resources that is increased by such payments, taking into account the additional mechanism, is 7.8 billion. That's right. We've fully taken into account in the draft law the cost of dividing pension payments between the State Budget and the Pension Fund. In addition, an additional 13.1 billion are available to cover the pension deficit. That's right. In addition, an article that has been in place this year to cover the cash breaks of the Pension Fund for 12 months. In addition, payments of $790.7 million have been increased for military personnel’s money. There are additional spending on $1.4 billion in scholarships, and expenditure on 1 billion in the fund to guarantee the physical investors is also included in the corresponding contribution of individuals and in accordance with the law that has been adopted. We may say that we have increased the development and maintenance costs of motor roads, taking into account the law that was passed in the Supreme Council. There are guarantees for the construction of metropolises and investment projects worth up to 37 billion dollars. The following year, energy costs are projected to be included at the 2008 level, predicting that the physical volumes of such energy products should be reduced by 20 percent in terms of energy savings and cost savings. A stable fund is available for 23 billion dollars. In our view, these are real sources of funding and the amount of budget deficits exclusively associated with the financing of investment projects. In addition, there is a reduction in non-primary expenditure across budget areas, including a reduction of 10 percent of the expenditure on government support and self-government. We have worked closely with the Committee on Budget Affairs, and over the last two days, we have been fully supportive of the proposals that have been made on the Committee on Budgets. I think, given these proposals, the government will support the adoption of the State Budget Act in the first reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u136	Dear colleagues, please sign up for a question. Yes, on the board is the name of the national deputies who signed up. Mikhail Papiev, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u137	Thank you. Dear Anatoly Ivanovich, you know, I feel so strongly that you believe what you are saying, especially for the Pension Fund. I'd like to draw attention to article 46 of the Ukrainian State Budget Act, which you're restoring to such a disgraceful measure as the level of provision of a living minimum. At the same time, 187 bracelets are for disabled people, 200 bracelets for disabled people. Can you imagine a disabled person surviving 200 dollars at this time? Just as you freeze a minimum wage, so you freeze a minimum pension. And at the same time, you're saying that you support the conclusions of the committee, which increases the reliance on organizational, informational and material and technical support for the President's 89th anniversary. You're saying that there's no money for people to raise the minimum wage, the minimum pension -- and at the same time, you find 89 million to finance activities.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u138	Thank you. With regard to article 46, I would like to say that this is a requirement of law, and we are obliged in the State Budget Act to provide for a standard that determines the level of security of subsistence minimum. And this standard is working, well, maybe 8 years old already. And that's how we define our social policy. With regard to minimum wages and social standards, I said in my report that we had increased the expenditure on those priority social benefits that were provided for by law, including the Wages Fund, to pay for benefits, pensions, and scholarships. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u139	National Deputy Ariev, “Our Ukraine” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u140	Please give the floor to Deputy Kulikov Kiril Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u141	Kulikov's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u142	Thank you very much. I've already made these amendments on the budget committee, and we've discussed it again. I would like to make an amendment to Appendix I on the State Budget: to increase the amount of revenue to the General Fund by 500,000 from the implementation of the new Road Traffic Act and to increase to the Ministry of Internal Affairs the cost of work. [[second plugin]] What happened to us yesterday, about 17,000 reports from members of the IMF put on the table, the fact that professionals are leaving the IMF. We know that the following year is very difficult, and we believe that everyone will seek the help of law enforcement agencies. So let's support them and let's take a very important correction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u143	Thank you. Although the Ministry of Finance initially did not support the proposal, you're also wrong because they said 500,000, and in fact it has millions. So we could count 500,000. But after further processing these issues and consulting the government, we suggest that we support this proposal by increasing by 500 million dollars the proceeds of fines and increasing the cost of money, while also predicting an article in the budget, a similar norm. We've accepted the change in 2008.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u144	Alexander Pecklusenko, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u145	Dear Anatoly Ivanovich, I have a few questions for you. First, why doesn't the Minister of Finance report on this issue? And if you think the hall and the country don't know, then I'll tell you, everyone knows that the minister's conscience is not enough to sign this budget that doesn't have any real figures. Why don't you tell the truth that this year the regions lacked 50 per cent for gasification and next year they won't get a penny? Why don't you tell the truth that your core resource, the so-called "stabilisation fund", is filled with real money by 10 percent? So when will this government start telling the truth? You're an honest man. What "White Eyes You Borrowed" in order to go out and report what cannot be reported?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u146	Thank you. But I've been identified as a reporter on the budget committee, so I'm doing my job accordingly. In the second position concerning inter-budget transfers for 2008, pursuant to Decree 1036. We wrote that the top priorities of the 2008 budget are the calculations between government and local budgets. We will pay the only amount if the corresponding obligations are registered and the work done. Next year we anticipate these kinds of jobs at the expense of a stable fund and there are a number of norms in the budget law that we think can ensure that these plans are implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u147	People's MP Mankowski, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u148	Please give the floor to the People's Deputy Ribuk Sergio Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u149	Sergey Ribuk. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u150	Thank you, Sergey Ribuk, faction of the Party of the Regions, Zitomirschina. Dear reporter, not so much for you as for agriculture and not even for agriculture, I'm going to name a number for all those who are still able to spend three times a day, that the cost of developing an agro-industry complex you're going to propose to cut down, listen to all of you to vote together, six times. Well, six times, so at six, there's no agriculture at all, you've already brought thirty thousand tons of halls and so on, trimmings, yes. You don't need agriculture. But please tell me, 10 million was a program to heal the children of agricultural workers, that child from deep Polisi or whatever.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u151	Let me finish, please, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u152	I mean, in a sense of crisis, but why did you eliminate this article? Is it about conscience we're talking about or genocide? What's here? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u153	With regard to APC expenses, you may have failed to calculate the rule of article 76 when it is determined that an additional 2.2 billion dollars will be provided to the general fund at the expense of the budget. We also keep a number of tax preferences for agricultural producers next year. As far as recovery is concerned, we have appropriate programs, except MinACP, we have Minmolodsport programs, and they will have the right to these categories of people on general terms, as well as those of other professions to receive adequate financial support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u154	Yes. Thank you, Anatoly Ivanovich, sit down, time is up. Dear colleagues, we have a certain coalition here that I can only announce an extension of 15 minutes, but at the same time we have to finish the consideration of the matter. So I'd like to ask you to understand that we have to conclude our consideration of this issue. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the performance, we have, as agreed, 30 minutes for the performance. So first the factions, and then the national MPs, that inequality is going to be. We've got three minutes to do the show. Please sign up. On the board, please show me the Yavorowski People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u155	I ask you to give the floor to the representative of our faction, the deputy head of the Committee on Budgets, Mr. Kirilchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u156	Eugene Kirilchuk. Oleg Zarubinsky will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u157	Dear, distinguished MPs! Dear members of the government! Honorable Predestination! We have a very important moment right now in the history of the work of the Supreme Council. We either go to some concessions, or we can split up without accepting the budget, and there's no third. There are many pretenses to the budget, and there have always been many, ideal budgets that have not been and will not be visible, always small, someone is missing, someone is not satisfied. But let's look at ourselves. To the Supreme Council, which only works for a third week more or less normal, but also with great powers. Why did the Supreme Council not consider the first draft of the Law in September according to the Regulations submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers? If we had considered it then, today we would only have made changes and amendments, and there would be no such colossals and so - called scandals and so - called discontents that are today. Why does everyone today say that there is little, little, little, little more? And then there's another question. Why is a bill that is budgeting so poorly supported? An example. There was a specific question. Surplus real estate tax? I'd call her that. It's too much. They didn't vote. Why didn't they vote? And because this is, as they say, more or less certainly a personal question. I don't think there are any hopeless situations. We have the opportunity to return to this budget in the first quarter, to work properly. At this point, fiscal laws will enter into force. And we're also going to look at how the National Bank is going to handle itself and specifically the dollar bracelet. We have the opportunity then to focus and correct so many of the problems that arise today. But how can we get out of retirement on January 1, without the salary of a disabled person, a pensioner, a family of many children, a teacher, a doctor, who literally has to receive pensions from January 5 to 20. So we should. No one has ever yelled at the dry one. Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u158	Yes, Oleg Zarubinski, please. We're running out of time. Time's up. Oleg Zarubinski. Well, please, one sentence.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u159	That's why I'm calling on everyone to support this bill and to give at least a little bit of hope or a gift, or hope for the people downstairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u160	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania” faction. The next one will be Vasiliev, the Party of Regions, or who will be speaking from the Party of Regions?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u161	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Everyone says the budget is complicated. I'll add, he's a crisis. And it's a crisis in both its content and its form. In the form of his acceptance, it is clear that the Supreme Council did not work for 11 months, only 2 weeks worked. But he's very critical of his content. On the other hand, I cannot help but express the surprise of a certain one, when MPs who have their representatives in the government, and half the government on the day of the adoption of the budget, are putting out a bill and voting for it that needs 20 billion more than the balance. I don't understand such positions. These are not moral positions. Now for the content of some articles. Officials of the government, article 6 states that the foundation of the 2009 State Budget is to be established by the excise assembly, both from the oil products produced in Ukraine and from the oil products imported into Ukraine. Does it make sense? It's difficult, but it makes sense. But here's the third position. Imported customs duties on petroleum products. This is in today’s six oil refineries of the Ukrainian three, three of them work without being modernized or producing those oil products and diesels, there are four, five that today require tens of millions of Ukrainians. Who will be affected? First of all, this will affect consumers. That means that a liter of 95th quality gasoline, and even 92nd, will be increased at a price of one-and-a-half bracelets. And it really is. Because there's VAT, there's increased excise duty, which is normal. But there is still a duty. I want to tell the government how to get out of this colossal. Like oil, as often has been, under the conditions of today's inability of our local Ukrainian oil refineries to convert petroleum products in certain positions into critical imports. Otherwise, we will use only diesel and inconsequential 76 gasoline. And there's more. A proposal was made yesterday by the Committee on Human Rights to preserve what was allocated to Mincult for September and a half million dollars, just one and a half million dollars for maintenance, to preserve the traditions of the various peoples living in Ukraine. Today this figure is only 150,000, there were one and a half million. And one more point about the Handsome. I'm taking the position of a profile committee. We're asking that one and a half million like that have been allocated to newspapers of national minorities. We now need peace in the country, including international peace. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u162	Mikola Janović Azarov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Prepare a representative from the faction “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u163	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Of course, it is surprising to me how the budget committee introduces such a bill in full seriousness. At least, first of all, because a number of bills have been voted on over the past few days, which have balanced both the income and expenditure lines of the budget. I ask the simple question: “Government what will be done with these bills: 3353, 3430 and so on?” At the end of the day, the main thing. This budget does not solve the problem in a crisis of critical importance: it is a problem of social protection. I have many arguments, but I advise you to read the conclusion of the Supreme Council Scientific Authority. I can get the numbers myself, of course. Please read Oleg Zarubinski of the bloc of Lithuania, who accused Yatsenuk of having voted at the insistence of the Government, the IMF, the International Monetary Fund, frozen wages and not only wages, but pensions and all social benefits. Please read this conclusion, it is here in what we have in mind, the conclusions of the budget committee. The second major issue to be addressed by the anti-crisis budget is the problem of job conservation, i.e. the problem of providing real assistance to the economy. These are orders for our businesses. The government's reference to a so-called stabilization fund that will not be filled and cannot be filled with anything is, at least, hypocrisy. I am surprised how the budget committee could have missed a unique budget article — to supplement the opportunity for the Government to issue securities in an unlimited amount, article 18) Moreover, it is the responsibility of the National Bank to purchase these securities. That is, in fact, the Government includes a printing press, and nothing secured government papers will be paid by the National Bank with our bracelets. What kind of inflation can we talk about? I am not saying that the budget is not planned on real macroeconomic indicators. Well, where do you think you're going before that? Growth is projected and so on, and so on, when there is no growth. For all of these things, it's our department of science and science.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u164	Finish up, please, Mikola Janović.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u165	Draws our attention, members of the people. Shall we close our eyes? I will answer Kirilczuk, who has worked for many years in the budget committee of the BUIT, who here has suffered from pensions, wages if we do not accept the budget. One twelfth of today's expenditure covers all completely socially protected budget items. It would therefore be better for the Government to consider the situation in which they have adopted and reviewed the budget proposals they have made to us. Take it easy in January to adopt a normal literacy budget, an anti-crisis budget. Unfortunately, this has not been much done and therefore this budget cannot be anti-crisis; it cannot be a stabilization budget. Regrettably, it will only strengthen the negative social situation in Ukraine's economy.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u166	Sebravsky Paul Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u167	Dear colleagues, I would like to start optimistically, to welcome all the Catholics of Ukraine with the great Christmas of Christ, to wish for all kinds of good things and inspiration. Now for the budget and for support or not support. In fact, that law, which draft law we've been given, is very difficult to view as a real document, because there's actually a fixed budget deficit of 31??? billion, and if you take the GDP that showed an increase of 0.4, that inflation rate is still blown by my estimate of about 35 billion dollars. So really all of those expenditure articles that are predicted are unconfirmed real incomes. Not enough, the budget committee was sitting down and there were factions' hotels for something else to fund. And in addition to these figures, a billion and a half billion dollars are made out of VAT, coming from VAT on imported goods. But there's not going to be any of that revenue. It's kind of like they chose what they needed to finance and then they drew the income. This is a dishonest budget, especially in crisis. I'd like to say that in our faction there are two points of view and at another point of view the next colleague will be speaking. But I think that this budget law needs to be sent to the government for work. I don't think this budget really solves any of the questions. We have to figure out three blocks, three directions of approach to the budget law, identify and reverse social populism, prepare and develop the income part to fill, then the whole difference between income and social expenditure is to focus on the unfolding, the game of the Ukrainian economy, in order to actually get a rise in gross domestic production and population income. Without such approaches, well, in these supplements, let's say that 20 million Butchi's socio-economic development, 15 million in insulin, across the country. Well, that's not even funny. It is today “I have blinded myself from what has been, ” it is called, not the law on the budget. And there are no political approaches here today, because in this country, there are no political approaches, because there are both me and you. And our parents, our children, live in this country. And so, in order to accept anything, it's wrong, you can't do that. And beyond that, I would like to emphasize. It is said that if the budget is not accepted, social costs are not financed. Nothing like that. If you take the first month, one twelve, it's about 15.2 billion under the new funding budget and 15.1 billion if you take one twelve from this year. No article will be destroyed, no article will be reduced, but a real budget needs to be prepared, a real economic document of the state -- a constitution for the next year, and then we can go on holiday and talk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u168	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u169	I think we can work out this budget, and in January-months without any loss for people to accept a balanced document that will actually be realistic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u170	Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u171	Dear colleagues, what must the budget decide at this difficult time? There is no doubt that it must provide people with jobs. There will be no jobs, there will be no budget, there will be no pensions. Second, it must guarantee the level of wages for the people, and this is the capacity to pay our people. Third, it must ensure food security, i.e. crop use, support for the village, food prices and so on. Consideration of the draft budget, also anti-crisis measures, requires us to take seriously what we must do today. In our view, the first is that we must introduce indicative planning and regulation today, without which it is not only possible to predict, but also, of course, to rule out negative developments. Today we must open an internal market for a domestic producer and suspend the entry into force of the WTO Act. Today we must bring criminal responsibility to those who today use the banking system for speculation. The banking system should only work for the domestic producer and work under the supervision of the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers. Today, we must draw up a list of enterprises that will receive direct loans from the banking system under 3-5 per cent of the annual, thus providing both jobs and wages. Today, too, energy prices, i.e. electricity, gas, coal, and oil, are required to be monitored. That is all, of course, and will help us to solve the first problem. To nationalize alcohol, liquor and factories, as well as tobacco factories, is a minimum of 20 billion that are so necessary for the budget in crisis situations. And for a period of crisis, for two to three years, this must be done in order not to translate all responsibility into ordinary people. For small and medium-sized businesses, which are almost 7.5 people, we today have to open doors to public policy to support their activities with low-cost loans of 3-5 per cent. I believe that it is necessary to transfer pensions today, based on the average wage in 2008, that is, more than one and a half thousand bracelets. In 2007, 928 bracelets have average wages, which are 77 per cent of our pensioners, 10 million of our veterans, who will also contribute to increased purchasing power and the development of the internal market. Not to fund the President's political “needs” today is also a means that we can release and channel to support our people. Second, wage levels do not answer the main question: How do you feed your family today? Therefore, we, the Communists, offer strict monitoring of food prices, tariffs for services of the JCC, medicines and so on. Thirdly, food security will be resolved with the financing of the APC of at least 18-20 billion grivens. And a few more proposals. Donors of the 2009 draft budget are today, pay attention to the distinguished colleagues, only the Dnepropetrov region and the city of Kiev. It's calculated.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u172	30 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u173	It still doesn't say that it's true. And since we have stopped being donors to the budget, there is almost a default in Ukraine and, of course, we have to think about radical budgeting measures. We can finally lose our country's defence capacity. I'm not talking about, let's say, allocating funds for the acquisition of technology, only spending 4.5 months on a soldier's food. After that, what, they have to run around the house? And the last. The increase in income today also depends on our professionalism. Comrades, Government representatives, see what you're showing. For the raw materials base of September, there was a project and the quantities of raw materials the same as you've taken into account today. So you're even forgetting what's real.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u174	Thank you, Peter Mikolaiovich. Well, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u175	And last but not least, respectable comrades. The budget shows that we really need to radically change our approach to governance. What is proposed today does not solve the problem, it only exacerbates it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u176	Thank you. Dear colleagues, now, from the factions, we are moving on to the performances of the national MPs. National Deputy Akimova, faction of the Party of the Regions. [[B in m in s a l in]] I have a computer called Akimov. I'm showing what's written. Next Borisov. Come on, I'll show you what's written in me. On the board, please give the names of the national deputies who are recorded for the talk. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u177	Dear colleagues, it has now been said repeatedly that the budget proposed by the Government is an anti-social budget. It is antisocial not only because it freezes the minimum wage and minimum subsistence minimum. He's making life worse. First of all, this is due to the fact that all costs of the JCC are completely frozen at the same level and the potential cost of the services of the JCC will increase by 30 to 50 per cent. With the cost of utilities rising, the amount of targeted fuel subsidies is frozen at the 2008 level. This means that the poorest people will not receive it either. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the cost of public health costs has been reduced by 1 billion, but that the level of health disruption is undescriptable. Let us now see how this budget ensures that jobs are maintained. First of all, he beats the APC. Secondly, almost ten times the cost of supporting the coal industry has been substantially reduced, with the increase in rent payments, our GMC sector will lose at least 1 billion griven. Where jobs will be taken, who will keep them, is completely behind the scenes. But what has not yet been said is that the budget is anti-regional, because so far the concentration of resources in the centre is doubling from 36 per cent to 60 per cent of resources in 2008 to the centre. At the same time, the potential of at least 10 billion dollars in local budget deficits that they will face this year has reduced subsidies to local budgets by 5 billion, thereby developing local self-government, thereby creating conditions for business development. That question too remains behind. And one more thing. On the macroeconomic forecast, the Government is deceiving, because if you convert into a real inflation rate of 17 per cent, we will get that the budget revenue will increase by 45 billion dollars. This is a source that can actually increase the cost of JCCs, social programmes and infrastructure projects today. Let us accept the real budget, let us base it on real figures, and only then will we see what we can do for the people and the economy of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u178	National MP Borisov, faction of "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense". John the Rabbit will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u179	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I don't know, unfortunately, the ideal budgets that are adopted at a time of steady economic growth and adopted in times of crisis. It's always a critical document, it's always one that doesn't satisfy one or the other positions, one or the other factions, the other representatives of the political forces, but every year, by listening to these very well-founded proposals and things, we still come to the point that the budget needs to be accepted. There are 37 people in “Our Ukraine” who have signed for membership in the coalition, for the election of the Head of the Supreme Council, and for the purpose of ensuring the work of Parliament in a stable manner, and for allowing for today's steady work of the government, taking responsibility, together with the government, for carrying out the socio-economic indicators that the government is proposing today, coming out of the crisis phenomena that are present today. I'm not going to analyze the professionalism of one or the other approach to creating a budget. It's heavy. It's unforgivable. It is such that today it truly reflects the crises present in our country. But it is still a document that allows, by approving it, to enter the new budget year with that budget document that allows the government to work today. So I am grateful to the government today that the proposals have been taken into account when working on the budget. Sadly, many were not counted. And so I'd like to support my colleagues who made suggestions from the hall and I'd like to propose one more thing. Excluding articles 59 and 60 of the provisions on VAT, and in article 3, paragraph 3, of the draft, to add, “out of the full market value of natural gas, including oil, self-produced gas”. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u180	Ivan Alexandrovich Hare, “Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense” faction, next will be Burlakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u181	John Hare, Ukrainian People's Party, faction “Our Ukraine”. UNODC notes the need for a substantial improvement of the state budget. Macroeconomic indicators based on the budget only undermine confidence in its income parameters. In particular, the projected GDP growth rate next year at 0.4 percent is in conflict with actual calculations, which are not talking about growth, but about GDP decline. In 2009, inflation was also projected to be 9 percent, while in 2008 it had already exceeded 21 percent. Increasing tax pressure on a national producer rather than reducing it threatens to overcome the economic crisis in Ukraine, as it creates new jobs, forms an income part of the budget, and costs the Pension Fund. In the energy sector, the 2009 budget does not take into account Ukraine's capacity as a European transit state, filling the income portion for increased gas and oil transit payments, as well as the use of Odessa Broda oil in a direct direction. We demand that the programme under code 0301430 “Creating a cultural and museum complex, the Art arsenal”, be submitted to section 2 of the Committee's proposals to the State Budget. This object, which will be able to significantly increase the income of the Ukrainian tourism industry by 2009. And you don't have to forget that. And remember, we can put to death the money already invested in this object. I also believe that, in order to substantially improve the budget, there is a need to increase reliance on State support for youth and children's organizations, public organizations, public programmes and measures for children, young people, women. That is, code 3401170 — up to 10 million dollars, code 3401070 — up to 10 million dollars. Another offer. I propose to increase the expenditure under code 5501010, the management and management of financial services markets, and this is the State Commission on Financial Services Markets. And I'm going to base it this way. In times of economic crisis, they will appear as mushrooms after the rain of various frauds, financial speculators, and creators of various MMMs. In short, financial abuse will increase. The reaction to such a reality would be to strengthen government control over financial services markets. That's what they do in this country. And we should do the same. But the money that's on this state commission today. They force her not to have communication services, the Internet to fold, and refuse to check financial structures. People, what are we doing in this situation? So let's think that this same committee, it can fill in revenue through fines, through license fees, and we undermine its terms so that we can't fight fraud. So, honourable national MPs, you have to take these supplements to improve the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u182	Burlakov National Deputy, faction of the Party of the Regions. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u183	I'm out of town. And then Alexander Nikolaevich Pecklusenko. I address, above all, the citizens of Ukraine. Today's budget, I've got an association that's made up of bad students based on ceiling figures and got a total solar budget. This budget is not even theoretically implemented and cannot be implemented. That's why I'm talking to the voters again. All your troubles that you will have tomorrow in cities, in areas, in villages, are not to blame, nor are the city councils, the district's faults. It is your woes today that the Government has laid down in this budget. I'll get one number. The local budget is based on an income tax of 88 per cent. Thus, income tax today is at the same level as in 2008, even more than a billion dollars. The total is 45 billion. This is at all, with unemployment increasing, wages falling four times, five times, i.e. it's never going to happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u184	Please proceed to the People's Chamber.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u185	Dear colleagues, more important than we are discussing today, cannot and cannot be. I'd like everyone to go back to the hall and get back to their problems. Today's dispute began a year ago when we told you it was a budget for destruction, you said it was a budget for prosperity. Today, there is not one person in the country who does not know who is right in this dispute. Unfortunately, we are. You've planned 290 billion incomes. With all the changes, Anatoly Ivanovich, you all got them. What is the question, "Did you plan wrong or, to put it mildly, did you use them wrong?" The wrong government cannot do anything right. You always throw us under a new budget tree, and this time you hope we can't read the basics. In revenue, you plan 15 billion, 70 per cent of which you hang in the Territory. And you charge 70 percent and you give 30 percent to the territories. You don't have 10 billion dollars on inflation alone. These are the budgets of Zaporozhye and Zakarpata. What do you hope they're gone? And most of all. I speak as Zaporozhye's deputy to my colleagues. You know, in this budget, all the power is the President's promise to the Zaporozhye Bridges, the Prime Minister's one and a half. I'm telling you, guards, there's zero in this budget for a separate line on the Zaporozhye Bridges. Do you really have a hand to vote on the anti-zaporous budget? I'm talking to my colleagues. I am therefore confident that today those deputies who support the sound proposals of the Party of the Regions, those who have not signed the Lipa coalition, those who have a conscience.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u186	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u187	I can only say the last. Why is this budget called optimistic? Because the voter pessimist says, "The budget can't be worse." And the optimist from the Government says, "Maybe." That's why he's called optimistic. Neither such a government nor such optimism is needed by Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u188	Vladimir Avrumovich Polachenko, faction “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense”. And invite the deputies to the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u189	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich was voted by 410 votes to prevent the financial crisis from developing the housing sector. Many thanks to all of the one and a half million builders and five million others, including metallurgists and chemists, for their unanimity support of this law. We are grateful to the metallurgists who in their forum in Donetsk, when there was a question about how to help the metallurgists, they said, first of all, help the builders and builders, then we'll have an internal market and we won't depend on anyone. It's not just building support, it's social procurement. It is indicative and symbolic that the President and Prime Minister have no differences in financing the construction of affordable housing. The president proposed non-state support for the citizens of 0.5 GDP, the Prime Minister for the opening of an affordable home in Poltava to happy teachers, military personnel, doctors offered a figure slightly higher than 8 billion. The question is: Will there be stability in the building industry? Do we not support the middle class in Ukraine today? After all, 30 percent is State aid, and the other 70 are resources to be made. State support for the construction of affordable housing will stimulate production growth, save hundreds of thousands of people from unemployment. Therefore, I would like to support and vote in favour of the inclusion in the State budget of expenditure of 0.5 per cent of GDP of non-State support for citizens who need improvement in housing conditions. With the hope of its solution and hundreds of thousands of arabites, think about it! These are millions of construction workers who have been cut off from their parents ’ doorstep, from their mothers, and from their parents who have returned home and are now unemployed. And they won't let them in. And tens of thousands of Ukrainians who have invested in construction and for whom today there is a threat of becoming forced “elites” because there is no way to complete unfinished buildings. I am very grateful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u190	Ladies and gentlemen, the discussion is over. Please, Mikola Ivanovich Derkach. He doesn't have a closing word. From the Cabinet of Ministers, Anatoly Ivanovich Merkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u191	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! We have carefully taken note of all your suggestions. Part of these proposals will be resolved by this budget and are already accounted for by many things, part of which we have written an article in the budget, which provides for a correction of the corresponding budgetary indicators in the first place, based on economic analysis and budget implementation in the first half of 2009. I'd like to confirm some of the suggestions made in this room for the transcripts so that we can take them into account when we're working on it. Well, first of all, it's about spending a lot on the Ministry of Internal Affairs on the revenue that's coming in, and it's being administered by this body. Second, it is where the correction in Article 3(3), but the wording needs to be changed, supplemented by the cost and profitability of the extraction. Further refers to the exclusion from articles 59 and 60 of the words “Croakcraft”. In article 76, a number of adjustments are needed, namely, to increase the cost of building museum complexes by 200 million dollars in the same way as the code 0301430, which is in effect this year due to the corresponding changes in the cost of recapitalization of the banking system. In addition, add to the paragraph where the investment funds for the regions are provided after the words “Kirovogradska region” in parentheses “for the construction of the district oncodispancer”. In addition, complement the direct application of article 76 of the settlement, the arrangement of deported Crimean Tatars, and other nations. And I have one more request, considering that we have done our utmost work on this bill, to accept it in the first reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u192	Dear colleagues! Please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal of a committee supported by the government to adopt the draft Ukrainian Law on State Budget 2009, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the basis and as a whole as a law, as a law that takes into account the proposals made by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on budget issues to the bill, as set out in the Committee's letter, and taking into account the proposals made by the Ministry of Finance, which were recently confirmed in the presentation. Please vote. [[18:37:35]] For 223 The decision is not taken. Please show the factions, please. Region Party 4, Timoshenko Yulia Block - 155, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” – 4, Communist faction – 0, “Litvina Block” – 20. I am voting for a return to the draft State Budget Act. Please vote. Please vote. [[18:38:14]] For 221 The decision is not taken. Please sign up, five minutes. Yes, please, on the board of names. Yuri Karmazin, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u193	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. Dear people's deputies, there are two ways in which we have one with us: one is very bad, and the other is not very good either. Yeah? The first option is to go celebrate now. You didn't accept my offer to work on the 29th, 30th, 31st, with Catherinechuk Mikola Dmitrovitch as a legislative proposal. You didn't accept. Now, the alternative is to leave the country without budget, without hope, without expectations. The bad budget is no question, but we can improve it on the second reading, each of us with you. We see that it's not a funded and space sector, we see that electronics isn't funded, other things are scientific. But there are ways to feed, to cultivate, to feed. I therefore urge everyone to return to the vote and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u194	Dear colleagues! Oleg Belarus, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u195	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, citizens of Ukraine! This is a critical moment. The Supreme Council of Ukraine is obliged to adopt the most important economic law, a law that will determine the fate of every citizen. We have no right to leave this room today until we make a balanced, responsible decision. I call upon my colleague from the faction of "Our Ukraine People's Self-Defense," you see that today the President and the Prime Minister together, they're in Crimea, they're in trouble, they're in trouble, they're in trouble. But today's crisis and disaster all over Ukraine is a crisis. We have to respond to this crisis in a patriotic, civic way. I call.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u196	Jaroslav Suhi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u197	I ask you to pass the word to Alexander Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u198	Alexander Efraemov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u199	Thank you very much. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! Let us remember 2004, Vladimir Mihajlovich, under your leadership as the Supreme Council. You voted in the same order in favour of the Constitution, which has been in place for four years in all the people of Ukraine. That's the first one. Second, we finished our work at 18.15. Already 18.40, you're still putting up a vote. Third, you're forging a vote. We officially state that we have two people's deputies, Gorbal and the Chief, who have not pressed the buttons, by the way, they are not in the room now, but show what they have voted. We therefore request that this vote be taken into account and that the circus be concluded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u200	Katerina Vaschuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u201	Dear national MPs, honourable members of the government, really today is a very difficult day for the Supreme Council, a major document of the country and it does not seem to satisfy any of the national MPs and any of the members of the government. But we all understand, along with the fact that a year to start without a budget is even worse. I think that the government officials sitting in this bed should go back to one chapter and, I know, don't vote many national MPs. This is the chapter “Financing the APK”. In particular, if we leave only 300 million loans and loans to the village, which I asked the prime minister, as she reported on the budget, we will not sow. And there's nothing to collect. What will be the budget as the village stands? Now say and add what you can download when you can add.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u202	People's deputy Karpuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u203	Please pass the word to Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u204	Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u205	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “For Ukraine” MP. Dear colleagues, we cannot vote for a budget that the Ukrainian issues are completely disregarded. We've asked for it many times, give it to the Ministry of Defense, because it's a matter of security. The world is troubled. Ukraine is sometimes defenseless. They spoke, said, so the budget committee worked brilliantly, added one million dollars to prepare the students for the Society’s Aeroclubs to contribute to the defence of Ukraine. Is that some kind of bullying or something? Next. The Ministry of Culture -- less than 5 million to make all films in Ukrainian years -- has not been given four years. There were 50 million and more. Are you saying you can take one of the movies off for the money you're offering? An anti - Ukrainian decision. The Ukrainian Institute of National Memory added 20,000 dollars. You think we're gonna vote for this? Vote for yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u206	Vladimir Bondarenko, faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u207	Dear friends, today there has been a vote that has, unfortunately, divided the room by the way it deals with the problems that exist in the state. Of course, we all have so many wishes for this budget, there's so much in each fraction, but it's a survival budget. If we start pulling each of these blankets today, we're just going to tear it apart, and this blanket, unfortunately, is our country that can disappear today in the diaphragm. So I would like to refer to the biggest patriots who today call themselves exactly your faction, the faction “Our Ukraine” did not give the votes that are necessary, the few votes needed to approve the budget. Of course, we're going to get through this one day, but I would like you to make a statement of your attitude to this nation and not execute its teams in the morning, and many things happened in the day, and dozens and hundreds of your proposals were taken into account, but the early team didn't cancel and you're dieting, so if you'll excuse me, it's not very smart today under the conditions that we've faced. I urge you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-25-m1.u208	Dear colleagues! We exchanged thoughts, me, for a minute. I, my esteemed colleagues, have advertised and addressed you, there are accusations here, I understand that they will always sound. In accordance with Rule 44, if the matter is to be considered, the decision must be concluded. That's the first one. The other one. Dear colleagues! Since there have been further accusations here, I would like to inform you that on December 8, 2004, when voted for political reform, I personally organised the vote, but I did not personally vote in favour of the Party of Regions, which voted unanimously in favour of the decision. Therefore, we do not need to look for those who are to blame. As for the Gorbal and the Head cards, I've already asked and I've given them right away to figure it out and get them back to where they're supposed to be. But, dear colleagues, I asked you to clear up, including the Standing Committee, to my great regret, I can't walk and watch cards, but I can figure it out and make the right decision. And for the rest. I will put to the vote the adoption of the draft law and the Supreme Council will have to make a decision. On the ground, if you don't take it as a whole. Please put to the vote, prepare for adoption on the basis of the draft law on Ukraine's State Budget for 2009, taking into account the budget committee's proposals as well as the Ministry of Finance, i.e. the government. Please vote on the basis. [[6:47:28]] For 219 The decision is not taken. Let me show you through the factions. Region Party – 1, Block Timoshenko – 155, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” – 43, Communist faction – 0, “Block of Lithuania” – 20. At this, my fellow officials, I declare the evening meeting of the Supreme Council closed. I'm asking tomorrow at 9:30 P.M., as well as the head of the budget committee and the government representative to meet in the office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We'll start working in plenary tomorrow at 10 o'clock.
