ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u1	Good morning, dear colleagues, I ask you to register with the "Council" system. [[10:02:04]] There are 394 Ukrainian National Deputies registered in the Hall, and the morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine declares it open. I'd like to start by saying hello on behalf of the Parliament of Tulchinski Mikoli Georgievovich, our colleague. Let's welcome Mikola Georgievich on her birthday. [[Applause]] In accordance with article 25, paragraph 5, of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, we should consider today matters of order that were not considered on Tuesday and Wednesday according to schedule. But two questions, namely, Bill No. 1365 and 1366, on the proposal of the President's Secretariat, and I would like to make this proposal for your consideration. They are asking to postpone the consideration of these bills. What is involved in this is the respectable national MPs. In the last two days, you and I have been with you solely for political reasons, not for substantive reasons, and we have put down a few key laws for the development of entrepreneurship. So it would be appropriate that, regardless of the authorship of these bills, we, at the Conciliation Council meeting on Monday, decide on a consolidated vote on purely apolitical bills, which are solely aimed at deregulation of entrepreneurship and simplification of work for ordinary entrepreneurs. For the sake of not having this political decoration and effectiveness of our work, and of not rejecting these bills as we can only consider them at the next session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I think we should go to the meeting, postpone the consideration of these bills, and by Monday on the Conciliation Council, we will be determined to vote on bills that are purely economic. Because our voters will then ask us, and the left side of them are people who do small and medium-sized business, which is what we actually did to deregulation entrepreneurship. As for the order of the day on. According to the transcript of April 7, 2008, you and I have decided that we will start today on Thursday from listening to information from the Ukrainian government on Ukraine's entry into the World Trade Organization and considering issues related to, first, the ratification of the Protocol on Ukraine's entry into the World Trade Organization and the consideration of those bills that have been prepared, passed by committees and may report to the Government of Ukraine on the final stage of Ukraine's accession to the World Trade Organization. The next agenda is proposed. We have present Minister of Economy of Ukraine Danilishin Bogdan Mihajlovich, present Deputy Minister of Economy Petnice Valerij Teziyovich is the main negotiator who, in accordance with the President's decree, has actually conducted all negotiations on Ukraine's accession to the World Trade Organization. Therefore, at the request of our factions, I would like to give a brief account of the completion of Ukraine's accession to the World Trade Organization, further question-and-answer procedure, starting with ratification and completing the other laws necessary to complete Ukraine's accession to the WTO. If that position is accepted, I wanted to consult with you, colleagues. The most substantive topic is known by the Deputy Minister of Economy of Ukraine, Valérie Pétnicky, who has been conducting all the negotiations over the last seven years. So, Bogdan Mihajlovich, how do you determine who will speak on the rostrum – the Minister of Economics or the Deputy Minister of Economics who owns the subject? I suggest that Valérie Teziyovich go to the rostrum and tell them that they've signed the last seven years. Valerius Teziyovich Petnicki, please. The minister will be present and ready to answer any questions you may have. Please, Valery Teziyovich. Vladimir Mikhailovich, do you want out of the procedure? You want out of the procedure? Valerius Teziyovich, wait. Please sign in with the procedure, five minutes. Gerasimchuk. A word. To whom is the word given? Gerasimchuk, “Block of Lithuania”. Vladimir Litwin. Please switch.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, we agreed on the Conciliation Council that we would hear, not the information, but the report on the Treaty of Accession of Ukraine to the WTO, and we would discuss it. Because I want to stress again, and here was a eloquent testimony about who's going to report, because the minister. did not give complete information about what was signed, which contract was concluded. I am convinced that the main negotiators will not be responsible for the consequences of such an agreement. That's the first one. Let's go over this in full procedure. And the second. Some of the draft laws relating to the entry into WTO were received in the morning. yesterday. Therefore, we need to get to know them in order to have the committees fully reviewed, and we have the right to consider the treaty first, not the laws concerning the entry into WTO. If necessary, let's make a deal, discuss it and make the right decisions, because some of the bills have been discussed here for four years.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u3	Peter DiBenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u4	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. First of all, I'd like to go to our electorate, to our radio audiences and ask them to listen very carefully to the broadcast from the Ukrainian Supreme Council meeting hall today, because there's going to be a lot of interesting things today in terms of how they're going to "give up" the interests of the country's producer, and how they're going to lobby the interests of the foreign producer, and then they're going to tear up the shirt on their chests as they love Ukraine. And the second. I would also like to address the Head of the Supreme Council with such a proposal or question. We have the first question among the lists of SOTA laws 0041, which is the ratification of the agreement, and the Soviet laws continue to be followed. I think it would be logical if we first looked at the laws and the agreement summed up the process, because it kind of generalizes the process of Ukraine's accession to the WTO. How do you feel about this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u5	Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u6	Dear reporter! Vladimir Yavorowski. The position of the ‘Julia Tymoshenko Block’, which has been inserted in this question, looks like this. Ukraine has long gone to the final conclusion of its journey to the WTO. The adoption of these bills, which we have put forward today, could be passed on, because this is our internal question. The main problem is, of course, the ratification of the Sotoov Agreement. Because of this, the Yulia Timoshenko Block believes that we can't delay this question any longer; the clock is turned on; the time is coming for us to ratify this agreement. Because Arsenija Petrovich, if we have gone and the decision is already made that we are considering these bills today, let us look at them, pedanically, according to our Rules, but to make the report that Lithuania has said, we need when we ratify these documents already. Then we're going to have to make a fundamental report, discuss this issue -- and ratify this document at last. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u7	Olena Lukash.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u8	Thank you, Arsenia Petrovich. Please note the negative conclusion of the scientific and legal department that we're about to be handed out to us in this room. And I pass the word to Alexander Lavrinovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u9	Alexander Lavrinovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u10	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! I would like to point out that in this room the vast majority of the Ukrainian national deputies welcome the introduction of Ukraine to the World Trade Organization. And many governments have made great efforts to draw us closer to the possibility of entry. The two governments led by Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic made the greatest effort. Today, I find great disrespect for the Ukrainian Parliament and for the Ukrainian authorities in general to put into order the day-to-day issue of the ratification of the agreement, which in volume -- more than two thousand pages -- only came into Parliament yesterday. None of the deputies have read them, the contents of the latest protocols have not been seen. We call for ratification of what no one has seen or read. We do.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u11	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u12	Yuri Carmazin. I have a question for the Head of the Supreme Council. Dear Arsenius Petrovich, you have the trust of deputies and society. So from your mouth, take responsibility for Law 1365, which you have proposed not to consider, to see if it is an economic law. I say this is anti-national law 1365. I'm willing to prove it. I want to, I can prove it to you one at a time, and I can make every argument. Because it absolutely makes all Ukraine open without all the junk that Europe long wanted to get rid of. It wasn't developed by the government, although it was for the President to develop a government. It was developed in other offices and then moved, put on by the President. So, Your Honor Arsenius Petrovich, we voted in favour of the agenda, let's look at it day by day. I'm against the removal of such a law. We need everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u13	Thank you. Dear colleagues, once again, I would like to point out that there was a decision by the Conciliation Board regarding information. If individual national deputies want this to be a report, it means a report by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on Ukraine’s accession to the World Trade Organization. This protocol, which contains an incredible number of pages, is the result of the work of all governments. And I fully and fully support one of the reporters, Oleandra Volodymyrovich. He said that the left side of the work, including that of the government of Viktor Fedorovich. So for all of these things there are corresponding acts, signed decrees. I think the Deputy Minister of Economics is going to tell us all about us. Who will have questions for the Minister of Economics, he's sitting in the rostrum. So I'm going to ask you to start looking at this question. Valerius Teziyovich Petnicki, please report to Parliament on Ukraine's entry into the WTO.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u14	Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, distinguished national deputies, the process of joining the World Trade Organization has been going on for over 14 years, as you know. And indeed, this is the work that many governments have done, not just one generation of national MPs, it has adopted the necessary legislative acts. And this is the work of many, not even hundreds, but thousands of people who have worked hard to bring Ukraine to the level today when Ukraine has been recognized and accepted by the World Trade Organization, and we are left with the last step -- the ratification of the protocol for entry into the World Trade Organization. So today we're saying that Ukraine, in fact, is preparing for the introduction to this organization, it has all the right legislative base, it has all the right institutions that are capable of doing this. Today, business is working in conditions where international competition is growing when globalization is an integral part of the world, and Ukraine is a part of this world. So if we're talking about the World Trade Organization and what we've joined up with, first of all, I'd like to say it's a system of rules. A system of rules that is now operated by more than 150 countries around the world. And this system of rules has become part of our Ukrainian legislation, our Ukrainian life. And when we talk today about the changes in legislation that we may be considering today, it's actually cosmetic changes to existing legislation, and all the work has been done over the last five years, and it's really huge work. Nearly 60 laws were passed. And these laws apply to the whole spectrum of the economy of Ukraine and economic regulation, starting with tariff regulation, non-tariff measures, all measures related to the protection of the internal market, technical regulation, sanitary and phytosanitary regulation, protection of intellectual property rights, development of the service market, and so on. And today, if you speak very briefly, describe what we have achieved and what the outcome of these negotiations are and what is being ratified today. The Protocol is a small document in itself that contains, in fact, a position on Ukraine's accession to the World Trade Organization and the definition of our State's acceptance of this organization. On the other hand, it contains a series of plugins. The first plugin to apply to tariff schedules. These are the limits to which Ukraine can regulate its tariffs. During the negotiation process, we joined a number of sectoral initiatives. Moreover, accession to these sectoral initiatives was determined back in the early 2000s. The decrees of the resident in 2001-2002 confirmed the accession to these sectoral initiatives. The negotiations were based on the concept of customs tariff transformation, which was approved back in 1996. And so to this day those agreements that have been reached, in most of their cases they are even higher than those that were envisioned by the concept. That's the first one. The other one. They are little different from the one in force today’s customs tariff. And if we look at some changes, these are changes again that are cosmetic. In general, the average customs duty on agricultural products, which is foreseen by this protocol, will be about 11 percent for industrial products, 5 percent for industrial products. But what we need to understand here is what is produced, for example, among agrarians, is tropical. And there, of course, is zero. When it comes to production that traditionally refers to one produced in Ukraine, of course, there are the highest tariffs. One of the highest tariffs is sugar duty. And that's 50 percent. Industrial production, as I have already pointed out, is also an average of 5 percent. But you also have to look at the structure. Usually, if we're talking about raw materials, we're talking about composites and so on, then of course, this is going down to zero. If we're talking about produce that's being produced in Ukraine, it's going to be higher, and they're going to provide the necessary level of protection for the internal market. If we're talking about agriculture, a very sensitive issue, then we've agreed in the negotiation process to provide a level of support that has not been achieved so far even by the 2008 budget. And if we're talking about the aggregate level of support, this is a level that shouldn't even go down, it's over three billion dollars. In addition, we can apply even support within the yellow box, which is made up of non-products, also more than three billion dollars. And what kind of food, specific, is over 600, three billion dollars. And additional product support, which also depends on the gross volume of production, which is about 600 million. And when it comes to the green box, it's actually unlimited quantities. If you say so today, in the 2008 budget, all of these baskets account for less than 10 billion dollars, much less than what we can apply in the World Trade Organization. In terms of the service market, today virtually all services markets are regulated at that level and access to these markets takes place within the limits provided for in the current Ukrainian legislation. And we don't have to make any changes in practice, and we don't have to apply anything. There are certain sectors where transitional periods are foreseen for us to adapt to World Trade Organization activities. This applies, in particular, to the insurance market, if you know and have adopted appropriate legislation last year, there is a five - year transitional period for accessing the insurance market for the branch of insurance companies in foreign countries. In terms of technical regulation, sanitation, phytosanitary measures, we have joined in in recent years and are actively participating in leading international organizations. In particular, if we're talking about sanitary, phytosanitary measures, this is the International Epizootic Bureau. We are members of the Elementarius Codex, and our commitments are in fact a reflection of the situation that is currently in force in Ukraine. That is, which reflects the level of protection of this market, more faithfully, the level of application of these measures for today, which is operating in Ukraine's market. If we're talking about technical regulation, it's also a process of increasing Ukraine's accession to the recognition and use of international standards. Before participating in international relevant organizations, and you know that we are members and the International Organization of Standardization, we are trying to maximize the harmonisation of our system from international, European and so forth. The next chapter on the protection of intellectual property rights has been done here, and today, on an equal footing, we are really getting closer to the level that is in place in the European Union. At the same time, of course, there is much work to be done here, but this work will be done within the framework of membership of the World Trade Organization. There are negotiations within the STO on geographical indications, and there are negotiations on the use of genetics and so on and so forth. And here Ukraine is already prepared, it has an appropriate legislative base, it is a participant in relevant international conventions, and we join this organization with a full understanding of how we will continue to work. Perhaps, in some respects, such allegations are very common that we have worse conditions than in other countries. Today, I can say that Ukraine has conditions that meet those of the countries that have joined in the last time and are far from worse. And examples include, for example, the application of various protective measures. We have highly developed legislation on protective measures, this is also about dumping imports, on subsidized imports and so on. And today, even in a report from the working group, it was predicted that Ukraine was using its own legislation because it had a highly developed system. We can apply other regulatory measures, such as export duties, if necessary. Today, we have every opportunity to use this tool if necessary. We can apply a variety of restrictions when there are market imbalances or other imbalances. So today we are fully, I believe, prepared to join the World Trade Organization. And those laws that have to be passed are cosmetic laws that actually put those rules in circulation that have been caused by time demands much more than those that are stipulated by the WTO treaties. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up. Twenty minutes of questions and answers. Please, Peter Hassuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u16	Peter Haszuk, “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko”. Please state, Mr. Deputy Minister, and in the area of cross-border relations. What good would it do our nation to sign the laws you've been talking about? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u17	You do. What about speeding up the movement of goods across borders, you mean?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u18	He means cross-border cooperation.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u19	When it comes to cross-border cooperation, first of all, when we talk about relations with our immediate neighbours, of course, it will do the best it can to improve these relationships, because really, the necessary procedures should be simplified as much as possible, not at the expense of Ukraine's simplification of these procedures, and these procedures will be harmonized. So it's going to take a lot less time to go through the necessary formalities, whether it's customs formalities, or border formalities, and so on and so forth.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u20	Davidenko, “Our Ukraine”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u21	Andrew Davidenko, Ukrainian People's Party, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense”. I have a question about customs tariffs. The Minister's office has already passed a bill on customs tariff changes, where it goes completely to lower tariffs, with a percentage ratio of one unit. We've got a lot of bets going on today, where there's at least that much euro per unit of measure. It's a requirement of the WTO to get rid of that kind of edit, and whether we can leave it in order to eliminate customs abuses, when the customs value of the goods is undervalued, or if we can leave a double rate, where there will be at least so much euro per unit of measure.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u22	You know, in the World Trade Organization it's a general practice, going to ad valorem rates, that's percent. And when we talk about the arrangements that we have today under the signed protocols, we have only some types of products that are specific to the kind of products that are so most sensitive in terms of evaluation, it's alcohol, it's tobacco, and so on. In most cases, we're actually going to ad valorem. At the same time, we've fully harmonized all our legislation on customs valuation, we've adopted appropriate explanatory notes on the definition of customs value. So today, customs are armed with all the necessary modern instruments that apply all the customs of the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u23	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u24	Yuri Carmazin. Mr. Deputy Minister, you've apparently met the expert conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. If we met, why weren't we given those documents, the text of the Marrakesh Agreement on the establishment of the WTO and the impact on the budget to have, I personally intend to vote for the ratification, but I want to know what will have a negative impact on the budget for the reduction and change to the customs, to the Law on the Customs Tariff of Ukraine, because the rates will be lower than those of the foreign duty rates that they are now. So we've had budget losses for this year, and we still have to think about how to increase how to reduce anti-inflationary measures, increase and so on, and reduce these impacts seriously. How, then, if there is no chart, do you not?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u25	As far as the Marrakesh covenant is concerned. In general, the texts of all the World Trade Organization treaties, they were translated in Ukrainian as early as 1998, they were published several times, they appeared to each Parliament to have the corresponding texts of the treaties, they were transmitted in a printed form, and more than that, they were all posted on the website. So these agreements, you can get to know them quite easily. What's going on with the downsizing of the myths. All the corresponding downturns, they don't happen spontaneously, all these calculations, they were done, they were considered by the Customs Council. What's more, in many cases, in those types of products that are very often reduced, these duties are banned and imports are actually occurring from countries with which we have a free trade regime and this regime provides for zero duty. That's why they're integrated. Integrated indicators show that there will be no budget cuts. What's more, if we're really solving border issues and clear border controls, actually and
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u26	Alexander Lavrinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u27	Dear Valery Teziyovich! We have some of the signed bilateral protocols for a transitional period of adaptation of individual sectors of the Ukrainian economy to WTO requirements. Please tell me, at what stage is the development of an adaptation program for these sectors to work under the terms of the World Trade Organization? Do you not also consider it necessary to consider, at the same time as the ratification of the Protocol, the proposals of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine which will provide for such measures regarding the economy of Ukraine as a whole and all the ingredients that we have signed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u28	Thank you for asking. Well, when it comes to specific issues arising out of signed protocols, as I have already pointed out, in the vast majority of our own, in the vast majority of our majority, we have all the necessary legislation and legislation that is in force today, which is either the report of the working group or the rules of the signed protocol. In terms of measures, of course, these measures are part of a government activity program that is traditionally approved. I mean, there can't be, from our point of view, separate actions for the WTO, separate measures for European integration, separate measures for Ukraine's economy. So this is our country's integrated development. That is why they should be considered in general. Of course, we both annually and constantly approve of various measures designed to adapt to those or other requirements. Moreover, we will be involved in the negotiations of the World Trade Organization. It's a system that's developing. And we're going to have to change things all the time and adapt to something. So there are certain transitional periods. I've already called. The insurance sector. Of course, necessary legislation must be developed here. But we have a five - year transition.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u29	Let me finish. Repeat about the transition period, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u30	And we have, for example, a five - year transition period. And over the course of that time, we need to develop this sector, we need to change the rules of the game, we need to change the legislation to adapt to the level of competition that foreign companies will be able to access here, but this is the time that we need to use. And so I fully agree with you that you need to clearly formulate measures that will be designed to adapt to those or other requirements that arise within the WTO. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u31	Nadona's Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u32	I ask you to pass the word to Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u33	Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u34	Thank you. Martinuk is a faction of Communists. Dear Valery Teziyovich, I have a question of this order. First. Please tell me if we ratify the Protocol and not adopt the legislative acts proposed by the government. Whether this ratification of the protocol will be recognized by the WTO, or whether we need to sign something again and re-ratify it. That's one question. And the second. I'd like to know if it's the last time we've been doing this -- these 10 laws -- is there going to be any more bills that require us to do this? And to you, Arsenius Petrovich, the question of such order. Of the eight bills that we're discussing today, only three are committee submissions. I don't even see a committee tabled for a basic bill, for ratification itself. I guess the committee wasn't looking. Would it not be better to limit our discussion of these Soviet laws today and to move their consideration?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u35	Please Valery Teziyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u36	Adam Ivanovich, maybe I'll start at the end. Is there anything else we need to take? Well, you know, the world economy is developing. Ukraine is developing, of course we will have to adapt all the time to the new requirements, to the requirements of competition and so on. But this is not to be considered as a requirement of the WTO. It's a time requirement, it's a requirement that we be an adequate player in the world market, competitive, so we have to adapt to new requirements. What about the Protocol will it be? So I can say it this way. According to the Marrakesh covenant mentioned, there are 16 articles and 4, paragraph 4. And it states that the country that joins the World Trade Organization ensures that the relevant agreements and protocols are implemented through its domestic legislation, through the adoption of relevant legislation. If we do not accept, this means that we are not fulfilling an international agreement, that is, we are violating our obligations under an international agreement. So we have to do them. What's more, even if we're breaking them, it's in the frame.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u37	Finish it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u38	If we violate, and any country, there are no countries that do not violate, there is a dispute settlement procedure. That is, we may have a corresponding complaint from individual countries regarding a specific point of violation, and this dispute will be considered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u39	Thank you. Larine gives the floor to Deputy Pecklesenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u40	Hell, the faction of the region. You've made a good report, the essence of which is, "We'll be all right." But unfortunately, our voters don't live anywhere, they work on a particular enterprise, they live on a particular territory, so they're worried about what's going to happen to the plant, what's going to happen to the territory. We have clear tasks with you — to increase production, increase employment, pay, and budget revenues when we join the STO. All of this can be done by developing, not a government programme, but a national programme, which can first and foremost be developed within the walls of the Supreme Council, in committees. We need methods of protection and adaptation for the transition period. Therefore, there is no alternative to joining the WTO, and we will support this protocol after it has been considered by procedure in most of the committees of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u41	Paul Silent.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u42	Dear Bogdan Mikhailovich. Paul Mokchan, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. According to the proposed document, Ukraine agrees to cancel and not impose quantitative restrictions on imports or to apply other nontariff measures that are not covered by WTO requirements. The agricultural sector also has Ukraine’s refusal to subsidize exports, and restrictions are imposed on the marginal size of support for the domestic producer of agricultural products that will affect trade. I would like to ask: Will you have any effect on the entire agricultural sphere in Ukraine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u43	Well, if you don't mind, I'll answer, too, starting at the end. In order to be clear about the agricultural sector in specific figures: the aggregate level of support provided by our protocols is 3 billion. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and to the general budget of the Union. The bracelet, that's the first level that's fixed. Then, product support, food support, which is not fixed and which does not exceed the five - percent level of gross production and depends on gross production. The shaft is growing, the support is increasing, it's 613 billion. Not food support, which also depends on gross production, today is 3 billion. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and to the general budget of the Union. The Green Box programs for today are 2 billion. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and the general budget of the Union and the Green programs, if you look at the ratio between Greens and Yellow, among 100 percent of the support for Green Box is 25 percent. In Europe, this support is 75 percent, the opposite. So we can grow green support programs. It's infrastructure development, it's pest control, it's land improvement.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u44	Valérie Konovaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u45	Thank you. Dear reporter, the issue of Ukraine's accession to the World Trade Organization is a really important issue for our economy. I'm here, I'm here, reverend. Please tell me, within two months of the signing of the Protocol, what specific measures have already been taken by the Ministry of Economics? What refinements and adjustments have been made before the government’s programme of activities for this year? How do you think that's going to affect the indicators and balance of our external trade? You know that the balance is going to go up, and the dynamics are going to be around 10 billion by the end of the year. Is that what you're talking about? How should indicators and government budgets be adjusted, that is, what corresponds to the 27th article of the Code of Budgets? So you had to learn about the experience of countries that actually had some consequences after joining the organization in order to offer in general today.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u46	You know, here you can give a lot of examples of what measures are envisaged and so on. Again, a very sensitive sector is agriculture. You know that a lot has been done. You have to cancel out some of the benefits, pay the VAT and so on and so forth. On the basis of these calculations, the calculation of the support was used to provide the corresponding costs in the budget, i.e. through programs supporting the relevant sectors. So if you look at agriculture, you have 30, 35, 40 percent increased subsidies for various kinds of products. For example, 3,000 dollars are paid for cattle. And so on and so forth. If we talk about the various measures that apply to the protection of the internal market, I've already told you, we have them. They exist whether these are anti-dumping measures or special measures and so forth. We have regular investigations. As you know, we're using a whole range of protective measures in case there's dumped imports here. When it comes to the growth of the negative balance. Yes, unfortunately, that is a fact. But here we have to see what the structure of this growth of the negative balance is.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u47	Let me finish. That's an important question. Please, Valery Teziyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u48	We can't rule out the fact that there's been a general increase. prices of growth in the energy market, raw materials and so on. Ukraine has a lot to do with the rise in these prices, and we're actually going through an adjustment period. Moreover, Ukraine is growing faster and faster. This requires investment goods, that is, if investment increases, it also has a very significant impact on the growth of the negative balance. So this is the stage that other countries have been going through, our neighbors. But as they grow this potential, then they compete on an equal footing today with the most developed countries in the world, so we really need to go through this stage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u49	Yuri Litwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u50	Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u51	Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u52	Thank you, Arseny Petrovich. Dear Valery Teziyovich, I will ask very two serious questions. I ask them to answer very clearly. First question. Please tell me whether the ratification of Ukraine's entry into the 2041 World Trade Organization bill depends on further voting or not voting for the seven bills proposed today. Tell me clearly, this will depend on the vote, and I am convinced that many deputies will. And the second question. Tell me, please, everyone knows that the entrance to the SAT is positive, Valery Teziyovich, brings benefits and brings down the minuses. Why is it that today, or in parallel, the government does not take steps to adapt sectors such as agriculture, the processing, the automotive industry, to the conditions of entry into WTO? Where have adaptation measures, as is done in all normal countries, been taken by the WTO? Please, two questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u53	I think I already answered the first question. I can say that ratification and adoption of bills are two interconnected things, so the country has to make commitments. They are implemented through internal legislation. Today, these changes that are proposed are cosmetic. So there are no, let's say, problems in accepting these changes today. Moreover, the system is developing, new, new, and new. As far as action is concerned, they are. Well, once again, when it comes to membership in the World Trade Organization, it's not a broken process -- it's Ukraine's participation in the world economy system. And that's why there's no positive from a hundred or negative from a hundred. There's either the possibility of a hundred, or some kind of threat, or some kind of risk. For one sector or another, they exist. And we're really working today with different fields: agriculture, automobile construction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u54	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u55	I've already talked about agriculture: which is all the necessary compensation for the possible budget losses, even at the beginning of this year, if we're talking about the Law on the Distinguishment of this zero VAT, the corresponding calculations have been made on an internal basis that needs to be foreseen in the budget. And they're within the levels that we've agreed on within the World Trade Organization. They don't contradict that. When it comes to automobile construction, it's not a one-minute process. Automobile construction and its development have been in place for the past 10 years. And today we have positive trends in our car building. The same goes for different sectors, and at different stages, you know, there have been experiments in metallurgy. Today we have a highly developed metallurgy and competitive and so forth. There are many and many examples to be cited. When it comes to light industry, textiles, we've harmonised everything over 2000-2004. Today, we are one of the largest exporters to the markets in Europe and the markets in the United States. So this work is continuous, not just because we're ratifying it today and we're starting to work on it from now on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u56	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, the time for discussion is over. Valery Teziyovich, I have a practical question for you. Many of the different factions involved in the support of the agro-industry complex are of concern. Please give us a number of gross aggregate support to the APC, which can be financed by the state budget. And explain the method of the red, yellow, and green boxes so that the answer is clear and definitively placed in the financing of the agro-industrial sector.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u57	So clearly, once again, all of this is in the documents, to date, the level of support that is agreed upon within the World Trade Organization is based on the programmes that took place during the 2004-2006 period. Estimated averages, average rates of support that relate to the yellow box and work on products where today the level of support exceeds 5 percent of their gross output is 3 billion 43 million dollars, which is a fixed part. The second part is for products that do not exceed 5 percent of their gross output. For products alone, this level is 613 million. Production is increasing, support is increasing. Unproductive support. Unproductive support, which depends on gross production, today accounts for 3 billion and 50 million. And the green box over this period is 2 billion 424 million. In total, 9 billion 24 million is the lower limit from which we can work. If we're growing production, that means it's going to grow if we add it to the green box. Because today the green box is only 25 percent. I mean, look at 9 billion, 25 percent green box. I mean, that means seven billion is a yellow box. Yellow box can grow on account of gross production for non-productive support, green box can grow regardless. The development of rural infrastructure, the fight against pests, the protection of the environment -- today, when we talk about these measures within the European Union, I've already said, it's 75 percent of agricultural support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u58	Valerius Teziyovich, did I correctly realize that melioration, fertility, infrastructure development.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u59	Fighting pests.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u60	And everything else is not limited at all?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u61	Not limited.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u62	What it takes to have the money in the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u63	To make money.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u64	As much money as we have, we can spend. Did I get it right or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u65	That's right.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u66	Thank you. Thank you, Valery Teziyovich. Dear colleagues, if we approach 0041, we will formally give the word of Valery Teziyovich. And if you refuse, we will not give the word of Valery Teziyovich. I'm asking for three minutes of procedure. Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u67	Thank you. Dear Valery Teziyovich, once again I would like to draw your attention to the following. Obviously, the state is working with different sectors, thinking about where to improve the situation, and I don't think it's thinking about where to make the situation worse, and so on. But you understand very well that joining the World Trade Organization is a new stage in economic development. And that's why I'm calling you again. The Ministry of Economics should have a comprehensive plan, a complex program, as you would like to call it, a complex package of measures to be taken immediately, I stress, immediately, and not for 10 years to minimize, if you want, the negative effects on the line of sectors that are objectively expected to arise? Just as they originated in various countries, including the former Soviet space. Here's my question.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u68	That can't be answered. Adam Martinyuk. After that, I'll give it to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u69	Thank you. Please pass the word to Peter Cybenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u70	Peter Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u71	Thank you. The Communist faction, Zybenko. I would like to stress once again that the order of consideration of the Soviet documents should be different, that is, the protocol we have to approve after we have passed the laws of direct action. That's the first one. And second of all. Dear reporter, please tell us, do you really consider the achievement of Ukraine's obligation not to set minimum prices for imported products? Do you really think it's a achievement that Ukraine is limited in subsidizing an agricultural producer? Do you really think it's an achievement to open a quota for imports of sugar-sparing sugar into Ukraine? And I can continue this list. Are you really going to win Ukraine? Answer that question.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u72	Paul Silent.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u73	Paul Mokchan, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Your Honor, I'm interested in a question that I haven't received a wider answer from you. The agrarian sphere wins or loses? Can our depressed agriculture today have the same standards as European nations? When certain grants are made per hectare of ore land. Whether these norms work in Ukraine and really, we can do the Ukrainian agrarian sphere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u74	Hanna Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u75	The most important thing for us is the protection of the domestic manufacturer, the protection of our people. That's why we should vote together for adaptation measures, for measures to protect a domestic producer, for terms, and for ratification. We have to do this together, and this will give us a guarantee that we will not ratify today, and tomorrow no one will return to the protection of a domestic manufacturer. We have to take care of our people first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u76	Yuri Litwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u77	Arseny Petrovich! Please give us the word Vaszczuk Katherina Timothy.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u78	Catherine Timofievna Vashchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u79	Dear reporter! And those national MPs who asked questions. We have to be honest to say that as a result of the entry into the WTO, this should be because this is progress for Ukraine, losing the most one sector – the agricultural sector. It is a serious loss because three billion dollars of direct grant compared to 12 billion euros in France, nine with Germany alone, at the same level as almost Poland, is nothing. And the competitiveness of our manufacturer is not something to talk about. So it would be right to have a clear plan for adapting the village to the WTO. In doing a good job, the government does not think about protecting its own manufacturer, the main thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u80	Valerius Teziyovich! I beg you, we will now proceed to the procedure for the consideration of Bill 0041. In view of what you have said in fact now in your report on Bill 0041 to answer all the questions you have been asked. You were asked four questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u81	Thank you. As far as action is concerned, I would like to remind you once again that in 2007 a programme was adopted and that the World Trade Organization’s Office of Ministers had the appropriate authority to ensure competitiveness. And there's already a lot of action planned, and this program is being implemented. Thus, the program was designed and adopted in a special way. In 2005, hearings took place, appropriate assignments were given, and the program was developed. If you say whether it's, let's say, our win and so on, there's the minimum prices, the quota, the level of support and so on, and so on. When it comes to minimum import prices, today it's just forbidden to use it in the world, nobody uses it, it's the rules of the agreements that are in force today in the world, whether this Ukrainian product is being exported to that market, or whether any other is being imported. That is why we today have adapted within the framework of the WTO to the rules that are in force today in the world. If we say that the agrarian sphere is dying, it's spoken here, and to be honest that this sector has lost the most, I don't think so, I can honestly say that given today's world trends, especially the rise in agricultural prices, Ukraine can become just one of the most profitable countries. And if we compare France to Germany, let's see what these costs are spent, 8 billion, 10 billion, and so on, on the development of rural infrastructure. So those 7 billion, 6 billion, are spent on roads, protecting plants, protecting animals, selecting jobs and so on and so forth. And all of this can be spent on whether there's going to be money in the budget, that's what we have to do, not what schemes, VAT exemptions, and so on and so forth. In fact, money is redistributed, not to the agricultural producer, not to the farmer, but to the processor, to the seller, and so on and so forth. So here you just have to make the most of the current requirements. If we're talking about protecting a national manufacturer, if we're going to protect him, then protecting him is not sitting in a trench and thinking if someone hadn't come to us. They will come, they will come, and they will go on. And when we say we want to invest, and then it's a very interesting approach, we want investment and we want to sit here in our trench. So for today we have to be attractive, we have to work by the rules, we have to be predictable. And that's the only way we're going to be able to invest. Only in this will we be able to go more and more to the external market. Because the same rules apply to the external market. We have adapted to those rules today, we understand them, and we can work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u82	Thank you, Valery Teziyovich. The questions are exhausted. Please, Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk, on the rostrum. Catherine Timofievna, if you please, complements the former Minister of Economy, who has signed the right protocols. The age of cheap food has ended and Ukraine today can play a key role in the supply of food in the world and, in principle, now the question is how effective we are. If we enter the WTO, we just need to raise the standards a little bit and we can turn back to the role and place that was in the Soviet Union of Ukraine, which was then the inhabitants of the Soviet Union, and today could be the whole of Europe. Boris Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u83	Dear national deputies, Sir Head, are finally nearing the end of Ukraine’s accession to the World Trade Organization, which lasts more than fourteen years. What is the reason? From the very beginning, the process of integration of Ukraine into the World Trade Organization was inconsistent because, on the one hand, the government had negotiated terms of accession to the World Trade Organization, and the Supreme Council had adopted laws and laws that were contrary to the rules and principles of the World Trade Organization. Only in 2002, when the Supreme Council of Ukraine established a European Integration Committee, a mechanism was put in place to prevent the adoption of laws that were contrary to the principles and norms of the World Trade Organization. I want to say that from the very beginning of its existence, the European Integration Committee of 2002 has established close contact with the delegation, with its head at the WTO accession negotiations, and has supported and maintained these contacts. It was the Committee on European Integration that carried out an analysis of all the bills to comply with the standards and principles of GAAT SOT. The findings of the committee were published regularly, hindering the adoption of lobbyist and anti - Soviet laws. Thus, the process of harmonization of Ukrainian legislation has become systemic. It should be noted that joining the World Trade Organization paves the way for Ukraine to move towards European integration, to create a free trade zone with the European Union, that is, membership in the WTO will allow our country to integrate into the European Union market. The advantages and disadvantages of Ukraine’s accession to the World Trade Organization were repeatedly discussed at parliamentary hearings, conferences, round tables. The issue of protecting a national producer, the threat of diminishing the state’s ability to support it following the entry into WTO, has been discussed very often. Once again, I would like to point out that the support of a national producer cannot be reduced to primitive dating and the granting of benefits to businesses. Such measures should be aimed at modernizing production in order to increase its efficiency, to use energy-saving technologies, to improve quality and to preserve cost-effectiveness, to reduce the cost of production. That's the kind of way we're going to be able to increase the competitiveness of our businesses in the world market. Briefly on the protection and support of the agricultural sector. The main task of the agrarian state is now the qualitative reform of the state support system for agriculture. It should focus on increasing the use of new technologies to increase fertility, reduce loss, and increase processing. Ukraine has a very significant potential here. It should be recalled that by 2005, Ukraine had significantly reduced import duties, most of which have been operating under the WTO tariff regime for almost three years. The time has come for Ukraine to take full advantage of all the advantages of this organization. It should be said that some have noted that the text of the protocol to join the WTO has come very late for consideration by the Supreme Council. I want to remind you. That after signing this protocol from February this text is available to all users via the Internet. The Committee on Foreign Affairs, on April 9, yesterday, reviewed a bill introduced by the President on the ratification of the protocol and adopted a decision to bring it before the Supreme Council. Our committee, the Committee on European Integration yesterday, April 9, reviewed this introduction bill and approved the decision to recommend it to the Supreme Council as a whole. We also call on the Supreme Council to support the seven bills that will be considered after this protocol and to support it as a package to join the World Trade Organization. I would like to remind you, if, as was the case today in the hall, the Party of Regions and its governments have contributed the most to the accession of the World Trade Organization, I propose to show consistency and support.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u84	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u85	Show consistency and support the bill on ratification of the protocol for entering the SOT. Finally, I would like to ask you, Mr. Head, to give the floor to the Head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of Oleg Grigorovovich Belarus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u86	Please, Oleg Zarubinski. Half a minute, half a minute, half a minute. Three minutes of answering questions. After that, Oleg Grigorovitch, after that, you have one minute of words, and I'll go on with the procedure. Please sign up for Boris Ivanovich's question-answer. Please, Mikolo Haritonovich Shershun.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u87	Give me your word, please, to Zarubinsky Oleg Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u88	Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u89	Thank you. Dear Boris Ivanovich. In principle, we intend to support the ratification of this protocol. But I want to ask a very serious question to you and Arsenius Petrovich about the following. Please tell me, when a person of the legislative initiative of the Ukrainian People's Deputy submits a bill in which there is no financial economic justification in accordance with a certain article of the Code of Budget – this is a brake for the further passage of the bill. Unfortunately, the project that you're about to present, you're more specifically a co-reporter, there's no complete information in the accompanying documents about the projected cost of budgeting and additional revenue to the State budget of Ukraine that can be expected as a result of its adoption. By the way, this does not correspond to the International Contracts Act of Ukraine. You know, there's a standard there, too. I'd like to answer all the levels of the legislative initiative or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u90	Alexander Paklusenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u91	Dear Boris Ivanovic, I thank you and thank you, Arsenija Petrovic, for giving the first public assessment of the work of the Party of the Regions in accordance with Ukraine's accession to the WTO. And there is no alternative for us to vote in favour of this protocol. The only thing we need to understand is that S.O.T. is not a beer club. The WTO is a union of civilized competitors. So why are we acting uncivilized in our own country? My colleagues and I people's deputies want to know and want to be sure that all the risks posed by entering this market organization by the Government are taken into account and compensatory mechanisms are included. That's my right, that's it. For the first time, you can make Parliament united. You want everyone to jump again, you want everything off the hook again. That's not right. Let's be civilized. The process or outcome is important to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u92	Alexander Blackwolf.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u93	Alexander Blackwolf, National Movement of Ukraine. Dear Boris Ivanovich, I would like you to give an assessment of what we will look like in the eyes of the world society if we delay or not ratify these bills at all? What will all of this look like, and what will be the overall effect on Ukraine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u94	He's stoned.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u95	Stonehead, Block of Timoshenko. Please pass the word to a colleague of Shevchuk Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u96	Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u97	Dear Boris Ivanovich, I ask once again, perhaps not as much for the MPs as for the listeners of our broadcast, to say how many nations of the world are now joining the global trading organization, and are there among these States with communist, left ideologies that are working successfully today in the WTO? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u98	Boris Ivanovich, I ask a complex answer to our colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u99	First of all, I thank my distinguished colleagues for your comments and questions. As to how much it wins and how much the budget of Ukraine wins from the introduction to the World Trade Organization, I think Valérie Teziyevich will give a more accurate figure, but, as I recall, up to 5 billion dollars a year will receive the budget of Ukraine. Yes, Your Honorable Fellow Paklesenko, indeed, is a club of civilized competitors. And of course, it's not today that we decide to join the World Trade Organization, the Club of Civilized Competitors. Discussions on this subject took place both in this room and in other halls, within the Supreme Council and outside the Supreme Council. I personally participated in maybe 20, 30 such conferences. And of course, all the risks, all the compensatory mechanisms were discussed. We need to protect our market, we need to protect our manufacturer. And in this process, we've pushed it too far, and the result has to be positive. And I hope we can demonstrate it today. If Ukraine does not ratify the Protocol of Accession to the World Trade Organization, it will demonstrate its incoherence, and once again the world will ask: Does Ukraine know what it wants, what it wants? If we do not ratify this Protocol of Accession to the World Trade Organization, it will mean that negotiations with the European Union on the creation of a free trade zone will be stopped and then our producers will suffer. Finally, if the Protocol of Accession to the World Trade Organization is not ratified, Ukraine will be deprived of the possibility of entering the working group on the WTO accession negotiations with the Russian Federation and thus prevent our interests from being protected in trade and economic relations with the Russian Federation. I'm not going to now call the exact number of members of the World Trade Organization 154, but I want to say that those countries that occupy orthodox communist ideology are not members of this organization. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u100	Dear colleagues! Thank you, Boris Ivanovich. Oleg Grigorovich Belarus, please, according to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u101	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! Today, with honor and dignity, the Ukrainian Parliament is preparing to make an important historic decision — Ukraine is joining the Economic Organization of the United Nations. Alexander Mikolaiovich rightly said that this is a world organization of civilized competitors. Our great predecessor, Professor Dragomanov, said that perhaps the greatest wisdom is to see, understand and perceive the law and the power of world development. This global development is globalization and global competition. Our job is to raise Ukraine to a new level of global competition. Without the WTO, it is impossible, so we must make this decision today. The Committee on Foreign Affairs has considered this big issue and welcomes the Titanic work of all governments: the previous, present and more -- who have done this great work for Ukraine and have done this great task. The Committee supports the ratification of the protocol for Ukraine's entry into one and a half of the hundreds of civilized countries, where there is also Communist China, where there are other countries that work together for the benefit of their peoples. I'm in.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u102	Thank you, Oleg Grigorovich. I'm asking the people's deputies and the factions -- five minutes -- to sign up for the performance. Peter Cibenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u103	Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! I would like to express the faction's position on this very important issue today. We all need to understand that there are no abstract average conditions for entering one country or another into the World Trade Organization. These conditions are always specific, specific for each individual Ukraine. Countries. So, if we look at the conditions under which Ukraine is going to join the WTO, our deep conviction is more like surrender than the conditions of civilized membership of the United Nations economic organization, as has been said today. Frankly, I am not surprised by the fact that bilateral agreements among Ukrainian national deputies are not distributed. This is not surprising, for when the Ukrainian national deputies receive these terms, the drafts of these treaties, they will start to ask awkward questions that are not answered. It's better not to give them away. In fact, I am not convinced that the fact that Ukraine is under an obligation not to set minimum prices for imported products is a win for Ukraine. This is exactly what many Ukrainians are looking forward to today. And that's what attracted the average Ukrainian intro to the WTO. I'm absolutely not convinced that winning for Ukraine is a refusal to subsidize my agricultural exports. I am no longer convinced that the restrictions on agricultural subsidies are a win for Ukraine. Today, specific figures have been used. So at a transitional stage, these subsidies are tens of times smaller than those that other countries in Europe have to support a national producer. I'm not saying that I don't consider Ukraine's achievement to be an obligation to open a sugar-sparing quota, because today to destroy its own sugar-sparing industry and to make a deal with foreign capital is a crime before the people of Ukraine. By generalizing, my dear colleagues, you know, in post-Radians times, not only Ukraine's destroyed economy, but everything has been put on its head. It turns out that the political power that protects its own producer is not patriotic, but those who lobby for the interests of a foreign producer in Ukraine are patriots. We completely disagree with this approach, and the faction will not support this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u104	Andrew Shkull, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko”. Out of place, please turn on the school.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u105	Thank you, Arsenia Petrovich. I would like to emphasize what was also called an organization of honest competitors or ambitious competitors. So I'd like to call the World Trade Organization a major trade league. And Ukraine, of course, can play in its league, trade from one pocket into another pocket, and never go out into the world markets. So talking about, for example, there are no bilateral agreements, I want to show you what it takes for the communists to come and look at bilateral agreements. It's a question of who couldn't do it. Every national MP who respects himself has become acquainted with bilateral agreements and realizes that there is no other way out than to enter into civilized competition. And what the representatives of the company want, they want, but, thank God, they can't do that, they can't slow down Ukraine's entry into the U.S.A. to miss another, a neighbouring country, that's already their personal business. I'm sure they won't make it this time. And I would like to say that our faction will support, support ratification. And may I have a word with Mr. Sergio Shevchuk, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u106	Please, colleague Shevchuk, although respected colleagues, part of the speech is not passed on. Well, you make me do what I can't do. I beg of you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u107	Thank you, Arseny Petrovich. I would also like to say from the Committee on European Integration that at the end of today we will know exactly the date when our nation will become a full member of the world trade organisation. In the event of a positive vote in 30 days, that is, May 10, Ukraine will become a member of this most powerful international organization. The introduction protocols that we are currently discussing contain 650 pages and naturally there is no need to analyze them. You can talk about political realities, you can think of. As the Supreme Council’s rostrum, separate powers were blocked so that the laws relating to WTO would not be passed. And you can think of the attempts made during the fourth, fifth, sixth, Supreme Council, when 58 laws are already in force in Ukraine, bringing Ukraine closer to standards and order that operates in all civilized states. I want to deny the speeches of our individual colleagues that speak of great threats. I want to remind you that the Communist Party of China has worked as hard as some forces in Ukraine have worked to get into WTO. The Moldovan Communists support it. And only, unfortunately, do the Communists of Ukraine express such a position. History can't take any haste, we remember their blockage. Today, this will be a reality. I really call on all parliamentarians, especially colleagues from the faction of the Party of the Regions to be really consistent, because in 2005-2006, 38 laws were passed under Yanukovic's leadership. Demonstrate your sequence and now for the benefit of Ukraine for the sake of the progress of our state and for the sake of ensuring the proper standard of living of Ukrainian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u108	Thank you. Catherine Timofievna Vashchuk, please. Help Catherine Timothy.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u109	Dear colleagues! The Lithuanian Block will vote in favour of the bill today. But we have to say the following things, that for the first time, as long as I'm in Parliament, we're given a document of that kind of thickness in one day. [[Congrats]] And every respected national MP who is accountable to the people must know what he is voting for. [[B in m in s a l in]] And other things. I would like to draw our government's attention from the following questions by joining the World Trade Organization, we have a clear programme to adapt the Ukrainian economy to the competition that awaits us. And of course, the most painful thing is going to hit the agricultural sector of Ukraine. So I would like the government to explain where the agreements that were at a level of $1 and a half billion have disappeared and to conclude with the contract signed by Minister Terjehochin, Minister of Economics. Why there were only 600 million people in agreement, since many negotiating processes had a purpose — a price. There are, therefore, many such concessions that we must make up for now by reviewing the budget and adapting the subsidy system to those boxes that the minister spoke of. We have to make sure that the Ukrainian peasant can compete as soon as possible. If we don't do it in our budget right now, we're going to have a reverse effect, and often we're going to have a competing side. We can become suppliers of raw materials: sunflower, rape, wheat, and not compete in equal markets for meat, milk, and other products. And second moment. We would very much like to be more focused on the quality of our products in the consideration of the Veterinary Medicine Act, on the quality of food, certainly on genetically modified products and others that affect the health of our people. We have to be principled here. The faction will be there.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u110	Thank you, Catherine Timothy. Xenia Leapina.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u111	Dear colleagues, our faction certainly supports the ratification of such a long-awaited protocol and certainly supports Ukraine's membership in the World Trade Organization. It has already been said that today there are 151 countries. These are very different countries. It's more developed, it's less developed. But none of them were affected by being part of the WTO. We've got a lot of myths around the hundred. For some reason, the WTO is thought to be such an organization. In fact, it's not even an organization, it's a condition, it's a general trade policy, under which all countries sign, they recognize them, and they commit themselves to them. That's the first one. The other one. These rules, they are actually very logical, they help to become competitive, and they don't serve each other at all. Finally, the third. There is an illusion that the people of Ukraine fought some sort of fight against the WTO. It's an illusion, we have nothing to capitulate and surrender. The people of Ukraine are interested in developing the economy of Ukraine by the rules. The people of Ukraine are interested in making Ukraine, indeed, a country that supplies food, not raw materials, but food throughout Europe. And Ukraine has this chance, whether it takes advantage of it or not, it's up to us both with you and every particular business and business. These are the rules, they're not given to us by politicians, they're primarily given to businesses. And businesses will either take advantage of it and become competitive or not. I am convinced that the Ukrainian business is ready to take advantage of these possibilities. Despite all the barriers you have created here, it has developed for many years, and it is ready to take advantage of the potential opportunities offered by WTO membership. I'm sure that's what's gonna happen. So I urge my colleagues not to be afraid to ratify this protocol, for those who really want to get to know the terms of all these conditions on the Supreme Council website. That's what I'm telling not the MPs who got printed, but all the businesses, the citizens. They are accessible and transparent, by the way, one of the WTO requirements that is very useful for Ukraine is a requirement of transparency. If we are no longer able to organize transparent authority in the middle, we will at least listen to the recommendation of the World Organization, which recommends that we exercise transparent authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u112	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Anatoly Kinach.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u113	Dear Arsenia Petrovich! Dear National Deputies! Of course, Ukraine's integration into the European world economic space is not a reverse process. That's why we need the agitation to confirm this fact, to move to systemic highly professional responsibility, so that both the conditions and the results of Ukraine's participation in the WTO are in line with Ukrainian national economic interests. We must never forget that there are and will be tough competitions in the world, where only consolidated competitive states and economies win, and our realities are complex enough. Today the energy efficiency of Ukraine's economy is two or three times higher than in neighbouring countries. Moral and physical breakdown of the core funds by 60-70 percent. Labour productivity in the Ukrainian economy is three to four times lower than European standards. The cost of credit resources at 14-15 percent per year is two or three times higher than that of our competitors. And unfortunately, in connection with the unconsolidated external vector activity, Ukraine was on the verge of moving to European world energy prices, including natural gas. So it's fundamentally important to take these realities into account. And I have to say that today is exactly the main goal, and this is our tough position, based on conclusions, on risks, to form risk-related adaptation programs. It's primarily an agro-industrial complex, it's an easy textile sector, it's processed, it's food, it's automobile building, it's aviation construction, it's like that. And given that today's current socio-economic policy has essentially become, not a nation's development strategy, but a food policy, these issues are becoming even more relevant. We fully support the need to give serious attention to the health, safety and safety of Ukrainian citizens, the issue of modern standardization, the presence of modern laboratories, experts, genetically modified organisms, where unfortunately there are some transgressions, and threats to future generations. And we should have a clear idea that Ukraine, as a state, will do so, based on the priority of protecting the rights of the consumer, protecting the health and safety of our citizens. I fully support some of the previous conclusions that this draft law on market surveillance essentially opens the internal market of Ukraine for inequitable, dangerous products, and this also needs to be taken into account in the course of our follow-up and in making a responsible decision. It's very important, and it's crucial that we understand clearly how much competition is growing in terms of global economic processes as a whole. In 2004, Ukraine’s external trade surplus was positive at $3.6 billion. By 2007, the negative balance in Ukraine had already reached about $11 billion — a three - year increase of 15 billion minus. And that means that we create jobs abroad and fill out foreign budgets. And, to finish. The “Parties of the Regions” faction will support the ratification of the law on Ukraine's entry into the WTO, subject to the strict inclusion of an additional item in the decision, the commission of the government to present adaptation programmes during the month. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u114	Thank you. Dear colleagues, time for discussion is over. Ladies and gentlemen, before putting this question to a vote, I would like to reiterate my position that the World Trade Organization is a club, and the ratification of this protocol is an opportunity for Ukraine to join this club. And our effectiveness will depend on just one thing, how much we can play by the rules of this club, and whether we can win. As for the history of the WTO entry, she understood. It lasted more than fourteen years. And practically there's an incredible number of people in this room who are involved in signing all the acts that are the basis for this protocol. The government of Yushchenka, the government of Kinakh, the two governments of Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovich, the government of Yulia Volodymyrina, the government of Yehanurov -- this is a complex work. And so it would be very logical for all factions to vote for the ratification of this act. Given that there is an appropriate proposal for a number of factions for warnings, I propose that the next order be adopted by law 0041 as a whole with a protocol decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine approve a plan of action to adapt the conditions of the Ukrainian economy to the requirements of the World Trade Organization. Is that a decision to make? My friend Hellcat, all right? Okay. I'm due. Then I'll rephrase the protocol solution. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine approves the plan of action for adaptation of Ukrainian conditions, approve in the monthly, let's do it. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine approves a monthly plan to adapt the Ukrainian economy to the terms of the World Trade Organization. Is it accepted? Roger that. I'm betting on voting on the basis and in general Law 0041 with the relevant protocol decision of the Cabinet of Ministers. Please show the unity of Parliament. Vote. [[11:32:42]] For 411 I would like to welcome Parliament for unity. Please show by factions: Region Party - 164, BUT – 155, “Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense” – 72, Communists – 0, “Block of Lithuania” – 20. Thank you, colleagues. Please move on to the following issues of the agenda. And here, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to consult with you about the consideration of these bills. First. As far as I know, the two bills don't have the committee's conclusions, it's 2297 and 2298. Now we're going to ask the committee head if there's any conclusions on the committee, and in the extreme case, there's no material. In accordance with the Rules, I will not put to the vote bills that do not have the conclusion of a professional committee. We made a deal with you once, and we put a dot on it. So let's turn on the microphone, please, Mikoli Volodymyrovich the Jury. Is Mikola Volodymyrovich in the hall? Deputy Ribuk, please turn it on. It's a pity we don't have people's deputies going to Parliament meetings in particular when their drafts are being considered. Please, Ribuku microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u115	Thank you, Arseny Petrovich. Ribhub, deputy head of the committee, faction of the Party of the Regions. Mikola Volodymyrovich Jury, he's officially on his way. And I've been entrusted with this. We've got 28 bills on adaptation to, of course, SOT legislation. And from the government. And seven bills that just got received a few days ago. Of these, the two bills you're talking about are 2297 and 2298. Of course, 2297 — fish and other water resources — should be considered on the committee. And now the committee is studying. I think we could take a quiet look at it next week. And now you can take it off the table. With regard to the veterinary medicine law, we considered several times on the fifth call, and there are no such basic issues. So I would take the responsibility to consider.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u116	Let me finish. Turn on the Ribuku microphone, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u117	But we agree with you that order, regulation and system should be. You don't have to break here. So we should move on to next week, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u118	Well, once again, I would like to point out that according to the provisional rules, although there is nothing longer than a temporary one, there is a mandatory conclusion of the committee. I ask that we go exclusively within the appropriate time limit. Thus, 2297, 2298 is taken out in connection with the absence of a conclusion of the Main Committee. We are now considering the 2014 Bill. Bill 2014 is requested by the Head of the State Commission for the Regulation of Financial Services Markets, Aloshin Valery Borisovich. Valery Borisovich, Parliament will invite you to the rostrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u119	Dear Arsenia Petrovich, distinguished national deputies! The bill proposed for your consideration is prepared in accordance with Ukraine’s obligations in the insurance sector adopted by Ukraine as part of the negotiating process. The question raised today, as Valerius Teziyovich said, is more cosmetic and concerns only one part – part 9 of article 15 of the Ukrainian Insurance Act. This part provides that non-resident insurance or reinsurance brokers can provide services only through permanent representations in Ukraine, which should be registered as taxpayers in accordance with Ukrainian legislation and included in the State Register of Insurance or Reinsurance Brokers. The bill proposes to abolish the specified requirement by requiring non-resident insurance or reinsurance brokers to notify the authorized authority of its intention to operate in Ukraine. The authorized body, or DerjphinService, publishes this information on its official website on the Internet and in print media. This proposal simplifies the entry of non-resident insurance or reinsurance brokers into the Ukrainian insurance market and thus becomes effective after the full acquisition of Ukraine’s membership in the World Trade Organization. It should also be noted that, in accordance with the laws that we have previously introduced to the Insurance Act, non-resident brokers may carry out mediation activities in Ukraine only by means of insurance contracts and solely by making insurance contracts, so-called, large risks. It should also be noted that a number of sub-legislative acts have already been developed to implement previous changes to the law of the DeerfinServices, which regulate the relevant activities of non-resident insurance contracts. In particular, there are requirements for contract arrangements with non-resident insurance companies, also defined requirements for the financial reliability rating of non-resident insurers who have the right to carry out insurance activities in Ukraine. There is also an order and requirement for brokering activities in Ukraine with non-resident insurance contracts. All of these documents are already in place, and accordingly there is sufficient regulatory framework to regulate this activity. The bill was considered by a number of committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and supported. Please support the entire Parliament. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u120	Thank you, Valery Borisovich. Please, three minutes. Questions, answers. Vladimir Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u121	Vladimir Karpuk, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense”. Dear Valery Borisovich, of 400 companies, over 400 insurance companies operating on the insurance market in Ukraine, is at the forefront of insurance companies with foreign capital, we know that. They still have quite an impact on the insurance market, especially in the struggle for the adoption of the National Health Insurance Act. Will the mitigation of these requirements in the foreign insurance market continue to influence these positions of the State?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u122	Thank you for asking, although it does not directly apply to the content of the bill. Ukraine's insurance market is liberal enough, and we have the ability of non-residents to create, invest in insurance, create companies with 100% foreign capital. And these companies exist in the Ukrainian market, they do different activities. Although I don't say that they have a predominant impact on the overall state of the insurance market in Ukraine. Regarding health insurance, I must point out that the discussion on the medical insurance model in Ukraine is far from the first year, and unfortunately we are not moving forward with the introduction of a compulsory health insurance because of the uncertainty of the conceptual principles behind the model.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u123	Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u124	Thank you. Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, Party of Regions Dear Valery Borisovich, the introduction to the WTO and the drafting of drafts, this is linked as a self-purpose, as in the name of the entry into the WTO, this is a dead end. We need to understand clearly, especially to explain to our voters all possible advantages and risks, at least in a fragmented way. It's about your bill. Simplifying the entry into the Ukrainian insurance market from abroad, that's probably not all. It's probably not what's important. Please tell me what benefits an ordinary citizen will get, because today, you know very well as the head of the state structure, today's insurance procedure in the event of an insurance accident is not just torture, it's bullying, it's just cynicism, blasphemy. You have to come in here and prove that it's you that's with you, especially so that the money stays with the insurance company. Whether it will improve the civilisation of the insurance market in Ukraine and your attitude toward the general public social and health.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u125	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u126	Dear Jaroslav Mikhailovich, I am convinced that the overall positive dynamic of the insurance market will improve if the general legislation that regulates this area improves. And it should point out that there is a legislative initiative that aims to do so, which is now being implemented by the national deputy of Ukraine, Teryohinim. The government is also working on a bill that will improve the overall situation of insurance and insurance services, and what we are saying today, I am confident that Ukraine's accession to the World Trade Organization will increase the level of competition in the market, the fight for consumers and the quality of services that will be provided.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u127	Thank you. Time for discussion is over. Valerius Borisovich, one simple question in the development of the question of Suhigo’s colleague. Simply put, after the adoption of this law, will the standards of insurance and services increase or will they be lower? Explain very simply. So we're going over the world standard or we're going to stay on our colgasborous, excuse me?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u128	Well, since this bill applies exclusively to brokering, there is no direct link to quality. At the same time, I am convinced that all steps related to Ukraine’s accession to the World Trade Organization will improve overall quality, including insurance.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u129	Thank you. Even though I understand it, if brokers come in, they go in with foreign standards. With foreign standards, we will be driven to improve the provision of services. It's much easier. Please have a seat, Valery Borisovich. Stanislaw Arzeviteen.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u130	Dear colleagues, you have come to realize that the bill proposes one norm: to relieve brokers of the right to work solely through representation. The bill proposes to provide insurance and reinsurance brokers – non-residents – with a self-registration of the authorized authority by means of a message. In fact, here's the whole change in this new bill. Our committee had a big discussion about whether this rule -- removing permanent representations -- would affect the non-resident broker's income in Ukraine. And, in large numbers, we've stopped at the fact that, well, first of all, it's small revenue, and second of all, we know that our colleagues from the Committee on Taxation are levelling our fears, and the chairman of this committee can comment on how they see the solution to this problem. As far as the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration is concerned, the observation is insignificant. The first observation is that the bill does not provide for a period during which the authorized authority is to publish this information. We talked to Valery Borisovich, he said: “If this norm had been proved to me earlier, we would have recorded without any problems: ‘in a three-day period after receiving the information, the publication is properly carried out.’ Well, actually, the second concern, or the second observation by the expert administration, is that the law itself does not specify that brokers have to do their work and how they should do it after the disclosure of the information. But if the issue of a three - day release is resolved, of course, they will have to carry out their work properly. So the decision of our committee was to be the basis. But in my opinion, given the minor comments, this bill could be adopted today and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u131	Thank you. Please, three minutes. You have to answer questions for seconds. Sign up, Terjehohin Sergey Anatoliyovich would like to sign up. I can see there's no one else. Yavorowski, Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u132	He's asking me to give him the word Sergey Teryohin. I am very happy to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u133	Teryohinu's word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u134	Well, in principle, thank you, Mr. Yavorowski. In principle, if you please, I will use the right to speak from the rostrum and tell you more about the nuances of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u135	Landik's colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u136	Thank you. Well, I have this, you know, question or wish thing to say. We have when we're afraid of our insurers. So you say they're residents, and by the way, they're all non-residents. And when these reparations begin, they should be called. This is usually France. And when a person has to get 100 dollars in compensation, he spends 150 dollars on the phone. And then how do you judge? If you don't agree, you'll be suing another country when there's no resident here and no one here to judge. I think we need everything to be ours here, Ukrainian, not someone there to deal with these issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u137	Of course, such a problem exists, and the head of the authorized body gave a little answer to this question as to how they want to regulate such activities. And I would like to point out that it is in our legislation that domestic insurance companies are given the right to activate their activities for five years because it is the only financial institution in Ukraine, insurance companies that have such an advantage that, over the years, the branches of foreign insurance companies will not register after entering the WTO. This term is to solve the problem that you just mentioned in our insurance companies.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u138	Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u139	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to address the officials in particular. Our discussion, believe me, I know from experience, listen to millions of citizens on the radio, listen and want to understand what's going on. So I would ask, when we ask questions, we have to answer in a clear and simple language about what Arsenius Petrovich did when we explained to Aloshin about risks and benefits. I have a question for you as a professional: whether it will contribute to making changes to the Insurance Act, expanding our insurance market, expanding the financial services market, or whether there will be a contraction, because we know very well, and people need to understand, insurance companies -- this is, among other things, our investor, this is our Ukrainian investor, who invests in production or development of financial services. How will it help to make changes to the law that we are talking about, the expansion of the insurance market in Ukraine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u140	Well, actually, I could. You said I'm a professional, I'm more of a banking professional, but I wanted to give an example that the appearance in our Ukrainian foreign representation market, foreign banks, of course, brought new services, quality services. The task is to ensure that our domestic financial institutions quickly take this initiative and do the same things. So it seems to me that by answering your question, of course, it will increase the breadth of these services and quality, but it will depend on our domestic insurance companies how they can actively adapt to similar services.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u141	Thank you. Please sit down. Sergey Teryohin from the rostrum, 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u142	Thank you, Arseny Petrovich. Good afternoon, dear fellows! The Committee on Tax Customs Policy considered the proposed bill within its competence and proposes to adopt it, taking into account the setting of a three-day term in general. Regarding the warnings that were made in this room. Indeed, the bill lays down rules for nonresidents in the insurance market. I can't hear. may operate in Ukraine without creating a permanent representation. And here's two questions. The first question is, what budgets or taxes do these intermediaries have? Of course, under the blending rule offered today in the law, they will pay to a country of residence, that is, abroad. And the second question is, what Mr. Dry asked is about the quality, improvement or deterioration of the quality of services that will be provided by middle-sized insurance companies, primarily brokers. There is also a question. Because our domestic legislation on consumer rights will not directly apply to such a mediator. So by my commission, my committee has developed and registered today a draft law that changes the rules on corporate income taxation in the field of insurance and says that if an insurance intermediary is doing business here, i.e. constantly with a large shareholding in this country, he should register as a taxpayer, i.e. open a permanent representation and be subject to all internal Ukrainian legislation. In the case that if it is an action, it is not entrepreneurial, that is, unsustainable. Well, let's say we have any company there can be insured.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u143	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u144	Any company can go to London and be insured in Lloyd. But it can also insure its vessel, let's say, in a middleman, with a broker named Lloyd who operates in Ukraine. If this is a one - time action of such an intermediary, it does not work, that is, it does not register because it is not a continuous entrepreneurial activity. If it's constant, it has to become a taxpayer and fall under any Ukrainian internal regulation. That's why we don't care at all about the risks that Deputy Dry asked us, we solve them in this way. And we suggest that we accept this bill in the second reading, in the first reading and in general, taking into account once again the three-day period of publication of information. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u145	Thank you, Sergey Anatolyovich. No one insists on the performances? Urges Turn on the Zibank microphone because there are no other urges. Okay. And Vladimir Yavorowski. Okay, okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u146	Thank you. The Communist faction, Zybenko. Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! You know we regularly turn to the Ukrainian legislation of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the Then, on our way to WTO, we made changes that we tried to place under any control of foreign insurers in Ukraine. And they wrote down the rule that they have the right to provide services only through the constant representation of foreign business representatives, that is, any form of control. Unfortunately, today we find that too little, that non-residents should not fall under national legislation at all and do everything in Ukraine. What will result from the adoption of this law? To the profound belief of the faction of Communists, the consequences will be two main. The first result, given that the national insurer is much less powerful than the foreign, firstly, financially less powerful, the first result will be that the national insurer, with the adoption of these changes under the Insurance Act, will simply be crushed, it will disappear as such in Ukraine. And the second consequence, which is much more important for Ukrainian citizens, I am addressing our voters, Ukrainian citizens, I hope you haven't forgotten what happened to each of you, the financial pyramids that existed in Ukraine. Then you looked all over Ukraine for these financial pyramids to try and take some of them, and you didn't find them. So today, after this change to the Insurance Act, prepare to have a foreign passport in order to go to Africa, to go to Latin America in search of a non-resident insurance in Ukraine, that's where you'll have to look for the ends of your insurance rights. So once again, I'm convinced that very often by saving for improving national insurance conditions, we're de facto giving up our own, in this case, insurers and opening the way for a foreign insurer with all the consequences that come out of it. Therefore, the faction of the Ukrainian company will not vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u147	Thank you. Vladimir Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u148	Vladimir Yavorowski, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear voters and honourable Parliamentarians of Ukraine! I'm convinced that when we're looking at a bill or a bill, it's always an opportunity compared to a draft legislative text.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u149	I'm sorry, I'm gonna break up. I continue to meet in Parliament until the issue is concluded, but no more than 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u150	It is also a wonderful opportunity to draw society’s attention to a problem that has been put into this bill. Here today, a little bit of this issue has been raised, and I would like to emphasize it once again, especially for our voters. In the world, as one of the standards of democracy, it's the level of functioning of the insurance system in the state. In developed countries, everything is, in fact, afraid of producing tens of thousands of acres [10 thousand ha] to human life, to possessions, to automobiles, and so forth. And the better this mechanism is done, the more stable and economic life in one country or another. We have to say today that in these years of independence and transformation of our state into an independent, in fact, our level of insurance and insurance companies has remained at a primitive Soviet level. For example, at my last reception in Kirovograd, people approached me, such as those who registered, insured their cars in Orant, and then there began a long, primitive campaign with officials of the Orant Insurance Company. It turns out that the car was already in use, they're taking this car with a stick or they're allowing it to stick a new wing, but the wing is completely new, and then the person who made the insurance has to pay a lot more money because they put this wing on it. I've called, I've called the Oranti leadership, absolutely no one's paying any attention to it. So I'm finishing up here, and I've given this particular example because we actually have all the insurance companies doing that. Because of the coming of other standards today, there will be competition with the work of our insurance companies, I would very much like to believe that this bill is transparent and very clear, it will have an absolutely positive impact today on the functioning of our Ukrainian society. Because of this, the “Julia Timoshenko Block” will unanimously vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u151	Thank you. Dear colleagues, time is up for discussion. The reporter and the co-reporter do not insist on speaking. Ladies and gentlemen, and, yes, I ask you carefully, we are moving on to the voting procedure. I'll put it on the ground first. And then we have a proposal that I'm going to make for you right now to correct when we're considering the issue. The next proposal was made by Sergey Teryochin and Stanislav Arzvetin. In the last paragraph, the last sentence: “the authorized authority shall publish the information entered in the three-day period”, did I understand correctly or not, Valery Borisovich? “The authorised authority shall publish within three days the information entered on its official website on the Internet and in the printed media.” Sergei Anatolyevich, okay? Okay. Valery Borisovich, okay? Okay. So I'm voting on the basis of the 2014 Bill, please vote. [[12:02:52]] For 223 The decision is not taken. Colleagues from the coalition, you can click the buttons, sorry. 223 people's deputies. The bill went through, everything agreed, everything agreed, what's the question, who didn't make it? We're going back. I'm betting on the vote to return to the vote. [[12:03:28]] For 227 Decision taken. I'll bet on the bill 2014. [[12:03:50]] For 228 Now with all due respect. I'm going to remind you again what, in a three-day period, it was documented. Please vote on the basis as a whole. [[12:04:16]] For 228 Decision taken. Next. At 12.34 p.m., we start. Break, yes, 12:34 p.m.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u152	Valerius Anatolyovich Bondik will report the following question. I ask you to look at it very quickly. Because we have a lot of legal work to do. The election of judges. Please, Valery Anatolyovich. We agreed that we would include only those judges on whom there are no questions. Come on, let's get started. I'm back on the message. I'm going to the Supreme Council's office. Give a message to Ukraine’s national deputies, 12.34 p.m. It's time to go back to the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u153	Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Head, the honourable ones are here! Yesterday and yesterday, at a meeting of the Supreme Council Committee on Justice, a meeting was held on behalf of the Supreme Court, the Head of the Supreme Court of Economics, the Head of the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine, the appointment of temporary judges of the local courts, the appeals courts of Ukraine. So your point is to propose such a draft decision. May I have your attention, please? Order 2357. According to article 85, part one, paragraph 27, of the Constitution of Ukraine provides for the Supreme Council. Choose judges on an untimely basis: Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine Barick Tetjana Lukovna; Court of Appeal of Kirovograd. The judges are in the guest bed and on the left side.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u154	I'm asking the judges to come up with a name.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u155	The Court of Appeal of the Kirovograd District of Devinsky Sergey Mikolayovich; The Court of Appeal of the Odessa District of Varikas Alexander Dmitrovich; The Court of Appeal of the Poltava District of Pikul Vladimir Pavlovich; Harki District Court of Appeal, Alexander Dmitrovich; The Court of Appeal of the Cerkas region of Jeltsov Viktor Aleksandrovich; The Donetsk Administrative Court of Appeal, Starosud Mikola Ivanovich; Kyiv Farm Court of Appeal Shipka Volodymyr Vasilovich; The local Oratov Regional Court of the Vinnitsk Region, Kruglik Vadim Vasilovich; Local Industrial District Court of Dnipropetrovska Spouse Constantine, Mikolai. Mikhailovich, I'm sorry, Slusar Ludmila Petrovna, two judges; Local Zaporozhye District Court of Zaporozhye District Galyanczuk Mikola Ivanovich; The local Borispilsk state of the Kyiv district of Zavirucha, Oleksei Vasilovich; the local Kirov district court of Kirovgrad Panfilova Alla Vasilovna; The local Dubenski miscreased of the Rivne district of Ostapchuk Alla Alexandrovna; The local Balakli district court of Kharkiv district of Timonov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u156	Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u157	Dear Mr. Head. The local Balakli District Court of Kharkiv District, Timonova Valentina Mikolayivna; District Court of Kharkiv, Lobanovska Snižana Mikolayivna; local Chuguyivski Reysud of the district of Kharkiv Spaskin Oleg Anatoliyovich; the local Komsomol district court of Herson Radchenko Galina Anatoliyevna; The local Drabov Regional Court of the Cherkas region of Fai Valeri Grigorovich; The local Dniprovsky District Court of Kyiv Kyiasko Alexander Anatoliyovich, Marchenko Miroslava Vejacheslavovna, Chaus Mikola Alexiyovich; The local Thessaloniki District Court of Kiev, Nameless Natalia Viktorovna, Kushner Svetlana Ivanovna; The local Gagarin District Court of Sevastopol Bessarab Love Mikhailovna; the local Nahimov district court of Sevastopol Lemeshko Alla Sergiyovna; The local court-martial of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Chong Svetlana Illovna; The local courts of the Žitomir district of Davidyuk Valeriy Kindratovich; The local court of the Kirovograd district of Baranec Alexander Mikolayovich; The local court of the Czernovetsk district of Kushilik Svetlana Mikolayevna. With regard to these judges, there were no complaints, no comments, no other warnings. I'd like to make up my mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u158	Ladies and gentlemen, our colleague, Valeriy Anatoliyovich, read the draft of Decree 2357. Do the Ukrainian National Deputies have objections about the appointed judges? Is there a denial? Please. Last name? It's a knock-off. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u159	Dear colleagues, there is a corresponding objection to the appointment of Ostapchuk Alla Alexandrovna. This is relative to the judge of the Dublin District Court. So there are reports of a lack of objectivity. I request that this be postponed for the next time that further consideration of the case is carried out objectively and that the next time a candidate is nominated.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u160	Valerius Anatolyovich, please, your position.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u161	Dear colleague, you know, there is such a bad practice. You were familiar with the list of all the judges. They were on the site. There was a publication. You know, there were no complaints and no comments on the committee's consideration period. So I'm asking you, if there's a specific complaint, whether you call it, or send it to the committee, because the person is here, and we can't now motivate why it's being shot.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u162	I, Valery Anatolyovich, fully and fully support you, and the experience of the last vote suggests that we do not have the right to approach these matters subjectively. There are meetings of the committee, until the meeting of the committee were considered all the names of all the judges, there was the submission of the Supreme Court, the Supreme Economic Court. If there were any objections, I would ask that the national MPs, by the time they enter the session hall of the relevant draft decision, should be considered and thus disputed about one or another candidate. I'm going back to my fellow digger. What specific facts are there for this to be under the transcript of the matter? And we're going to be able to ask the judge of the Plain area right now whether that's true or not. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u163	There is, including the complaint made by one of the members of the Duman City Council regarding the case of the judge, where there are claims made by the judge. Besides, we're going to see that the judges are going to be elected by the community. In this situation, I can say that this candidature is not respected in the territorial community. Moreover, all documents will be provided when they are prepared and appropriate actions will be taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u164	I appeal once again to the Supreme Council Committee with such a request to avoid as much contradiction as possible in the session room regarding the names of the judges. Please, Deputy Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u165	Thank you. Dear Arsenija Petrovich, there is no order in Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u166	Let's get this straight, Jaroslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u167	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, dear colleagues, it is not the first time that I have met with such facts: the superiors have passed the qualifications, the judges have passed all their procedures, the meetings of the committee have passed; then they are brought here on a special occasion, I apologize, written, and not called facts. If there was such a fact, for example, I once made a comment, I filed a complaint -- my complaint was answered by the same person I was complaining about, then I had the right here to demand that Vasil Vasily Vasilovich Onopenek be considered. That's how it is today. We can't just talk about fate. It's popular, it's not used. A judge is not a dollar to get his teeth cut, a judge is a judge who judges and often makes unpopular decisions. Let's listen to the profile committee. I didn't even see that judge in my eyes. I don't know who she is.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u168	Please, Oleg Zarubinski, Vladimir Yavorowski, Adam Martinyuk, and we will conclude the discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u169	Thank you very much, Arsenia Petrovich. You know, I'd like to develop what Comrade Dry told our deputies, obviously they don't work so often in the session room, go the other way. There's a list of judges who are elected, who are released. I had my suggestions, my dissatisfactions, and I submitted them to the Justice Committee of Kiwalov. They've been looking into it. They wouldn't let the judge in here. What is the point of doing so when judges are already present when even an MP of any particular claim cannot express himself or speak of any popularity. Regrettably, the judge is not yet elected. Maybe this will be the next time. But for today, there's another procedure. Then stick to it if you can't even formulate your claim. I propose, Arseny Petrovich, to vote for all the judges and for this judge too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u170	Please, Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u171	Vladimir Yavorowski, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear friends are national deputies and honorable judges! I'd like Arsenija Petrovich not to get mixed up from one extreme to another extreme. We will vote for all these judges. Indeed, there are no serious claims against them, and we will support them. But I'd like to say very, very much again, I wouldn't want us to fall into another extreme. What the High Council of Justice does, it's actually done behind closed doors. We are the last institution to appoint people as judges, who will then do human destiny. Because of that, I would very much like us not to formally approach it, and, indeed, if there are any serious claims, we need to discuss them here and make a normal, reasonable decision, because we have judges coming out of our hands later. through which human fates are going through. So we have to be demanding and not have to close our eyes, let's take them for a kilogram. I don't think they'll mind us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u172	Please, Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u173	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, let's not really do this once, we are constantly asking for support from both the Chief of the Supreme Council and those who say that we will be more inflexible during the preparation period for the sessional room. But there is one “but. ” In contrast to this parliamentary process, the only process that is regulated by special law is the specially adopted Law on the appointment, election and release of judges. And the law says that if there's a point to a judge, it's removed from the general list, it's voted in whole, the whole list, and then we're going to talk about a specific candidate. So let's vote in favour of this whole decision by excluding the last name to which there is a reference, and then separately discuss this remark and vote on a separate candidate. That is what special law requires of us.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u174	Please, Valery Anatolyovich, your position.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u175	Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Head! Indeed, the offer deserves attention. A decision may be put to the vote for adoption as a whole so that it may pass the vote and then come back and discuss this candidature. And we're not going to delay it in time.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u176	In fact, it was suggested. And that's why I asked our fellow national MPs to make a warning about the judge, it should be based on facts. For example, the case number is kind of raised on a question like this, accused of being there, by those institutions canceled, transferred to a disciplinary or higher attestation, or God knows where, that is. I just don't like this judge, because someone called me from an alderman or a miscreant and said that they should "take him," is that an approach?Oh, my God! It's under the stenogram these things go. I'm going to be the base of 2357. Please vote 2357. [[12:46:16]] For 368 Now we're going back again, colleagues, now we're going back to. I said, I'm putting it on the base. You heard me staring. Now back to Ostapchuk. Are we going to remove Ostapchuk or not? There's an option: to ask Judge Ostapchuk Alla Alexandrovna whether it's a personal conflict or whether there are, in fact, some facts that need to be removed, examined at the committee meetings and then considered. Didn't the committee check it out? Is there a complaint on the committee? I'm talking to a colleague of mine. Under the transcript, I ask the Ukrainian National Deputies to report clearly on the subject of the complaint when it is registered. If that's the case, then we'll delete it, the committee will consider it, and we'll include it in the next agenda. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u177	Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that today this bill has not been registered at all. Thus, the claims that this issue has not been studied are clearly marked. It's just today that decision where she is, which sites she's been on -- I don't know, I don't know, I don't have a committee, I don't have a personal decision or my colleagues. Therefore, these claims are not accepted. And this is, really, a pack vote just like that. There are claims. Now I've made an appropriate request to be given materials. By the way, they're faxing right now. Only then will I be able to professionally explain the position, as you ask, and objectively explain the position, including the local community: Dubna and Dubna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u178	Accordingly, in article 16, there is a time frame for considering your appeal: in a 10-day term. So you can look at this term, give you an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u179	Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u180	I suggest you do it the next way. Although, you know, it's kind of absurd. I don't understand. The decree was registered, the committee considered, and everyone knew that they would be judges today. But I suggest you do it this way. If we don't have double standards, we've done this before, this time we'll do it. If the national MP -- our colleague said there was a proper complaint, there's 10 days, your complaint will be considered. So I propose, in the overall vote, that you temporarily remove Judge Ostapchuk Alla Alexandrovna and return to this issue after the committee has considered the complaint of colleague Prokopchuk. Please vote on the bill in general for the expulsion of Judge Ostapchuk Alla Alexandrovna. And to instruct the committee accordingly to consider the complaint and to make a nomination for the next meeting. Please. [[12:49:04]] For 398 Thank you. Decision taken. 2357-1, please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u181	Dear colleagues, your opinion is proposed for the next draft of Decree 2351-1.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u182	2357-1, sorry, under the transcript.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u183	2357-1, yes. In accordance with article 85, part one, paragraph 27, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides: Choose judges on an untimely basis: The Court of Appeal of the Donetsk Region of Azevich Vladimir Bronislavovich; The Donetsk Administrative Court of Appeal of Arab Tetjana Georgievna, Bilak Svetlana Viktorovna, Gavriszczuk Tetjana Grigorovna, Malashkevich Sergey Anatolievich; The local Heisinsky District Court of the Vinnitsk Region of Panasuk Alexander Sergiyyovich; The local Kalinov Regional Court of the Vinnitsk district of Pavlenko Igor Viacheslavovich, I apologize, Vasilovich; The local Czernovetsk District Court of Wynnicke District of Czymbaluk Larissa Petrovna; the local Lenin district court of Vinnice Jakimenko Marina Mikolayivna; The local Old Town District Court of Vinnice Billous Oleg Valeriyovich, Tataurov, Tataurov Irina Mikolayivna; the local Gorokhiv District Court of Volin district of Willuk Mikola Pavlovich; Dear Arsenius Petrovich, unlike the previous speech, is addressing the Council of Judges. It is properly registered, code assigned. Addressing a member of the Council of Judges, the heads of this court regarding this candidature. Judge Willuk M.P. By his actions he violates the judge's oath, forgivable the court's documents. In view of what I believe to be legitimate grounds for violating the question of disciplinary responsibility and resolving the issue of filing the application for release. So given that this submission has just been served in the hall, I ask that this family be removed and returned to the discussion for further consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u184	I'm asking your name again.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u185	Willuk Mikola Pavlovich is here.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u186	Gorokhiv District Court of Volin County, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u187	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u188	Okay, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u189	The chairman of the Council of Judges is present, he can explain. Dear colleagues, let's move on. Local Kamen-Kashir District Court of the Volin district of Borsuk Petr Pavlovich; The local Lutsky District Court of Volin County, Yuszczuk Oleg Sergiyovich; Local Regional Court of Volin County of Nevara Oleg Valentinovich; The local Novovolinsk Misksud of the Galuchka District of Alexander Grigorovich; the local Ratnius District Court of the Volin district of Savchuk Mikola Adamovich; The local Taurian District Court of the Volin district of Sparrow Irina Vasilovna;
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u190	Turkish, I'm sorry, the Turkish District Court of Volin County. Local Baglin District Court of Dniprodjyńska Dnipropetrovska District Trekak Valentina Volodymyrna; The local Torez City Court of the Donetsk Region of Katrušina Anatolia Mikolaiovich, I apologize, Mikhailovich; the local Kuibyshew district court of Donecka Chertkova Natalia Ivanovna; The local Lenin district court of Donetsk Beskrovna Olena Leonidivna; the local Central City District Court of Gorlovka Donetsk Region of Tettek Oleksij Yuliyovich; The local Illích District Court of Mariupol Donetsk Region of Himon Mikol Mihajlovich; The local Novograd-Volinsky District Court of the Žitomir Region, Hickkola Grigorovich; The local Bologna District Court of Žitomir Kolomiets Oksana Sergiyevna; the local Energodar City Court of Zaporozhye district of Kurac Irina Vasilovna; the local Yellow District Court of Zaporozhye Vasecka Victoria Vasilovna; the local Hortic district court of Zaporozhye three candidatures: Bondarenko Irina Vladislavna, Kucheruk Igor Grigorovich, Saltan Lilia Hennadijovna; The local Bilocerkow Regional Court of Kiev, Volodko Igor Stepanovich; The local Brovar Regional Court of Kyiv district of Batuk Vasil Viktorovich; the local Rokitnian District Court of the Kyiv Region of Neceporenko Leonid Mihajlovich; The local Onufriyev district court of Bondarenko Grigory Kuzmić; The local Lightwater District Court of Kirovgrad, Andrijanov, Alexander Volodymyrovich and Melnick Yuri Stefanovich; the local Shevchenkov district court of Lvva Malech Irina Bogdanovna; The local Yellow District Court of the Mikolai district of Samšin Nina Vasilovna; But Arsenius Petrovich did not appear.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u191	Another name, if you please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u192	Nina Vasilovna’s bachelor. Well, the stenographer's coming. What's next? I didn't show up. The local Grand-Majil district court of Odessa District of Tkauk, Helen Leonidivna; The local Krasnooknian District Court of Odessa District, Krivorenko Philip Viktorovich; The local Heplodar region of Odessa, Marchenko Sergey Mikolajovich and Shumeiko Mikola Trochymovich; The local Mashiv District Court of Poltava Region, Private Vasil Mikolaiovich; The local Shisatsky District Court of the Poltava District of Kolos or Kolos Yuri Anatoliyovich; The local Connotate State of Sumak District of Olena Mikolayevna; The local Lipovodolin Regional Court of Suma district of Sulga Alexander Mikolayovich; the local Kovpak District Court of Sumi Hitrov Boris Volodymyrovich; The local Valkovsky District Court of the Toustoluzsky Oleg Volodymyrovich district; the local Sahnovščina District Court of the Nesterenko Oksana Sergiyovna District; The local Biological District Court of the Heracimchuk Nina Pavlovna District; the local Novouszick District Court of the Hmelnick district of Shurigin Oksana Viktorovn; The local Starocostinian district court of the Hmelnick district of Androszczuk Evgeny Mikolayovich; The local Chemerovetsk District Court of the Hmelnick district of Nazarczuk Roman Volodymyrovich; the local Zvenigrad district court of the Cherka district of Demchenko Vera Stepanovna; The local Monastery District Court of the Cherka district of Didenko Tetjana Ivanovna; local district court of Chernigiv district of Sova Tetjana Georgievna; the local Novozavod Regional Court of Chernigova Gordijko Yuri Grigorovich; the military local court of Dniproperov's garrison, Osiiko Dmitry Valeriovich; also the local military court of the Mikolaivian garrison, Minajlo Mikola Pavlovich; the local Kyiv District Administrative Court of Stogun Sergey Grigorovich; and the local court-martial of Kharkiv County, Šwidkin Andriy Aleksandrovich. I'd like to make a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u193	Dear colleagues, what are the objections? Please sign up for anyone who has an objection. Kirilchuk Evgen Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u194	The Volin region is now represented by seven men. Most of the comments are missing, but to Villak Mikola Pavlovitch there is a complaint signed by the head of the Wallin County Court of Appeal. These are the 23 - page material.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u195	Villa Mikola Pavlovich has been removed.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u196	And we need to remove it from this list.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u197	Eugene Ivanovich, Villak Mikola Pavlovich has been removed. So we're going to remove it now. Valérie Anatoliyovich noted in his report that there was an appropriate complaint. Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u198	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Arseny Petrovich! First of all, I want to thank you to the judges, because you did the impossible yesterday, you agreed with the factions, and now these judges have become possible to deal with these issues, we have 542 judges on the committee today. I just want the deputies to understand the importance of who is sitting today. Because the importance is that more than 300 people have reached the end of the deadlines from which people apply complaints, people do not exercise justice, but they get a salary. So today, yesterday, I made the Head of State, and when there were any remarks, I want to tell you that the Committee worked seriously and hard. We need to support the full-scale ruling, except for Judge Willuk, who has just been discussed and entrusted with the committee to check it out, and then we'll let you know. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u199	Arseny Petrovich! Loading this and counting the number of such cases, it's not the committee's fault, you know why there were these 540 applications, they haven't been considered since December.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u200	I think it's not just December, there's also a portion of the motions during Parliament's irregularity period, so, in fact, that's the number of judges. But we hope and believe that exclusively deserving people have fallen into the decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues! Decree 2357-1, with the exception of the local Gorokhiv District Court of the Volin district of Willuk Mikola Pavlovich and the local Yellow District Court of the Mikolai district of Samšina Nina Vasilovna. Valery Anatolyovich, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u201	Yes, she did not show up, she did not show up.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u202	That's right. I'm asking you to vote on the basis and a total of 2357-1 on the election of judges. [[12:58:04]] For 409 Dear colleagues, for 409, the decision is made. I'd like us to welcome the election courts on an untimely basis. Let us move on to the following questions of the order of the day. The 2288 Bill on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on the Protection of National Producers from Subsidized, Demping and Increasing Imports. Colleagues! There is a proposal to consider this bill in a simplified way, because it is a technical bill. How would you support or not? We'll support it. Please include the 2288 short-term voting system. [[12:58:57]] For 341 Thank you. Valerius Teziyovich, please. Let us try to make up for what has been missed in the last five months.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u203	Dear Mr. Head, honourable members of the people, a bill is being submitted to your attention to amend some of the laws of Ukraine to protect the national producer from subsidized dumping and increasing imports. This is one of the bills that makes such technical changes to already in force legislation, which includes, say, improving certain procedures or improving those procedures. With regard to the content of the proposed changes to individual laws. These changes apply to three laws, the Ukrainian National Product Protection Act against Dumping Imports, and are proposed to amend the provisions of article 10, which determines the order of calculation and determination of damage in the course of the anti-dumping investigation. In particular, to foresee that in calculating the damage, the very significant decrease is taken into account, that the law in force simply reduces the price of the like product, and this is the norm that meets the requirements of the relevant World Trade Organization agreement. It is also envisaged to make a change to part five of this article in order to take more fully and fully into account factors when examining the negative impact of dumping-import on the national producer. In particular, it is suggested that factors such as income from investment, ability to increase capital or investment be added to the consideration, and that the list is not exhaustive. And one or the other, most of these factors cannot in themselves be crucial to making decisions. In order to improve the procedure under article 13, it is also envisaged to amend the time limit for questions to be answered by interested parties from 34 to 37 days. In order to ensure a more effective anti-dumping investigation and balanced decision-making process, it is proposed that changes be made to the granting of powers to require interested parties to investigate the information required for the purpose of conducting investigations. Such a requirement is binding on all interested parties and is subject to their execution.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u204	Please finish the dates.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u205	updated legislation. There are also some changes to two other laws, to the law protecting the national producer from subsidized imports. A change is proposed that applies to the time limit for the application of previous compensatory measures, which is limited to four months and to the Law of Ukraine on the Application of Special Measures for the publication of the results of the special investigation and the main conclusions, i.e. the transparency of the decision-making process. Thank you for your attention, please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u206	Thank you, Valery Teziyovich, please sit down. Short-term procedure, colleagues. Short - term procedures do not provide for questions. Please report, Osika Sergey Grigorovich. I was looking at the committee. Adam Ivanovich, we work only on the provisional Rules, word for word as written in this wise book. Now the deputy head of the committee is going to tell the story. You didn't bring it? It's all there, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u207	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, a respected colleague, considered the bill on the committee. Moreover, he was supported by all the members of the committee of all. Let me put it this way, it's usually not right to interrupt, Adam Ivanovich. And given that this bill has a purely technical character, it includes some amendments to the purpose of texting, so to speak, our law and the anti-dumping code with the corresponding Articles 6 and 10 of the WTO Treaty, we supported it. There are some comments from the Chief Executive, so to speak, and the committee has decided that we support it both on the basis and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u208	So the committee's offering to take it as a foundation as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u209	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u210	Do I get it right? Thank you, Sergey Grigorovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u211	I'll tell you now, Adam Ivanovich, when there was a committee. April 8th.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u212	Sergei Grigorovitch, April 8th. Thank you. Once again, I would like to point out to all fellow members of the national MPs who are in Parliament only in accordance with the Rules, two bills have been withdrawn, which do not have the Committee's conclusions, and all other bills will be dealt with exclusively in accordance with the provisional Rules. Let's write down 2 in favour, 2 in favour, and then we'll go to the voting procedure. The committee proposed a basis for the whole as well. Two for, two for, two for. Yuri Sergiyovich Serbin, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Out of the rostrum or out of the way?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u213	Out of the way!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u214	Out of the way. Please, Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u215	Dear Arsenia Petrovich! Dear colleagues! Your Honor! I wanted to ask you a question at all, but then let it speak in the speech and then in the closing word, answer it. Arsenija Petrovich, the proposal for this bill is one of the most important factors in the food market regarding the name of this law and the essence is the branding of products. We're not afraid of importing quality food into Ukraine today, and it's expensive in the world, but we're very afraid of the power of a genetically modified bioaddict -- it's called a food surrogate. Let's be adults, kids are pathetic. Therefore, the proposal, the commission to this bill, immediately, the Ministry of Economics, to put into effect a government decree establishing the labelling of products, the consumer should know that he is eating, whether there is GMO or not, whether there are bio-additions or not, whether there are emulsifiers or not, lived to see that in children's sausages 15 percent of the meat, and all the rest are additives to soy and so on and so forth.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u216	And macularity.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u217	We think about the health of the nation. I propose to support this bill, it's for the protection of a national producer, but with the Ministry of Economics' mandate to immediately implement the decision on product labelling, the consumer should know that he has a choice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u218	Thank you, Ivan Grigorovitch. Mikhailo Chechetov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u219	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues! The draft law is designed to introduce Ukraine's legislation on the application of anti-dumping, countervailing and special measures in accordance with the agreement on the application of article 6 of the GAAT WTO Subsidy and Compensation Agreement to GAAT SOT and the GAAT SOT Protection Agreement. However, he has some observations. Yes, the project proposes to amend article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of National Producers from Dumping Imports. In particular, instead of saying much, replace – much lower. However, such changes have led the controlling authority to verify whether the prices of the dumped imports were significantly lower than the prices of the like product, whether they caused the dumped imports to significantly lower prices of the like products, or whether they prevented the dumped imports from significantly increasing prices of the like product, which would have been low in the absence of dumped imports. In this case, the law and the authors of the initiative do not reveal the meaning of a significant reduction. And in the absence of evaluation criteria, the standard will be ineffective. We suggest, on the basis of what has been said, that this bill be adopted on the basis of a second reading procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u220	Colleagues, you won't mind if I give the floor to Valery Teziyovich Petnick to answer two questions. The first question of Ivan Grigorovich, and the second question of Mikhail Vasilovich Cechotov. Because they don't really apply to these bills. Turn the microphone on on the bed of the Friday government.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u221	Thank you. As far as branding is concerned, I also think that this does not apply to the bill. And we're ready to look at it on the committee, and so on. Because it's a whole set of questions. In itself, it does not determine whether the product is good or bad, safe or dangerous. What's more, we really need to work on ensuring that all products are systematically controlled. Whether it's genetically modified or anything else in the market. And this should be followed by an appropriate law on market surveillance, and this should be done. It's not enough to control or control at the point of production. As far as the proposal is concerned, which before this bill is about removing the word “significant” and how to treat it. In general, any treatment and any conclusions as to what is a significant deviation or any threat to the dumped imports and so on, the inter-ministerial commission makes. A proper investigation is being carried out. All interested parties provide the necessary information. In one case, it's going to be significant -- let's say 100 percent in another 10 percent. It's going to depend very heavily on the elasticity of the price of demand and so on and so forth and so forth. I mean, there's a lot and lots of factors. The word “significant deviations” is simply the transfer here of the rules of the relevant World Trade Organisation agreement and those that are in force in the European Union, the United States, Canada, which also apply these measures. So this definition, which is significant, which is not significant, is actually the competence of the inter-ministerial commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u222	Dear colleagues, to sum it up. The point is, Mikhail Vasilovich, that it is within the authority of the government and the inter-ministerial commission, which consists of all the government's leaders to determine significantly or little. I mean, we're expanding our powers by our interdisciplinary commission. So this formulation will depend on the position of the members of the inter-ministerial commission that sits down and that deals specifically with the protection of the national producer. Thus, voting in such an order would increase the authority of the government and the authorities responsible for protecting the national producer. So I'm voting on a proposal for a committee to adopt as a basis, and in general, Bill No. 2288 on amending certain laws of Ukraine to protect a national producer from subsidized dumped and growing imports. Dear colleagues, we begin the voting procedure. I will now warn you that we are voting. Please vote. [[13:10:47]] For 370. Thank you. Dear colleagues, Bill 2289. It also contains an exclusive technical amendment to article 16 of the Law on External Economic Activity. I would like to vote in favour of the short-term procedure for the consideration of Bill 2289. Please vote. [[13:11:20]] For 382 Decision taken. Valerius Teziyovich, please come to the rostrum. On the rostrum, on the rostrum, Valery Teziyovich, we have Parliament working even more quickly than the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u223	The honourable chairman, the honourable national MPs, in this bill, are indeed making quite technical changes that relate to the non-limited import of goods for which quotas have been introduced and the corresponding licensing for the full use of quotas. These are the relevant standards of the import licensing agreement. The following rule stipulates that it cannot be denied in the customs form of the goods for slight deviations from the value, quantity or weight, that is, the values contained in the licence. And these slight deviations are again set up by the Cabinet of Ministers. I want to point out that today, when there's an automatic license without setting quantitative limits, possible deviations from the licenced data are within 5 percent, both on the increase side and on the downside. But for each particular product, of course, this deviation can be different because there can be shipping parties and so on, and so on, and depending on the type of goods, whether in bulk or in quantity, so these variances can be. And a very important rule that ensures transparency in the adoption of licensing procedures is that licensing information should normally be published in 21 days. So that we don't get into a situation where business finds out that a product is being licensed, it's actually the day that it's actually coming up with a decision. That is, for the licensing procedure to take place, for publication, for publication, and for this to be provided by law, it is also a direct norm for the relevant World Trade Organisation agreement. Thank you for your attention. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u224	Thank you, Valery Teziyovich. Sergey Grigorovitch, please to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u225	Dear Head, dear colleagues! This bill was considered on April 8th on the committee and was supported. What does it mean, in fact? In fact, it refers to our usual, very favorite licensing procedures and restrictions. It's just that there are technical remedies that make these mechanisms more transparent and in strict compliance with the WTO licensing agreement. Therefore, the committee considered, supported all members of the committee and proposed it on the basis and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u226	Thank you. Please two "for", two "against". Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u227	Thank you. Out of the way. Dear colleagues, Bill 2289 in view of the appearance of the Deputy Minister and the First Deputy Head of the Committee could be called technical, but that's not the case. Now, you see, I'm making a warning: a slight deviation from this stated declaration is granted the right of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to make decisions. Another procedure, too, falls under the responsibility of the Cabinet of Ministers. I mean, you know, either the law, or without the law, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I'm not sure, for example, that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine will work quickly and will work quickly, taking into account how long the customs procedures for goods crossing the border are now being delayed, or on the other hand. You can look at the external economic activity of not one of the giants of our Ukrainian industry, how long the procedure and the fibers are. And one more thing. Well, I'm sorry, a little politics. So far, we have not seen any changes to the 2008 Budget Act. Kabmin's operationality. No government activity programs have been seen. The Office of Ministers of Ukraine is also operational. So I'd like to use the presence of Mr. Pettnick here, please, of the mechanisms of embodiment at the session of the Cabinet or on my own. In the college of your Ministry of the Mechanism for the Implementation of the Soviet Bills into Life, and especially the mechanism for monitoring the implementation of these and other changes that are called upon to make it comfortable, if you want to make that word, our entry into the WTO should be in the order of day number one, because we are very much accepting the bills, but here the warnings were made. Where the guarantee is that in a month or two we won't have to adopt new bills because they won't be implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u228	Thank you. Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u229	Vladimir Yavorowski, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. The "Julia Tymoshenko Block" will definitely support this bill, and I want it today. My colleague, who has just been speaking, is acting extremely productively and constructively, and I cannot agree with him that we are necessarily in the bill today to insert what we are doing under the law. I don't agree with what the committee said. That the Cabinet of Ministers is a very slow, very bulky organization. But it doesn't mean that Julia Timoshenko or Turkinov is going to consider, let's say, this difference between, as it were, the real product and what it means is that it's actually there and so on. This will be done by customs, by customs, and I think they will decide and have already proven their ability, adding almost twice as much revenue to the budget as they did before. Because of this "Julia Tymoshenko Block" will vote in favour of this bill and the hot one asks to support it, even Mr. Suhogo, who is a little bit held up there. Mr. Slavo, you'll do it. Isn't it?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u230	Peter Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u231	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, perhaps you can agree that this document or changes are of a technical nature to some extent. But they have both a s, so to speak, and another component. It's language. Besides everything else, it's about the scale of the inadequacy. And if you want, the scale of the theft. Because it's about the difference in the stated, let's say, the vase and the one that is de facto. I am surprised when representatives of the political forces who have declared the campaign “Contrabandi – Stop!”, today we say that we will vote unconditionally for this. They don't care. The slogan is one thing, and the meaningful part of the slogan is another. And one more thing, I'd like to say. You know, if we've taken everything, everything in the world is in line with the Soviet legislation, let's probably bring the laws of gravity into line with the rules of the World Trade Organization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u232	Katerina Vaschuk. It's a microphone. Vaszczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u233	“Block of Lithuania”, Katerina Vaschuk. Our legislation should therefore be different, that it should be as direct as possible and not contain articles that can be circumvented, that can be treated differently. The one who carefully read the bill will not say that it is simply a technical norm. Small deviations in the product by the embankment, who will determine how small they are. We asked that question. It was said that 20 percent could be defined as insignificant. What is 20 percent of the product — a slight deviation? Price or quantity? I believe that we should follow the recommendations of our analytical office: adopt this bill in the first reading in order to make it clear, by the way, that the SOTA rules are "a slight deviation".
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u234	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would ask that we read the bill again carefully. It is a matter of simplifying the work of business subjects by means of the bill. If, on condition, the license was issued for 100 tons, and the person drove 100 tons and 300 kilograms, formally and legally, they could ban imports from the entire 100-ton product group. We give clear authority to the government to react immediately and to determine deviations depending on the type and type of goods. Because one deviation would be for the grains, the other deviation would be for the cars and so on. If we bring this to Parliament now, we'll only deal with you every day with what we regulate: this is a variance of 0.35 percent, or 0.38 percent. This must be the direct responsibility of the government, and there is logic in this. If the government can't handle it, we're like national deputies. We will certainly point to the government’s shortcomings. So I would like to support the committee's proposal and vote on Bill 2289 as a basis and as a whole, both for the Ukrainian Constitution and for sound logic. Dear colleagues, I'll put it to a vote. We vote in favour of the bill 2289 amending article 16 of the Ukrainian Law on External Economic Activity. Please vote. [[13:22:08]] For 378 Decision taken. The next bill, 2022, to amend some of Ukraine’s intellectual property laws to meet the requirements related to Ukraine’s entry into WTO. Half a minute, colleagues, I'll see. In principle, you can put it in a reduced procedure. I would like to vote in favour of the short-term procedure for the consideration of this bill. [[13:22:53]] For 358 Padaji Mikola Vasilovich, please go to the rostrum of Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u235	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, honourable national deputies, your opinion is proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine bill to amend some Ukrainian legislation on intellectual property. The proper mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers is the basis for the drafting of this bill. I'll tell you what we're bringing in. Amendments to the law provide for the legal protection of traditional geographical names that come from a specific geographical location. Refusal to provide legal protection to a qualified designation of the origin of a product that is identical or similar so that it can be confused with a sign for goods and services, rights that are recognised in Ukraine, provided that given the reputation, the knowledge and the duration of use of that sign. Such legal protection may mislead consumers about the identity of the product, as well as clarifying some documents to be submitted by applicants for legal protection for the claimed origin of the product in Ukraine. The Ukrainian Law on the Protection of the Rights of Signs for Goods and Services introduces changes in the identification of the sign in domain names and the recognition of the sign as well known in Ukraine. The adoption of this bill will greatly improve the situation, increase the capacity of national applicants, intellectual property owners, and national producers in the global market for goods and services. With that in mind, please accept the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u236	Let me finish. Everything? Thank you. Davemuk Stepan Antonovich, deputy head of the Committee on Science and Education
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u237	Dear Arsenia Petrovich, distinguished national deputies! The Committee on Science and Education reviewed the draft law of Ukraine and suggested that the Supreme Council accept it as a basis. The adoption of the bill, in addition to ensuring compliance with commitments made by Ukraine in the negotiation process of Ukraine’s accession to the WTO, enhances the capacity of national applicants, intellectual property owners, and national producers in the global market for goods and services. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u238	Thank you. Please sit down. Two — “for”, two — “against”. Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u239	Vladimir Karpuk. "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense." The faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" supports the adoption of this law as a basis. And perhaps the greatest warnings in the area of Ukraine’s entry into WTO were just warnings about intellectual property rights. Therefore, the adoption of amendments to laws on the protection of rights and trademarks for goods and services and on the protection of rights to indicate the origin of goods arising out of the Trips Agreement is extremely important. And all we want to do is wish the Ukrainian side that as a member of the WTO, we would just support our domestic producers, their trademarks, as Italians needed to do about the "Parmesan" cheese and the Scots about the elements of the Celtic clothes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u240	Thank you. Andrew Schlell.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u241	Thank you. I also support, our faction will vote in favour of this bill, because I think that regulation is essential in this area. But I'd like to use the possibility that it would also protect Ukrainian not only businesses, but also large cities like Kiev, because so far we have two Latin names, it's about the same thing, but if it's not very nice when one trade mark is translated into another language and the other one is not. [[Kiev and Kiev]] So I think that under these circumstances this is a equation in rights and in protecting intellectual property and our trademarks and those who come here by side. Because I think there are a lot of laws that regulate but don't help. So in this situation it's regulated by the bill and it helps, it's the positives that give us the opportunity to join the World Trade Organization that they give when we join the World Trade Organization. And I hope that we will work together here so that not only our trademarks will not be translated, but our geographical names will also be maintained within the framework of current legislation and will be prescribed in all trade marks in the national language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u242	Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u243	Thank you very much, Arseny Petrovich. The Lithuanian bloc will support this bill because we understand very well that a society in which intelligence is not valued is not valued, it is not valued by intellectual people, it will never be democratic, it will not be civilized. But I would like to raise another problem, another question. I remember well how much changes we have made in intellectual property legislation. Usually it was a response to the demands of some embassies, let's face it, to the demands of some of our foreign partners and so on. Maybe we, I'm talking to government officials, we should take and change everything that suits our interests and not make it conjunctural, because I think something else is going to change and there's going to be changes in intellectual property legislation, and so on. It seems that we need to work more seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u244	I would like to support my colleague Oleg Zarubinski in this matter and it would be desirable for us to hear in the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament the question of protecting intellectual property at all. Because it's taken an incredible amount of power, money, and to this day, the transitions are selling non-licensed disks and there's a question about what is the effectiveness of today's protection of intellectual property. Because today we protect strangers, and tomorrow we will have our own, if we cannot protect strangers, we will not protect our own. Please, Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u245	Dear colleagues, I took the floor to emphasize this very big problem once again. To be honest, you understand very well that all that was gained in the 20th century, in fact, by Ukrainian society, its intellectual property is usually stretched at no cost, scattered around the world. That's why we have to think about that the main element of the competitiveness of the nation today in the world market, in the world arena, is its intellectual property. I would also like to point out that, in fact, as the head of the National Writers' Association, I can say that Ukrainian writers have completely excluded the concept of “honor” from their vocabulary. I mean, it doesn't pay a penny anywhere or anything. Even inside our country, and I'm not saying that when it goes abroad, it's actually all there and it's all there. Because Arsenija Petrovich, I want to support you here on this subject, so let's focus on this particular topic, either our meetings, or our discussions, or our round table, we'll discuss this question, we need to put it in order. I'm very sorry that, of course, my colleague, the head of the Committee on Science and Education, if I may, give him some of my time to actually say a few words about this.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u246	A colleague of Lolo's, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u247	Ladies and gentlemen, I also support, as head of the Committee on Science and Education, I support the acuteity of the problem, and I also support it, and I simply inform all the National Deputies that we have on April 16, this year the Committee is considering the state of state administration of intellectual property and innovation, this is the second reading, so all of your suggestions that we are willing to consider are there. And we invite you, Arsenius Petrovich, to our meeting, on the basis of the parliamentary hearings that took place last year. And I thank all the committee heads, these are the nine committees that made proposals for our draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u248	Thank you. I would like to refer to Stepan Antonovich Dawimuka, a proposal by the committee on the basis and in general? On the basis and in general. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the amendment bill 2022, on the adoption of a law amending some of Ukraine's intellectual property laws to meet the requirements related to Ukraine's accession to WTO. Let's start the voting process. [[13:32:51]] For 405 Decision taken. Thank you. We go to the next bill, 2290, on amending the Ukrainian Law on Standards, Technical Rules and Procedures for Conformity Assessment. [[on product conformity assessment]] Reported Deputy Minister of Economy Petnicky Valeriy Teziyovich. As we proceed, do you propose or not? You're suggesting. Please vote in favour of the summary procedure. [[13:33:32]] For 363 Decision taken. Valerius Teziyovich, please report for a summary of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u249	Ladies and gentlemen, this bill amends the Ukrainian Law on Standards and Technical Rules and Procedures for Conformity Assessment, which primarily addresses two main issues, i.e. the extension of the authority's powers of conformity assessment by the Ukrainian authorities with regard to the recognition of the results of the conformity assessment of products carried out in other member countries of the World Trade Organization. It should be pointed out that it is imperative that the conformity assessment procedures in these States ensure the same imbalance in compliance with technical requirements as the procedures in place in Ukraine. This is fully in line with international and European practice and will eliminate the need for retesting and, as a result, reduce the cost of time and spending on business subjects. And the second. The bill defines the conditions and order of participation in the work of assessing the product on the corresponding set???? the requirements of certification bodies which are not residents of Ukraine. The expansion of the network of these bodies, based on the inclusion of authoritative certification bodies with many years of experience, will create more favourable conditions for our manufacturers to access Ukrainian products to external markets and will give a positive impetus to improving the national system of conformity assessment. Please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u250	Thank you, Valery Teziyovich. Please be the deputy chairman of the committee, Kuzmenko Petr Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u251	Dear colleagues! Dear Arsenia Petrovich! The Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship considered a bill at its meeting on April 9, 2008. During the discussion of the bill, it was pointed out that the establishment of procedures for the appointment of conformity assessment bodies and the conduct of conformity assessment procedures in Ukraine in accordance with international practice was an important condition for the introduction of Ukraine into the World Trade Organization. Therefore, there is a need to accelerate the technical regulations imposed on Ukraine as part of the WTO introduction. The members of the committee decided, the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Standard and Technical Rules and Procedures for Conformity Assessment, to submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and to propose that it be accepted as a basis. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council, in its conclusion, believes that the first reading of the bill may be based on the following considerations and proposals. I will add that there were ten members of the committee present. Nine voted in favour, one holding back. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u252	Thank you. I'm asking for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, Sergey Rafailovich Greenewecki, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u253	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, the Lithuanian bloc supports the bill. But there is such a observation that changes to the law provide that the designated body for the assessment of conformity is responsible for the results of the assessment of compliance according to legislation. In our view, it is appropriate to clarify the responsibility of the designated body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u254	Thank you, Sergey Raphaelovich. Yavorowski Wolodymir.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u255	Dear colleagues! The Yulia Tymoshenko Block will vote unanimously for the addition to, oh, the amendments to the standards law, technical regulations and conformity assessment procedures. Because this bill, like the previous ones that we have voted for, is actually setting international high standards in Ukraine and increasing accountability, of course, here, in us and in the middle of the country. That's why we're going to vote. And I ask Arsenija Petrovich to put to the vote while Jaroslav Suhi is in the hall, because this is a very important voice for us.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u256	Sergey Ribuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u257	Thank you. Dear Arsenija Petrovich, national deputies. I'd rather have a warning and a wish. If this were the case, I would like to confirm that the faction of the Party of Regions of the previous Bills did not vote not because there was a policy, but because the coalition and government did not systematically approach the proposal to parliament. We're looking at the bill right now, all of it. Where article 16 of the Board of Standardization, technical regulation, functions, responsibilities, and the first drafts were proposed in general yesterday to eliminate standards, such as such, that is, not meaningfully, not systematicly, but now, of course, we would like to advise that laws be drafted and that there will be no politics, but only the economy and the well-being of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u258	Thank you, Your Honor. I'll tell you that this bill is also aimed at combating corruption, including in standardisation, certification. Because it enables, in fact, competition in this area and raises, basically, standards. Dear colleagues, I am bringing to your attention the decisions on voting on the basis and in the whole of Bill 2290-P on amending the Ukrainian Law on Standards, Technical Regulations and Conformity Assessment Procedures. Let's start the voting process. [[13:40:10]] For 390 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, these two bills have been removed from our consideration because of the inadequacy of the provisional Rules and the absence of decisions by the committees concerned. And if there were the decisions of the relevant committees, we would vote and finish this story today. So, unfortunately, it happens that we don't have enough time, or sometimes we don't want to. But today we have shown tremendous efficiency. There are two more bills, and I think we'll consider them next week when the committee is ready. Yes, isn't it? Okay. I ask you to move on to the following issues of the agenda. 1365, 1366 transferred, we will be determined on Monday, when we consider for that purpose, so that we do not reject the right laws for political reasons. I am going to Bill 0038 -- draft Law on the Ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of Ukraine and the Council of Europe on the status of the Office of the Council of Europe in Ukraine. Alexander Mikhailovich Kupčin, on the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u259	Honourable Arsenija Petrovich, distinguished national MPs, signed a Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of Ukraine and the Council of Europe regarding the stand-up of the Council of Europe and its legal status in Ukraine on 6 November 2006 in Kiev on a visit by the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe to Ukraine. The Memorandum is based on increased cooperation between Ukraine and the Council of Europe as part of the implementation of the Council of Europe action plan for Ukraine approved by the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe. The memorandum clearly sets out the mandate, tasks and functions of the office, its legal status under the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations of 1961 and the General Agreement on Privileges and Immunities of the Council of Europe of 1949, the parties to both documents are Ukraine. According to article 15 of the Memorandum, the document has been applied provisionally since the date of its signature in a part that does not conflict with the legislation of Ukraine and becomes effective after the report of Ukraine’s implementation of the internal and State procedures necessary for it to take effect. A minority of such procedures defined the ratification of the Memorandum. In principle, the source of funding for the operations of the Office is based solely on the financial resources of the organization, that is, the Council of Europe. The Memorandum sets out a comprehensive list of the tasks of the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe in coordinating cooperation programmes. These tasks are administrative and technical in nature and do not provide for any political element. The right positions allow for some monitoring by the Ukrainian side of the Office’s activities. The MIP is defined in the Memorandum as the government authority responsible for overall coordination and monitoring of the implementation of the action plan. The ratification of the Memorandum does not require amendments and additions to Ukraine's other legal acts, as well as additional expenditure from the State budget, because, as I have pointed out, the Office's activities are financed by the Council of Europe. Please support the ratification of this document. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u260	Thank you. Please, have a seat. Oleg Grigorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u261	Dear people's deputies, I'm brief. The Committee on Foreign Affairs reviewed the draft Law on Ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of Ukraine and the Council of Europe on the establishment in Ukraine of the Office of the Council of Europe and its legal status. The Committee's single decision is to recommend to the Supreme Council to adopt this draft law and thus to ensure Ukraine's even more active participation in the Council of Europe as a step towards Euro-Atlantic integration, European integration. I urge all of you to vote unanimously for ratification.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u262	Thank you. Is there a question? I won't. Any questions for Oleg Grigorovitch, comrades? Tell me. Yes, Oleg Grigorovich, you must answer. Jaroslav Suhi. You have to answer, we didn't vote on the shortened procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u263	Thank you. Oleg Grigorovich, well, I understand you're talking about it. God forbid! You don't have to say NATO's word in the room anymore, because if this law promotes NATO, you'll be looking for votes in the corridors. I have a specific question, the argument “for”: please tell the deputy minister that this Office will exercise control and monitoring?. I'll tell you, I've been personally caught up in these monitoring and particularly prejudiced grades by some Pole or Frenchman who's going to tell me that we have democracy and that we don't have democracy. Please state your argument. You're an experienced man. In this session room of a more experienced diplomat than you do, I just don't know. Please tell us that this will give us, in the world community, the establishment of this Office and the work of this Office. Can't we get on our necks, put another spy on our own who'll be watching us, looking at us and giving us advice that nobody needs?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u264	Thank you for your frank stand. It's strong, it's natural, and I take it. We don't need controllers, we don't need auditors, but if it's Office, it's going to be the structure that we're going to influence because Ukraine is very active in the Council of Europe. The Council of Europe was the first international arena where we came out and said that we are, that we are a nation, that we are a nation, that we are a country. And let the neighbors bark that Ukraine is not a state, and we are, and we will be, because this is where the historic state began! [[Applause]] Now, about my mistake with the Euro-Atlantics. I want to explain. Euro-Atlantics exist. There is the North Atlantic, and there is the European Atlantic, which Ukraine refers to (this is the Baltic Sea, this is Ukraine. [[This is Canada and the United States.]]
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u265	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u266	The Atlantic is an Atlantic. Where the Atlantic was, remember. It's the Mediterranean, and we're part of the Mediterranean.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u267	The sand.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u268	Please vote, and this will be our answer to all questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u269	Oleg Grigorovich, more questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u270	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. No, it's probably not just a question, it's just a clarification. The great colleagues, the fact is that when we ratify this agreement, we don't just agree to monitor it, it happens according to the conclusion of 190.95 when Ukraine joined the Council of Europe and made a commitment. On the one hand, there will be monitoring of what we have taken, but on the other hand, assistance will be provided in fulfilling our obligations, including the implementation of the European Charter of Regional Languages, the Framework Convention on the Rights and Protection of National Minorities, the European Social Charter updated. That is why we need to ratify this and through this Office to lead to Europe, what is not being done and, together with Europe, the Council of Europe, to fulfil its obligations and move on to a post-monitoring procedure. So we call on everyone to support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u271	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yuri Karmazin And we're closing the discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u272	Dear Oleg Grigorovich, well, I think you're so wise that you didn't believe that you were the best diplomat in this room. There are 450 people here, the best diplomats. And the second question. I appeal to my own opposition. I think they all vote unanimously for this, because when headquarters is here, you can always go and complain, "Look how they, you bastards, usurp power as they abuse us!"
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u273	Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u274	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u275	These are the words of a professional opposition.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u276	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense”. Dear Mr. Head, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the thoughts expressed on constant monitoring and so forth show that we have not yet reached Europe, that we are in many positions ahead of those countries that allow us to monitor. So I support the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of Ukraine and the Council of Europe. And I'd like to say that we keep humiliating ourselves with these complaints, monitoring and so on. This applies particularly to Mr. Popescu. That's what you're talking about. You don't have to. Raise your hand, take the line, but don't embarrass Ukraine here, in Ukraine, or in the Council of Europe. We don't have to. We're an independent, powerful state. And we have to say it all the time and all the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u277	Oleg Grigorovitch, please sit down. You're an honorable man, they're negotiating with each other, and you're standing on the stand. Please, Popescu's line.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u278	Thank you. Fellow dignitaries, here one of the colleagues raised a question about how we raise Ukraine's ratings, whether we don't raise complaints, whether we don't accept complaints. I want to prove to him that it was I who was reporting to the Council of Europe on cross-border cooperation, and an appropriate resolution was now adopted at the level of the Council of Europe. And it was this resolution that was approved by all the members of the Council of Europe, and they recognized Ukraine as the country that cares about it. But I would like to point out that, as a member of the Party of Regions, I have proved that the Party of Regions is a true European party that always cares for us to fulfill our obligations there. And if you don't know about these moments, come when we have a meeting with the appropriate monitoring groups. And you'll know. You don't have to talk like that, you don't have to talk like that. A party of regions will support it, but not because you call for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u279	Dear colleagues, we have a discussion. There was no brief vote, comrades. Well, do you want the Supreme Council's head to be exchanged for violating provisional regulations? Please sign up. Andrew Schlell.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u280	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues are national deputies, I think there is no resistance in this room to support a similar bill. There was a question, even a geographic discussion. It's always nice when people were good at school, they were good at geography, and some of them were good at it. So you don't have to forget that when we talk about the Baltic Sea basin, it belongs to my fellow, and the Black Sea, if you already take geography like that. Atlantic, I'm sorry. Taras, you get in, you get in, you get in, you get in, you get in, you get in, you get in, you get in, you get in, you get in, you When we talk about the Atlantic, there are both the Black Sea and the Baltic Sea, including the Atlantic Ocean. So, in principle, the fear of Atlantic integration should not be in those who spend all their rest on the shores of the Atlantic Ocean in Spain and the Mediterranean as well. This contributes to health, for the national deputies who rested there come back here and successfully vote on the whole range of anti - European laws they are proposing. So now, I think it's time to make up for this kind of vote by supporting a pro-European bill that allows not just monitoring, but this office increases Ukraine's status and level as a member of the Council of Europe. And here, for this status, we have to fight, not discuss necessity. Unfortunately, Ukrainian statesmen have not yet learned to fight for their state without being in the seats of the Prime Minister. Because, of course, while in the Prime Minister's chair, Yanukovic was in favour of European integration, he became an opposition – now he is in favour of integration with the Russian Federation. Well, I don't know how logical that is, but. It's not consistent, as a minimum. So by urging the followers of European integration, the Party of Regions, everyone else, to support this bill in the first reading and in general, because, in principle, I don't see any warnings about that. And all the warnings made, they were built on the fact that someone didn't hear anything or someone could. Something's been said. And I'll tell everyone else, don't worry, Ukraine will be in all European security systems, because no one is offering any other alternatives. I want to remind you that there was an agreement in Budapest that Russia, the European Union and the United States guarantee the integrity and integrity of the Ukrainian state, and President Putin, speaking to President Bush, said that Ukraine is not a state. Therefore, it is a pleasure to be assured of such sovereignty by a state that does not view us as such. So forget about neutral status and non-blocking, it's all yesterday, and we have to live today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u281	Peter Cibenko. Out of the way, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u282	Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, we have discussed the draft of this ratification in faction, and the faction has decided that we will support this ratification. I'll say more, we're going to vote in favour of ratifying the memorandum, including because some of the colleagues in parliament today have said some of the lines in such a way as to force the opposition in general and the UK Company not to vote separately for this document. So I would like to stress in principle that we are going to vote for ratification. Second argument. I want to say that perhaps with the ratification of the memorandum we are late, at least, for 13 years, because Ukraine has been a member of the Council of Europe since 1995. I have to say that the representatives of the Ukrainian Company in the Ukrainian parliamentary delegation have always been extremely active and powerful in European structures and have therefore contributed to this issue. The other thing is that the Ukrainian Company's representatives would very much like to hope that the opening of this office and the ratification of this memorandum will contribute to Ukraine's eventual stop in European shades, and that Ukraine will really join in on equal footings in joining the European community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u283	Colleagues, I'm continuing this meeting for 15 minutes, pending the completion of this consideration. Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u284	Dear Arsenia Petrovich, fellows of honor! Let's face it, there's nothing special about the Office. That we're deceiving ourselves. Do we not understand that it is up to us to comply with the standards of the Council of Europe? Well, there'll be Office, there'll be more. This is not a controversial question. It's good that he will. But let us not put our obligations before our people on any international organization. But in this case, I think that the establishment of this office is, you know, how in mathematics, more or equal. I mean, it won't be anymore. It is clear that there will be a number of representatives who will be able to help the official representatives of the Council of Europe, and in particular the monitoring committee, to continue monitoring, in fact to monitor Ukraine’s compliance with its obligations to the Council of Europe when we enter it. And what monitoring is still being done and not being taken off for obvious reasons, because when we talk about democracy we have to talk only about democracy in Ukraine, I am convinced of this, not to impose democratic standards on someone and not to teach anyone democracy anymore when we have what is going on. In particular, in the context of today, what happened to the judicial branch of power that we have degraded and destroyed, and everyone knows about it. So it seems to me that the question that I'm using for the second time is not controversial. I don't see any negatives in Ukraine being represented by the Council of Europe. And yet, I think it's a very important question, and we all love to talk about Euro-integration and that's right, because Ukraine is a European country, not Euro-Asian, and everyone understands that. But let's be honest, the attitude of the executive structures of the European Union, the European Commission, towards Ukraine is one thing. And the attitude of the Council of Europe. That is, the meeting of parliamentarians of those countries that join the council that join Europe, by the way, there are countries like Azerbaijan, Armenia here in geography, they think they're Europe, they're Parliamentarians' meetings and they've always supported the growth of democracy in Ukraine. And rightly said my colleague Yavorowski that if anyone was in opposition, no matter who he was, because we have both opposition and power very often the same thing, yes, happens. So they always knew, really, who to complain to, really, who to appeal to. So I think it needs to be ratified, but don't make yourself, you know, air palaces. This question will not solve the problem of the absence of real democracy in Ukraine. This question can only help us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u285	Ivan Popescu. The faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u286	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u287	Is the unity of opposition and power controversial? Yes!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u288	Reverend Arseny Petrovich! Masterful colleagues! A party of factions in the region advocates ratifying this memorandum for the following reasons. First. The Council of Europe is one of the few European organizations where Ukraine is a full member and can express its position, and it is accepted. Second, the Supreme Council held appropriate negotiations with the Council of Europe in 1995, and the outcome was the conclusion of the 190th, in which all the commitments that we voluntarily made and that we have to fulfil were written. On the other hand, we are prepared to join the European Union without fully fulfilling our obligations to the Council of Europe in terms of democratic principles. Because the Council of Europe is a political and legal space, and the European Union is a more marketable space that works more on the basis of this right. So we advocate that all of these commitments that we have made be fulfilled, first of all, that we are constantly using and looking at how the rule of law is being implemented. Secondly, we need to ensure that local self-government is in line with the principles enshrined and foreseen in the European Charter of Local Self-Government. We should also point out that today, at the level of the Council of Europe, a charter of regional self-government is being developed. And when we talk about making changes to the Constitution, we also have to make these changes only in accordance with the norms that exist in Europe that our Constitution foresees. We should also bear in mind that the European Charter is regional. foresees, not discussion, but concrete implementation. We have to make sure that if the Constitution states in article 119, paragraph 3, that in places where national minority indigenous peoples live compactly, local administrations finance a national cultural development programme. And then, when we look at the framework of national minority rights conventions, we see that it's not implemented just because local authorities don't have money for it, and there's no government budget for it. That's why we want this office to work, of course, it won't do much to help us, but in the information plan, in the exchange of thoughts, in order to help complete the monitoring process and move on to a post-monitoring procedure so that we can talk to our European colleagues more easily, that will help us. So the Party of Regions is in favour of ratifying this memorandum and we don't need to speculate on that.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u289	Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u290	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense”. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, the distinguished Ukrainian people, we are now invited to ratify the convention and I think this memorandum should be ratified. I just want to draw your attention to the time of signing this document. It was signed in Kiev on November 6, 2006. And for almost two years, it won't be ratified. I'm asking why? Why are we acting so slowly? It had to be done long ago because I see the task of this office, which will be, not only in Ukraine's monitors, but it is time to remove long-standing monitoring and I call on everyone present today in the Council of Europe not to post-monitor, but to remove monitoring from Ukraine as such, to reach its standards. That's the first one. The other one. I would like this office to help us see, and how the countries of Europe feel about us, why Ukrainians are being so despised today that they need to be fingerprinted before entering Britain. What is it, is it normal? So I would like those commitments that the European countries made about Ukraine on the day of the Chernobyl disaster to remember, and they have not fulfilled any obligations on us, and let us bring them to these countries and to the Council of Europe to see that they have not fulfilled those commitments. Let's ask the questions that are before the Russian Federation, which we have in common, because today they're asking questions only to us by the Russian Federation. I'm going to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, have you forgotten about the zero choice? You forgot about the savings Julia Timoshenko is returning today, those are the savings everyone went to Russia. Have you forgotten about that? You obviously haven't forgotten. So please tell the Ukrainian people about this, tell the Ukrainian Parliament and tell them what you're doing, what you're doing, what you're doing, and what you're doing is letting them understand the relevant factors of the Russian Federation. Therefore, dear friends, it is definitely necessary to ratify this international agreement. But what I would like us to do is to promote Ukrainian interests and to remember what they're all about not saying that we're not following a charter, we're living today, we're living in Ukrainian, we're just publishing up to 30 percent of books and periodicals, and we're yelling that some rights are being violated, Ukrainians are being violated, Ukrainians are being violated, and we're not responding! So I urge you to ratify and protect our interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m0.u291	Dear colleagues, does the reporter and co-reporter insist on speaking? Don't insist. I think it would be very logical to make a protocol decision by the Supreme Council on the first commission of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and the second, on the request of the Cabinet of Ministers to expedite the submission of relevant acts signed a few years ago. We do have acts that were signed five to seven years ago that didn't go through the ratification procedure. Therefore, we need to find out whether we are refusing these acts because all ratifications are needed or whether we need to expedite the consideration of the matter by Parliament. That's why I'm voting on the basis of 0038 as a whole. I declare a vote. [[14:07:23]] For 429 Decision taken. This is the first morning even better than the stohani, and I'd like to welcome you all. Evening plenary meeting at 16.07 p.m. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council is closed.
