ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-09-m1.u1	Please register, colleagues. [[16:03:14]] There were 376 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The evening plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is publicized. Dear colleagues, as soon as the faction leaders' meetings are concluded, is actually the Conciliation Council, which has decided that the Ukrainian Parliament will consider it. I'll tell you frankly that the atmosphere that reigns at the Conciliation Council meetings is ten times worse than the one that was at the time of the NATO blockade, not NATO, and so on. We have this story, we don't get together humanly, we don't know how to break up, we don't know how to do it humanly. You have to spit on each other so that they don't greet each other anymore. With regard to the issues proposed for consideration at today’s plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. First. I'm going back to the bill on election of Ukrainian national deputies. I did everything I could to keep these elections from happening. And the coalition was glued and everything was glued, but it happened as expected. As far as the Electoral Law is concerned, they foresee the following. There are a number of technical issues that would make it impossible to interpret legislation on elections and make it impossible to abuse the issue. This is Bill 3186. This bill was introduced by Lukash Olena Leonidivna, and according to a decision of the Conciliation Council, where three factions - for one faction held back, one faction against - the bill I am about to submit will now be submitted as one that should be adopted by Parliament in order to secure the electoral process. The other one. A bill to amend the State Budget Act will now be registered. As soon as I saw him, they're making decisions about who's gonna register him. Because, of course, there is another question about who will take responsibility. Although the responsibility will be taken by the Ukrainian Parliament. Until this bill is registered, if we start our review of the Elections Act, 3186, then we will be considering the Law of Ukraine amending the State Budget Act. I inform you about e that the Central Electoral Commission has officially sent me proposals in accordance with the 49 articles that provide for the total amount of funding needed for the holding of successive parliamentary elections. CBC has determined this amount of 417 million dollars. In doing so, it should be noted that there is still a debt of 14 million dollars for the previous local elections. And we have the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to appoint 138 consecutive elections in villages, villages and cities, which also require about 16 million. So if we're going to consider this bill, it would be appropriate to consider this bill, taking into account previous debts and the necessary funding for the holding of early elections in cities, villages and other administrative and territorial units. Therefore, honourable colleagues, in order for these laws to be adopted and adopted in a legitimate manner, so that there will be no discussion, because today there is a legal discussion on when the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine are terminated: do they stop from publishing the decree of the President of Ukraine, or do they stop from choosing the new composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. These are so-called contradictions in article 90 of the Constitution of Ukraine. There is an application to the Constitutional Court for an official interpretation of this position. I will not take the responsibility of officially interpreting the Constitution, especially since I have no right to do so. So for legal integrity, I would suggest to you today on the basis of the faction leaders' decision to go the next day. First: vote on the formation of a timetable with two questions. First: Amendments to the Ukrainian Election Act. Second: Amendments to the Ukrainian State Budget Act. The other one. In view of tomorrow’s publication, it is likely that the President’s decree to terminate the term of office will have to be considered without a committee decision. In order to consider the two bills without a committee decision, it is necessary to have 226 votes in the Chamber to support a position on the draft bill and its admission without a committee decision. The bill is then considered in the first reading. In order to go to the bill in the second reading, it is necessary to put a procedural decision to the vote – 226 – and then consider it in the second reading. And after that, everyone in the fields to the elections. There are other options for events, well, let's see. Yeah, all right, all right, all right, all right. Please, one minute from the factions, sign up, make a statement so that everyone can say the same thing. Repeat the recording, because one faction has not been recorded. There are only four factions. "Bulorus Oleg Grigorovich, Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-09-m1.u2	Dear fellows, dear Head, distinguished voters! We are strongly protesting this approach: to break through the knee, and we are urging everyone, and journalists, to see how the anti-national coalition here will be formed after this vote, to whom elections are wrong, not the situation in the country and the threats external to the country today. That's the first one. Secondly, if we ask this question -- on our knees, we insist that the 2008 budget changes be made, that we protect miners, pensioners, teachers, doctors. We strongly insist on the 2009 budget, there's a 30 percent increase in the social benefits of the people. We strongly urge agrarian questions, to ask exactly this procedure. Dear colleagues, we have huge debts to the people, we will not be here for seven months in this room. Who will then come to these ruins? Category: 2 months of election, 2 months of trial, audit, calculation, month of coalition, and 2 months of government. Who will then rule over all these things? Let's work today to the end, but let's accept what the people need, and then let's do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-09-m1.u3	Viacheslav Kirilenko, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-09-m1.u4	Dear colleagues, we have a great request for those who adhere to double standards to stop observing them. [[B in m in s a l in]] Double standards are that there's a faction last year that's been screaming a lot about elections. But she was in opposition at the time. And now there's the same faction, but now it's in power. And she screams very loudly that there is no need for elections. And I think now even the rostrum is going to block, so it doesn't want to go to people. So we call on this faction, which is bad now, by the way, they're sick again because they don't like to hear the truth, they're not used to it, and I urge this faction not to sabotage the decision that has already been made. To vote on the bill: change to the election and change to the budget, and go to the people. And don't stick to the chair and your own portfolios after six months, as the leader of the Janukovich Region Party did in the last election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-09-m1.u5	I'm sorry. Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-09-m1.u6	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! To what extent the presence of nationalists leads, we are all with you today as brightest witnesses. Because last year, the same coalition, only one faction organized early elections, today the same coalition, only now is the other faction organizing these early elections. The Yushchenko adventure, with early elections, now faces the tragic consequences of the global financial crisis and may turn to Ukraine and our people with a tragedy that is still difficult to predict. It is obvious, therefore, that today's proposal for a Communist faction deserves special attention: to proceed immediately with the President's impeachment procedure, to decide immediately on his resignation, to take a decision today immediately! [[B in m in s a l in]] Ban him from running the country! Therefore, only such decisions give us the opportunity to return today.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-09-m1.u7	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-09-m1.u8	Only this decision will enable us to restore governance in the country, only this decision will enable the Government today, if it fails to do so, and today we will consider radical measures to stabilize the entire situation in our country, because the whole world today is struggling with the consequences of this tragedy. It is only because nationalists are in power that we have a tragedy that will turn into a disaster for 46 million. Fingers do not strike to take action to stabilize the situation in the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-09-m1.u9	It's a light bulb. Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-09-m1.u10	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues, respected listeners and radio listeners! I think a person is being evaluated in extreme situations. And how he behaves when he wins, and how he behaves when he loses, his true quality manifests itself. It is not the Party of the Regions that is responsible for the situation in the State today, not the Party of the Regions today, which has led to the collapse of the orange-heart coalition. Therefore, our respectable colleagues, find courage and say that you have lost and with dignity go the next step and prove to the community that you are not panicking at the most difficult moment. And one more moment. We cannot support what one respectable person in our State said when he calculated how many seconds he would return to the Cabinet of Ministers. If anyone's trying to keep this chair and every second of it today.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-09-m1.u11	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-09-m1.u12	And every second of this revenue, the Party of the Regions has never considered it, but trusts the people who say it. But we won't support it. Much less money will be needed to hold early elections and to obtain honest and orderly rulers than to support the situation today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-09-m1.u13	Everyone finishes, no matter who speaks. Dear colleagues, here's the next offer. Once again, if you don't know what he's doing, do it by law. There was a meeting of the Conciliation Council. I don't think there's much news for anyone that there's an order for termination. And it's certainly not news that the coalition is long gone. So in order for me to hold a meeting of the Conciliation Council, I have to put a few questions to the vote. The first question I'm putting to the vote is the inclusion in the agenda and the consideration without the decision of Bill No.3186. This is a bill introduced by Lukas Olenna Leonidovna. Bill “On Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Elections of Ukrainian People’s Deputies”. You guys hear that? 3186, colleagues, please vote for inclusion in the agenda. [[16:16:03]] To - 228. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, please show me the factions. Regions – 168, BUT – 0, "Our Ukraine" – 40, communist – 0, "Block of Lithuania" – 20. Dear colleagues, I invite you to the rostrum of Lukas Olen Leonidivna. With motive? Okay, okay. Olena Leonidovno, I'm sorry, my colleagues want to make a statement. Can I have you out of the picture? From where? All right, get out of here. [[B in m in s a l in]] The motives are over, Peter Mikolaiovich. Now only the physical resources are left. Dear colleagues! Now we've gone into a normal format of work, I want to tell you. It's all the same. Parliament's working, so it's going to be okay. Dear colleagues, in view of what is being blocked, for reasons, you will now be speaking outside the parliament. In view of the fact that Parliament is locked up as usual, I am calling for a recess, and if this recess is not over, we will close today’s session.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-09-m1.u14	Dear friends. Dear colleagues, I think the situation is quite clear: if we don't have legislation, we don't have an election. Still, it's very simple. In view of that. Right, I'm talking about both the budget, and all the laws, and the electoral legislation, that's a general, complex question. Elections may be held without legislation, but then they will be clearly unconstitutional and recognized by all such courts. That is why it was planned to consider today both the budget package and the package relating to the electoral law. But as we can see, this decision is not taken, so we need to go back to a credible political consensus to hold early parliamentary elections. I think my offer will be next. We can't solve this exclusively at the faction leaders' level. In order to address the issue of internal legislation and the legitimate way of dealing with the question of the holding of early elections, it is necessary to involve all the political forces, all the leadership of the state and to put a stop to the issue, because the page is upside down and the new page is not open. I suggest you do it this way. The faction leaders come to me to understand how we will work with you tomorrow and with whom we will call, and with whom we will negotiate to continue the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In the morning, and more precisely in the evening, I declare the plenary meeting closed, colleagues. See you tomorrow, before the next meeting.
