ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-09-m0.u1	Good morning, dear colleagues! We're getting smaller and smaller. And, in principle, there's a logical explanation for that. Dear colleagues, let's register, please. [[10:00:20]] Reported -242 There are 242 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The morning and virtually the last meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is publicized. The Honourable People's Deputies, which I have just received by post, are a decree from the President of Ukraine, “On the permanent termination of the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine”. For us to make decisions about how to move forward, because in principle it became clear that our vague future had already been determined. There's an order, and now we have to hold the early elections. You can already put a dot here. The second stage is how to hold parliamentary elections in the next year. The elections should be transparent, democratic, funded and those that correspond to the real will of the Ukrainian people. To do this, we need to gather and adopt appropriate legislation. I think it's in everyone's best interest to make no one feel that there might be some sort of charge of election results, some accused individual protocols, some accused in the entire will of the Ukrainian people. That's why a package of legislation was worked out yesterday, but it is now necessary for all of us as faction leaders to gather together and make the right decision, as we vote, when we vote and how we go to the parliamentary elections for the term. Dear colleagues, I think by 12:30 we will be able to come up with an agreed decision on how to legally prepare the procedure for holding early parliamentary elections. I invite the faction leaders to my office, and at 12:30 we will continue to meet in Parliament. Yuri Anatoliovich's fight is to be welcomed on his birthday, but I don't see anything. He's got a Jubilee, by the way. Yuri Anatolyovich, let me welcome the entire Parliament. Give it up, comrades. Give it up.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-09-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, we continue our morning plenary session. Since the work of the factions' leaders on the formation of the agenda of today's plenary session is not yet completed, the issues that may potentially be proposed today in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and a meaningful part of these proposals are being prepared, the break concluded is being announced. At 4: 00 p.m., a plenary meeting. At 4: 00 p.m., the evening planning session will begin. The morning plenary session is closed.
