ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, let's register. [[16:01:08]] Ladies and gentlemen, 307 national deputies of Ukraine have been registered. I declare the evening plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues, on June 17, 2008, the Central Election Commission registered the National Deputy of Ukraine, who was elected on September 30, 2007, in a multi-mandatory national constituency, Danilenko Vladimir Andriyovic, who is included in the Communist Party of Ukraine electoral list. In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution, Ukraine’s national deputies take an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. So I invite you to the rostrum of Danilenko Vladimir Andriyovich to make an oath on the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u2	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I pledge to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence in all my actions, to take care of the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u3	Thank you. [[Applause]] Let's say hello to our colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u4	Arsenija Petrovich, I submit the application for membership of the Ukrainian Communist Party's deputy faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u5	Thank you. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, according to the decision of the factions and the Conciliation Council today, two bills have been included in the agenda for today. The first bill is number 1356-2. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputies of Ukraine on the elimination of the benefits of the People's Deputies. And the second bill is a bill which is binding, 1408 is a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Ukrainian People's Deputies and some other Ukrainian laws. This is about restrictions on the benefits and the permanent suspension of the authority of the Ukrainian national deputy. According to the first draft, Herman Hanna Mikolayevna will report to Efraemov Alexander Sergiyovich. According to the second bill, Kirilenko reports Ivan Grigorovich and co-reports Efraemov Alexander Sergiyovich. Adam Ivanovich, I report, unfortunately you were not at the Conciliation Council meeting, but you were the head of the respective factions and committees. Raise the transcript of the session, it has been clearly pointed out that two bills are under consideration today: the first bill is Bill 1356-2, the second bill is Bill 1408. Third, if you don't know that, then the Conciliation Board met at 9 a.m., and so you're still using the agenda before the Conciliation Board. All questions to the machine. There's no author? I'm asking you to find Herman Anna Mikolayevna. Then we'll have to put the bill first in 1408 and wait for Hannah Mikolayevna to report on her bill 1356-2. Please, Ivan Grigorovitch Kirilenko, please come to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u6	Dear Head, dear colleagues! I thank everyone for the sixth call that the Parliament has taken up the resonant issues related to the benefits of the national MPs, as well as to try to overcome the negative phenomena that have plagued the parliamentary family in recent years and in recent days. On behalf of our political power, my colleagues would like me to state that we will remain on this path a predictable and responsible political force capable of responding adequately to the challenges of time, not avoiding responsible decisions, and fulfilling our commitments. The bill is just such a thought - provoking and responsible step that it essentially takes? The first is the real economy of the budget of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, with the cancellation of the benefits in our version, about 180 million dollars a year. First, more faithfully, secondly, this is achieved by reducing pension payments not by a percentage, but by limiting the fifteen minimum payments. Thirdly, the cancellation of free inter-city moves, the right to free use of official delegations' halls, expenses on the capital parliamentary residence, the benefits of sanitation, medical services are set at the level of ordinary citizens of Ukraine, Ukraine, etc. Next. The bill provides for the payment of material assistance to the national deputy upon completion of his cadence in the amount of salary and allowances, but not more than three months, while the law allowed such funds to be obtained in effect prior to retirement. Next. Section 5 of article 20 of the bill states that in the event of a lack of employment within the specified term, a former national deputy who is employed for 25 years of age, for women 20 years of age, for the state service at least 10 years of age, or who has been elected by the national deputy of Ukraine, has the right to an early retirement. To sum up this part of the proposed legislative innovations, I would like to state responsibly that the proposal allows for the fulfillment of the main promise that has been raised for many years in the session room, the deputies are essentially ordinary citizens of their country. Dear colleagues, the substance of the proposed legislative changes to the law on the status of the national MP is fully consistent with the constitutional rules set out in article 81 of the Basic Law of Ukraine. In the absence of a Ukrainian national deputy elected by a political party or an electoral bloc of political parties to form a parliamentary factions of this political party or an electoral bloc, or the exit of a national deputy from such a faction, its authorization shall be suspended in time on the basis of law by decision of the higher governing body of the relevant political party or the electoral bloc of political parties from the date of such decision. It was this constitutional norm that was laid down as the basis for the consideration of money. The Act “On the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine” is proposed to be supplemented by article 4.1, which provides for additional grounds for the permanent suspension of the authority of the Ukrainian National Deputy, namely: if it does not form part of a parliamentary faction and a political party or a block by which it is elected by the People’s Deputies, or an exit from the faction. The other one. People's MP's refusal to sign a written report on the formation of parliamentary factions and political parties or blocs. Third. Failure by the national deputies on the day he took the oath of personal written declaration of membership in the respective factions. And the fourth. Refusal to participate in the activities of MPs or actual opposition to the activities of MPs. Part three of article 4.1 sets out the mechanism for the exit of the national MP from the MP’s factions. This should be a personal written statement about the withdrawal of the faction, as well as the cessation of the faction’s participation in which the national deputy was involved, his participation in the activities of other factions acts contrary to the decision taken by the faction to which the national deputy belonged. In the absence of such a statement, part 4 of this article provides for the existence of a noninvasion, the exit of a national deputy from a faction is established by the higher governing body of a political party or bloc. The higher governing body of the political party, the bloc, deals with the question of establishing the non-ingredient or exit of the people's MP from the faction and when establishing such a fact, decides to suspend the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy for the term. Legislative changes also provide that the question of the timely termination of the powers of the national deputy is being considered at a meeting of the higher political party’s governing body or the bloc convened under the Political Party Statute, with a report from the National Deputy and the Central Electoral Commission not later than three days before the date of the meeting, the conference, and so forth. The decision to suspend the power of the national deputy on a permanent basis is not subject to our project. The judicial branch of power is not involved in domestic life, and then we again certify that the parties are becoming the defining subject of the electoral process. Experts, scientists, politicians, and certainly national MPs who expressed differing thoughts sometimes even diametrically opposed these changes. We have every reason today to vote in favour of this bill in the first reading and thus to open the way for improving the existing legislation and for fulfilling our obligations to our electorate. Thank you and ask for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u7	Five minutes of questions, answers. Please. Yuri Litwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u8	I'd like to give Vaszczuk to Catherine Timothy.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u9	Katerina Vaschuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u10	Dear John Grigorovich, I don't quite understand the concept of obstructing the faction's people's deputies. For which he may be disfellowshipped and deprived of a parliamentary mandate. Doesn't that look like some kind of parliamentary or false party slavery? Since the leader’s will is not being done, it means that the national deputy is wrong, hinders him from being in the Supreme Council. Would that not lead us to turn the name of a national MP into a party MP? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u11	Dear Catherine Timofievna, there are voices from the hall that make the right question. Dear colleagues, life is so fast that tomorrow the other side of the hall will ask such questions as well as speak correctly. Look, there are calls to look at the European experience, unfortunately, we are not yet Europe, unfortunately. So, dear colleagues, look at the example of the last week. Two deputies who filed an application to leave the coalition, but did not file an application to leave the faction. There are no cards in session today. Parliament's paralysed work. We can't put the whole country on its knees because of two people, not to mention the highest legislative body of the state. So the fact is clearly set. People disagree with the political line of the party or the bloc or the coalition. Please, if you want to be honest until the end, you have to make mandates voluntarily. It does not go voluntarily, then it is necessary to make a higher political decision. That's why we're saying that we started our time with this hall of political structure of society by adopting a law on elections on a proportional basis. We gave the political parties a start, not just the electoral process, but the main ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u12	Vladimir Landik.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u13	Party of regions, Landik. I have this question, well, first of all, it's kind of like getting in. As it is still in line with the Constitutional Court's decision on local deputies, because we are also deputies, they are deputies, and this line “other” has been deleted. And you're bringing him in. It's not enough that you're introducing another branch of power. I mean, it's juridical and it's, it turns out, it's also a party. If she is not subordinate and no one can challenge her, there is another branch of government. Well, go on, last one. As they say, someone who burns is a member of the MP's household. In your faction, the Rybakov MP got everyone he knew on the fifth call, sold it the next day and bought it here on Lutheran. We all live, we live, we live in a dorm or we live in tents, and you want to fire us from there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u14	Dear colleague, thank you for asking. And the question also contains an offer. So why are we saying that we want to accept it in the first reading? In fact, we have bills and others that propose to cancel a number of MP's benefits that are different from our bill. I think that by adopting the first reading, you can actually look at these painful questions for every person present in this room. Those who have already resolved this question are no longer in pain, and those who have just come in or who have not received the call from the past. I think these issues can be settled by second reading. With regard to the first half, I will continue what Catherine Timothy was saying, giving an answer, because about ours and your questions are being echoed. I would like to point out once again that by giving political parties the lead in the electoral process, we have launched both the political structure and the society and the parliament. The main subject in parliament is the MP factions. It is not the MPs who form the parliamentary majority, the parliamentary coalition, who form the factions. I'm sorry when they went to the election, when they formed the teams, they both swore to the program, and to the statutes, and to the leaders, and so on and so forth.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u15	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u16	Hallelujah.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u17	Thank you. Donny.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u18	My noble colleagues, I am very sorry that such a bill could be born in the lavatories of a democratic coalition because it puts an absolute cross on democracy. First moment. Under the beautiful title “reduction of benefits”, the imperative mandate extends in its worst form. First off, don't go into factions. Think about it! — recorded in fact the opposition to the activities of the deputy faction, which may be the vote within the faction, the vote not so in the Supreme Council, in the sessional room, not the media interview, anything can be considered as a de facto action against the faction. The next moment. It's not even a faction, but then the governing body of the party, the block. But the third point is that the decision is final and the charge is not made in either party institutions or courts. I'm very sorry, once again, to say that this is coming from a far cry from a democratic coalition that can't be called after such bills. And I have a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u19	Please, Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u20	Dear colleagues, I am answering the question: How can we respond to the challenges we face today? 18 years of electoral campaign in Ukraine, 10 full-scale electoral campaigns we've conducted presidential, local and parliamentary campaigns, and we still have half and half, and all the time we have this disgraceful phenomenon -- transitions, some questionable agreements and so on, that's not just the will of the electorate, it's distorting the policy of the state. [[Well, Presidential, thank God, two tours pass, parliamentary on one tour.]] The answer to your question by asking a question: What mechanisms can you propose to be democratic, to meet the requirements of the Venice Commission, to meet the civilized world? Unfortunately, we do not have a civilized world today, nor do we have a civilized and parliamentary family of civilized attitudes toward why we swore before the elections. Offer other mechanisms.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u21	Thank you, Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u22	You saw what happened today.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u23	Efraemov Alexander Sergiyovich. Are you out of town, Alexander Sergiyovich? From the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u24	Dear Arseny Petrovich! Dear colleagues! At the meeting of the committee on February 21, this year, the Supreme Council of Ukraine appointed its chairman to consider Bill 1408, submitted by Ukrainian national deputies Kirilenk Viácheslav Anatoliyovich and Kirilenk Ivan Grigorovich. Conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Directorate and of the annual Assembly of the Association of National Deputies of Ukraine. The main scientific and expert board gave the committee a professionally prepared conclusion on 12 sheets, which is negative. The committee agreed with an expert evaluation of the bill. In addition to the comments of the Expert Board, the Committee draws attention to the following. According to the constitutional submission of the Ukrainian National Deputies, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine was currently considering the constitutionality of individual provisions of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy, and you know the decision in this regard of the Constitutional Court. [[It's for that period.]] So it's the law of the bill. The bill is considered appropriate to form a committee, taking into account the above-mentioned decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. It may also be necessary to consider the fact that the Ukrainian national deputies have sent previous appeals separately and collectively through their association of appeals to the committee and has called for a balanced, rather than general, approach to the deletion of the articles of the law in force, since a large part of the deleted legal rules leave behind whole blocks of legal gaps. The Ukrainian Ministry of Finance notes the same. As a result of the committee’s discussion of the bill, a decision was taken on the proposal to return the bill to the Chief. ‘ The head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has the right of the legislative initiative to work. In disagreement with the committee's decision, the Ukrainian National Deputies, the authors of the legislative initiative, applied to the Head of the Supreme Council for inclusion in the agenda of the day plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of the bill, citing the absence of grounds on the committee for the return of the bill. It should be noted that following the consideration of the February 21st bill before the Committee on 13 March, a draft of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Budget Issues concluded that the Ukrainian Ministry of Finance also does not support the bill, its implementation may require additional expenditure from the State budget of Ukraine. The Committee on Budgets decided that the bill had an impact on the budget's spending, increasing it. Thus, it is clear that the decision of the Committee on Rules of Procedure on the return of the bill to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for further processing, without consideration in plenary session, is correct, on the basis of the reasons set out in section two, paragraph 3, of article 89 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u25	Thank you. Five minutes of questions, answers to Alexander Sergiyovich. Any questions to Alexander Sergiyovich? Please sign up. Vasil Gretzak.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u26	Basil Gretzak, faction of the Party of the Regions. Please pass the word to John Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u27	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u28	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Reverend Alexander Sergiyovich. The Party of Regions has always advocated that the European principles relating to non-admission of an imperative mandate should always be respected. Now you're talking about the economic consequences of introducing a bill if the coalition has the right number of votes to prove that they're European and so on. But in terms of whether the Supreme Council of Ukraine has the right to vote for a principle that is not democratic, that is, for an imperative mandate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u29	Dear colleagues, when we have considered this bill from the point of view of the Rules and from the point of view of the work of the Supreme Council, it does not correspond in general to a healthy sense. Accordingly, the Committee's decision on the matter was taken. Then, when the drafters of the bill did not agree, we added the relevant decision of the Committee on Finance to what it was increasing. and taxes on what. on the budget, that it would increase the budget burden and that it would require an appropriate decision on the matter. In terms of a peremptory mandate, you know that one country in the world, in Europe, that has something similar to an imperative mandate, is Portugal. If you go along the way of this State, let's go ahead and with the songs. But as far as I'm concerned, we're able to manage everyone in our faction without having the fortitude to settle in this room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u30	And the Brazilians seem to have it, Alexander Sergeyevich. I've been watching.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u31	Maybe. I said Europe. Maybe.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u32	Oh, in Europe, yes. Kruglov Mikola Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u33	Alexander Sergeyevich, I have one such question: did the committee consider this bill to draw attention to the fact that any member of any faction is primarily a citizen of Ukraine? And in accordance with the Constitution, he has the right to judicial protection. Whether the authors of the draft had been warned that the deprivation of the human rights of judicial protection was a grave violation of the Constitution. It is an inalienable human right. How did our Democrats take such a step, whether they explained it or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u34	Thank you for asking. We have said that it is applied on the 12 pages to the conclusion of the Scientific and Expert Office, which on each of the issues that you have raised here, there is an appropriate conclusion. Because when I say that I do not stand for such criticism, I say that there is a violation of the Constitution, there is a violation of the law that exists. And in order to adopt this bill, it is necessary to amend both the Constitution and the large enough laws that are actually in force in our State. We have asked the authors for the draft, but I understand that most of them are interested in a single rule in the drafting of the bill, which is an imperative mandate. Because today the processes that take place in individual factions are once again unmanaged.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u35	Alexander Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u36	Dear reporter! I was part of a delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, where there were representatives and current authorities, including the Nemura European. One hundred and seven countries, when they heard questions about Ukraine, unanimously condemned the attempt on an imperative mandate. And it's a shame to hear when these Democrats today want to limit the rights of these people. So there's a positive moment here, what? Five factions take their voices into their pockets, come into the speaker’s office and say I throw 100 votes at the table because there can be no other thought. I'm 50 and I'm 70. That's a plus. But I have a question for you. If it suddenly happens that these Democrats vote in favour of the Cabal -- an imperative mandate -- does this mean that those decent people, two who have come out of the coalition who do not agree with this policy of deception, the blackmail being carried out by the Yulia Timoshenko Block and our Ukraine, these decent people, will they, to them, apply this imperative mandate and will they be thrown out of the faction? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u37	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, you know my point of view on these matters. In fact, I hold certain views that everyone has the right to an opinion and the right to speak it in the room. If we violate this fundamental right that is inherent to every national MP, I think we will violate the system of work of the Supreme Council at all. Therefore, with respect for the views of those colleagues who have drafted this bill, I speak of the rule of law in our State that many of the rules laid down in this bill require changes to a large number of laws and the Constitution, and so directly in the adoption of this bill they simply cannot be implemented. As for the issues of the capacity of the Supreme Council, assuming that the bill could be voted on, it also raises a large, large doubt on a number of issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u38	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich, please sit down. Dear colleagues, speak from factions and five minutes from the national deputies. Please sign up. We're signing up, national MPs. Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u39	It's kind of hard for me to speak on this subject, because just like my colleague, Alex Donny, I used to be on the granite during the student revolution, I fought for democracy. And today, when Olese says that we are considering a non-democratic law, there are rhetorical issues. How can we deal with the betrayal that is in Parliament today? How do we make sure that Booths, the Fishermen and others, we don't call them by name, we don't have our factions? How to defend the interests of the voters who vote for the party, and then in this party, there's Ribakov or Booth, who either for money or for something else they take and run to another political camp. How can you deal with these decent people in paws, as a colleague said? Of course, they should be deprived of their parliamentary mandates. Nothing but an imperative mandate has yet been invented. If you have better ideas, suggest these ideas. But we have to be able to fight political corruption in Parliament. Remember when, in the past, our opponents, who were then in power, by threat, by bribery, by force, forced people to join the coalition. And there was nothing we could do about it. And it took the intervention of the President, it took a decree on the dissolution of the Supreme Council, to finally put a stop to this corrupt activity that took place in Parliament at the time. Today, we are proposing another mechanism so that we do not add to the problems that are in the middle of the President’s Parliament. And every time, as they say, we don't expect a decree from him that might arise as a result of the anti-constitutional formation of the majority, we suggest that we adopt this law, which will allow us to put a stop to treason in politics, or at least get closer to it. Because in fact, I think I'm going to find my own antidote for each one of them and they're going to be taking action to charge, including in the courts, despite the prohibitions provided for in this law, but using the constitutional standard that provides for the right to charge any action. But we think, "The Yulia Tymoshenko Block," thinks that today, in order to stop treason and corruption in Parliament, we need to adopt this bill. And we call on Parliament to vote on it as well. And the last. Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov said that according to the Budget Committee, the bill that we are considering needs additional budget costs. That doesn't really fit the reality, because if this bill is adopted, the budget, at least eight million, will save on the MPs, on the fact that their benefits will be eliminated. So those who don't vote in favour of the law just want to keep on corruption in parliament, and MPs continue to use the benefits they have. So we call for the support of our distinguished colleagues, and we thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u40	Anatoly Grizzenko. Replicas at the end of the performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u41	Dear Arseny Petrovich! Dear colleagues! I don't just represent the position of our faction, because the faction of this issue has divided in its thoughts. And as there was no such vote on the faction, there were different thoughts, but I don't think it was because it split up. I'm part of the part that won't vote for this document, because I don't, in principle, accept such stupid discipline without the right to think. In my view, the right of a national MP to think and express his position is far more important than even betraying individual members of the faction. It's going to be evaluated by both parties, and finally by voters, but let's remember that anything new, anything progressive that came up, it first appeared in the heads of minorities, never in the majority. And at this stage, more than ever, our state, our policy, our Parliament needs fresh ideas, unconventional and fresh ideas. And let's also think about how many negative laws would have been very negative here in this room if it weren't for different factions of people who were allowed to vote in a different way. I could say that I wouldn't be standing on this platform if I were now a valid imperative mandate, I would have been removed from the faction within a few days. I'm not sure that would be a plus for the faction without exaggerating my roles. I want us to have the right to think as they do in most European states, in the vast majority. And since there will be no imperative mandate, even more responsible will be the role of party leaders, and they will have to listen and hear their deputies, not just agree on three or five and then take these cards, and vote properly, someone needs to. So without representing the faction's position, I got that word by accident. I will respect the choice of those who in our faction vote in favour, but I leave the same right to vote against myself. I'm sure this document will be rejected today, I hope it's final. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u42	Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u43	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, a respected colleague, is now the Institute of the Imperial Mandate, except for one country, only one in Europe, quite common in Africa and some Asian countries. In Europe, there is only a theory of the free mandate of the people, and more importantly, in some European countries, particularly Belgium, Germany, Italy, Switzerland, constitutionally, there are bans, even instructions to a party or faction MP. The introduction of an imperative mandate at the conclusions of the Venice Commission, I quote: “is incompatible with the traditional and widely accepted democratic doctrine in Europe”. And now the Resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, and we are forced to implement these resolutions on the situation in Ukraine since 19.04. In 2007 Paragraph 9, I quote: “The Assembly reaffirms its position that the appeal of national representatives by political parties is unacceptable in a democratic state”. [[imperative mandate]] I continue with the quote: “It is necessary to abolish the relevant constitutional provisions, as recommended by the Venice Commission in 2004.” Similar situations should also be removed from ordinary legislation. “The Assembly is confident,” the quote continues, “that a consistent political programme, responsible and committed party membership, as well as a strict selection of party candidates, are more effective instruments for encouraging party and factional discipline.” According to paragraph 12 of the same resolution of the Council of Europe: “The Assembly also urges the Ukrainian authorities and the political forces to address as soon as possible the problem of the system of parliamentary elections, which may be one of the reasons for the weakness of the political system. A fully proportional system with closed electoral lists and a single constituency does not guarantee the election of a Parliament representing a Ukrainian society in all its diversity.” That's where, dear colleagues, the root of the problem, not the imperative mandate. You do not have to take responsibility for those whom you questionfully include in your lists, I emphasize, doubtfully, to the entire Ukrainian people. And the so-called benefits of the National Deputies. You don't have to look for a "black cat" where there isn't one, all the more "in the black room". In 2008, I said this: The Supreme Council is funding 18 percent more than in 2007, the Cabinet of Ministers is 39 percent more, the State Office is 78 percent more, the President's Secretariat is 59 percent more. Write one line of changes to the budget and return the funding by 2007, and then you don't have to come up with anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u44	Katerina Samuelk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u45	I give the word to Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u46	Dear colleagues, the Communists will start with history, it will be especially useful to those drafters of the bill who are now breaking up on this rostrum and proving the need to have an imperative mandate. And I'm going to remind you of a slightly different story when they were standing on the opposite side of their minds. On December 7, 2004, the evening, or more specifically, meeting of the Temporary Special Commission to draft a bill amending the Constitution. Tomorrow, December 8th, is due to vote in a package of amendments to the Constitution, and this text, the Constitution that we live by today, is due to vote on amendments to bills that allowed for the illegal third round of presidential elections and agreed on positions. And the last point in this matter, and by the way, we, I was a member of this special committee, were constantly insisting on an imperative mandate. We kept reporting and proving that there would be such a situation that we are experiencing today, the so - called majority. What's he going to be in the faction, he's going to get into the faction, he's not going to get out of the faction, but he's not going to submit to the faction's decision, so what do we do? And the great Democrats led by their faction leader, led by Roman Mikhailovich and other members of the commission who are sitting here today, here on the third floor of the foam hall in the mouth, proved that this was contrary to the standards of democracy, that we would not be understood by Europe, that it would throw us out and erase us, and so on. Unfortunately, our faction lacked the ability and the power then to hold on to the imperative mandate, but we were, we were, and we remained, ardent in favor of what was for all those who became members of the people, who were disciplined. But once again, let's always stand on those points of view and not shake as you please. What I said about “Our Ukraine” is how I told them how to shake. As far as BUT was concerned, they actually washed their hands from the Constitution, and they shouted out, "No changes to the Constitution are necessary, and they practically did not participate in the work." Today, they find a place of water for them, and they look for a way out. So our position, once again, the Communists have been, are and remain in favor of what is called an imperative mandate. We will definitely support this bill, but not today, because you know that today legal disputes are either coalition or not. Here let the people see without lawyers whether you are or are not there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u47	Vasil Kiselov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u48	Respected colleagues will first have to determine what benefits are, and what is parliamentary activity, to ensure that the child, together with the water, is not molded. But above all, I advise colleagues, members of the BUT and NUNS, the authors of this bill to repent publicly before the elector, because it was the Turks from the BUT who, at the time, co-sponsored the law on the granting of concessional free housing to MPs. This was voted by the BUT faction in charge of Timoshenko. Our Ukrainian MP, who is the author of the law on the concessional pensions of deputies, must also repent. I mentioned this in order to refresh the memory of our colleagues who, at the time of the elections, bought the votes of voters by vowing to abolish the benefits that they had imposed. I also advise you not only to cancel the benefits, but also to rent the apartments that you received, or you fly in business classes, but to fight the benefits in words. In addition, you say that the law is for all of us, and in the Hall there is a deputy Shkil who killed two innocent people and covered up with a parliamentary immunity that you seem to have abolished in your own time, is out of the law. Therefore, respectable friends, I hope the people of Ukraine will give a dignified assessment of your populist promises and of the lifting of benefits and the lifting of the call to the army and the return of valuable contributions. You have cynically deceived people, unleashed irresistible inflation, and continue to mock the people. And in conclusion. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you will not survive there in the form of cancellation of the benefits you have set today's task in the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy by one vote to carry out a mandatory mandate to manually manage all levels of MPs. Given that parliamentary benefits are one thing, and the imperative mandate is a very different and very important issue, I propose that the bill be sent for finalization. A party of regions will not vote in favour of this project, as a party of the European Parliament, we cannot afford to violate European principles and, above all, have already spoken for the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, as well as for the conclusions of the Venice Commission. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u49	Babenko “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Out of the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u50	Please pass the word to Lazko Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u51	Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u52	Oleg Laszko “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear Vassil Alexiyovich, fully supporting your desire to fight the benefits of the national MPs and your calls for deputies to return what they have taken. We make the same offer to you. In September of last year, you received over 340,000 dollars in compensation for housing. Take it and give it back. And here's your proof that you're against the benefits. And when in September last year, when you speak on the Supreme Council stand, when you report a bill on the cancellation of the benefits, you get the money for it at the same time, where you are, it's not like a pharisaic. What do you people do for? Give back the money and then take on moralism.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u53	Kirilchuk Eugen.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u54	Please pass the word to Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u55	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, honourable fellow MPs, I will certainly not comment on the speech of the man who had the honour of speaking in the face or face of the Party of Regions. I understand that this is the position of the entire party he expressed here. So I'd just like to make it clear to myself whether or not to commit a sin, that is. So it's to use the tragedy of the people that happened -- that's the position of the party or of one person. If that is not the case, I would like this position to be clarified. As for the benefits and the MP's immunity and the imperative mandate. We always had a clear and clear situation. A person who has made a commitment to the electorate and has gone through a major district may explain his actions by moving from one faction to another. When a person comes on the team and on the list, and when the voters give their votes and support to the political party and all the carriers of this political line, anyone who turns out to be an apostate and a traitor must either write statements honestly and abandon the ranks of this political force or it must be done by means of law. And to say that this cannot be settled, it can and must be regulated. It's just that in this situation we have to talk about the temporary introduction of this situation. Sadly, in Ukraine it is sometimes necessary to do such things temporarily in order to teach. For if there is no conscience, let fear work, let those conditions work hard for those without a conscience, let them work at least because of fear, or let them leave the Supreme Council. And returning to the benefits, who uses them, who flies in business classes. One who flies constantly in business class in Crimea knows, of course, how better it is to use it with the help of the Supreme Council to exploit this kind of aid. Well, already colleague Lazko, I think I described the position, I wouldn't call it that soft word "parisity," that's another word for this "slutting". But as in this situation, I'd like those people who try to throw stones to remember that they live in a glass house and primarily damage their own glass roof with these stones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u56	Vladimir Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u57	Dear colleagues! Vladimir Bondarenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Of course, this law is very controversial, for some people it is difficult, because everyone already has a big pension, everyone is used to using the bases of the Supreme Council somehow and so forth. Let's become people, see how they think about it, and what the citizens who chose us say about it. Of course, they do not support it. I know there's a certain amount of spending on parliamentary activity, but they can be very clearly distinguished here. And the apartment in Kiev has to be serviced and temporary, not every time it's allocated, all the more so, let's say our traitor Ribakov was able to get an apartment, right now sell it, as we've talked about, and today we're with him, as you can see, there's nothing we can do. So it's obviously related to the dead things -- the responsibility of the MP, his responsibility for the choices that people made, and, along with the control of him, both by the citizens and by the party that recommended him. I think the examples that we had before, and the examples that we have now, they're talking about order here. And I'm sorry that those people who ruled even the Supreme Council today, ploughing every day on television and from the rostrums of the Supreme Council, today are fiercely opposed to bringing a flood of MP's benefits into line with normal ethical rules of conduct and what he should do in this room and what he should not do. You know that there was one case in Poland that was so interesting when one deputy was lured into another faction, then there was a national scandal, it almost ended with the dissolution of the Polish Parliament, and the corresponding conclusions were drawn. We have, I confirm once again, we have individual MPs walking around, we've gone before, and now we're starting the same thing, and everyone thinks that we're breaking some standards when we give them the opportunity to wander around, so if you'll excuse me, from faction to fraction, by picking up the crops mostly with money. Those who have moved have usually demonstrated their new homes immediately after the transition, their beautiful new cars, which are obviously not for the money they earn, but for those bribes that someone, by regulating the activities of the Supreme Council at the Bank's or other addresses, does. I am sure that this law should be adopted today. Indeed, it needs to be given a possible temporary character, because we know that training leaves traces, the practice of political activity remains for the future, but we are only entering the sphere of European perception of parliamentaryism, so there is no need to demonstrate the special positions of individual deputies, even from a democratic center. I don't see what anyone forbids me to think. I can express my thoughts on factions, I can say them in the press. But if today most of my colleagues have gone through anyway.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u58	Paul Zebravsky. From the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u59	Dear colleagues, the law certainly consists of two parts, and to the first part it may be possible to vote in the first reading, because the status of the national MP needs to be sorted, that is, clearly determined that travel is purchased at the expense of a loved one. Please, you can get the social security bills there, and you can use the car, you can hire how much money you have, you hire and you buy tickets. And that's all right. The fact that it is necessary to arrange a system of paying and providing for the work of the deputy does not call into question. And I'm convinced that if that were the only part, the whole faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" would vote in favour of the first reading of this bill. Yet the second part cannot help but provoke opposition because good intentions pave the way for hell. I am convinced that today that there are two people who have simply come off the list, have gone somewhere in the world to find a better destiny, to whom there is condemnation and to condemn them, and that it is not really necessary to do so. But should an imperative mandate be applied if the Constitution recognizes only two standards: it is not a member of the faction and the exit of yoga from the faction. Can we go beyond Ukraine by law? I'm sure you don't. Clearly, today’s moment stirs the desire to vote in order to punish those who do not. They're not acting in their conscience, they're probably from a different perspective, they're coming to the factions that came out today, not from the faction, but from the coalition. I am convinced that today the party leaders are to take responsibility for those on the list. Because I think that if the parties were real and they were chosen from the territories, from the areas of people who would report not only under the leadership, before the leadership, but before the ranks of the parties who would delegate them from the territories to the Supreme Council. And if he knew that he would be ashamed to appear in the area, in the area, it would be the greatest deterrent for such a person. And if a faction is being taken for money, if a faction is being taken because someone has asked for it, surely they are unreservedly holding back what they have proved to be ours today. I am convinced that this bill cannot be voted on because it never justified the purpose of achieving this goal. I am convinced that most of the factions of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" will not vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u60	Vasil Gretzak.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u61	Lukash, Oleni Lukash.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u62	Olena Lukas, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u63	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I speak very calmly now because I have come to realize that this bill has no fate and will not pass. What do I want to remind you of? That this is the second attempt in just the last few months to carry out an imperative mandate. And a month ago, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine made a clear statement on the imperative mandate of the local councils that it does not exist. There doesn't exist and there can't be, again, you respect our Democrats. You're trying to impose another imperative mandate and for the members of the Supreme Council. And you won't get away with this. As for the fact that you want to get rid of the benefits, I suggest you vote in favour of the Hanna Herman bill, there will be no benefits at all, no deputies, no assistants, no Supreme Council. And for today, you've given 1.2 billion just the DUS device, which is served by the President. In 100 days the government has spent only 15,000 dollars on tens of thousands of homeless people in Ukraine, and you say you want to get rid of the benefits! Then make changes to the State Budget and take away what you took from the people. And yet, you are constantly calling out "stranger, betrayal, betrayal," but this is only happening in your democratic factions. Or are you in some way accumulating these traitors? I'm offering you a different option instead of an imperative mandate: take a traitor, sell him a seat, betray you, let the party head, the bloc head or your faction head make up his mandate to think next time why he's selling mandates, why he's on the list. You can't keep 100 decent people on your list, and you keep yelling about it? We think we have only one way out of this today: we really want to get rid of the benefits -- we're proposing our own bill, and as far as the imperative mandate is concerned, solve the issues at the stage of preparing and forming electoral lists of candidates for the national MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u64	Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko, please. And Alexander Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u65	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues! The hot, active discussion once again showed how acute this question is for this room, and I will say no exaggeration, and for society. If you look at the context of the MP's benefits, it's not the first time you've raised the question, and it's not the first time. And we're on the beach all the time, we start, we forget about it, and we mention it just before the election campaign starts, and we're almost all going to the polls. Dear colleagues, for the time being, let's say, honestly, yes, with some things to say good-bye. With regard to the imperative mandate that has sparked such heated debates: honourable colleagues, greater sin -- the phenomena that have accompanied us in recent years, or the greater sin of partial limitation of the so-called freedoms of the people's deputies in this regard? The question, I think, is rhetorical. Third, there is, in fact, an imperative mandate. Look at how we vote fractionally. Look, if someone didn't vote like that, we see how they react to each faction. So what's so embarrassing? The third question is, this is where they're telling us that that's it. You get your shit together, we don't have that. Colleagues, in her day, Julia Timoshenko, said: “When we raise this question, we protect the rights of, above all, minorities. First of all, minorities. For we do not use the methods used in the previous call of our colleagues.” And what happened eventually led us to the early elections. So I understand that the law needs to be worked out. In the first reading, there's an offer to accept it and work on the second reading so that it can set us up and set us up. For, indeed, in the eyes of men there are things that make us all ashamed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u66	Alexander Efraemov. Alexander Sergiyovich, will you be of service?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u67	Dear colleagues, we have heard the point of view on this issue for all. And you can't do good things, but you can't do anything that you can't do. Those of our colleagues who said that we were passing the same bill for the second time in the room for the sole purpose of carrying out an imperative mandate, they were wicked when they said they wanted to resolve the benefits. If they wanted to resolve the issue of benefits, they would have divided the bill into two for a long time and carried out the decision as all other decisions had been made in this room. In fact, under an imperative mandate, and knowing that very many members of the Chamber do not support it, they are trying to draft a bill for which they do not wish to vote for most of the coalition's representatives. And that's true. And if we really want to vote today and lose some of the benefits, including the MP's, we have the next bill, 1356/2. We hope that Anna Nikolayevna Herman will report it today in the Hall, we will also discuss it, and that the majority coalition, with its obligations to the voters, can quietly vote in favour of the bill and thus fulfil its obligations to the electorate. With regard to the vote on Bill 1408, our faction is categorically opposed to introducing a firm right to MPs, if someone really chooses deputies from their factions by principles that then allow these deputies to leave the faction, and it requires a legislative decision, that is, respected colleagues, your right. And it is surprising that only one faction has these things happening when deputies are constantly trying to get out of this faction, and that is why the whole country is shaking when the President takes his decision right up to the dissolution of the Supreme Council on this issue. Therefore, we would like to see justice in this room. If you want to vote against the benefits, we invite you to vote and show that there is a coalition under Bill 1356-2, and we will not vote in principle on Bill 1408.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u68	Right. The bill is closed. We have two lines. The first is Basil Kiselov, and the second is Dony. Then out of procedure, although this is not provided for in the procedure. Well, yeah, read the Rules. Well, that's not how it's supposed to be. Well, if you want to talk, there's no problem. In accordance with article 34, I will give you the word after the replica, Anatoly Sergiyovich. Please. Vasil Vasilovich Kiselov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u69	I thank my colleague for giving me the opportunity to speak with a line. I'm going to give you information that's shocking to many of us today. The thing is, unlike my colleagues with the non-existent coalition, I never blamed my soul for telling the truth. And now I'm clearly saying to Ukraine: "Yes, I got 283,000 bracelets last year, for which you can buy from five in Kiev, you know, up to ten meters of housing. Now it's the most important thing. The residence of the people's representative at the Kiev Hotel costs the State 140,000 grivens per year. Multiply by five is 700,000 bracelets per cadence. You're picking up the difference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u70	Donny, please. And Anatoly Matvienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u71	Thank you always have to fight, not with the consequences, but with the reasons. Deputies' transitions are the consequences. And the reasons, as it seems true today, are not normal electoral legislation, proportional to closed lists, when those who are removed from the electoral list and from the party are ordinary, and even more so are electors. It is not normal to sell seats on lists, when candidates are inserted, or if candidates are not known for what merit and that is why electoral legislation needs to be changed. And it's a shame that faction leaders, political leaders, don't ask about changing legislation, but they want to keep the fortification. And I am pleased that the People's Self-Defense Group has decided at its meeting that we are against this bill and against the strengthening of an imperative mandate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u72	Impressive unity in the coalition. Anatoly Sergiyovich Matviyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u73	Ukrainian Republican Party "The Council", "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" Block. I want to address you and Mr. Ephraim. Obviously we have to respect the Provisional Rules and Procedure for the consideration of any matter when Mr. Ephraim is given the floor as the head of the committee he has to speak essentially as the head of the committee. Instead of arousing from the faction he presents simultaneously for a bill or a bill. If we do not learn to be objective and to be responsible for your position, it is obvious that the legal nihilism that permeates the entire society today is just because it begins with the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u74	If we all talked essentially, we wouldn't have any prices. Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov’s right to a replica, and Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u75	I would like to remind my distinguished colleague that I was standing in the rostrum reporting on the matter that the Committee had decided. And when I was given the floor again, I did not wish to repeat by decision of the committee, which is and expressed the view that I have the right, as you do, my distinguished colleague, to speak in this Chamber. And I ask you not to deprive me of the right that is granted here to every MP, regardless of his position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u76	Give Martiny a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u77	Thank you, Arseny Petrovich! Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues and Anatoly Sergiyovich, as a member of the Rules Committee, I should say that the committee head has reported the opinion to the committee on both the rostrum and the session hall. I would ask you to attend a committee meeting when this matter was discussed, and he passed on all the thoughts that were heard during the committee meeting. So if you'll excuse me, you're making false accusations today.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u78	Honorary colleagues, the specificity of the law on the status of the Ukrainian national deputy, determine that the Ukrainian national deputy is free to speak. So we have a very wide range of freedom. Colleagues, stop the discussion that no one needs. Colleagues, let's move on to the voting procedure for this bill. The committee's decision from the bill is to reject the bill. As the author of the bill, the rapporteur proposes to adopt the bill in the first reading. Attention, colleagues, so I am voting on the adoption of Bill 1408 amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Ukrainian People's Deputies and some other laws of Ukraine in the first reading, as proposed by the author, not by the committee. Colleagues, please vote. Attention, we're calling for a vote. [[17:07:00]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Please show by factions. Let's go to Bill 1356-2. The offer, if you'll just sign up for a minute. Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u79	I ask the floor to convey to the Ukrainian national deputy Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u80	Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, Department of the Communist Party of Ukraine Give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u81	Thank you. Jaroslav Mikhailovich, I knew you were, and you will remain my partner and colleague in corporate activities, and I appreciate you as the first secretary of the Ternopil City Party. Dear colleagues, Arseny Petrovich! I'm reminded again of what I said in the rostrum. The Communist faction supports this bill, we're in favour of abolishing the benefits and establishing an imperative mandate, but today is not the day we can vote. So I propose to put forward a proposal to vote in favour of transferring this bill to read again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u82	This is a brilliant offer, Adam Ivanovich, like almost most of the suggestions you make in the Parliamentary Hall. Dear colleagues! Let us concentrate so carefully once again and, in accordance with the requirements of the Provisional Rules, put this bill on a re-readable first reading. Fellows, let's do it again! I am putting to the vote the question of re-reading Bill No. 1408, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Ukrainian People's Deputies and some other Ukrainian laws. Attention! Vote, fellows! Attention! [[17:09:27]] For 219 The decision is not taken. Unbelievably united in the ranks of the coalition. Thank you. Show the factions, please. Thanks to God, though Communists are, they helped by voting. 1356-2. Anna Mikolayevna, please come to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u83	Dear fellow national MPs! Let us ask ourselves a very embarrassing question. I understand that you don't want to hear this because it's embarrassing that I'm going to talk right now. But let's hear it, because I'm talking about your pre-election promises to cancel all benefits, undo parliamentary immunity. You, dear colleagues, all of us, especially the right part of this room, went with this idea to doterminian elections, and people entrusted you with parliamentary mandates, and now let's ask ourselves the same awkward question, which makes each of us better than a Ukrainian doctor, than a Ukrainian teacher, than a scientist or an engineer? Nothing. We are just like them, only the people have given us the great privilege of representing the national interests in the Ukrainian Parliament, but the people have entrusted us with representing its interests, and we have taken the benefits ourselves. So we're not doing anything to make Ukraine's life better, instead, we're putting ourselves in a situation where we have this life for ourselves better, we've made communism for 450 people, and today we have to give up that communism. We should not impose mandatory mandates or other things in the people, which are referred to as “the next mare’s tail”. We have to be absolutely simple, absolutely honest and absolutely honest to say that we will now be just like the citizens of Ukraine. And if the lives of Ukrainian citizens improve, our lives will improve, and so far we have no right to use transportation for free, to have separate hospitals and sanatoriums, to get huge compensation when we go on vacation, to get free apartments and so on, and so on. Dear National MPs, a respected coalition that is or is not, no one knows today, you now have a chance to confirm not only that you exist, but you now have one chance to deliver on the basic promises that you have made to people before the elections. You wanted to undo the parliamentary immunity, you still haven't removed it, and now that criminal cases are being brought against your people, you say, “Yes, we are, but you have no right, but there is a parliamentary immunity, it has not been revoked.” And you can cancel all the benefits now, we're going to shorten by voting in favour of this bill, we're going to cut the cost of keeping the Supreme Council from 173 million to 9, and we're going to hand the rest of the money to the poor people and to those people who need it now for immediate bread, who really can't make ends meet. I call on the coalition now to prove their existence and to live up to my pre-election promises, and I made this bill specifically for you. And if you lack one voice, I will give you mine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u84	Colleagues, we're writing down questions-answers.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u85	I've never taken an apartment, no compensation or anything else, so I can pass it on to you because you took it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u86	Alexander Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u87	Dear colleague, you have really raised a serious question about the abolition of the MP's benefits and a lot of other things, and that's very good, I think you can support. But I have a question as to how the head of the national MPs' union is. Please tell me, will those deputies who are currently in the hostels, in the hotels, be protected, how will their questions be resolved? That's the first part. The other one. And if you can go on and take the colossal benefits out of the president, take the colossal benefits out of the government, you can actually vote that our speaker doesn't drive around with big rigs, but in one car, that Timoshenko doesn't fly helicopters, because she doesn't ride on cars anymore, so the president doesn't have 7 or 8 da, that is, go on, not just translate all responsibility into deputies, take away that well, I'll vote for your bill, and in general everyone has to be equal. By the way, remove the parliamentary immunity from the judges and from the President himself. How do you view it to expand your law? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u88	Thank you for asking. Dear colleague, we will be just as protected by living in dormitories as the rest of the Ukrainians who are being thrown out of dormitories and privatized in Lviv at a furniture factory are being protected, and the people with families in the middle of the night are being thrown out by the militia because the group wants to privatize the local mafia. Because they're protected, we'll be protected. And if we are to protect them so that we can protect them, we need to protect ourselves. We need to start protecting the people, not ourselves. With regard to expanding the removal of benefits from the President and from the Cabinet of Ministers, I think this bill will be the next thing we'll bring to the Parliamentary Hall. Because we know that today's Cabinet of Ministers has not been able to come to power, as he distributed 15 apartments in the next week without a turn and without any reason. For what merit, at high prices, did Ukraine not see inflation for what?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u89	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u90	Yuri Karmazin The Party of Fatherland Defenders “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense”. Dear Mrs. Hanna, you are well aware of the situation that is in the neighbourhood, including housing provision in different categories: taxpayers, quadratics or militias, or judges, you know that the general lists don't move like that. So it's obvious that in a market economy country, it's absolutely necessary to solve the issue in a complex of eliminating any such benefits in general, and to regulate all wages. So I'm sorry you didn't vote for the previous bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u91	Because of an imperative mandate.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u92	At least it's the first step. Because you're all talking about one thing: an imperative mandate. So tell us how you can implement the standards of the Constitution that are written today. There's an imperative mandate for how to implement it, propose a mechanism. You didn't offer it, unfortunately. So I would like to hear your opinion on these two questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u93	Thank you, Mr. Yuri, you're an honest man. That's what Ukraine knows. And today I would like to explain to you that the only reason I didn't vote in favour of the bill of the coalition on the abolition of the benefits was because of my democratic beliefs. When I voted in this room for the recognition of the Holocaust by the genocide of the Ukrainian people, and my faction did not vote as if it were an imperative mandate, I would be relieved of my parliamentary mandate and today I would not be with you. And I hope there's something else I can do. Since my faction is a faction of democratic people, they have accepted my position. And that's why I never, with this example and knowing that there will be no more bills in this room where not everyone in the faction will have the same vision, I want to remain a free man, stand up for my position, my beliefs, and no one will punish me for that. I want to be a free man, so I didn't vote in favour of an imperative mandate. And because of that. Since your coalition has merged benefits and mandates into a single boiler, excuse me. And I didn't have anything in common.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u94	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u95	Let's cancel them, I'm not mixing anything, I'm just saying with my colleague Koleksnik, let's give up all the MPs today. It's so easy for you to live up to your election promises today. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u96	Paul Silent.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u97	Paul Mokchan, faction of the “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear Mrs. Hanna, don't be mean, please. You know very well that by separating from each other, you're thus allowing corruption to flourish here in the hall. Because everything that has been said so far about an imperative mandate is directed at one thing, so that in our walls, political corruption, when they buy-for-retail, and what's caused, right up to the state we have in the state, it's the main motive. And the fact that you've taken one array out of our own bill and you're putting it out as a virtue, a virtue, I want to ask. I don't know if it's necessary. Do you need the benefits, like Rinata Ahmet's MPs? No, you don't. You know that. And I'd like to ask you, how much do you pay for trams and trolleybus on a monthly basis?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u98	Sir, I'm ready to answer about the tram and the trolleybus. I use my own transportation, I've worked my whole life, I've earned my own transportation just as much as my own apartment, which I bought for my own money. We don't have to take anything from people who pay taxes. And today, speaking of corruption in this room, I feel sorry for you, I'm sorry that you have these problems. No representative of my faction has ever asked himself the question of selling or not selling? Everyone knows it won't sell. And there has never been, nor will there ever be, a case of reselling a deputy in our faction, because we are leading honest and responsible people to Parliament. Take an example from us, and you will not need an imperative mandate.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u99	Gregory Smythew.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u100	Dear Anna Mikolayevna! Garbage, Party of Regions. Of course I support your bill as a whole. There are shortcomings, there are points of view regarding the benefits that are being used by deputies today, and you could either agree to your standards or disagree in one part or another. I have a question for you. You know that according to the Constitution of Ukraine, national MPs in their rights and duties are equal. Please tell us in the process of preparing for this bill, which you are introducing today for consideration by the Supreme Council, whether there are any deputies in this section today who are equal in their duties, including the benefits, because some of us are receiving apartments, some are using cars, and others are not using them at all. Do you have statistics that are used and not used, because in this part, I think, there's a big difference in the size of the MPs that are being used and the MPs that aren't being used? In my opinion, very many of the deputies who are yelling in this room are often using these benefits.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u101	Thank you. You know, colleague, that our entire faction unanimously after electing us to. They said we wouldn't take any apartments in the Supreme Council, and we didn't. Instead, we've heard about the fact that some deputy from B.U., who went over there or left there, took this apartment and sold it today and so on, and today he was disgraced from the high hall. Where were you when you gave him this apartment? And why didn’t you say: “My friend, it’s not fair, it’s not decent. Let's be like everyone else, and we went to the election demanding that we cancel the MP's benefits. You don't have to be a brother. use these benefits?” You kept silent until he departed from you. Now you're embarrassing them. That's your dignity and that's your honor. When a person is with you, he can do it. The land in Kiev is taken from people, everything can be done: the homes of the brothers. All of it. As soon as she leaves you, you start watering her with dirt. This is evil, my dear fellow!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u102	Thank you, Hanna Mikolayevna. Please sit down. Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u103	Dear Arseny Petrovich! Dear colleagues! On April 16, at a committee meeting, we discussed the bill. The committee noted in its conclusion that the bill also contained a number of flaws as well as the previous one that we were looking at here, and how was another bill prepared by our colleague Philippes. Scientific and expert management, speaking on pages 6 of their comments, still believes that if these observations and proposals are taken into account in the first reading, the bill can be accepted as a basis. The committee made a decision. In accordance with article 88, paragraph 3, part 1, of Article 109 of the Provisional Rules, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has proposed that the prospectus of Law 1356-2 be incorporated into the agenda of the day’s second session and, as a result of the first reading, that it be returned to the subjects of the legislative initiative. A request for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u104	Questions to Alexander Sergiyovich, please record. Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u105	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Your Honor, I have a question for you: when you consider the previous question, you have made a strong statement against the rules of the Constitution, which say that it is not the presence of the Ukrainian National Deputy elected from the political party of the constituency to the parliamentary faction of this political party, the electoral bloc, or the exit, which is the reason for the end of the term of office. This, I remind you of the standard of the Constitution that this is article 81, article 81 of the Constitution also says that when powers are suspended on a time-by-time basis in other cases, or the exit of a deputy from such a faction ceases on a time-by-time basis. So when is this law going to be? You didn't support the previous law, you didn't propose it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u106	Dear colleague, there are still 6 pages of scientific expertise that interpret what you have just mentioned. With regard to the issues that exist, there is nothing that prevents us today from taking this decision by means of the majority coalition, which is in the Chamber, to vote on and eliminate those norms that we propose to eliminate by our bill. From my point of view, I would like to refer the draft rapporteur to the Chairman to postpone his consideration. Because we wanted to vote in favour of the bill, and we would vote in favour. If he is put in the room next time, we will support the vote on the bill. And today, we would like to see a coalition fully operational in the Hall, so we ask you to support this bill. It's not from the committee, it's from our respective faction. As for the committee's decision, it's on your hands, and I think it's on your hands.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u107	Chevchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u108	Dear Alexander Sergiyyovich, well, there is some absurdity: the representative of your faction is the author of the bill, you are the head of the committee responsible, and when you speak, you report to the committee that this law is imperfect, that this law is not necessary, that it should be sent for further work. It's the right form to say that the law is worthless. Well, you sort out the faction, give me some clear suggestions. After all, most of today's representatives have issued their legislative initiative, and somehow you're playing incomprehensible. Tell me that you are against the benefits that both Ahmetov and some of your billionaires need these benefits very much, and it will be clearer than playing and spending time on such strange things.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u109	Dear colleagues, I am frankly ashamed to listen to what is happening in the hall today. I can speak very easily on this subject because I did not benefit from it. And when one of the people's deputies accuses a colleague of something, at least he must have grounds for it. And if there's only bile for that, then it's kind of looking inappropriate in our room. I have been repeatedly approached by the media as the chairman of the committee to comment on a member of the panel, what he had received and what he had received from the Supreme Council. I have never done that because I respect our legislation and I know that the Constitution prohibits it. With regard to the bill, if you are addressing me as a faction representative, I would like to say that the decision is perfectly logical and it is very correct: on the basis of the conclusion of the Scientific and Expert Committee, we have made the appropriate decision to return the bill. Return the bill to the authors in order to take those comments into account. After that comment, the bill was taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u110	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u111	Once these comments are taken into account, the bill can be adopted in the Chamber. Moreover, it does not contain any double norms, as is the law, which we have not considered here, in 1408, which introduces double treatment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u112	Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u113	Of course, from everything that's going on in the Supreme Council, it's such a theater, a theater of absurdity. Because that political segment of Ukrainian society, which, according to the correspondent magazine, received 48 apartments, is now taking off all the benefits. I would like to express my position on the “Julia Timoshenko Block”. We're willing to really make a movie, take off the benefits. And it's very good that Mrs. Hanna is putting 1,000 dollars on the payroll. It's beautiful. I just want voters to know that 85-87 percent of the people who sit here don't even know what their salary is. They don't get it, they get it from drivers or their guards. Because of that, the “Julia Timoshenko Block” heard a phrase from the author that it was written for the coalition, not for you. Is that true or not? Because, look, you're going to play what we vote for.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u114	Dear colleagues, not only will we play along, we would ask you to vote in favour of this bill. It's about who gets it. If you are following your colleagues, you may have accurate information on this matter. In fact, I would not advise anyone to do this and all the more to do such a small and unpleasant thing for everyone, for every decent person. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u115	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Please sit down. Colleagues, let's write down: factions from factions, speeches from national MPs. Ivan Kirilenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Ivan Grigorovich, will you be out of place? Out of the way. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u116	Dear colleagues, Sir Arsenija Petrovich, we have consulted in the coalition, and we offer this option. Yeah, the bill on time, yeah, it's up to date. We're offering this option. Arsenius Petrovich, I address you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u117	I can hear you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u118	And we're going to propose this option. We are willing to vote by one vote in general, without the procedure of first and second reading. We ask you on behalf of the coalition, on behalf of our faction in particular. I think that Roman Mikhajlovich will do the same, and he will also propose that the bill be voted on by one vote in general. Please deviate from the Rules and vote on the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u119	Thank you. Alexander Stoyan, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u120	May I have the floor to Michael Chechtev?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u121	Mikhailo Chechetov from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u122	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues, we are now considering two bills in parallel on the same subject, one honest, transparent, objective. This is the representative of our colleague Ghanaa Nikolayevna Herman. And the second was built on deception, because the main purpose of the bill is to extend the mandatory mandate and thus wear peaceable shirts on our people's deputies. You know, well, our voters are used to being lied to by an orange team, but Europe's not used to it. We declare the movement to Europe, and the imperative mandate is only in the Thumbo-Jumbo tribe. Therefore, the Party of the Regions did not vote in favour of the bill, because we are strong supporters of European integration, and we were well aware that the bill, which was built on deception, which extended this citadel rule, an imperative mandate, would have pushed us away from Europe for 100 and 200 years. We wouldn't have come to Europe in 200 years. Therefore, we have not voted in favour of this bill, I repeat, because we are in favour of European integration and will adopt legislation that will bring us closer to Europe rather than give away what the orange group, the orange coalition, proposes, because they declare one thing but speak of another. Now, as far as our bill is concerned, it really needs to be adopted, but it has happened that after the Kiev elections, both BUT and Our Ukraine are in a deep knockout. They're like boxers, they're swimming, they can't count the vote, you see, we've already allowed them to vote with their feet, ears, hands, and they think, and they're not doing it, they're not doing it. So we're afraid that this important bill that people need, that everyone says they should accept, they're just floating in the hall today, in front of their eyes, they're not pushing those buttons, they're all floating like a box after a deep knockout, and I think Clicko would say it better. We therefore propose not to burn the bill, postpone its consideration and vote when the new coalition, when it is real, is not a fictitious 226-vote. Who will ensure the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u123	Anatoly Grizzenko gives the word to Roman Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u124	Dear colleagues! I'll be honest with you, we don't believe you, do you want to cancel the benefits? Now I'm going to give you the official position of coalition, we're voting for this project not because you gave us a gift so that we can keep our promise to the electorate, we can do it ourselves. And, Mr. Michael, mind your own business, you'll need them. We vote in favour of this project on one condition that you put it to a vote in the first reading and in general by one vote. One vote. This is our prerequisite, no second reading, in the first reading and in general. Let's see how sincere you are.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u125	Jaroslav Suhi. Yuri Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u126	Ladies and gentlemen, let's go! Listen, please stop, let's be honest in this room and the first thing I want to say to you, listen, don't laugh. Because in the first bill, which you couldn't vote for, you know, it was an imperative mandate, and you know that the Constitutional Court would cancel it, and you know that it wouldn't solve the problem, including coalitions. If you talk about the bill that my colleague Hanna Herman presented, you understand very well that the question of how we, as MPs, will exercise our powers can be put into question if we look at it at once in general. You and I all realize that helpers will not be able to work, that we will not be able to travel to the constituencies, that we will not be able to carry out our duties. Without this bill being drafted, we will do you no good under these emotional circumstances but only to the detriment of our electorate. Dear colleagues, today in these emotional circumstances, when we are actually guided, not by people's interests, but by trying to harass each other, we will be able to adopt decisions that we will then regret. I'd like to officially address you, Mrs. Anna, I'd like to address you, you see, the situation is completely emotional. This bill is not being considered in fact, no one has heard you, your motivations are not accepted. I'm asking you very much, please ask me to translate this bill so that we don't simply lose it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u127	Paul Silent. Hanna Mikolayevna, please sit down and you will be given the floor right now, but we have some rules. Anna Mikolayevna, at the end, please sit down. Guys, sit down. And as I asked to vote in favour of the road traffic law, you see life coming back different. Please, Paul Silent.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u128	Thank you. Dear friends! I would like to propose to the previous speaker that he be awarded the "Anna on the neck" Order. And why? Well, you can't say that you're totally rejecting the offer. It's interesting how many years in Parliament I've heard the same themes and motives: we want to eliminate the benefits, we want the Supreme Council to be really the Supreme Council. If we want to finish our subjects, I would like to say and follow your logic that the Supreme Council should be dissolved at all if we want to help the population, so that the money we're talking about should be given to the people. Not only would it be helpful, but it is not only ours to give it all away, for this absurd thing, which has been going on for so long, when it's being bought, when it's in the walls where it's impossible to solve it at all, that bank says it's going to give some money to make it happen. We have to stop this nonsense! We need to think about what principles we can apply. Mrs. Hanna, I think if you were consistent, you would support what is involved today in this proposal to vote in the first reading and in general only if we want to be honest. And if we're going to say that the electorate, why are all these absurdities taking place? But because you want it to continue to be that scheme that worked in your previous days to make it work. You want to take it away from the other block, from the factions or the factions of the people that would give you the opportunity to play your tune. It's not important! It's not important! Most importantly, stop this absurdity in these walls, because if we don't change the rules, if you don't want constitutional changes, and you have to make them, we can't change the rules of the game that are in these walls. The constitutional changes were urgent, you refused, you said we would go, we would do, and then we said no. And then the same pattern worked again, let's buy, let's fill in our lava, let's increase these and reduce them, it's a road to nowhere. And that's why I'm proposing these topics, if you want and vote with everyone, with the "Julia Tymoshenko Block", with the "Our Ukraine" Block, back you up and we'll support you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u129	Bondarenko. Now I'll give it to you, Hanna Mikolayevna, now, wait, everything under the Rules, everyone will get it, you'll have a word as a bill reporter. They'll all get what they deserve.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u130	Vladimir Bondarenko, Yulia Block Timoshenko Dear friends, today is the moment of truth. Everyone in the election was talking about wanting to cancel both the MP's benefits and fortifying people somehow so that they wouldn't run from faction to faction, and today it turns out that the thoughts were divided, they were divided interestingly. I would particularly like to hear the opinion of one faction whose leader is in need of Ukraine not just to pianize here at every performance, telling us that he is the only one standing up for the Ukrainian people today in this Parliament, but to say why this faction does not vote for the abolition of the MP's benefits, why it's struggling today not to run, or not to fight against those who enter it. I would be very interested to know why there are differences in the faction of the Party of Regions today. Now, Mrs. Hanna is convincing one of the faction leaders that she was right, and I think that those who really don't vote in favour of this bill in this faction should also get the order that Mr. Paul was talking about, just call it right, Anna's order on the neck of the Ukrainian people. Because today many people are clearly aware that by hanging themselves on the neck of the Ukrainian people, much can be said, not actually taking the steps that are needed. Today, the moment of truth, please, with your voice, of those so - called unchallenged who do not submit to the decision of the faction who want to demonstrate their personal position in the Party of the Regions, show your personal position rather than the position of the person who is not in the room, who is now in charge of this faction’s activities by the President’s Administration. I think it would be right for the brave people in this faction to take a step that is not recommended to them, it would be a very good practice to then confirm once again that the existence of the imperative mandate that we are talking about is not necessary, because by their will, by their voices, people are demonstrating first their position, the party that brought them here. I'd like to point out that today and in the democratic coalition there are people who stand up for really strange things for me, we're not yet in Europe, we're not yet living by European standards, and that's why all these betrayals are covered up under very democratic slogans for everyone's opinion, for that person has to be free, and we're only going to be free when they don't buy us for money when they don't command us, when we're not going to give up what the Ukrainian people have given us and defend his will and opinion here in Parliament today, and so by covering up what I'm free, everyone thinks first of all those who are too free today, but where he'll be tomorrow and why he's not yet where he'll be tomorrow. And so this position, I condemn it, and I propose to vote for the bill that was before that.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u131	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u132	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear National MPs, there is a paradoxical situation, we do not want to implement the Constitution of Ukraine, we, I speak of those who have not voted in favour of the previous bills today, we, I say, for those who are now going to vote in favour of this bill, no one wants to implement the Constitution, because in part 6 of article 81 it is written that if a national MP is not elected from a political party or a political party bloc to form a parliamentary faction or a national deputy to Ukraine from the formation of such a faction, his mandate is suspended in a timely manner on the basis of the decision of the higher governing body of the relevant political party, the electoral bloc of political parties since the date of such decision. And we don't accept such a law with you, and all that there is now, what you're doing is just distracting from this adoption. I mean, this part doesn't work. Why did I ask a question and a committee of honor? When do you plan to implement the law? And now for those who are now shouting, let us adopt this law and the beloved, where it will be called the benefits. I'm sorry, Your Honor. But we need to read our projects. I'd like to show you. Intactness is guaranteed, article 27 is written, and the immunity of a member is guaranteed, and it is written, to be excluded in a comparative table. In this way, the MP's in touch becomes complete, absolute. Because the standard of the Constitution will not be fulfilled without it. It's okay! Ladies and gentlemen, no one thinks he's doing anything? No, he thinks well. Or other things. The head of the Supreme Council continues to provide facilities for official transportation, the secretariat, security, and funds. The head, the first deputy, the deputy, is written to be expelled. Let's say. We don't even have popuasia, we're worse off. So right here, Miroshnichenko, when he said that the writer didn't think what he was writing. And the person who signed is already another matter and other things that obviously my colleague Miroshnichenko didn't want to say, but he should have. For example, complete the article with a new part 5 of the next article. Political parties by list chosen by the nationals. may encourage his activities related to the execution of parliamentary powers, the drafting of bills, the work in the districts, and so forth at the expense of his own funds. And then this article continues to be interesting around these funds, especially when you say that a third of the government budget of Ukraine is in the hands of one person who was supposed to be sitting right here in the hall. But she's not in the hall. If there is, I would like to say the last word to Mr. Ahmet. I want to see him in the hall. Show me where he's sitting. There's nowhere to go, because he's a monument.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u133	Valerius Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u134	Dear colleagues, I would like to address our colleagues, the opposition that has put the Law on Road Traffic on the altar of its political struggle today. Here you do not want to save our citizens who die on the roads every day, but you are happy to fight for empty, populist statements. And after the coalition has agreed to vote for your bill, for a bill on which you're going to build your image, you're running around the hall now and you're trying to invite us to not vote. Please tell me, what are you doing? Why is saving people by voting this morning in the Road Traffic Act empty word for you and putting your political face on top of everything? Today, the coalition wasn't fighting for an imperative mandate, we were saying that the benefits that are excessive today exist for MPs should be abolished. But let's go back to the imperative mandate. Who calls for it not to be? I want to go to the Lithuanian Block, haven't you applied the imperative mandate in the Raven Arch? I want to speak to the Party of the Regions, have you applied the imperative mandate in the Kharkiv overture? Wasn't it democratic because you had defectors? You applied it, and you thought it was a democratic step. Today we are talking about that Ukraine is not yet ready to work without an imperative mandate. And I want to go to one of my colleagues who quoted the Council of Europe today. Yes, indeed, their position is that Europe today does not have an imperative mandate, but at the same time they believe that political corruption is flourishing in Ukraine. And for the first time, the term was applied to Ukraine. The imperative mandate has the right to exist in Ukraine as a temporary means of limiting bribery, betrayal. That's all we're fighting together. But when you need to earn political points, unfortunately you stay away from the Ukrainian people. Unfortunately, you will do one thing, and when you come out here to the rostrum, you say quite another. And so I want to urge you, let's do everything we went to the elections with. Let's take a picture of the question that you're going to try to go to the next election, and let's work to make people see that we're working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u135	The closing word is Hanna Herman and Alexander Efraemov. We're going to vote Zara, wait. The rules will be enforced and voted.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u136	Dear colleagues, we're in a difficult situation today, because... [[B in m in s a l in]] Look, do you have any culture? I know this is hard for you, but have a culture to listen to. We're in a difficult situation because one part of the room today gave each other a chance to demonstrate to the coalition that the coalition is and that the coalition has 226 votes. But I'm asking you, your honors and our partners, to give up today's deal! Please! I can't do anything else. I ask you all to vote as one for cancelling all the MP's benefits. That's all.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u137	Thank you. Alexander Efraemov. Alexander Sergiyovich, do you insist on the word or not? Give me your word, Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u138	Dear colleagues! When I spoke, representing the Committee's point of view, I was distracted and said that, in my understanding, it would be better to remove this bill today from the consideration of this law, given the processes that are taking place in the Hall. So I don't know why friends there are so excited. Yeah, I think they'd better be happy about working in a coalition that would express a common view. We're on our own. This is the author's right to rule on his bill today, although when he enters the Hall, he is already the property of the Supreme Council. Therefore, I stand in my position not to introduce the division that is because we wanted to vote in favour of this bill, but given the situation in the Hall, we cannot vote in favour of it today. Therefore, if the coalition's representatives vote for him, that's their right, we'll say thank you for that. And they have the opportunity to do so today.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u139	Yuri Miroshnichenko. The replica. Because it's a replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u140	Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear colleagues, note what is actually happening. We all understand that all of us are currently governed by emotion. You heard my colleague Karmazin's speech, who analyzed the contents of the bill. Although he was misquoting me, along with all of you, we all understand that this bill will need to be amended as a minimum, and as a maximum, to be repealed. So in these emotional circumstances, I would suggest that we translate this bill, work out its contents so that we, without betraying our promises, can take away the benefits that actually prevent us from talking about democracy and power in general today, and Parliament as a legislative body. Managing populism against evil is said to be harmful to our constituents, first of all.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-17-m1.u141	Ladies and gentlemen, the time for discussion of the bill has come to an end. Everyone has expressed their position. I'll just let you remember. When I asked to vote in favour of the law that preserves people's lives in the morning, unfortunately, they did in a completely different way and simply spit on a bill that is critical to the state today and did not vote. Therefore, just as the mornings have done according to the Rules, so in the evening we will proceed according to the Rules. You insisted that I put the bill on road traffic to the vote, regardless of what the legal solution was how to proceed to the second reading. We didn't. We didn't have to. A brilliant bill introduced by Anna Mikolayevna Herman and Boris Viktorovich Kolesnik. Puts the vote to the vote. So we have a few suggestions. First sentence: The bill is put to the vote in the first reading. Second sentence: vote on change in voting and change to second reading. And friend., if she's supported and ad-hock, then goes the vote on second reading. And so we're going to give the President a signature and once and for all, we're going to close the question. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm not going to pop. I'm going to spend billions of dollars. I am voting on Bill No. 1356-2 amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputies of Ukraine on the elimination of the benefits of the Ukrainian People's Deputies, in the first reading. Please, vote. What about Arseny Petrovich? Vote. Why don't you vote? [[17:58:15]] For-25 You're not hearing well, are you? Instead of directing the Presidium of the Supreme Council, we can listen to how the Rules should make decisions, as we have always decided on first and second readings. I remind you, first of all, there's a bill on the adoption of it in the first reading. The second is to vote on the question of changing the voting method and, not the way, but changing the voting order and going to the voting immediately to the second reading. If the question is accepted, then the second reading is taken. My colleagues, you're so impressed you only entered parliament yesterday. I am asking about the question of the return to the vote on the adoption of the bill in the first reading. Attention! We are voting for a return to the draft in the first reading. Vote. [[17:59:21]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Please show by factions. Region Party 3, Timoshenko Yulia Block - 147, Our Ukraine - 42, Communists - 0, Litvina Block - 0. They were successful in fulfilling the pre-election promises — they took out the benefits. [[Applause]] The bill has been removed. I declare a plenary session, the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed.
