ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u1	Dear colleagues, please register. [[10:06:39]] There are 434 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The morning plenary session is open. Dear colleagues, I'll let you know what we've agreed on. We have four news and all the good news: two news in the external sector, and two news in the internal sector. The first positive news in the world is that the second day in a row, financial markets are growing. This will enable us to breathe more easily in the internal financial market. The second positive news in the external market is that I had a conversation with the International Monetary Fund yesterday. The IMF will include the issue of allocating Ukraine's funds depending on the functioning of the Ukrainian Parliament: today we vote -- today we will consider, tomorrow we will vote -- tomorrow we will consider. So we're in a situation where we're already being built. The third positive news is that we've agreed today on the agenda that I'm about to report to you. And the fourth inside news Peter Mikolaiovich asked us to announce is that today is the 90th anniversary of Komsomol. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, now on the front of the day and the turn of affairs. Attention! The main discussion on how to deal with issues is three factions against two. The first is Bill 3309 – bills to minimize the impact of the global financial crisis on the economy. Several of these bills have been introduced. Such a bill introduced by the President and in accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court since 2001 should be considered without delay and in the first place; such a bill introduced by the Government, such a bill introduced by the faction of the Party of the Regions, and such a bill was introduced by “Our Ukraine”, namely, by colleague Arjevetin. In addition to this bill, there is not a law but a decree passed by Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, number 3318. We need to vote in favour of including it in the agenda because the same subject matter of regulation is to allow everyone to speak. After we give everyone the opportunity to speak, I propose a voting procedure. Next. Bill 3294 and 3294-1 are under consideration – this is a draft law amending certain Ukrainian legislation. The law on the improvement of the mechanism of out-of-order elections and the organization of the Central Electoral Commission is applicable. The alternative, the alternative of Sas Sergey Volodymyrovich, will also be considered. So I ask you to prepare a report. The next bill, 3283, is a draft Act amending the State Budget Act of Ukraine. It contains both the amendments to the State Budget Act and the funding of early parliamentary elections. Next. Yesterday the Lithuanian faction came out with a request for a review of Bill 3319, this is a draft law amending the Ukrainian State Budget Act. It also applies to the financing of out-of-office elections, but only urban out-of-office elections, as well as individual issues, local issues, sorry, as well as specific issues of budget funding. Then there's Bill 3308. This is Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenic reporting. And they're proposing ratification, they're not included in the agenda. So you're paying attention! What's the offer? All the bills he just called are discussed in the first reading in the morning. We vote in favour of today's working day and in the afternoon, too. So by four o'clock, we're going to form the second reading of the bills that are going to be considered. And we're working today after the fourth. What we're going to accept today after four is signed that we're not going to accept, we're going to be moving to tomorrow, but we need to start the mechanism. It is therefore necessary to put to the vote: first, the question of the inclusion of Bill 3318 in the agenda, second, of the inclusion of Bill 3319 in the agenda, third, of the modification of the calendar plan and today's work after the fourth hour of the day. I'm asking if there's any suggestions. Alexander Volodymyrovich, please, your position on the agenda. If anyone wants to make a statement, I'd like to sign up for factions one minute at a time.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u2	Dear Arseny Petrovich! Dear colleagues! First of all, I want to remind you that Parliament was stopped by blocking the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko Block at the time that it had already begun its consideration of question 3294 and Helen Leonidivna Lukash was invited to report to the rostrum. Therefore, in order to stop this issue, it is necessary to now vote that this issue should be interrupted and then moved on to other issues. Without this, going to another issue is simply a demonstration violation of the parliamentary procedure. So I propose that the first vote be held that we interrupt the consideration of question 3294 and then the order of consideration of each issue that has been put into the order of the day today.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u3	Colleagues! Please, they've already signed up here. First, let's say one minute, but I want you to know that productive work is already on the question, because there's an application for a break between two factions: the faction of the Party of the Regions and the Block of Lithuania. So let's finish the factions, and then let's break up. St. St. John's.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u4	Vladimir Stretović, Christian-Democratic Union, democratic part of the NU-NS faction. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear National Deputies! Dear colleagues! I'm informing the voters that Mr. Kirilenko's efforts have ruined the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". They are now meeting in secret and making their own decisions, and the other part, which opposes elections as a means of resolving today’s crisis, is being gathered where it has been gathered before. Our position is as follows. Today, there is no more pressing and archiving issue for us than taking steps to minimize the world crisis. So, Mr. Head, we're addressing you. As you have announced, you will proceed to review the agenda and gradually come to a decision that will help today to preserve the banking system and minimize the impact of the collapse that is affecting the world, particularly in our Ukraine. Thank you for your attention and for your understanding of the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u5	Ivan Kirilenko? Ivan Kirilenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, I'll allow myself to make a little clarification that Arsenius Petrovich did not make. I apologize to Arsenius Petrovich, but I must tell the truth as it is. A vote was made to start work in a session hall on issues of state concern: 30 billion people, 48 million of our people, are concerned about the economy, concern businesses where the unemployed have appeared on the streets today. Three factions were supported: the “Julia Timoshenko Block” in this respect supported the “Litvina Block” and supported the communists. Unfortunately, you see what the position of the Party of Regions is, and that is, unfortunately, our Ukraine. Guys, come on, don't torpedo the job! The state must be protected, the country and the people must be protected first! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u7	Ivan Grigorovich, I'm sorry, but that's not true. You just said, Ivan Grigorovich, unreliable information, because “Our Ukraine” voted in Kirilenko's person for this very order of the day. That's not true. Please, “Block of Lithuania”, Oleg Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u8	Dear colleagues, we have finally received a document called the "Memorandum on Economic and Financial Policy" from the IMF. Yesterday everyone said there was nothing like that. It's not true, as we can see. It's a good thing we're seeing the text right now. And why did the Block of Lithuania also sign for a half-hour break to announce: in order to justify its position, including publicly, with regard to the 15th paragraph of this memorandum, which we do not accept and, accordingly, we cannot accept any bill that is being passed, where there is repetition and duplication of this IMF requirement. It refers to the fact that in Ukraine there is no increase in the minimum wage or minimum wage for two years. And for those who are here, I'll say that according to the subsistence minimum, it's normal for a Ukrainian citizen to have one kilogram of beef per year, 170 grams per month of Greek, 330 grams per year, 330 grams per year of another. And bread.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u9	Peter Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u10	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Respectable voters, the Communist faction has introduced its draft decree, which, in protecting national public interests, offers a far-reaching plan of action in Ukraine. What's going on today? The representatives of other factions have in fact begun to learn how to divide the loan that will be presented and how to use it. And it blocks, in principle, the question: How are we going to save Ukraine? This is also the problem of the Supreme Council, in which the tragedy of Ukraine, which is here in the Hall, forgets that there is a people -- 46 million, who must work, who must be paid, able to live, not just to survive and drag on a miserable existence as they are today. Therefore, the faction of communists insists that all proposals be immediately considered, that they be made public about what is happening and how the crisis is developing and how measures must be taken and taken. That's why the Communist faction introduced its draft decree.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u11	Party of regions, Evening. Azarov Mikola Janović.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u12	Respectable voters, respected people's deputies, after repeated demands this morning, and more specifically at half past ten, have been given a memorandum, i.e. an agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the International Monetary Fund on terms of credit. So far, despite our repeated demands, we have not been provided with information from the National Bank on the balance of payments and the financial system. Please tell me, how can a responsible decision be taken to double Ukraine's public debt? Today we have 14 billion, 16 we take, 30 we get. Return in 2005, 2015 - peak year on payments. The document that we are given for consideration is obviously corrupt.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u13	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u14	We propose a simple and clear framework: a bill to address the main problems of Ukraine - balance of payments, maintenance of bank liquidity, jobs, preservation of social guarantees. The Party of the Regions has submitted such a document, and we are prepared to take into account today all the comments contained in the memorandum we have just received. That is why we ask for a half-hour recess to discuss that this memorandum could be included in our basic bill for which we are going to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u15	Replica Viacheslav Kirilenko
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u16	Viacheslav Kirilenko, "Our Ukraine". Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! I want to draw the attention of the democratic community and all those who observe the parliamentary process, that it's almost two weeks away from our Ukraine, and Block Timoshenko has blocked the rostrum. And all of this has led to the impossibility of adopting an anti-crisis package. In general, I think that if our former colleagues in the democratic coalition wanted a quick adoption of the anti-crisis package, they would have voted for it long ago. Yesterday and today we say, we go into the hall, we put all the questions into the agenda, and we all vote. We will vote in favour of the presidential anti-crisis bill and the bills of two of our deputies, fully aware that the economic and political crisis must be resolved. Each one, not just one. And I want to tell my colleagues from the faction that bringing inner life to a general condemnation is a sign of a stupid tone. The faction works, and it has a clear pro-Ukrainian majority.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u17	Yes, dear colleagues, two factions are demanding a recess. Before the announcement of the break, I address Mikola Janovich, I can tell you frankly, I am willing to vote in favour of your law, for any law that makes it possible to resolve the issue. Period. I'm asking you to take a 30-minute break. We meet again at 11 o'clock.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u18	In accordance with the requirements of the Rules, it is possible for factions who have applied for a recess to make an application. Which of the factions will be either the faction of the Party of Regions or the “Block of Lithuania” who? Who will act? Please, Alexander Lavrinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u19	Dear colleagues, we have taken a break to find out as a meaningful part of the projects that are being proposed to understand what positions we can meet today in accordance with the requirements expressed by the International Monetary Fund to Ukraine and how the Ukrainian Parliament should act: whether to protect the interests of Ukrainian citizens or the interests of the International Monetary Fund. This applies primarily to many social positions: both at the minimum wage and at the minimum wage, and so that we do not create additional corruption schemes for the distribution of funds that can be allocated to the Ukrainian government to make decisions on subjective criteria in order to direct them to one area or another. And so that we can follow parliamentary procedures and not vote on those issues that someone suddenly wanted to vote on. You and I have stopped at that point when the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine gave the floor to the report of Lukas Oleni Leonidivni under Bill 3294, which makes it consistent with the legislation that ensures the conduct of the elections of the Ukrainian national deputies. Clearly, there can be such a possibility in the Rules that we will stop considering the matter and move on to other issues. But for that to happen in the hall, you have to make a decision. We therefore propose that Parliament adopt a decision to stop the consideration of this issue and move on to other issues of the agenda. And so that we don't speculate at the top of the presidential bill, defined as urgent, I've even taken a selection right now, so far there are 11 draft laws that have been introduced by the President of Ukraine and are defined as urgent. I'm not going to read them right now, that's quite a list. And you'll realize that this argument is artificially attracted because it's supposed that this urgent consideration is being carried out in accordance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. Compliance with the Rules is not a phenomenon at all. It is therefore a great request that we act today as parliamentarians and, in a clear implementation of the parliamentary procedure, we adopt a number of decisions. Beginning with the closure of the discussion of question 3294, they moved on to the entire consideration of issues of order, as announced by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and began to consider including anti-crisis packages. In this way we will be able to take a successful vote and adopt decisions that will enable parliamentary committees to work in order to consider tomorrow, in the second reading, the issues that may be adopted today in the first reading, and to exhaust the entire agenda that the Head of the Supreme Council today has announced, in which there is one issue in the second reading. This is 0916, 0917, which is approved in second reading a new edition of the draft Law on the judiciary and status of judges.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u20	Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u21	Thank you. Dear colleagues, first of all, I'd like to say that the Lithuanian Block faction asked for 30 minutes' breaks, and we took 30 minutes and took advantage. And why there was no meeting after half an hour, after the break ended at 11:00, we don't know. And it's not our fault, so please understand. That's the first question. On the second question, we carefully studied the order of the day that we were given. The Lithuanian Block is ready and will deal with all the issues that are in order today. We will be involved in the consideration of all, without exception, of the issues that are in order of the day. And the third moment. We have consulted on draft laws that are, and relate to minimization, as said, to the impact of the world crisis. In fact, we think the name should be different. This should be the name of the solution to the crisis, for everyone understands very well that the internal factors are 80 percent and have caused this crisis, which is in Ukraine, and the external ones are only partially. And so we're going to vote on the basis, we're going to determine, or in the first reading, as we call it, for Bill 3309-4. And in turn, we're stressing what we've been stressing an hour ago: in general, we won't be able to or will not even vote for this bill if it doesn't remove the norm that Ukrainian citizens are denied the opportunity to feel the rise of social standards for two years. That's our principle position, because if you freeze for two years the minimum wage increase, obviously someone has to take the price freeze that's increasing in geometric progress, especially for food. This is our clear position and we will hold this position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u22	Dear colleagues! Once again, I would like to remind you of the situation on the Conciliation Council and why there was no voting procedure yesterday, for example. It didn't happen yesterday because they couldn't figure out where to look at the bill. Today, at the Conciliation Council, there were four votes against one, four votes in favour of the proposed agenda, where we begin with the bill on overcoming the financial crisis, and then in a mandatory order, no one blocking the rostrum, we are considering the Law on the State Budget, where there is funding for the elections, we are considering making changes to the Ukrainian Law on Elections of People's Deputies, we are considering other budgetary laws. This position has remained unchanged. Is there any faction leaders who have changed their position? Raise your hand, is there a faction manager who changed position? None. In view of that.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u23	Arseny Petrovich! You just can't see.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u24	Where?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u25	On the right, you can't see. The point is that no one has changed position, but it has been clear and clear that we have a parliamentary procedure and no one is allowed to violate it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u26	So I'm in line with this procedure and action. Now it's all about ruining Parliament's working day again. Comrades, four factions have given me a command to vote. Why are you putting me in a bad position? I'm sorry, my position is in the light bulb, but the people are watching, people are watching how we work. Start the process. What we're going to be looking at right now is the mare in front of the cart or the cart in front of the mare, if everything is going perfectly in order of the day. And the budget goes, and the election goes, and it's still coming, and it's not going to block the question. Even if it's blocked, I'm going to have to hold a locked-in session, because we agreed that we're looking at all of the agenda issues. Now we're going to break the deal again. I ask again, is there even one faction manager who has changed his position? None. That's why I'm announcing Bill 3309-P. Please, Alexander Vitaliyovich, on the rostrum. It's a full-on procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u27	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs. The President of Ukraine proposes a list of priority measures to prevent a financial crisis. Convinced that the whole world will have to deal with the origins of this crisis, its causes, its consequences, its scale. Even now, however, we need to draw specific conclusions that apply to Ukraine in order to get a proper perspective on the situation. A few of these conclusions. First. The global financial crisis has turned around and has already been unprecedented since the great depression of the 1930s. The other one. The global financial crisis is increasingly affecting the economic situation in Ukraine. The demand for Ukrainian companies declined sharply, more than 40 percent in October months alone, and external financing markets closed, and Ukrainian bracelets broke. The global problems of banking liquidity multiplied by mistrust in the Ukrainian banks, caused the Prominestbank problem, forced the National Bank of Ukraine to use unpopular, extraordinary measures. Third. The global financial crisis has only become a detonator to the problems of the Ukrainian economy. We must frankly admit that in economic, budgetary, monetary and exchange policy we have made many mistakes over the years and have made many mistakes that have made Ukraine extremely vulnerable to external shocks. We became engrossed in light markets outside of our home. We provided domestic demand, first of all, at the expense of cheap imports -- so in three years, we got a sharply negative foreign trade balance. We generously distributed benefits and social promises that we could not pay through the government budget. We struggled with inflation with monetary hunger and exchange-rate adventures. Unfortunately, the list will continue. The time will come for all of us, dear fellows, to be rewarded: one of the electors, one of the creditors, one of the prosecutors. Now, however, is not the time to collect accounts. States need consolidated decisions and the unity of the leading political forces in understanding the crisis. Four. Not everyone in Ukraine adequately appreciates the possible prospects for a crisis. I would like to remind you that three quarters of Ukrainian metallurgical capacity has already been stopped or transferred to an accident today. With the prospect of going on an unpaid vacation, some 100,000 builders have been found in such, or released today. Given the global economic recession, we expect in 2009 a fall in real gross domestic product of sharp – up to 40 percent of the decline in external demand for our products. Zero at best, 2-3 percent, no higher, percent increase in industrial production. Under these conditions, all states, and we are not excluded, are looking for answers to four challenges: the first is how to prevent economic recession; the second is how to correct the balance of external trade; the third is how to support the liquidity of the banking system; the fourth is how to prevent the balance of the state budget? Attempts to answer these questions are contained in all the bills that have been registered in the Supreme Council in recent days as anticrisis. Yet, attempts to reconcile them do not yet yield results according to the old known principles: “Where the two Ukrainians are, there are three Gehtmans”, “We are, but not in our village” and so on. Under these conditions, the President of Ukraine has decided to propose to the Supreme Council the so-called minimum priority package, based on the experience of other states and the proposals of the people’s deputies. Thus, the bill includes six basic standards. Two of these apply to the support of our businesses. First. For the first time, a stable fund is being established in Ukraine. We took the basic ideas of the bill of national MPs Yanukovich and Azarov. The sources of the stabilisation fund should be the coming of privatization. Finally, we must stop “eating” the privatisation money, as we did with “Croatstall” and other businesses. We have to invest in the capitalization of our economy. The second source will be external and domestic borrowing. The third is coming from international financial organizations that are able to do so. Use directions are also prescribed in the law. First of all, it's support for the Ukrainian economy, namely investment projects for 10 years. Support for small and medium-sized businesses, or interest rates on their loans. This is the construction of unbuilt buildings today, including housing, so that it can then be sold to our citizens or used for public purposes. And finally, the fourth is the support of those sectors that today are in a critical situation to put their external demand inside. The second idea to support our economy has already been considered in this room. These are the so - called amendments to the Law on Added Value Tax for Our Farmers. Let me remind you that if we don't make any decisions, from the new year, the village will be taxed at the usual value added tax. I think to any expert you can figure out that this will be the beginning of the end of our agriculture. So we need to adopt a bill that has already been drafted by the Committee of the Supreme Council and was adopted in this room in the first reading, which allows us to switch to the tax accumulation regime to the added value in the rural farms themselves. The cost of this bill is perhaps $7.2 billion to support the village. By the way, it's about the first article of the stability fund. We're convinced that in 2009, we can concentrate about 50 billion dollars in this fund. The following three suggestions relate to supporting the liquidity of the banking system and restoring trust in it. The first of the suggestions. It is proposed that a mechanism be put in place to capitalize the banks that need it through the resources of the government and the National Bank. The mechanism already tested in the United States and Europe is the willingness of the State to temporarily enter the capital of the Ukrainian banks. International financial organizations are ready to partner in such transactions. The total amount of resources, in addition to the usual refinancing operations of the National Bank, may be between thirty and fifty billion dollars if necessary. Secondly, an additional source is being introduced for the Fund to guarantee the population's investment of twenty-five per cent of the excess of the National Bank's cost-effective income over the cost-effective expenditure. It is only this year that this amount can make up 1.3 billion dollars and then almost double the Fund's potential. Finally, the third. It is proposed that, as the first step of the State's participation in the capital of troubled banks, more than eighty percent of the shares of the additional “Prominestbank” should be purchased through the National Bank of Ukraine in the event of such a decision. For these purposes, it is proposed that an additional one billion dollars be allocated from the 2008 budget. And finally, the last sixth proposal, the most principle and the most controversial, it refers to our social standards, as Mr. Zarubinski has already spoken about in this room. However, it seems to me that Mr. Oleg did not fully understand what was written there. Situation, respectable colleagues, next. The size of the next budget, I want them to listen to me, is going to be the same as the size of the 2008 budget, at best multiplied by inflation. In these circumstances, we cannot implement the idea that was adopted three years ago in this room to raise the minimum wage to the minimum wage. This will now require the state’s economy on average to increase wages by thirty - five percent. Ask any employer or manager of a metallurgical enterprise, or a building company that is not able to pay even that kind of salary today, or it can increase it by thirty-five percent of the wage. Not today, he'll say. So the idea is that for these two years, let's be honest with our citizens, including the budgeters, by the way, the budget will need more than forty-nine billion to implement this standard. We can raise the living minimum and the minimum wage to the level of inflation, i.e. keep it at the real level, to the level of inflation. We can't do more in these two years. This step will lead to the seriousness and adequacy of Ukrainian parliamentarians and the Ukrainian economy in the real situation. And to complete a few brief explanations. First. There is no doubt that there is a need to make additional decisions to prevent the crisis contained in other anti-crisis bills, and we must continue to work on them. However, there is a need for a positive signal today, both to Ukraine and beyond, by taking at least these first - priority measures. The other one. The President of Ukraine, the Prime Minister, the Head of the Supreme Council, held extensive consultations with business circles, bankers, scientists, and large-scale consultations with the leading economists of the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The package proposed by the President of Ukraine is supported by all. Ukraine will receive massive support from international financial organizations, a change of attitude towards us creditors, confident that the business world will feel and, above all, the banking environment. The National Bank of Ukraine will receive serious support to stabilize the course of the bracelet. And the last. Ukraine has every chance of going through the world’s financial crisis with the slightest loss. Today it all depends on your position, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u28	Let's finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u29	Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u30	Five minutes of question-answer. Klimenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u31	Dear Alexander Vitaliyovich, as a representative of the Ukrainian People's Party, I will support your bill. But I would also like to point out whether this will apply to the fund created by the civil protection fund, which is a member of the Ukrainian credit union, and also to insurance companies, because your bill applies exclusively to the banking sector. And the question is, does the President's Secretariat know how many fraudulent investors today, including in the Donetsk region and where no activity is being carried out by the prosecutor's office? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u32	Thank you. I'll be honest with you. The bill currently applies only to the bank’s deposit guarantee fund. We agreed that if today's bill is adopted in the first reading and there are so many proposals balanced that we can include in this bill, let's look at them. Please form, we'll watch. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u33	Gordien.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u34	Sergey Gordienko, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Dear Alexander Vitaliyovich, I read the bill carefully and did not see three things clearly in this bill. That this bill protects the interests of the State, the domestic producer, and the standard of living of the common man himself. You tell the people of Ukraine today that the bill is intended to come out of this crisis, primarily because of the simple person and the deterioration of his life. You said yourself here just now that everything will not rise, neither the level of wages nor the level of social security. But tell me if prices, tariffs, jobs, and services will rise. For man does not survive today, but how will he survive under such conditions?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u35	Thank you. Two things I want to say. Once again, I ask you not to twist what I have said. I wasn't talking about not raising wages and living minimum. And let me emphasize, it's going to increase by inflation, no more. That's what I said. And the second. If I get this opportunity to address the Ukrainian people, I'll tell you, the non-admission of this law is going to make the situation worse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u36	Evening.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u37	Dear Alexander Vitalievich! Evening, Party of Regions. I have a question for you. If your report says that you have the basis for the Azarov project, Janukovic, let us vote for it in general and not to be wise. And we're going to base our bill and vote for it. Second. I want to ask you, what are you going to do with the stabilization fund? This time. And what priorities should you take today? Because we go to winter and energy, we don't pay energy for coal. The Ministry of Fuel and Energy does not pay coal associations. These are the priorities that we must take today. And then everything else. Please answer these questions for me.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u38	Thank you. As far as the bill of honourable national deputies is concerned. Mr. Azarov's bill and Mr. Janukovich's will be speaking, I think he will comment, he has two standards. I'll remind you -- the stability fund that's fully laid out in this law, and the rate of 25 percent overrun of the National Bank's expenditure. They are fully included in this law. However, I am convinced, and I would like to be conscious that we will not be able to do anything with one candy in this case. That's why we balanced the law with the things that these people thought were national. important national MPs, we should also do the things that we think should be done. As for what we should do. I'm trying to do what I have to do. I am convinced that today people’s deputies are obliged to adopt the law in this or other form. Let each one do what he thinks is necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u39	Sergey Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u40	Sobolen “Club of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear Alexander Vitaliyovich, it is clear that a number of key provisions, which were included as a draft law submitted by the government, have been reflected in a project introduced by the President. But I would like to ask you a question. Do you not think that the funds that are to be allocated from the stabilisation fund to support the banking system, the private sector and the support of the metallurgical, processing, private sector enterprises can be allocated exclusively to the transfer of shares of these private enterprises to the state with the return of these packages to the state? Because I realize that the good oligarchs who provided, as they said, millions of jobs don't want to share their profits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u41	Thank you, Mr. Sergei. The Stability Fund bill is, unfortunately, a framework. If you look there, there is this entry: “The manner in which funds are used to settle this issue will be carried out by the Cabinet of Ministers.” Since I know you have a bearing today on the Cabinet of Ministers, your faction. We'll count on you to do everything right and do it right. If you want my opinion, then the stabilisation fund should not be used as a credit institution. It shouldn't be used to lend shares to companies. For this there are banking mechanisms. We need to use a stabilization fund to, or perhaps through our state banks, support our industries by ordering new cars where metal is needed, to build additional housing, to build more loyal housing that is, and then to use it for public purposes. The client for the stabilising funds, I believe, should be the government's institutions and institutions, not the other commercial banks. They have this opportunity and mechanism by turning to the National Bank through their banks to refinance their needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u42	Thank you, Alexander Vitaliovich. Please sit down. Next reporter, Government Bill, Julia Volodymyrna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u43	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Indeed, today the situation is extremely complex and not just in Ukraine, a complex situation in the world. The financial and economic crisis has taken over all the countries of the world today. There are no exceptions. And if we analyze the state of affairs in the world today, the total loss of the world economy at this point in the last weeks of the crisis is 2.8 trillion dollars. The world has never had such a loss. And if we are talking about the consequences that every country in the world has today, first of all, we need to talk about the fact that all the raw materials markets in the world have fallen. And, of course, every country feels that way. The world’s most powerful engineering companies have closed down those who have the world’s glory and who have worked for hundreds of years. And Ukraine, a supplier of metal, metal products for many countries today, has lost its world markets. If we're talking about the European Union, in the last 50 days, the euro has gone down 22 percent in terms of the dollar. This means that the downturn of national currencies is going across all the key countries of Europe, going across all the key countries of the world, and Ukraine feels it. I will not count the other consequences, including the fact that each month the euro is fixed by a million unemployed, which is just the beginning. You know that all the world’s financial organizations and all the unifications of countries have announced that the world has begun to experience a stable recession, a virtual decline in the world’s economy. And Ukraine must be strong, united at this time, because we have such a structure of the economy, and such a structure of financial markets that we can minimize the impact of the global financial crisis on Ukraine, but it certainly requires unity, a common team, joint action and shared responsibility. Just because we need to go through a period of stability and a way out of this difficult situation, that's why the government has turned to the world's financial institutions to give at this difficult time when the banking system has run out of resources, because you know that deposits are not being made to banks today by either natural or legal persons. At the same time, however, no one withdrew from the banking system the need to serve both businesses and people’s deposits. The banking system in the world today is the weakest link in Ukraine. And that's why when we went to global financial organizations, we wanted to make sure that, at this difficult time, when trillion countries are spending on supporting the banking system and the real economy sector, that Ukraine has the opportunity to get global financial resources on a long-term basis and at a minimum of 4 percent per year. In order to obtain this financial resource and lay practical groundwork for Ukraine's successful exit from the global financial crisis, we need to take a number of actions related to balancing our balance of payments, with all the elements that move the country during this difficult time to the path of resource savings in all directions and, of course, stabilizing the banking system. After negotiations with the world’s financial organizations, the government, along with the National Bank, compromised. Ukraine can allocate 16.5 billion during this difficult period. There have been no such loans in the country for a long time, and not all of them are able to use them if they are not needed. And the government, along with the National Bank, and with the consultants of those financial organizations that offered assistance to Ukraine, prepared a bill of government that was introduced. It was made up of several parts. The first is the stabilisation of Ukraine's banking system. And, of course, if a country in the form of a National Bank and a government borrows, we are obliged to guarantee a return. And so if we support the banking system, only with a guaranteed return, which means that the government and the National Bank have to get the shares, part of the shares of those banks that will volunteer for help. The second block of issues that had to do with stabilizing the situation was tax cuts or tax evasion. The government bill made two blocks of questions: first, for agriculture, it was the absolute stabilization of the tax debt regime, and, on the other hand, we were giving a block of tax reduction to the construction sector, which today will be the key to raising the country's economy. Unfortunately, in the Presidential Law, one part remained, which was about preserving the village's tax system, and the other part about radically reducing the burden on the construction sector was removed from that law. But the government, realizing that there is a need for consolidation of efforts, fully supports the Presidential Bill in order to be able to consolidate our efforts around a single document. Next. The government's law provides for the unconditional creation of a stable fund and its completion on the basis of the loans that I have mentioned, and on the basis of the privatization of an honest, open, transparent one, that is, on an auction basis. The government's proposal for a stabilising fund was preserved in the Presidential Bill, but unfortunately all the transparent procedures for conducting open privatisation auctions and open auctions for the issuance of licences for the use of beneficial fossils that Ukraine has to invest in have disappeared. But at the same time, we also take this compromise because we need to move forward and stabilize the situation by getting serious financial assistance. In addition, the government bill provided for a reduction of 20 percent of all expenditure on the country’s administrative apparatus. It's both the government and the presidential administrations and the Supreme Council. Unfortunately, this position is no longer in the presidential position, but at the same time, we have reduced the government's spending by a special decree of 20 percent, and we've been practically living in the economic system for a week. I thought it needed to be in the law for everyone, but if the president thought it was necessary to rule it out, we also agree. Moreover, we also insisted that the law duplicated the State guarantee of 100,000 dollars for those deposits that had been deposited by individuals in banks. And in the government bill, there was this position about guaranteeing 100,000 per person such a contribution from the state. It's not in the president's office, but I'm convinced that even if we now support everyone collectively in the president's office, we still need a separate law to give guarantees to individuals upon return of deposits. And there's something else I'd like to say about what the difference is. The difference is that we've offered a fairly substantial tax block to correct. This applies to excise duties on alcoholic beverages, excise duties on petroleum products, rents on those useful fossils that are much lower today than in the world, in Ukraine to raise these taxes in order to target completely the construction of road and bridges that would enable construction and metal production from our metallurgical factories to the internal market. But unfortunately, it also fell out, this block, and we, once again, don't insist, understanding the complexity of the situation and the need to accept this bill. Everything else proposed by the government is included in the Presidential Bill, it's practically government-based. And that's why we're completely and completely dividing this Presidential bill, and we're supporting it. Our faction will give a total of 156 votes for this bill, and we are ready to continue to implement it. But at the same time, as I finish my speech, I would like to turn to the opposition as well. And ask all opposition factions to still consolidate around all of our work to prevent a global financial crisis in Ukraine. And, you know, I understand that for every faction, for every political team, the words of their own leader are important, not the words of the leaders of other political forces. And that's why for the Party of Regions I did pick out those quotes that exactly a year ago, in 2007, Victor Fedorovich Janukovic announced. And I will take the courage to quote your classic and fully support his words. “I have repeatedly said that politics cannot, in principle, be built on the unreceptiveness of its political opponents, to provoke the moods that drive people to think that the cause of all the problems that exist is the helplessness of the functioning authorities. It's a mistake to say we're going to change power, and all the problems will disappear. Let us look at the countries of the European Union, Russia: even though there is a political struggle there, it never goes beyond what political rivalry can have a negative impact on the economic security of the state. And last of all, politicians need to understand that whoever doesn't come to power tomorrow won't be able to handle the challenges created by the complex situation in the world economy alone. We need to remember what political responsibility means, first and foremost, responsibility to the people for what you have done to unite the effort in the face of a serious threat, not to gain power at all costs. [[Applause]] So, dear friends, I also applaud Victor Fedorovich, who, in 2007, as Prime Minister, said what I want to say to you today as Prime Minister. And I believe that Ukraine has a reliable team that can protect Ukraine. And I can tell you that all that's happening today with regard to the freezing of social expenses is not about our team. Not only did we not freeze social costs, but we always did them the way people needed them to. And today, I emphasize that there will be no freezing, and all social spending will be adjusted to an inflation index that will be in the country and there will be no freezing. And then, as we do, we will increase the country's social standard of living. That's why we're joining!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u44	Julia Volodymyrna, don't run away, please, there's a question. Are you filming your bill for the president's sake?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u45	I'm very happy to film a government project for the president's sake.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u46	Great. I want to tell you that this is a big sign of a merger when the current prime minister quotes the opposition prime minister. They've passed the bill. So there's no question if they reported the bill, the bill was withdrawn. Next report will be by Mikola Janovich Azarov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u47	Dear People's Deputies, if you, Yulia Vladimirovna, would always listen to your opponents, we would have offered you here many times on 11 July, 23 September, in October and so on, the situation would be much better now. Today you are panicking, warming up your passions, unfortunately, not always the leadership of the National Bank makes informed statements. But before taking any action, it is necessary to examine clearly, in cold blood the reasons for what has happened. And then it'll be clear what to do. First of all, Julia Vladimirovna, we will remember in 2005, when without all the financial crisis in the world, we failed to produce in the country. And in August, we had an absolute fall in gross domestic product. A similar situation has taken place this year. Just two weeks ago, you said there were no problems in the country. Remove the bet: “We’ve reached the crisis,” the “5 channel” said. Our criticism and proposals were not answered. Suddenly they realized that there was a crisis in the country. The crisis came to the country all of a sudden, starting in 2008 exactly as it was in 2005: from populist payments, from restrictions on economic lending, from administrative control of prices, from the revaluation of the bracelet, from import protectionism, from increased tariffs on transport services. We've been paying attention to this a lot. It should be noted that by September, the level of mistrust by government policy, i.e., in front of the world's investors, had risen eight times. And when the Government submitted the 2009 budget in September, of course Julia Vladimirovna, all the world's investors failed: the budget, its careful analysis of the main State financial document, showed that the Government did not understand the situation in which it was working. Moreover, remember those bills that were voted and submitted by the Government in September this year. They have shown understanding of what is happening in the world and what impact does the global economic crisis have on the country? What is now being proposed and, surprisingly, with what ease does the Government give up its proposals? We're ready to give up, we're ready to give up, we're willing to pay taxes. Where is the position of the Government? Firm, sure, cold-blooded, standing on your own to the end, if you're sure, not giving up your positions and changing them every day. What is now proposed in essence? In fact, wage freezes, actual budget cuts. A potentially corrupt mechanism for the allocation of funds to the International Monetary Fund and a mechanism for the change of bank owners is in place. The current system of accounting and recovery of foreign loans is being disrupted. Naftogaza Ukrainian subsidiaries are allowed to pay dividends, not in the budget, but directly to companies, and are granted the right of banks to extra-judicial recovery of collateral. We cannot support such a position by the Government, including the President. Why? Indeed, these measures do not address the consequences of the crisis. What must we do now and what is proposed in our bill? First of all, there is a need to stop the panic at all levels. In Ukraine, sufficient resources are needed to address all the problems facing Ukraine today. What problems must be addressed and not mentioned in either the Government Bill or the President's Bill. The issue of balance of payments is primarily the equation between export and imports. The problem of export-oriented industries must be supported by reorienting export-oriented industries to the internal market. The banking problem must first be restored, liquidity must be increased, resources must be found to meet external obligations and full lending of the economy must be restored. The essence of addressing these problems is to concentrate all State resources on priority areas. Nine tenths of this work is concentrated in ministries, departments and the National Bank. What do we suggest? First. Establish a stabilization fund. And what, well, is our proposal in the Presidential Bill. But how did you get it? The resources proposed by the Stabilization Fund are the proceeds of privatization. When do we get the first bracelet out of there? You're all realists. At least six months. We have in our bill a clear and clear description of today's resources that can be allocated to the stabilization fund. What mechanism for the stabilization fund? We are saying that the mechanism of work is implemented through State banks. To what do these banks have the right to use these resources? To provide loans for the servicing of loans received by domestic banking institutions by foreign creditors for a specific date, up to 15 September, for example. Infrastructural investment projects of State importance are being financed on a pivotal basis. Loss of credit for small and medium-sized business projects, in particular those that have an impact on improving employment. Loans for the completion of the construction of housing, which is carried out through mortgage lending. Among the areas of such support, we also see assistance in the acquisition of agriculture by producers of mineral fertilizers and plant protection products of domestic production. This enabled not only the chemical industry but also agriculture and job creation and protection. Credits may be granted in whole or in part through the acquisition by State banks of bonds issued by such recipients. The cost of such credits is clearly defined. I would like to draw attention to the fact that we are proposing, not the manual administration contained in both the Government's bill and the Presidential and military communism, but that we are proposing normal market approaches. And instead of the so-called threes: one, the representative of Minfin, two, we don't know who, we're offering a completely transparent mechanism for the distribution of these funds. Why was such a mechanism chosen? Because the conservativeness of the systemic relationship between banks would minimize credit risks. Step two. Our bill guarantees that, and I stress this, it is now very important to restore investor confidence in the banking system. Therefore, all contributions made by citizens are guaranteed, i.e. the confidence of citizens in the financial system of the State is restored. Provision is made for the guarantee to each investor of reimbursement for its contributions, including interest on contributions on the day of the non-availability of deposits of 150,000 bracelets. The proposed mechanism required a stable source of replenishment of the guaranteed contributions fund, which was prescribed in the law. And a few other problems that have been resolved in our bill. This is a village tax mechanism, we are practically maintaining this mechanism that has been in place so far. And a mechanism for changing customs duties. The Government proposes to take this procedure on yourself, maybe you trust such a mechanism, maybe you do, but I've worked in the government for a few years, and I know you can't. This mechanism should be presented to us by the Government with a programme corresponding to what commodity positions we will change tariff protection measures, and here in this room we must vote in favour of these measures. The challenge is to think about it, if we have $80 billion in imports for the next year, and exports, by the way, 60, we have to minimize our imports by at least 10 billion. And that's what we have to do with you in this room. It's a very responsible decision. And our bill proposes how to do so. At the end of the day, we propose to adopt the 2009 budget immediately. Why? Yes, because this is the main indicator of all the government's financial policies next year, it is the main instrument that will show whether our country can be trusted or not. Procrastination with the adoption of the budget creates uncertainty. And literally a few words about. There is much to be said here because the Prime Minister, including the International Monetary Fund, has said. The most difficult problem, my dear colleagues, will be this.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u48	Mikola Janovich, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u49	3 billion, 3 billion that we'll get the first tranche, of course, of good money and big, five years of repayment of that loan. [[literally one minute]] In 2013, Ukraine's public debt, which now amounts to 14 billion, will amount to 36 billion. Well, how much does the government increase it? Now, 2013 is the year of the peak payment. That is why, at a meeting yesterday, the Party of the Regions, at a meeting with the delegation of the International Monetary Fund, we raised a clear question: credit cannot be granted for five years, at least 10-15 years, and I think it is real. Dear People's Deputies, I ask you to support the bill introduced by the Party of the Regions on first reading. And I think that, in the process of working on this bill, we will come up with a literate system document that will make a real difference in the situation in our country.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u50	Thank you, Milo Yanovich. Mikola Janovich, I need five minutes of question-answer. Please sign up for five minutes — questions to Mikli Janovich. Yuri Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u51	Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear Mikolo Janovich! And of course, when I compare these two documents that we now have -- government and opposition -- I can't help but notice that actually all the positive changes that are being proposed, both by the government and the President, are based on the ideas that you just made. The main thing is to create a stable fund that allows the financial resources of the states to be redistributed; and the second, of course, to contain panic by guaranteeing contributions to banks. Mikola Janović, please tell us why our bill should be based? And why can't we privatize when all the stock markets have collapsed, when it can turn into a simple lot of people who feel that their team is going, and now we can take something with us, not solve the country's problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u52	You answered your question in fact. That is why we, both of them, have taken the basis of our main ideas, which we launched on 23 September, is a stabilization fund, a deposit guarantee fund and a number of other measures. But! As it always happens, their content fades away. I have already said how to make the income from privatization a major source, when it is clear that in the next six months, not a penny will come into these funds. So we draw air locks, and we need real money. 40 billion a year means 4 billion minimum we have to have in the first month to support our system. That's why we're saying we can't vote for these bills. And yet another important circumstance. And the government, well, the President, is simply there to freeze all things, social benefits. The government is so flexible, but still the same. We're saying that in.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u53	Let me finish. Please, Nikolai Janovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u54	As the external market closes, we need to switch to the internal market. And our businesses and our citizens are coming to the internal market, and our citizens cannot in any case limit their purchasing power. Therefore, politics must be established here and very accurate, that is why we are against this paragraph. It's not populism, it's real economic calculations.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u55	Sidekick.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u56	The headquarters of Yulia Timoshenko. Please pass the word to Terehina.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u57	Sergey Teryohin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u58	Thank you. Mikola Janovich, you just said. [[I have two questions and one point.]] You just said you have such good sources of trees. To the foundation. I read: “Parts of a single treasury account”. This, I'm just reminding you, as Minister of Finance, is the future salaries of teachers, doctors, grants from the Pension Fund. That's the first one. The second question. You wrote that the savings and the “Ukreximbank” are going to pay out loans to foreign banks, that is, you offer the fees of tax payers to be “banished” through Savings and Eximbank, and to pay to foreign banks that were “heated up” in our economy. In other countries, there are vetoes for such repayments in general. And the last. Mikola Janovich! You have no word in the law about the village and no words about customs tariffs! So please, don't fool the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u59	Dear Sergey Anatolyevich! You're always holding it back. As always! Therefore, allow me, as the former Minister of Finance, to respond to the former Minister of Economy. The fund balance of the Ministry of Finance in Treasury accounts is a dynamic indicator. All the revenue of the State budget general fund is available for these balances. Suppose eight billion in October had been received, eight billion had been spent, with the exception of capital programmes. Therefore, your prodigious Government does not finance a number of major programmes, has accumulated such fund balances and so on, including local budgets, about twenty-eight billion. Knowing our funding arrangements, it is clear that they will not be spent by the end of the year on their purpose.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u60	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u61	Therefore, it is clear that some of the funds can be channelled to the Stabilisation Fund now. Now the most important village you've ever insulted me with. Yes, there are no rules concerning the extension of the rural tax regime in our bill. Why? And you know that, too, and they have nothing to do with the subject matter of this law. But since you're so bravely blocking the rostrum, and we're afraid that you're blocking it again, we suggest you include this rule and vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u62	All right, Nikolai Janović, one thing is bad: unfortunately, we have some exes here, we could use someone from the future. Julia Volodymyrna wants to ask us a question, Mikoli Janovich, please. All of it. Done. Nikolai Janović, question. Julia Volodymyr, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u63	Can I ask you a question, please? You know, honestly, after listening to such a big report by Mikola Janovich, I'm surprised for once how you can create such a great illusion in a flat place. I'm holding a bill from the Party of Regions that's just reported on the crisis. A half - page of three paragraphs and this is done in such a way as to give such a talk a serious announcement. So I would like you, Mikola Janović, to still, when you're criticizing the government, to read your own bills, there's two thirds of what you said and not even close. Maybe it's your good wishes, next time we have to put them out, and we're ready to consider what's important. Second what? When you criticize the government, you will always remember that when you apologized to the country for the huge inflation you had, you said that only cabbage did not travel and ask people to eat cabbage. So we corrected this situation, and six months after your rule, we got the inflation rate to negative, so we practically corrected it as necessary. And the last thing I want to say to you. You, as former First Deputy Prime Minister and including the Minister of Finance, would simply have to know that your Prime Minister Janukovic signed an application to the IMF when there was no crisis in the country and signed the same memorandum that you have just criticized. You just get to know your own documents so you know what it is. And if you own the numbers and you own the material, here's what you're criticizing, but you're so powerfully populist that you wrote in your law that the state guarantees everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u64	Julia Volodymyrna, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u65	All citizens' deposits. So tell me, please, how many deposits are in banks today and how much income is in the budget if you make such a loud announcement. And the final question to you. Why, when considered.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u66	Julia Volodymyrna, this isn't a government meeting, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u67	For the country, the key issue of crisis is why is your leader not in Parliament, Viktor Fedorovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u68	Please, Mikola Janovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u69	Julia Vladimirovna, you told me on the break that you had a very good job with the agency, that you were talking about the content of the talks there. Well, you probably know our leader's temperature is, like, a little bit, you know? So what are you asking? Now, basically. Again on recess, but there were many witnesses, a man of 40 at least, you said you were willing to vote in favour of our bill, but if it was so light, what was it? Your statement that you were willing to vote on or your statement today? For your information. Paulson's famous, famous plan contains three pages of everything. It's not about the pages, it's not about the pages, it's about who's going to do it. I'm afraid you don't understand. You once told me you didn't understand anything from my speech. I'm afraid you don't understand much from what I've been saying here.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u70	Thank you, Mikola Janovich. Please sit down. Dear colleagues have just called for unity of power and opposition. Within half an hour, they began criticizing each other. That's an interesting sign of consolidation. I'm primarily talking to the government's bed. Let's stop each other's horseshoes. Because the law doesn't vote. Then you'll go to the press and you'll tell me who that is. I invite you to the rostrum of the next reporter. Arjovitin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u71	Dear colleagues, I wanted to bring you back to the theme of the financial and banking system. First. It is simply unacceptable to leave article number 2 and article 3 in the presidential bill, or in the government bill, regarding the availability of securities in statutory capitals of commercial banks. This time. And the second. Let go of the mechanisms that are supposed to be here. Because I'm deeply convinced this is a future platform for raiding any official at any commercial bank. And I'll explain why. Well, first of all, this position of mine is supported by the National Bank and supported by the Association of Commercial Banks. We were talking about my version of the bill. So I'm proposing that article 1 concerning the Cabinet of Ministers on participation in the capitals of the banking system be written down as follows. It's for the transcript, if Arsenius Petrovich asks me to take down my proposals in favor of the Presidential Bill. First. Allow the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to form and increase statutory capital of system banks through the acquisition of shares in an additional issue of bank rations, including those that are closed by shareholders at the expense of government loans and budget funds. It's about securities. Then you just have to delete the text. The next answer in this article should be why the bank, when the bank, and how the bank should exit the financial crisis. To that end, I propose the following clear standards. First. If the regulatory capital of the system bank is reduced by 30 percent or more and the availability of time-consuming liabilities to the bank during 15 working days, including payments by customers of the National Bank, continue with the text. [[or]] Next rule. I propose to delete in the Presidential Bill what applies to temporary directorates. This rule is defined by a separate Act on Banking and Banking, and should not be repeated. Instead, the standard should be added. In the event that a bank is appointed by the National Bank of Ukraine, the restructuring of the bank and the issuance of shares of the bank shall be carried out on the basis of a decision of the temporary administrator in a simplified manner, without taking into account the majority of shareholders' rights and the availability of votes in the congregations. And this decision is made by a state-owned securities and stock market commission in a simplified regime. Decisions on the approval and financial recovery of the statutory capital and investor involvement bank are taken by the Bank’s Monitoring Board in agreement with the National Bank. This is not a function of the Cabinet of Ministers. Next. The interim administrator has the right to appoint the Bank's Monitoring Board and Board after its reorganization and issuance. Then we have to leave the shareholders' right to the statutory capital. The right to acquire additional emissions in statutory capital is given priority to participants in a bank or to old shareholders. In turn, investors who want to participate continue to participate in the Ministry of Finance. The mandatory norm for State participation in the formation and increase of statutory capital of banks approved by the Cabinet of Ministers, not by submission of the National Bank, but by agreement with the National Bank, I think it is a principle. Next, I think we should give the National Bank special powers for this period. For example, when it comes to changing the terms and conditions of the return of residents depending on the payment balance of Ukraine. Next. In these circumstances, the National Bank should have the right to change the order of use, i.e. the level of the mandatory sale of the currency to the National Bank’s gold reserves. The National Bank should impose requirements for foreign exchange purchase transactions exclusively through the National Bank, so that we don't have the problems that we have at the points of exchange. Next. The National Bank should introduce a moratorium on certain types of banking activities and also issue normative acts as order documents without having to register with the Ministry of Justice for that period. Next. I think that an important norm for the National Bank should also be that the decision taken by the National Bank Board should be a recommendation for this period and not limit the professional activities of the National Bank. Next on the Population Deposit Guarantee Fund. That's what everybody's talking about, but please tell me, when we have 1.7 billion in the Guarantee Fund today, we're going to add 1.3 billion more to 200 billion -- that's very little. So my proposal is to direct to the Guarantee Fund this year 1.3 billion, which we talked about, next year to target the 4 billion that are budgeted for in 2009. We have to give the fund full guarantees in order for it to go to the National Bank for a loan to solve its issues. Under these conditions, the State must guarantee at least 100,000 people's contributions under this law. As for individual standards, for example, the rule of finding significant participation in a banking institution from 10 percent to 5 percent, I don't think it's an anti-crisis measure, it's a crisis move. I don't know who wrote it down, but if he knows how the procedure is done, it's tons of paper -- once, it's thousands of different auditions that need it in such a difficult situation. So this rule just needs to be removed. In fact, I didn't want to count the detailed mechanisms, but once again, if it's not so clearly prescribed, which and when the bank falls under this procedure, these are the raiders' standards that are left behind and written in this bill. [[It was the bankers themselves who identified it.]] If you want, the answer is already, as far as Prominestbank is concerned. We're looking at a bill today where 1 billion is allocated. Read what is next. In one billion people, we don't know how valuable or what kind of shares the state will buy. Please tell me if this is a clear norm. So my proposal is to make a radical change to article 2 fi of article number 3 in the paper that I wrote. Once again, my editors agree with the National Bank and the commercial banks at that meeting held by the Head of the Supreme Council with the participation of the International Monetary Fund and many Ukrainian bankers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u72	Stanislaw Mikhailovich, I have a question for you. Are you considering the draft of this bill on behalf of the Presidential?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u73	I, Arsenija Petrovich, before I started speaking, said that I purposely read everything so that the phonograph could be recorded. And if, in a sequence like I said, article 2 and article 3 of the Presidential Bill take into account exactly what I read and what I read about the National Bank, I'm willing to take it down in favour of the President's.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u74	Stanislaw Mikhailovich, I have such an offer. When we put it to the vote, I'll put it to a vote: paragraph one is to adopt the bill as a basis; paragraph two is to take the proposals of all the bills into account in the second reading. If that's what you're up to and you're making a decision to withdraw this bill for the president's sake, I'm asking you to announce it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u75	No, no, wait, no, Arsenia Petrovich, don't push me. It's a principle for me.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u76	I haven't been pressured yet.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u77	Don't push, on, no, we're going through the whole procedure, I don't see any guarantees.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u78	Questions-answers. No one's asking anyone, but they're not the institute of noble virgins. Sign up, questions, five minutes. Olena Lukash. Sorry, Lukashuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u79	Hello!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u80	Hello!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u81	Turn on the microphone. I ask you to pass the word to Teryochin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u82	Teryohin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u83	Well, Mr. Lukashuk, indeed, hello! In principle, we've been looking at our committee's proposals for an honourable member of Arjevetina, and we didn't agree with any of them, because the main quintession of these proposals is like taking money into the banking system, but not taking responsibility for what you took. So we're going to have, Your Honor Arsenius Petrovich, working on the second reading of the committee discussion, I invite the honourable author to the committee, let's work again with the National Bank, the Ministry of Finance on your proposals. But once again, on the first terrarium, they weren't supported, none.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u84	I want to answer. To me, it was a surprise that this bill was somehow not on our committee, although the subject is our Committee on Finance and Banking. Today, the Economic Policy Committee is looking at the legitimacy of the National Bank’s actions and the text. The tax committee I was looking at came to him yesterday, even though I wasn't invited. Mr. Sergei said so to the deputies of this committee: it's not exactly our bill, it's a few positions of our tax, but we've been directed -- we're looking at it. I therefore insist that the Committee on Finance and Banking be the general committee on these proposals.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u85	Evening.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u86	Stanislav Mihajlovich, please tell us that we have many troubled commercial banks in Ukraine today. [[Evening, "Party of the Regions"]] If the State buys out all these troubled banks, will you vote for it or not to transfer all the troubled banks to the State, and the State will already rule on who to sell further, how to privatize? It will only benefit the State and the people. How do you look at that?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u87	Well, first of all, believe me, as the head of the Association of Commercial Banks Council, we don't have so many troubled banks, like you said. That's the first one. And by the way, it's a banking facility today. In these 20 days, banks received $320 million from their principal offices here at the branch offices in Ukraine. That's the first one. It's different. I know that the National Bank is now going to activate its work to figure out, for example, 20-30 banks first, which is 60 percent of the market, and to identify those problems that may occur during the deepening financial crisis. So I think your question, of course, was whether or not to buy the state all commercial banks, I don't think so. We need to start with the Prominestbank, and then, I think, the situation is stabilizing. Because the National Bank is refinanced by commercial banks today, and every commercial bank has an opportunity today to get extra capital to improve its payment programmes.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u88	Gashoek Peter.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u89	Please pass the word to Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u90	Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u91	Dear reporter, how many prescriptions have been poured over the head of the Ukrainian crisis rescuer, and how many more are to be poured out today? Your predecessor, for example, offered a very modest option: return us to power and all: and tomorrow's crisis will be no more in Ukraine. Yes, to the world. My question to you is paradoxical. When a person is sick and then recovers, he then gambles with a special life - style. The economy is the same. After the crisis, there is a great recovery. As you think, once again, the paradoxical question, which could still be useful in our Ukraine, when one comes, begins to reform, but at this point either the resignation of the government, or anything else, reforms never started. It's about real estate taxes and stuff. Will this be of any benefit? Could we at least make some radical decisions during the crisis?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u92	Well, you asked a whole bunch of questions that don't apply to me at all, but I know one thing, as long as we have this kind of political instability, it's a problem for the entire financial sector. Of course, the world crisis that strikes, including our Ukrainian banks, must be minimized. And to that end, I offered these concrete measures. Today, the National Bank's excellent standard of panic is a temporary deposit limit. If we get help from the World Bank or from the International Monetary Fund, it's going to be a second good signal, including for banks, that if they're able to get additional funds into their capital. This is a wonderful norm for investors who understand that they are following the International Monetary Fund. As far as I know, the European Bank for Reconstruction is also ready to provide up to 5 billion. Japanese investments, investors are also ready to be present. I think we should demonstrate political stability with you, which is a platform for economic reform, economic growth and what.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u93	Peter Cibenko. Sorry, we're done. All right, one last question.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u94	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Your Honor, I'd like to ask you a question like this. Do you realize as the author of one bill and as a representative of the recent coalition that the cable terms under which the IMF promises to lend 16 and a half billion are not acceptable to Ukraine, especially the state of Ukraine, first of all. Because this cabala is even worse than any bank loan under the heistiest percentage. And the second question. Do you realize that freezing wages and social benefits, especially pensions, are totally unacceptable? You know, it's like that saying, "Until the banker is thin, the poor guy dies." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u95	Thank you. Well, as far as the International Monetary Fund is concerned, I think in this situation where our country of Ukraine is one of the founders of this world financial institution, not getting the money from there to support its programs, it's kind of foolish. That's the first one. Secondly, as the head of the bank's management, the Asian Share Bank, I have led it for 15 years, and I have worked with the European Bank for Reconstruction, under USAID programmes, the German Advisory Groups. [[We've got the money.]] And that's great, I wouldn't argue that these were the cable conditions that dragged the bank into some kind of gap. It seems to me that in this situation we are simply obliged to obtain these stabilizing things. In terms of cabality, well, I don't know, if you say 16.5 billion we take under 4 percent of a year, I don't think. Today, business is ready to create resources for Ukraine, taking into account our country’s risks and ratings, not less than 25 percent and 30 percent of the year’s. Here you can compare what difference in interest rates. So my position is fine if we are.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u96	Thank you. Please sit down. Dear colleagues, we have decided to consider all the alternative bills. I don't see the need to vote for inclusion in the agenda 3318, as it went as an alternative, I ran the transcript. But, Peter Mikolaiovich, could I ask before you speak so that we don't forget to vote in favour of Parliament's work before the conclusion of the day's agenda on the first reading? Colleagues, attention, we are voting for the continuation of Parliament's work before the conclusion of all the issues that I have announced in the first reading. Please vote. [[12:47:20]] For 398 Thank you, colleagues. Peter Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u97	Dear voters, it's you who I'm addressing today, because when the ladies are anxious, the roofs are pounding. And the decision that the Supreme Council will make today depends on the future of Ukraine whether we will get out of the crisis with less loss or whether Ukraine will finally lose both economic and political sovereignty. So when we analyze the proposals that are being submitted to the Supreme Council, we Communists propose, first of all, that we understand that today you and I are witnessing the collapse of the world order that was built on US financial liberalism and military power. This is the order that began in 91st year, when “Chikaz boys” and other lobbyists of the International Monetary Fund were planted in Ukraine. They were the ones who created the trusty financial pyramids in which your labor savings were burned in blue flames, and you and the tailors were thrown out into the world of poverty, and they are part of the orange team again in power today. Secondly, it has become clear that the global financial economic crisis is planned by the United States and is being carried out in order to bring the whole world to its knees, it is planned in advance to re-producer dollar bills through the International Monetary Fund to increase the dollarization of developed countries' economies and to increase their credit dependency. Today, the crisis has gained a new phase — the destruction of national economies and the depreciation of the assets of competitive enterprises and entire countries. As a result, in Ukraine, “Czyca boys” are consistently and heavily pursuing a course to dismantle Ukraine’s economic and political sovereignty. Thirdly, the debate that has been taking place in Parliament over the last few days only shows that the President has not yet been able to offer real, once again, real steps to overcome the crisis in Ukraine. Yushchenko, nationalists, and oligarchs are pushing Ukraine into a social explosion that will inevitably happen if radical measures are not taken immediately. Fourthly, the analysis of the President's proposals and his orange team indicates that their legislation on minimizing the impact of the crisis is primarily aimed at protecting the wealth of the great oligarchic and speculative capital, i.e. to protect not so much the native, but, above all, the foreign capital. They are actually saving the economies of the “Golden Billion” countries. Conclusion: The authorities of nationalists and oligarchs are unable to protect the country from the crisis, all of which are designed to save their capital at the expense of the workers of Ukraine. Once again, I would like to point out separately that, at the request of the IMF, President Yushchenko is proposing, at the expense of the IMF's loans, to finance, not Ukrainian production, but to service external debt. Next, he suggests that the insurance fund fill up on accelerated privatization and land sales, reduce the financing of social programs. First of all, it is a two - year freeze on minimum wage and minimum pension. Because of the capitalization of commercial banks, i.e. their nationalization, the debt of oligarchs to foreign banks to be transferred to the state, thus on the wallet of Ukrainian citizens. As a result of the adoption of such proposals, President Ukraine will lose its entire industries and powerful domestic enterprises. Like a ship, a machine and an aircraft building, a metallurgical complex, a BP and more. In one word, as a single recipe, we are offered to sell everything: the remains of state property, land, people, sovereignty. You, citizens of Ukraine, should know that the adoption of the IMF is a new phase of shock therapy, first of all for you, because this is the closure of businesses, unemployment, price increases and tariffs, it is the same poverty. As a result, the Ukrainian Company made its draft decision on the first-line measures to overcome the crisis in Ukraine. The measures we're proposing are radical, but it is they that can save Ukraine, prevent it from being turned into a raw commodity for transnational corporations. For one thing, we are offering today, based on our own strength and reproducing production in Ukraine, just looking for a way out of the crisis. Our actions are designed not to protect banks, but to protect the real economy. Proposals are based on the interests of the people and the state. The solution to the crisis is not at the expense of the nation’s wallet but, rather, the redistribution of profits from the rich in the interests of the entire people of Ukraine. Protecting their own industrial and agricultural production and economic space from imported junk. This is also the need for strict government control over prices and tariffs. To this end, the Company Faction proposes to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to review the following laws in a timely manner. “On the return of property of the basic sectors of the national economy, which is owned by citizens and legal persons, to the property of the State”, i.e. to adopt a law on nationalisation. The principles of Ukraine’s internal and external policies. Proclamation by Ukraine of a permanent neutral non-block status. Proclamation of a moratorium on price increases, food, medicine, gas, electricity, housing and utility tariffs. That is, to rule out the possibility of enriching our nation's misery. We suggest that the Supreme Council decide to declare a moratorium on the sale of agricultural land, a moratorium on the release of workers in mass occupations. In the event of a breach of these rules, nationalize enterprises and transfer them to the labour force. We Communists are talking to workers and employees, and we want you to immediately set up labor committees to protect your own businesses, and if today's mass liberation is the destruction of our businesses, we can take these enterprises in charge. To suspend the Ukrainian law ratifying the protocol for Ukraine's accession to the World Trade Organization, signed in Geneva on February 5, this year, and to consider urgently the question of Ukraine's accession to the Single Economic Space. During November this year, we propose that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine develop and submit draft legislative acts for consideration by the Supreme Council to provide for the establishment of a loan rate for our own manufacturer of three to five percent of the annual amount of direct lending to strategic enterprises. This will enable basic industries, urban and fiscal enterprises to be supported. The introduction of a government order for 50% of the gross agricultural production and thus support the agricultural industry and provide domestic raw materials for the processing industry. Setting a single tariff on electricity and creating conditions for the provision of produce in the internal market. The introduction of a state monopoly into what species? This brought out grain abroad, and this is a precautionary action against hunger, and a source of a stabilizing fund. Collect all the grain in the grain marketers at the price of what they bought in the peasants, and the state will have practically stable this already fund. The production and implementation of useful fossils, especially oil and gas, as well as the removal of all intermediaries from the mine to the power plant, from the mine to the coxochemical plant, from the mine to the consumer. We are proposing to introduce a monopoly today on the production of alcohol, liquor and tobacco, not on the reduction of social programs, as is proposed today, but on the basis of the fact that we will be filling this insurance fund with this monopoly. Implementation of State control over the export of currency abroad and implementation of measures to recover funds that are outside Ukraine. And a lot of the money that's being taken out of Ukraine today is working for the economy of other states and that's where the International Monetary Fund is going to be giving these so-called loans, and once again, by sneezing on our necks, they're going to be taking up our last resources. So we suggest to all owners that, please, 80 percent return to the economy of Ukraine of this capital, let it work. We're not offering you this capital injection, we're asking you to really say that you're the patriots of the Ukrainian people, and then, let's say, we're going to have less problems. This is the end of the free circulation of foreign currency, and today we have to separate the Ukrainian bracelet from the dollar, because this addiction is already a threat to us with you. This includes the introduction of a progressive tax on profits, taxes on wealth, and luxury. The third proposal for the Cabinet of Ministers is to negotiate urgently with the Russian Federation to determine the price and volume of gas supply, excluding intermediaries, both Ukrainian and Russian. And once again, the prediction of creating a stable fund in the state budget: the return of money from abroad, the implementation of the grain by the state, and the end of the financing of the President's Institute, the government administrations, and the sale of its official residences, all of which will go to this stabilisation fund. We also propose to withdraw the agreement with the International Monetary Fund, which provides for a financial cabal and a substantial reduction in all social programs. And the last. In the face of a financial crisis, not to privatize state property because it is a state crime that will sell the surplus, it is both Odessa's port and Ukratelek's. And that's the last of it. Just tough.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u98	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u99	Only a rigid government system can save Ukraine. Unfortunately, the state has moved away from regulating and controlling everything that is going on in Ukraine today. Unfortunately, today's banking system is disrupting Ukraine's economy, in terms of unemployment, because of the same representatives of the powerful capital, we propose to create a labor committee to protect industrial enterprises from selling at no cost to owners. Conclusion one: The authorities are unable to provide government. Today is the word behind you, our people of Ukraine and the voters. And we, the Communists, urge you to be apathetic, if such processes continue to unfold, as they are today, that are practically giving Ukraine up for looting the International Monetary Fund, we have the right to go out and protect ourselves, both the state and ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u100	Five minutes of questions, answers. Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u101	Dear Peter Mikolaiovich, you've allocated a large portion of your statement to the International Monetary Fund, apparently you've studied the relationship between different countries and the International Monetary Fund. I'd like to ask you, maybe you have some information that's caused by the interaction of some countries in which the IMF crisis has occurred and whether this crisis has been overcome. I can tell you, Argentina in 1988 and after that, and many other countries, including African countries, that's the first question. And the second question, well, we're not kids, we're experienced people sitting here, and everyone understands that the IMF was created not only as a financial organization, but as a political financial organization that, including political processes in the countries where this is happening. For free today, only four countries, Serbia, Iceland, Hungary, and Ukraine, have turned to the IMF. In this regard, do you not know what the political component of the relationship could be now under Ukraine’s leadership with the International Monetary Fund? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u102	First of all, I have devoted a large part of my speech to this issue, based on the fact that the IMF is a threat to the sovereignty of both the economic and political state of our country. You and I have been witnesses since the 1990s, and this has been implemented in us in Ukraine, when in the first phase of the International Monetary Fund recommendations, we have destroyed the economic base of our independence. And Ukraine today has been transformed into a commodity for Europe and for the world. If you look closely at the trade balance in terms of not exactly a dollar or a euro, but to look at what we're doing in terms of exports and what we're importing here, we're already importing a food group here, and a lot of other things. And we only export raw materials, we don't export presses, we don't export our own car, we don't export electronic computing systems and much more. We're exporting cheap labor, we're exporting intelligence, we're exporting living goods, like the product that will embarrass our Ukraine. This is the result of the implementation of the recommendations of the International Monetary Fund. None of the countries recommended by the International Monetary Fund came out of the crisis.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u103	Let me finish. Stoyan, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u104	Dear reporter! You've heard of what the Prime Minister has said that he fully and fully supports the President's bill. It thus supports paragraph 9, which states: “which freezes the setting of the minimum wage to the minimum wage by 2012”. Thus, taking into account the fact that the subsistence minimum is calculated on an old basis in 2000, 14 million pensioners will deteriorate. Even now, 300 to 350 dollars are not being complemented by budget workers and will generally not work on wages and workers in the manufacturing sector. Because the minimum wage is in the first level of the tariff grid and so forth. Peter Mikolaiovich, does this not mean that those people who went to the elections promised social benefits -- the Yulia Tymoshenko Block and Yushchenko -- today are united to make Ukraine's lower citizens in general. What is your attitude toward such an offer, and will you support such an anti - national offer?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u105	In analysing all the projects presented, I would like to say that, in this case, the Party of the Regions should also consider that the International Monetary Fund does not create jobs with its loans and does not finance our production. And those questions that you're talking about as a trade union worker in the past, you're well aware that they depend on whether or not there are jobs that are protected by the internal market. Today, we are truly organizing support for tax policies, the market for implementation, the tariff policy of our manufacturer, or we are hoping for, let's say, the same loan of the International Monetary Fund. It's a criminal policy. That is why I have asked you today, my colleagues on the Supreme Council, to understand that we are with you people's deputies of the people of Ukraine, not the International Monetary Fund with its interests. Once again, dear colleagues! You and I are forgetting that this crisis is not a reprocessing crisis. This excess dollar crisis, which has been deliberately issued and today has released two trillion dollars and the issue has been made through the International Monetary Fund to all other States, of course, to “screw the neck”. That's what we need to understand! Why am I insisting? We have to look.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u106	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u107	On the basis of national interests, how we will ensure jobs, how we protect the market from what is being imposed and how we today create prerequisites for our external relations to work towards the development of Ukraine, not to destroy our production.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u108	Garbage, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u109	Smythuh, Party of Regions. Petr Nikolaevich! I have the next question for you. Please tell me, the recent destabilisation of the financial market and banking system in Ukraine has led to the freezing of a number of movements, including payments to the budget of a number of banks, that is, above all, the Prominnestbank and so on. In addition, The National Bank has recently been changing its exchange rate policy almost every day, undermining the authority of the National Bank and the banking system as a whole. Please tell me how you feel about Parliament establishing a special commission of inquiry immediately, where all these acts have been controlled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u110	I can support your proposal to set up a special commission of inquiry. But I would like to ask you, distinguished colleagues from the Party of the Regions, as well. You will examine carefully why in the Donetsk region, in a very short period of time, 2 billion bracelets were seized by legal entities from the accounts of the Prominnestbank. If you think carefully, that is, if you own an enterprise and knock down your bank where you serve, you may have had other goals there. Thus, the banking system of Ukraine as a whole has been enormously affected. But now, basically. Dear colleagues! Well, we need to think today about what happened and why happened to Ukraine's banking system. 14.5 we have an external debt of government dollars, and over $80 billion we have what we call commercial banks this debt. And this has been credited over the last three years. We're married to what? In order to ensure jobs in Europe, cars were bought and this was intentional. After all, your policies to enrich through the bank have destroyed the economic independence of Ukraine. That's why we need to find out today, stop this kind of action, and not hope that the nationalization of the bank, as you suggest, needs to be decided today.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u111	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u112	You are proposing today, through the nationalization of banks, that you transfer your debts, your debts, to the State, that is, to the pocket of our simple person, and all the things you should have recorded, all of you have come into your pocket. Therefore, I warn you, such a criminal policy will end by leading you to an uncontrollable social explosion, and it is here that nationalists are ready to take advantage of this social explosion and. Their combat forces have already fled the city of Kiev on 18 October to show how they will establish their order here. Therefore, I propose, in support of you, that the banking system should be dealt with, but must be dealt with on the basis of national, public interests, not the interests of your pocket. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u113	Please sit down. Terjehoin Sergey Anatoliyovich, co-report.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u114	I would like to remind you, Arsenija Petrovich, that there is another bill on this subject, 3306, by my authorship. Unfortunately, it wasn't put in the order of the day, but maybe luckily, because according to the arrangements with the Cabinet of Ministers, I'm taking it out of the review and registration. And another observation, according to Paulson's plan. Mikola Janović Azarov, I'm pointing out that the United States Congress has passed an anti-crisis law on the “Palson plan” that has three hundred and twenty-six pages, I can hand it over to you, it's true, in English, but you can buy a translator. The Tax and Customs Committee held a meeting yesterday to discuss draft laws on first-hand measures to prevent the negative effects of the financial crisis. And given what was already known about the government's willingness to withdraw its bill, he supported the President's project of registration number 3309-4. In doing so, the National Deputies of Ukraine, members of the Committee, made some suggestions and additions that we propose to take into account in furthering the second reading. Yes, section 2 of section 5 of the proposed project is designed to amend the Law on VAT in the part of the introduction of a special taxation regime for agricultural producers. But the proposed mechanism needs to amend the Ukrainian Law on Corporate Income Taxation in order to implement the special regime and to maintain the balance in part by reflecting the sources of the added value tax. We've proposed this text, it's contained, you know, it's in bill 3024, it's prepared for second reading, it's consistent with government, it's consistent with MinAPC and the market. So on the second reading, we recommend inserting this supplement. It should be noted that the bill in question does not provide for changes to the tax, to the taxation of enterprises, to what I have said, but if you change it, the word and the figure in paragraph 1 of the third sentence should be replaced with the digits except for paragraphs 5 and 6. In the course of the discussion of the bill, attention was drawn to the absence of a provision in the draft to increase the maximum amount of payments to natural persons from the fund to guarantee the contributions of natural persons. To date, this guarantee fund law has the figure of 1200 dollars and the right of the fund -- its decision to increase that figure. So that people can understand why they need it in the first place. This simple man, this bill, we're proposing in article three of the law on the $1200 Guarantee Fund to replace it with 100,000. Some of the positions of the project that are true to the questions that have been settled are somewhat unclear and accurate, and this is primarily the case with article 5 of section 1 of the project on banning the bank's distribution of profits and payment of dividends. The structure proposed by the President now does not allow dividends to be sent to recapitalisation and increase statutory funds at all. We will give our version of this article and try to agree with the developers. As far as I'm concerned. There are major problems and questions regarding the proposed discount rate for the National Bank with the right to purchase currency. Today we have to calm the currency market, we don't have to use force measures of this kind right now. So we will insist that either this norm be removed, or there are clearly written reasons when the National Bank introduces a mandatory ransom of currency and at what rate. I remind you that today there are at least three courses: it's an official course, it's a course for Nazbank's foreign exchange intervention and it's a currency closing rate. They're between 70 and 80 bucks on the dollar. Such a situation cannot remain constant and needs to be regulated. The bill needs work, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u115	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u116	Thank you. The position regarding the authorization of Ukreximbank to buy at the expense of an added billion into its statute fund of Prominest. So, that's the possibility of a sanitization. And there's nothing to worry about. But it has to be clearly stated that the acquisition of such shares does not affect the capacity of the “Ukreximbank” because, you know, shares of the “BIB” is now insolvent. And if Ukreximbank puts them in its balance sheet according to standard rules, and it can itself find itself in a very difficult position and many of its creditors will be able to theoretically insist on the early repayment of loans. In general, we note that the bill is prepared professionally. Unfortunately, he did not have many positions in the government bill, but this is the minimum necessary to obtain a pre-emptive zenba. So the committee is proposing to adopt this bill in the first reading with those remarks that I said. And according to the minimum wage and minimum wage, it would be necessary for the government or the developer to write that this does not apply to the minimum wage index and the minimum cost of living, since this is provided by the basic laws. But if we're doing this article on populists, I think we're going to throw the reasons out of this bill, only in the budgetary field will we have to find about 50 billion dollars, and not in the budgetary field will it lead to an increase in the number of unemployed. According to previous estimates, only in this position can the basic unemployment rate increase to two percent. All these questions must be discussed. I'd like to ask the committee to vote on this bill, take it as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u117	Thank you. There are no questions for Teryochin? Yes. Sign up, five minutes. Garbage.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u118	Smythuh, Party of Regions. Dear Mr. Terjohin, please tell me in your report that in America there are other countries, and in English, and other legislative acts, I have a question for you. As you know, the decisions of the National Bank of Ukraine have frozen the contributions of legal, natural persons. In this regard, I have a question: What about America, when such depression began, did they first freeze the contributions of natural, legal persons? That's the first question. And the second question. Is this right, which is guaranteed by the Constitution of Ukraine, the right of citizens to free ownership and administration of their property, including costs, and who will be responsible, in your view? Please give a specific answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u119	You know, that's how I'm going to answer it. I'm a small specialist in the financial system of the United States, but I know Europe better. Thus, such measures are standard measures especially for those countries where the number of deposits is almost equal to GDP or the number of basic money. So, frankly, no one was thrilled by this decision of the National Bank. It is essentially the right thing to do to avoid panic, but it is a bit clumsy. For the National Bank, it is important not only to prevent the flow of deposits from the banking system but also to ensure the inclusion of deposits in the banking system. So the question is, why the new deposit regime? Now, you know today that if she makes a deposit in a bank, she won't be able to see it for six months. So we suggested that the restrictions on new deposits be lifted: if he wanted to, he would take it away. They suggested that if the deposit is in a healthy bank and the investor wants to transfer it to another bank.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u120	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u121	also on the deposit account, so there's no problem with that movement. And one more thing. Why did you freeze the deposits of legal persons, don't you understand? Legal people don't have the kind of, you know, psychological panic that physical people have. That's why you had to, you know, a lot. That's when you banned the National Overdraft Bank for. This struck furiously, struck at the splintering nets that were always taken by night overdrafts or took overdrafts on Friday when the proceeds were being collected, and on Monday they had to pay for all of this to the bank. So you're right, let's say that this is done quite awkwardly and requires further consultation. As far as I know, the Economic Committee will be holding either today or tomorrow with representatives of the National Bank, and I hope these questions will be. Today, huh? Today they will be resolved.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u122	John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u123	John Haretz, Ukrainian People's Party, faction “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense”. I think you understand that the destruction of Prominestbank is the destruction of the entire economy, not the fight against the direction or against someone. And the raid on this bank began six months ago when we saw the inscription: “Mattivenko, give the stock!” As you appreciate the work of the National Bank, as you appreciate the work of our services, particularly the IMF, in preventing this bank from being destroyed. And what does it take to keep this structure real? That's the first question. And the second question. At a time when stock markets are falling, is it important today to make a bet on the privatization of property, or is it possible today to launch a mechanism for the sale of agricultural land, is it not just the looting of property and the landing of Ukrainians, because in the world there are crazed costs, free costs, and today these costs will come to Ukraine, or is it still to make a bet on filling up the stability fund at the expense of other sources? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u124	Let's ask you one last question. What other sources? Other sources are social pay cuts or tax hikes, which? You know perfectly well that in a crisis, there's usually a decline in fiscal burden, and everyone's starting to save, all in a group. Unfortunately, therefore, there are no other sources for stabfond. You may be right that its fulfillment will not take place tomorrow. That's understandable. We had to think about it five years ago, not today, when this cock came to us. Regarding PIB. It's very difficult to say that it was worse than that: that raid you mentioned or that it was a totally clumsy internal government. Now there's a temporary administration of the National Bank, as far as I know from these unofficial sources, because it's classified information, they're just in horror when they look at the internal flows of money, the internal management, and so on. So let’s not translate any problems into the U.S.S.A. Clearly, this indicates that the National Bank has a weak system.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u125	Vaszczuk Katerina Timofievna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u126	Dear Sergey Anatolyovich, I have such a question. In its time without a financial crisis in Ukraine, silently individual people stole the bank “Ukraine” – an agrarian bank. And it hit thousands and thousands of farms and the peasants that kept the money in that bank. No one was responsible for this. And what is repeated today is just in a different way, with all kinds of money, a system in relation to the Prominestbank because they don't believe that those who stole much can be held accountable in our Ukraine for it. If you steal a bag of grain in the village, you'll be planted or piggybacked, and if you steal millions, they won't plant it. How to make the National Bank, which needs to be amended by law, responsible for the banking system.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u127	Well, you know, it's such a, it's a global question. I can tell you what to do for an hour. Well, first of all, if you want, it's to separate banking control functions from the National Bank's emission functions -- well, first of all, because there's a conflict of interest inside the National Bank when it acts as a commercial bank and when it supervises the system of commercial banks. Like an example, you know? Or, let's say, really, why didn't Prominestbank actually reveal information, financial information on international accounting standards? Question to whom? To the system of prudential supervision of the National Bank of Ukraine. So you can talk about it for a long time, but you see this bill. It's designed not to rob Prominestbank as a system bank to clean up its assets in order to keep it floating. And that's why we're offering a billion of these bracelets that have to go to recovery, a temporary recovery of the balance. We're gonna be a lot.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u128	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u129	Thank you. ..very closely watch what happens to this system bank, because your example. It's not just the bank “Ukraine”, you see, I'm sorry, to other former state banks, well, except “Ukreximbank” and Savings. What happened to them? It's practically the same, isn't it?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u130	Thank you, Sergey Anatolyovich. Question time complete, please sit down. Mikoli Janović Azarov’s replica, mentioned
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u131	Sergei Anatolyevich! Sergey Anatolyevich, look my way, please. I think you speak English, so I looked at Paulson's plan. Yeah? There are three pages of text, the basic law, and all 300 pages of annexes. That would be very good if our wise Government had made an annex similar to Paulson's Plan to these pages. It lists a large number of specific projects that need to be implemented in this large amount. We do have a paper, the President's plan, the President's law, and nothing more.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u132	Are there willing to share in the discussion? Let's sign up. Volencian Eugene Valerijovich, please. Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u133	Dear colleagues, and even more respectable are our voters! You've just heard the argument of the drafters. If we ask a straight question about who we're saving right now. Ukraine? No, it's not. Bills, the absolute majority of the bills, save the people's deputies who own the largest banks in this room. But not at all. But he's saving the people's owners of the banks, not at the expense of their funds and calculations, but he wants to count and save them at the expense of the people. There's hardly anyone here today, hardly anyone. Not nearly, but no one representing the bill, as the Presidential, as the government, spoke of the main requirement of the International Monetary Fund, and the main requirement of the International Monetary Fund is that it is necessary to come out of the crisis at the expense of a simple person. Please note the figures: 60 bracelets, 225 bracelets, 352 bracelets. What is it? That's what the International Monetary Fund requires that you steal 60 dollars from December 1st, that you steal 225 dollars each from January 1st, and that you steal 352 dollars from October 1st next year. The International Monetary Fund requires the freezing of expenses. You and I adopted a bill in 2007, according to which, starting on January 1, 2009, the minimum wage should be set at the minimum wage for workers. So from January 1st, this minimum wage would have to be in line with that draft budget that Kabmin submitted, 770 dollars. Today, the minimum wage, as of October 1, is 545 dollars. Moreover, the government bill proposed not to raise the minimum wage on December 1. And we're told that no one takes anything from the people. And it takes at least two years, and the minimum wage is for an indefinite period. And one more thing. Recently, the leaders of the State told us that the international crisis has absolutely no bearing on us. So here's the bad thing: Today, four states -- Afghanistan, Argentina, Ukraine and Iceland -- are at the threshold of the default. Here's the truth, and here's the reality. That's why we need to support the project implemented by the Communist Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u134	Stanislaw Valerianovich Skubashewski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u135	I beg you to pass the word to Akimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u136	Akima's Irina Mikhailovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u137	Dear colleagues, the issue is serious, but let us also take it seriously, and let us reject political slogans and political scheming. What should Ukraine accept today? This is what Ukraine needs, and this will be largely in line with the requirements of the International Monetary Fund, a transparent recapitalization programme for problem banks with a very transparent mechanism, this time. A stabilization fund must be established to address the sustainability of our financial system, to guarantee contributions to individuals and to address budgetary deficit reduction. This programme, I repeat, would satisfy both the International Monetary Fund and the programme that Ukraine now needs. Let us now look at the President's draft whether it answers these questions as to whether it provides an opportunity to address the financial problem of supporting the financial sustainability of the banking system. I have great fears that he does not answer these questions. Why? First, a very opaque recapitalization scheme for problem banks is proposed. I agree with Mr. Arjevitin, which can be called a raid by the State on commercial banks. The question is: why would the State's participation in the recapitalization be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers rather than by the law that is voted on by the Supreme Council? Why the management received by the State of the shares as a result of the Will the Cabinet of Ministers be in charge of commercial banks, too, in the presence of the Ministry of Finance? Why will the Cabinet of Ministers and not the Supreme Council do so when it comes to the exercise of State corporate rights? The question is: is this a scheme for the shadow nationalization of problem banks with a subsequent change of owners as the Cabinet of Ministers wishes? I believe that this is not a scheme that can help the financial sector and meet the requirements of the International Monetary Fund at the same time. I have a second question: in order to recapitalize, clear, transparent criteria are required, the Government Bill and the Presidential Bill do not prescribe these criteria. There are no criteria – anything can be done in any order approved by the Cabinet of Ministers. The Presidential Bill does not say anything about increasing deposit guarantees for individuals, which is a matter of principle. In this regard, I have a proposal: all four items that I have called to contain worse or better in the draft law of the Party of the Regions, in the draft law of Azarov and Januković. Let's take this law on first reading, it doesn't contain corruption schemes. And then, by law, we will prepare agreed decisions on the recapitalization scheme that we will also take here in the Supreme Council. It'll be a way out, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u138	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u139	Thanks, I'm done.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u140	Please, Kirilenko Viacheslav Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u141	Viacheslav Kirilenko, "Our Ukraine". Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! We have a calm discussion of anti-crisis bills today. And I want to say that this discussion we could have had 18 more days ago. 18 days ago the rostrum was blocked, and we had no opportunity to have this conversation during that time. Why did we not have such an opportunity? No one will answer that question. You've wasted your time, that's all. The precious time needed to make decisions. In this regard, we report that "Our Ukraine" has introduced legislation as one of the first, and we are interested in solving a few specific issues. The first is a stable fund. We will not discuss the source of the filling, there has been much talk by experts so far. But we're interested in getting a lot of support from the basics, not just talking about the banking sector in this room. It's also important, but without understanding how metallurgy, chemistry, employment, and other problems, we can't leave this room peacefully. We need to adopt decisions that will increase domestic demand for Ukrainian products and support export industries. If we do not have a conversation on this subject, then we approach the very surface of the matter. The second is a deposit guarantee fund. Clearly, the president of Ukraine reported a figure a week ago: 150,000 dollars is the minimum payment to the investor in the case of a colossal bank. We don't see this figure, including in the Presidential Bill. We didn't see. A number should be added when voting on the second reading and in general. Because the banking sector in general is a macroeconomic conversation. And a particular investor is a conversation that should be the first one for the MP. Let us all pay attention to this problem; it is not solved. Third. We do not believe that the crisis must be solved at the expense of the common people. That's what everyone's not saying, and the government bill contains a reduction in the minimum wage since December 1st. By the way, five years ago, Yanukovich, the then government, was a swindler. Now Prime Minister Timoshenko did so. I did, actually. This is the wrong approach to basic social standards. Just as it is wrong for two years to stop the minimum wage from approaching the minimum wage. Please tell us that we have no other source of economics. Are we good with administrative expenses? Do we have valid budget programs all used purposefully? We have dozens of directions for shortening. Absolute unnecessary budgeting policies that are used by groups of people who take advantage of the fact that society is not paying attention to them. So we need to look for money at the expense of these economies, not to take money from the common people who are most affected by the crisis, the last penny. These three paragraphs “Our Ukraine” want to be counted, then we will vote for the anti-crisis package. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u142	Philenko Volodymyr Pilipovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u143	Please pass the word to colleague Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u144	Please, Sobolev Sergey Vladislavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u145	Dear friends, I especially wanted you to see, I've taken three key plans to get the situation out of the crisis, from the world crisis that really came to our borders. Here's a plan that the government has proposed and is actually supported by the President. This is the plan proposed by the opposition, Mr. Azarov and Janukovic. And the last one is the joint plan that was put forward, I understand, by the Association of Banks, which was presented by Mr. Arjevetin. In addition, it is a draft decree proposed by the Communist faction. But let's essentially do it. Are we sharing the skin of an unkilled bear? Do we have to take any plans to get out of the crisis in order to get or not to get the money from the International Monetary Fund? I don't think that's the key. The key steps that will be taken immediately by the Ukrainian Parliament and approved in this Hall today are desirable for the world financial crisis to be the least affected by the further key sectors of the economy and the banking sector of Ukraine. That's why the government's option, which is actually supported by the president in key sentences, I'd like to add two key things. For free today, the European Union has asked a key question: this is the destruction of offshore areas in the world without which there is no way out of the financial crisis today. The second question. I think that what came out of the government project and there was no support in the presidential project -- the increase in excise duties primarily on alcohol and tobacco -- is a continuation of that policy when we see a mother holding a baby on the playground and holding a bottle of beer in one hand and a cigarette in the other. I believe that in this situation we should urgently return to this decision. Third. For us, the question is, are we raising wages or are we not? Because when the government of Tymoshenko raised wages, the opposition shouted that it was populism. When we worked together to level the wages and then get to a higher level than the inflation rate in the state, we're told that we're populists again. So I think that the key points that are set out in the government's project and supported by the president's project are allowing us today to come out of this financial crisis. And finally, last. We've actually been offered three options to get out of the crisis -- give half a billion to the election and the financial crisis will come out. Let us increase the guaranteed investment of the population in banks to 150,000 and 40 billion that will come from the budget and privatization and the crisis will be no more. That's why we're in a position supported by the president in government, and I think it's going to be a way out of the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u146	Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u147	Dear colleagues! Respectable citizens! I think, despite the emotional speech before me, the government did the right thing by withdrawing the bill -- 3309. Because I think that given the huge amount there, obviously lobbying and raiding shows in relation to foreign property, foreign banks and so on, it could just be an object of consideration and expertise in law enforcement. The things that don't have anything to do with the financial crisis there, you know that, and you don't have to charge it, analyze it. Now, let's talk about a topic that I'd like to address directly. You know, there's talk here about when Block of Lithuania asks the question that, in terms of price increases, of crazy price increases, above all, of food products, our insistence is that we can't cancel the standard of minimum wage, and that's already defined by law, that's not valid legislation, that's not money, it's supposed to match the minimum wage, someone here called populism. You know, and it can be called populism by people who put what people have all year round at the casino at night, then for them, it's obviously populism. And I'm going to point out the things that are absolutely real, just obviously our voters and some colleagues don't know what the real living minimum is, not in the bracelets, but in the products that a person can buy. I started talking about it. So if we get out of the current minimum consumer basket, which is defined on the basis of the minimum wage, and we're even offered not to come to it, the minimum wage, even to it. So according to him, he goes one kilo of beef per month, 330 grams per month, 330 grams per month, 170 grams per month, and 170 grams of bread per day, less than a pie in blockage Leningrad. So there's a masculinity and it's unconscious to call these things populist, when even to such a meager, three-time minimum of living is going to come at a minimum wage. And another important moment. For some reason in our great economists, big financiers always think that. and with reference to world experience, they say that it is necessary to provide considerable support to banks and large owners. But, dear fellows, there is another way, the support of the common people also allows to stimulate demand. In a simple language, if people can afford to buy more products, it will support the circulation of money in the economy. Today, for example, Australia, with 7.9 billion of the economy, listen to who they give, more than half of 4.8 billion pensioners, 3.9 billion people, low - middle - income families, and one and a half billion spent on the relief program for the first time in Australia.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u148	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u149	What's left of $180 million of American dollars, not Australian dollars, is to retrain those people who will become unemployed as a result of the crisis. So you don't have to lie to anyone, you have to change the philosophy of how people are treated, you have to support, not those who are doing that, let's say, living very well, but those who can buy more products to enable the economy to develop. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u150	Please, colleagues, we still have speeches from the national deputies of Ukraine. 10 minutes Bondarenko, please “Timoshenko Yulia Block”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u151	Vladimir Bondarenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. The forecasts of the world’s economic institutions show that we are not fully aware of the magnitude of the crisis that is coming upon us. At the same time, let us look at the state of our nation on the eve of terrible shocks. The Constitution of Ukraine of articles 5 and 6 determines that power in Ukraine is built on the principles of distribution: legislative, executive, and judicial. In what state of legislative authority, it is dissolved on the eve of crises. Will we be able to respond to the crisis? No, it's not. What is the status of executive authority? It is limited by various activities, including the inability to use tools such as the State Property Fund, the Antimonopoly Committee, of course, by law, a bank that is not subordinated to national authorities. So when 60 of the government’s remaining decrees are annulled in six months, the question arises: Who rules the state in the queen of executive power? As far as the courts are concerned, we also see a complete breakdown. Courts are destroyed, reorganized, judges are dismissed if they make the wrong decisions. So all three branches of power are in a semi-detached state. Who, then, is invited to rule the country? RNB. And read it in the Constitution. The only source of sovereignty and authority in Ukraine is the Ukrainian people. And what did he form? Or was it a single person who could thus replace all branches of power today with one organ. That's not right. I think we should also pay attention to the considerable politicization that's taking place here in this room. Indeed, the former Deputy Prime Minister did not sweat that there was a crisis in the world and that it would bring all the troubles to the government of Ukraine. Obviously, he would have noticed that if there were no elections, he would have to talk. Perhaps someone would mention who is directing the Antimonopoly Committee so far? What kind of political power is there today? And it does not allow the government to take advantage of its anti-monopoly capabilities, which could have been implemented through this committee, have been forgotten. Don't talk about it. And who kept the State Property Fund in the personnel warehouse that it is today? By not allowing for effective privatization in Ukraine, and by seeing businesses devalued today? What political forces in this room have not allowed the Yulia Timoshenko Block and the Ukrainian government to do this today? So let us be more objective with regard to ourselves today. Because when there's a pure pianist going on here, there's obviously no need to talk about the implementation of anti-crisis measures. I think that both the prosecutor's office and the administration could work on our common agenda today, not by covering up individual oligarchs and their businesses, including those bills that are being proposed here today. So, dear friends, let's take a look at our views on life and then we'll do better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u152	Please, Tuck.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u153	Dear Mr. Head! Ladies and gentlemen! Respectable citizens! I'm sorry that there were words in this room saying what the world crisis has to do with the state of agriculture. Perhaps we forget that there are 50 percent of the population in the Ukrainian village. And all that's going on in the banking system right now, all that's going on in metallurgy, engineering, tomorrow, today, the same crisis can happen in the Ukrainian village. The whole point is that today, apart from the global crisis, several internal problems have arisen. Ukraine has joined the WTO, we have unalterable modern legislation regarding Ukraine’s stay in WTO and agricultural production. Another problem. Many laws, legislation in force, have ceased its operation since January 1, 2009. And that's why I'm sorry that there aren't many problems in the government bill and in the bill passed by the President. That's why I'm going to try it this way. First of all, the President's draft partially solves the most important problem, which since January 1st is the renewal of the simplified tax system, which is the VAT benefit. Sadly, however, there is no other problem. Today, according to current legislation, milk and meat suppliers for milk and meat processing plants supply their products at zero rates, and it only works until January 1. Today, through the dotage system, the peasant is being returned to the VAT they receive. But since January 1, this norm will not work. And that's why I think we need to assign the Cabinet of Ministers, and that's about the price of 3.2 billion questions, so that this figure is put into the general budget. Next question. Very often in this room and in general in Ukraine, it was said that the animal industry was in decline. I'll just give you a few digits. On January 1, 1991, Ukraine had more than 25 million headquarters. As of January 1, 2008, five with something. Over the last two or three years, there has been a sharp reduction in the head, about 10 percent. And this year, despite the fact that the political crisis is taking place more faithfully, the state has already cut its head by 20 percent in nine months. If we fail to take into account the measures that we and you have taken on the first reading of the government bill, there will simply be no meat in the country in a year. I want to say that some 350,000 meats have already been imported this year. And the last. In the bill to the government and to the presidential and VAT system, which is proposed, it will be non-systemic and will simply lead to a lot of unreasonable things. Today, enough is enough for you to be a tax payer under a special regime.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u154	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u155	Once a year, you get to show a declaration, and you're already being defined as a payer. These bills provide a very complex procedure and take into account the Ukrainian reality, the horror of agricultural production will just begin on January 1. So I propose that we complete the standards that my bill and Arjevetina have included in the second reading of the bill passed by the President of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u156	Please, Hotchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u157	I've given you my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u158	Please, Hellcat.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u159	Respectable voters, respected colleagues, the situation is so serious that it is time to speak calmly, not only by speaking but by listening and listening to one another. We are well aware that in this difficult economic situation, there is the Cabinet of Ministers. What are we looking at today? First, we see an empty cabinet of ministers. Mr. Turkinov, return the ministers to the government's bed of cigarettes and buffets. Secondly, we did not feel that the Government was ready to have a serious conversation. The main thing in the analysis is error work. Have you heard one word about mistakes? We understand that you are a government without the right to make mistakes, but mistakes are not only made by those who do not work, so you are a government without the right to make mistakes. So calmly, we need to start for the main reason, the main reason behind the budget process. We were well aware that the 2008 budget was damaged, and we all decided to change the budget with you after the first quarter. This Government, without the right to work on errors, has neither taken measures to change the budget. Why? Because they could not budget what they had promised before the elections. And by manipulating the country by blackmailing the budget, you made it a hostage. We warned you, there was a government report here on June 4th, your Minister of Economy, who is not here right now, described it as good. Nikolai Janović warned in his report, but you did not hear anything out of it except the words “cage” and “pearl” while transforming it into a cabbage, a domestic producer and making it a manure for our economy. What exactly are we proposing? We propose to adopt our project of Azarov and Yanukovič, where it is clear that priority measures, a stabilization fund, a deposit guarantee fund, are clear from sources of 8 billion. Let's move on. Report of the Government on the financial, budgetary and banking situation. On the basis of this report, we are taking a second step, establishing a working group and presenting a solidarity project where the sources are clearly and clearly stated. And the last thing I want to say. It's very good that Julia Vladimirovna is quoting our leader, and it's bad that she's getting better and better in his words, until, like the Prime Minister, she's late in a year.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u160	Mikhailo Chechetov. Please excuse me for five minutes at the 15th floor of the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u161	Dear Arsenius Petrovich! Dear colleagues! The Party of the Regions does not support a joint bill of the Government and the President, a number of reasons for this. First. This project is serious. First. This project, being implemented into existing legislation, can do more harm than good. Second. The Government referred to the International Monetary Fund as the source of funds for the stabilization of the country's financial system. However, no one has seen the conditions under which the Government of Yulia Timoshenko places Ukraine in the cabal of the IMF, with a view to covering essentially the external debt created by its Government. The main number of years, and what interest will then be paid by Ukraine on the most modest proposals, can be only 5 billion per year. The Party of the Regions submitted its draft anti-crisis measures bill to the Supreme Council for consideration. One of the first actions of the Government should be the establishment of a 40 billion bracelet stabilization fund. What do we see in the President's bill? Money for a stabilization fund should come from privatization. The Party of the Regions believed that the author of the idea had to answer the following questions before it was proposed. Have many facilities been privatized in the past year? How much money did that bring to jail? On what, apart from their own fantasies, are large Ukrainian sales enterprises based in the face of the global financial crisis? The most important thing that the drafters of the presidential project have completely forgotten is that the country must live on a very strict schedule, especially in times of crisis. The budget law is such a timetable for the country. We see no change in the 2008 budget or the 2009 draft budget adjusted in the light of the situation. The Bill of the Party of the Regions clearly sets out all the procedures, all the tools and means currently available to Ukraine and by which the country is obliged to stabilize the financial and economic situation as soon as possible. The Party of the Regions declares that we do not have and did not have confidence in the Government of Julia Timoshenko. We cannot allow the people who continue to drive the country out of the crisis. We have a duty not only to think about finance and industry, but also, above all, to enable the country's economy to function properly. We save our citizens from poverty and unemployment. We urgently need to stabilize the bracelet, strengthen and clearly control the banking system, ensure that people are guaranteed jobs and employment, and preserve social security. The Party of the Regions insists on before the Parliament of our bill and its adoption on first reading or on setting up a draft to get the country out of the crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u162	Kors.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u163	I'd like you to pass it on to the Smythew.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u164	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u165	Respectable colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! I want to tell you before I make my statement that the course is now approaching about seven, and in a week it will be up by twelve at all. That's as long as we speak our course. In this regard, there are some considerations and some views on what is happening in Ukraine. I want to express my point of view. You know what is now planned by the Government of Ukraine, including the lobbyist interests of those who hold posts to obtain credit from the International Monetary Fund within 16 billion to cover some holes. First of all, it is directed to the banking system and some money is planned to support the major industries in Ukraine. What can really happen? First. The collapse of the stock market has led to a real volcano in the media. More like necrologists, "What's going to happen tomorrow?", "How to survive after the downsizing of the Dow-Jones index?" and others. The conclusion is clear: nothing terrible has happened to a financier who understands the world economy well. The stock market crisis is a giant lie, such a 1929 crisis -- a major depression, so-called, -- has led to $3 billion at the time to replace the owner and no more. It's just different numbers. And in Ukraine, they're just funny. People have come to play cards consciously. Therefore, they must face defeat with dignity. And all the money was lost on the table, but then they went into different pockets. The country won't get hurt. Second. The financing of metallurgical, machine-building cannot in any case be encouraged by this State merely to steal from the budget. The oligarchs remaining owners of factories, factories and mines must solve the problem by their own means. Over the course of 17 years, they have made huge profits and become billionaires, but commitments have been forgotten. The State can and should partially nationalize factories, place them, order them, and retain jobs and the ITR, with strict conditions: the owner receives a bill for the commission, cannot circumvent accounting, wages, taxes, acquisition of raw materials, and so on. Third. Construction was in a very difficult situation. Most of them are contractors. Contracts were carried out on credit. Direct lending through the State budget will lead to massive corruption, as a consequence, and theft. There is a need to change the lending system and to partially nationalize these enterprises. Fourth. Where do we get the money for the programmes listed? Can I do it through the IMF? If the terms of the International Monetary Fund of Ukraine were analysed, it was easy to see. But it's not about the welfare of the country. Moreover, the International Monetary Fund has never done charity because it is a private organization. The money of the International Monetary Fund will be transited through Ukraine and will be in the West Banks, which granted loans to Ukrainian commercial banks, i.e. private banks' debts must be taken over by Ukraine, leaving children behind.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u166	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u167	To leave the children and grandchildren of today's generation in a catastrophic debt. This was the case in Mexico only 10 years ago, the Government took credit from the International Monetary Fund and paid full interest on previous debts. And the total debt has increased, and now Mexico is the Bancrot State. In addition to the establishment of the Federal Reserve Central Bank in Ukraine, the federal reserve system provides large amounts of money only on condition. Today, in Ukraine, about 200 banks, with assets worth about $40 billion. The Federal Reserve System for the Central Bank.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u168	I'm asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u169	I'm done. For the Central Bank, it's a ridiculous price. Unfortunately, I can't explain mine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u170	Thank you. Please sit down. Dear colleagues, reporters, coconspirators, is there a desire to make a statement? As a reporter author, I'd like you to come to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u171	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, I have thought about your proposal, and with great pleasure and joy, I would give up my bill. But can you ask when you put the president's vote to at least make sure that what I said under the transcript was voted together for this bill, and I don't insist on anything else. And, Arseny Petrovich, you've been in the past crisis as head of the National Bank and saved this situation and you know how important it is to have the National Bank with the tools I was talking about. So I ask you to put to the vote what I've heard under the transcript, and I'm recording my authorship.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u172	Okay. So I suggested to you that we write in our resolve: to take the basis, to the committee in preparation for the second reading, to take into account the proposals of all the drafters of the bill, including the honourable Stanislaw Mikhailovich, and your initiative. Please, Alexander Valentinovich Turkinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u173	Dear colleagues, now is the time. And we're addressing everyone, the Cabinet of Ministers is asking the National Deputies to reject political, corporate interests and ambitions and now vote in favour of a law that may unlock the situation, and we'll start working with you, we'll start dealing with the crisis. It's not necessary for the government, it's necessary for the state. That's why the Cabinet of Ministers withdrew its project to find a compromise. And that compromise could be the President's option. I ask and ask all the deputies of all factions, now to vote this bill in the first reading, by morning we will be able to process it, all the proposals that have constructive meaning that will allow for the strengthening of anti-crisis measures rather than weakening them, will be taken into account and tomorrow morning we will be able to adopt the law as a whole. And today, the currency deficit, which is now in the country, not by populism, not by spells or by the International, is going to be eliminated by a specific resource that the state gets. Please vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u174	The Prime Minister won't be speaking? I didn't exactly do myself right when I interrupted the Prime Minister, so I think, given that she's a woman, I'm sorry, but it's important to me that there's order in the room. This is Parliament's territory, so it's rules. It's a motive. Colleagues, may we vote, please? He's asking for Anna Mikolayevna. Give me three minutes. Only Hanna Mikolayevna wants to be motivated, no one else? Anna Mikolayevna only. I'm asking for Hanni Mikolayovni's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u175	Dear Sir, dear colleagues, we only want to know one thing exactly whether Julia Timoshenko and the Cabinet of Ministers and the Yulia Timoshenko Block take responsibility for the consequences that they will now vote in favour of the presidential exit programme. If this presidential program of crisis that we consider wrong and unpredictable for Ukraine fails, will Julia Volodymyrna and the government take responsibility for it?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u176	Yes, we will be responsible for everything that is going on in the country. We are responsible, dear friends. That's why I'm asking to vote in favour of the Presidential Bill because today it's almost entirely compatible with the government, and it's necessary for the country to be able to obtain financial resources and strong policies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u177	Dear colleagues, time for discussion is over. I propose to proceed to the voting procedure. So the first thing to point out is that this bill answers: (a) the question of the banking crisis and (b) the question of the balance of payments and the exchange rate. It is quite clear that the next issue of the agenda to be considered by Parliament is the bill on general economic stability. And the government is working on these issues right now, the national MPs are working too. So we are now taking the first major step that allows Ukraine to access international financial institutions, namely a resource of 16.5 billion. That's what I'm talking about. I suggest you pay attention! - how to put it to a vote. First of all, it's clear that the Presidential Bill is so-called consolidator. What we wrote before the fifth morning is reflected here. The question of adoption based on Bill No. 3309-4, paragraph 2, is therefore put to the vote by the second committee on second reading to take into account the proposals made by all authors of alternative bills. [[This is paragraph one.]] Is it accepted? Please vote for adoption as a basis in the relevant regulation. Attention! Please vote. [[14:05:12]] For 248 Colleagues! I ask you to show by factions: Region Party – 2, Timoshenko Yulia Block – 156, Our Ukraine – 72, Communists – 0, “Litvina Block” – 18. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask you the next question that we need to consider this bill in our second reading tomorrow. So I would ask that we vote in favour of this bill so that we can vote in favour of the drafts adopted in the first reading at tomorrow's plenary session in the second reading. I ask you to vote that the committees be seated today. Please vote. Bills that were adopted in the first reading. [[14:06:15]] For 245 Thank you, colleagues. Let's move on to the next question of the agenda. Draft law 39. 3294. There's no break! We voted for the job without interruption. Continue! No breaks! Please, Olena Leonidivna, report the bill. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u178	Thank you. Dear colleagues and distinguished representatives, your opinion is on the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine, No. 3294, which provides for positions aimed at improving the mechanism for holding successive elections and organizing the activities of the Central Electoral Commission. To this end, it is proposed to amend a number of Ukrainian laws, such as the Election of Ukrainian People's Deputies, the Central Election Commission, the State Register of Voters, and the Code of Administrative Judiciality of Ukraine. In particular, the bill proposes to provide for the following provisions: (1) The submission of suitable nominations for the election of electoral committees to the election of Ukraine’s national deputies by the factions formed in the current call of the Supreme Council. It's also supposed to rule out the position that sets the 50 percent barrier as a condition for recognition of elections as what happened. This would rule out the possibility of a breakup in connection with the low voter turnout. The bill also excludes the obligation to provide information to the State tax authorities and the authorities of the Foreign Service for the formation of electoral lists. The practice of the 2007 standoff elections showed that neither the tax office nor the State Border Service was able to provide reliable information about the Ukrainian electorate. With a view to amending legislation, it is also proposed to reduce the number of copies of voter polling protocols in the constituency, the decision by the Central Electoral Commission to modify the electoral ballots instead of their forewords in the event of the cancellation of all candidates in the parliamentary election list of the party. Also in connection with the annulment of the Supreme Council of the Ukrainian Law on State Procurement and the liquidation of the inter-ministerial commission on public procurement, it is proposed that appropriate powers be given to provide tender procedures to the specially authorized central executive authority for the coordination of purchases of goods, jobs and services at public expense. The bill proposes to amend the Ukrainian Law on the Central Election Commission - and to give the Central Election Commission the right to amend the electoral procedures for the conduct of non-recurrent electoral elections. Such changes, we believe, will enable the Central Electoral Commission to ensure that there are objective obstacles to the electoral process by making the relevant decision of the commission to change the time frame of the electoral process during the non-recurrent elections. This will allow for the holding of out-of-court elections for 60 days, as provided for in the Ukrainian Constitution. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, for example, the National Electoral Register Act provides for changes to be made to provide that, before the initial clarification of personal data is completed, the electoral registers and referendums are made up of registering bodies using the database and software used in the preparation of electoral lists for the last time of the election of Ukrainian national deputies. If you have been paying attention, today the law requires that we use lists until 2006, which is nonsense. It is also proposed that amendments be made to the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Justice and that it be supplemented by provisions prohibiting courts from stopping acts by the President of Ukraine, Kabmin and the Supreme Council of Ukraine during administrative proceedings. This provision will ensure that public authorities are properly financed, prevent illegal interference with the activities of these authorities, and ensure that they exercise their constitutional powers. I propose to support the bill and accept it as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u179	The question-answer is to the author of the bill? Is it? Please sign up, five minutes. Matvienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u180	Ukrainian Republican Party "The Council", "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" Block. I would like to ask you what motives, please tell me not to issue protocols to all subjects of the election, but to limit them? And don't you think this could lead to some kind of corruption, to the impossibility of counting the votes, and then, in an appropriate way, the possibility of accusing them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u181	Thank you for asking. We suggest leaving 5 original copies on each site, 5 originals, and the rest of them on a duly certified basis, so that everyone can get their own version of the copy and use it. As we set aside the practice of publishing to all the originals, we are faced with the fact that individuals fill them in, put numbers there themselves, and then, using seals, pass them to headquarters, and find out that we have 2-3 different copies for each polling station, and 35,000 for each polling station, and that it is even unintentional, and sometimes it is wrong. Therefore, the question is questionable; it is not necessarily principled. It can be changed in principle to a second reading, but our position remains this way, five original copies sealed with a seal will be enough to determine the numbers. The rest will receive copies duly certified.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u182	Kirilchuk Eugen.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u183	Please give the floor to the National Deputy, Oli Bodnar.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u184	Please, Ola Bodnar.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u185	Thank you. I can't understand the logic of the fact that you called off your first bill, which was consistent, at least, with all the factions, and was considered on our committee, even though it was rejected as one that didn't fit current events. But in this case, I can't just understand how can you allow legal cases like violations of the Constitution to the standards you're proposing? First, only laws can change the terms that are defined during the election of national deputies. You're now suggesting to the Central Election Commission that you come up with your own judgment to come up with and think about how it's going to go, the very standards it's going to set for us and we're going to do it. Drute, how can you explain that you refuse to press charges.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u186	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u187	How can you explain that it is not possible to secure a lawsuit by suspending the actions of the President, thereby narrowing the rights of Ukrainian citizens, article 22 of the Ukrainian Constitution – “A Ukrainian citizen has the right to defend his rights”. And we don't have saints here, there are people who have the ability to make mistakes, including the President about those elections. And how can you explain that you are narrowing down the rights and control functions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine? We have now, I remind you, Parliamentary President. Parliamentary form of government in the Republic, not presidential form. And you narrow down your rights to the Central Electoral Commission and to the removal of the Central Electoral Commission and leave these functions only to the President. This is definitely not to be done, and I just want to emphasize to all Ukrainian citizens that, under this bill, there is simply a massive total disqualification of citizens' rights and in the person of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, including, and the allocation of rights and duties under the individual person represented today by the President of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u188	Thank you for asking, it's really wonderful, just like my bill, which you just rewrote with your faction. A trifle was cut to make it impossible to make an election now, but it made him a complete pitiful Chinese forger. But in fact every letter in it is mine, and you gave it as an alternative. For this, I am very grateful for your understanding. Now it's about the essence of the questions. In order that certain factions, without destroying the judicial system, without destroying the judges or creating a cyber in the courts, should not stop their own acts, which, if illegal, should be recognized by the court as being illegal, or by the Constitutional Court as being unconstitutional. But to destroy electoral procedures today by abuse of rights rather than the use of rights, we will not allow you. And that's why we're making these changes to the electoral process within the 60-day period. Don't worry, it's a constitutional term, it can't be reduced or extended in any way. But if, for example, your faction systematically interferes with electoral procedures and thus rejects certain lines, then the Central Election Commission within the framework of implementation.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u189	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u190	Thank you. And the protection of citizens' rights will be able to delay certain deadlines in order to ensure the electoral rights of citizens, not you, the national MPs who are holding the seats today. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u191	Yuri Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u192	Yuri Klukkowski, “Our Ukraine”. I have a number of questions, and a lot of them, Helen Leonidina knows them, and I can only, unfortunately, express a misunderstanding as to why a bill introduced in exchange, instead of taking concerted steps, is taking such strange steps. But I'm going to ask a few questions, and I'm hoping for an answer. First of all, whether it is a principle for you or not, please explain why during the last five days before the election day, no change in the composition of the commission can be made if, for example, a member of the commission has become sick, boycotts meetings or, failing to prove to God, died? Next. Please explain how to comply with article 92, paragraph 20, of the Constitution of Ukraine, not in terms of elections, but in terms of the Constitution, which states that the organization of elections is governed by law. Next. Say, please, and how, in section 2 of article 17 of the “Procedural Center. ”
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u193	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u194	Thus, how did the CEC law remove the obligation to apply the Central Electoral Commission’s explanations? I have a number of other questions, but I think that's enough to not support your bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u195	Yuri Bogdanovich, we know all your questions. We have considered them and are prepared to take some of your amendments into account in the second reading if it is your will to submit them and the hall to support them. With regard to extreme changes in the composition of election committees. All are aware of cases where, until the day of the vote, their own representatives have been called off in order to remove the quorum’s election committees. My bill foresees that the political power is not capable of doing so, and if it does so before the time limit laid down in the law, it is sure to make an offer to replace the candidate it called off. This is about the powers of election committees and their composition. With regard to the implementation of the standard of article 82 of the Constitution. Indeed, it provides for a certain period of election and that the election is governed by laws. But in fact today we see that the law needs to be amended because it is determined by the purpose or lack of purpose of one political force. And as much as this political power wants to hold the Prime Minister's chair or whatever else, it should not affect us or the existing Constitution. And in the rest of the questions you're asking, there's a lot of technical.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u196	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u197	And the relevance and the kind of suggestions that we'll never agree with. So I think that in the second reading, this question can be solved.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u198	Thank you, Olena Leonidova. Please sit down. Alternative bill, Sergey Volodymyrovich Sas. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u199	Honorary Chairman, Honorary Colleagues, on September 18, 2008, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Lukas Olena Leonidivna, introduced a draft law under number 3186 amending the Ukrainian Law on Elections of People's Deputies of Ukraine to improve electoral procedures. On October 9, 2008, a bill was introduced to replace the previously introduced 3186, which was agreed upon by representatives of the MPs and was incorporated into the agenda of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the same day. Since the previously introduced draft law number 3186 was incorporated into the agenda, it could not be recalled by the author but only by decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in accordance with part two of article 104 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. On October 15, 2008, the national deputy Lukas Olena Leonidivna introduced draft law No. 3294 amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine to ensure the electoral rights of citizens, which amended two laws of Ukraine entitled “On Elections of Ukrainian People’s Deputies” and “On the Central Election Commission” concerning the granting of rights to the Central Electoral Commission to amend the terms of the election. In exchange for the draft law 3294, on October 20, 2008, two new draft laws were introduced by the Lukash People's Deputies under the title 3294, which amended some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to improve the mechanism of successive elections and the organization of the activities of the Central Electoral Commission. The first noted that the project was replaced by the previous 3,186 and 3294. The bill proposed amendments to Ukraine's laws “On Elections of Ukrainian People's Deputies”, “On the Central Election Commission”, “On the State Register of Voters”, including the bill in question, absorbs the changes proposed in the previous draft Law 3186, but in another edition, which was agreed upon by representatives of the MPs. Another proposed draft Law 3294, introduced on 20 October 2008, proposed similar changes to the draft Law on Elections of Ukrainian People's Deputies, on the Central Election Commission, on the State Register, and on the Code of Administrative Judiciality of Ukraine. On the basis of the chronology cited, the draft Law 3186 should now be included in the agenda. Because the subject of the law of the legislative initiative, as I said before, had no right to withdraw the bill itself after its inclusion in the agenda, to remove it from consideration, and to replace it. In view of the fact that Project 3294 is new, it should be decided first to include it in the agenda and further consideration, or it should be considered in advance of Bill 3186. The introduction of draft law 3294 with one as an alternative is due to the fact that, in our view, a number of draft laws 3294 conflict with the Constitution and laws of Ukraine, opens the way for usurpation of power, the destruction of parliamentaryism, and has nothing to do with the improvement of the procedure for holding consecutive elections. In particular, it is suggested that the Central Electoral Commission be given the right to vote in turn, to change the terms of the election, as defined in the Ukrainian People’s Deputies Act. To our conviction, the stated standard conflicts with part two, article 19 of the Constitution of Ukraine, according to which State authorities, their officials are obliged to act only on the basis of powers and in the manner defined by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. Therefore, in this case it is unacceptable that the Central Election Commission itself changed the terms and should ensure that the elections are held within the time limits defined by law. By amending article 31 with the symbol one of the Ukrainian Central Electoral Commission Act, it is proposed to delete part two of the current edition, according to which the decision to terminate the term of office of the entire Central Electoral Commission is taken by the Supreme Council no less than two thirds of the constitutional composition. And also part three, which provides for the right of MPs to make proposals for the personal composition of CTC. Thus, in the event of such a change, the mandate of the Central Electoral Commission may be suspended on a time-by-time basis at the request of the President, as decided by the majority of the Supreme Council's constitutional composition, which restricts rights, primarily small factions in the protection of their representatives in the CLTC from the early termination of powers and deprives them of the right to offer their factions to new representatives. With regard to the proposed amendments to the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Judiciality regarding the non-enforcement of a lawsuit by suspending the actions of the President of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and the decisions of the National Bank of Ukraine regarding the appointment and execution of a temporary administration or liquidation of a bank, the prohibition of carrying out certain actions on a temporary basis to the administrator, liquidator of a bank or the National Bank of Ukraine in the course of temporary administration or liquidation of a bank. [[Listen up!]] So they have nothing to do with the elections, including the improvement of the mechanism for holding out-of-order elections and the organization of the Central Election Commission. I would like to remind my colleagues that, following the election of the national MPs in 2006, the Supreme Administrative Court has made proposals on the need to regulate the prohibition on courts to stop acts of CWC, but only in part of the announcement of the results of the elections. However, this proposal was left out of the attention of the author of the bill. The Yulia Timoshenko bloc has consistently opposed the holding of successive elections, which have become a business for many in our country, leading to chaos in the power structures and people's consciousness. So we suggest we put a moratorium on any election at this difficult time. Only the continuous work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine can provide an appropriate response to all the challenges that have been facing our Ukraine’s global economic crisis. Protect the state and every citizen from its negative influence. Therefore, it is suggested that the next show should be stopped as to the need to change the procedure for the holding of out - of - turn elections. In this connection, I am calling off Project 3294-1, which I and the national deputy Kravczuk have introduced, and I propose that it be withdrawn. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u200	Thank you. Your bill has been withdrawn. That's why there are no questions. Dear colleagues! Would you like to discuss the bill? There is, please, 10 minutes from the faction. Matvienko. You don't want to perform? Let's start with factions. School. Let's start with the factions and then the national MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u201	Dear Arsen Petrovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished TV setters, radio listeners! Once again, I would like to state unequivocally that our political power is consistent, purposeful and unequivocally advocating that it is not possible to overcome the political crisis by destroying the state. You can't, by destroying the well-being of citizens, run political or party interpersons. You can't spend the life of the Ukrainian economy, you can't spend the life of the Ukrainian banking system, you can't have a competition that's stronger than the political party. That is why we call on all the political forces that at least talk about how they care about the welfare of the state, now, for the moment, “to lay down political arms”, to stop clarifying the relationship and finally to pursue the state. Because the problems in Ukraine are the problems of the global economic crisis. And it's not just on the government's side to hang all the problems that exist right now. There is no government now, there are no national deputies in power now, in opposition, now we are all representatives of the Ukrainian authorities and we must prove to ourselves, and to those who have delegated these powers to us, that we represent their interests, not our own. We must and must now throw aside everything that separates us and eventually, at least once now, together, the elbow to the elbow to defend the state against the world crisis that is coming to Ukraine, which is already “knocking” at our door. You don't have to be the kind of person who, as a Trojan horse, goes into a state house and opens the door to the crisis, explaining that it's a weak government that we're going to come and then fix everything, I don't know which state you're going to have to explain everything to and who. Now there's a lonely chance of rejecting everything and finally coming to the realization that the problem of the state is in our hands, in everyone's hands. We will not be able to take place in our political homes and in our political factions. Now we can't go, balancing, holding an explosive in one hand, going to the edge of the chasm, figuring out who's going to come this way and who isn't. Now we have a very responsible period and, believe me, we are expected by all of our fellow countrymen to finally deal with their problems, not our own, so that we can now finally say firmly and clearly that there is no power and opposition, now we are all Ukrainian statesmen, and if we want to build or even save the state, so act together, because after 5-10 years it will be hard to explain why we didn't save the country, reasoning that it wasn't our business. It's everybody's business now. We don't have to make any elections right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u202	Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u203	Dear colleagues, honourable voters, when I went to this rostrum, I thought, ‘ Who would answer the question? What kind of people are we? ’ Just a year ago, a little later, those who reported the bill today were preparing this bill with completely opposite changes, including, I was among that working group that did all year ago in order to prevent the election from being falsified. And I think that by making appropriate changes to the Central Election Commission Act, to the People's Elections Act, we've made it somewhat impossible to falsify the election. Today, those who were actively working on such a situation yesterday are making changes in order to undo those changes in order to do so. The answer is, allow for forging elections, and there's no other explanation. Imagine that you will receive only five copies of protocols at the polling station, five of them, and you will have twenty subjects. Five will be able to go to court because they have protocols and fifteen will not leave because they have copies of the records. How many of you have we fought to be a national voter register? Now this national voter register is being taken off. We talked about how many five to seven million people are not known outside our country, so that they don't have to head, so that the State Border Service gives information about how many people are abroad. Now it's coming off the bill. Well, most of all, know-how is to give the Central Electoral Commission the authority of the Supreme Council. Please recall the final decision of the Constitutional Court, which examined the President's Decree on State Procurement. And I believe that, more than ever, the Constitutional Court has finally given the right decision that the Supreme Council has no right to delegate its powers to another body, and we have written down there, the mandate to transfer or commission to the Cabinet of Ministers that we form, and here, please, the Central Electoral Commission is delegated to the Supreme Council by law. So it can change the terms that define the law. What one know-how. Now this law provides, in fact, for today's open text to change the entire composition of the Central Electoral Commission. Because if the CTC had changed before only when there were 300 votes, 226 votes were offered today. Once again, the law, unfortunately, supports criminal acts to falsify elections and those who support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u204	Yuri Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u205	Dear colleagues, I will speak, not from the point of view of appointment or non-dedication of out-of-court elections, but from a professional point of view, to the point of view of changes to the law. Because despite all the emotion of the previous performances, I agree with the general assessment. These changes are designed to remove a number of safeguards that exist today in the electoral law that are designed to prevent the counterfeiting of elections. I'll just give you a few positions. The first change to the 34th article, which provides for the right of an unlimited number of Ukrainian national deputies to be present at the CLTC meeting, is against the right of MPs to go to court. I really don't like it when they break into the counseling room in spite of the Constitution. But the same could be true of the Central Election Commission. So why are we opening this lock? Banning the election board for the last five days. Dear colleagues, today is one of the main means of ensuring the quorum on the day of the vote when some want to break the election is to be expelled from the boards of those who do not want to work. And here, unfortunately, the explanation of the first bill's report was quite the opposite. Articles 89 and 92. Limit the number of protocols. Several people have already paid attention to this. I just want to emphasize one thing. It is the presence of each subject in the electoral process of the original, not a copy of the protocol, that has today removed the problem of falsifying the reports of the district commissions on the way from the district to the district. Take this off and there will be a new temptation to copy the protocols along the way. Article 102 and the CLTC Act on Change of Dates. Well, colleagues, we understand very well that if the CEVC determines the terms, it can define them in such a way that some subjects can do something and other subjects can't do it. And they can't see how long it's going to be, because CBC can do it at the last minute. It's chaos and electoral process again. I am deeply concerned about the change to article 17 of the Central Election Commission Act. Unfortunately, I did not get an answer to this question why the CEVC law removes the obligation to explain to the Central Electoral Commission. Because it is her responsibility to ensure the same application of the Electoral Law throughout Ukraine. Well, I'm not even asking the author of the bill anymore, and what is the relevance of the ban on ensuring a call for decisions by the National Bank of Ukraine on the electoral process? I think it's a little bit out of the other opera. In general, I would have to agree with Adam Ivanovich’s conclusion. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u206	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u207	30 seconds. Unfortunately, despite the existence of a number of positive proposals for changes to the "Pro elections" Act, the main mass is aimed at opening gateways for forging elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u208	Presentations from the National Deputies. Please, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u209	Yuri Karmazin Party of Fatherland Defenders, a democratic part of the “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” bloc. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill, which has been introduced, is actually the fifth draft of the law, is evidence that we, Arsenija Petrovich, have already been led to the pen by the Supreme Council, Arsenija Petrovich. Because we've never had draft laws before without the expert board's conclusions, without a committee meeting, without a financial result. That's right! We'll get to the mice here soon, we'll race. As for the students, I don't know. But all the law-abiding agents, all the law-abiding guards, all the guardians of conscience. What's enough to say, I quote. I quote the changes to article 102. During the extraordinary election of deputies, the terms specified in this law may change according to the decision of the Central Election Commission. What can I get you? That's what's gonna happen. And the other article, article 6, “The composition of the commission, the order of its formation”, is the version that you are now proposing to the Central Election Commission. It was written earlier: the President's appointment statement takes into account the proposals made by the MP factions and groups formed in the current vocation. Now it's written: off. It's okay!? I don't know if there's anything in the bank that's put the coalition back together. The second item, the third item, is made up of 15 members. Candidates are discussed in advance. Their appointment is based on the findings of the relevant profiling committee. Now we're going to rule out, we don't need any demands, we don't need anything, we're going to prepare the way forward and everything at all costs. Now let's keep looking. You've moved on, you've even gone under the authority and gone to the Code of Administrative Justice. And now and there, we want to hurt everything. Even so, it is said that there are no or no such courts. There is no one, for there is one god today and one king. And I'm going to go against that. Look what you're writing today: you're not allowed to secure a lawsuit by stopping the actions of the President, the Cabinet of Ministers, the Supreme Council. And where is this written in the Constitution? And it says here that the actions of the courts are distributed to all. And the decision of the Constitutional Court in 2002 says that a court of law can verify the legality, any act of authority, with the kindness that the President, the Supreme Council, has given to the government. I repeat, not constitutionality.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u210	Come on. You'll talk more, won't you? Well, let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u211	Dear friends, there can no longer be such an approach to such laws. Five projects have been presented to us, and there are no conclusions now, and we have put in order of the day. I wanted, I turned to the political power behind this, don't be ashamed, call off the vote, because in any case you won't build the truth on the lie. I am against this law, against the usurpation of power, or Yushchenk, or “Regions” with it, against any usurpation, because I represent Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u212	Hooray, hooray, homies. Bondar, Olga Bondar, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u213	Dear colleagues! Olga Bondar, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Is it not surprising that under every election, we are trying to make a new law, or is there a problem that we have such a disadvantage or perhaps such a weak electoral legislation? Will the political crisis be resolved by means of this law or these choices of possible, hypothetical ones? Absolutely not, because this crisis is not in this process, but it lies in what's happening in this room, where it needs to be decided, in everyone's soul. Do we have the money to hold these elections? If Japan doesn't have them, honored, if Japan cancels its early elections, then I think we're still too weak to swim over Japan in our financial capacity. Is it possible that citizens want this early election? Yes, they want an early election, but not to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, but in 138 locations, including: Mukacheve, Feodosia, Pervomajski, Equine, they want that election locally, and we don't give them the money. And in such a case, local self - government remains without guidance, and we talk about it. I'm glad we're here to delegate the maximum authority in places. Are these elections feared by the “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko ”? Don't be afraid. He's the only one who's not afraid in this room. But without fear, we are well aware of the negative consequences that economic instability in our country can have for those who want to do so. As we have found, the undemocratic part of “Our Ukraine” as well as the Party of Regions that is proposing this bill. The Committee on State Building, the local self-government in its session, did not discuss this bill, we discussed a previous bill that did not find support from those colleagues that you have delegated to this committee. It's not just the Yulia Timoshenko Block or our Ukraine, it's all representatives of all political forces. We did not support him, we did not support him because the electoral code is being prepared today, and we need to talk about it. The negatives in this bill are sad to say, because all my colleagues have already told me about them. First, one person, the President himself, has the right to have a pocket organ, the Central Election Commission. Why? Only the President, thanks to Mrs. Lukas' proposal, is given the opportunity to stop the Central Electoral Commission. Control over the same thing, the control function of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has ceased as of today. And do not assume that we have some kind of parliamentary form of government there. We are actually preparing this bill under the presidential form of government.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u214	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u215	The Central Election Commission, thus becoming a Handicap, is entitled to change the terms of the election. What does that mean? But it's very simple: you can simply do it in pocket or telephone mode to exclude an object from the electoral process, an inconvenient subject of the right to vote, simply take it and exclude it. What is “the prohibition to stop acts of the President by a court if they relate to unconstitutionality, namely the electoral process”? Excuse me, this is a grave violation of the Constitution of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u216	I'm asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u217	The “Julia Tymoshenko Block” is firmly against this bill, as is the general election of the underprivileged.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u218	Thank you. Gordien Sergey.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u219	Dear people of Ukraine, dear colleagues! We have just witnessed, as discussed in the previous bill — representatives of large financial, oligarchic clans — planning to get out of this crisis. [[is at the expense of the people]] I turn to the people and say this: When something is needed from the people, they refer to the people as the only source of authority. I'm saying today, and that's what my colleague at the Company of Ukraine was talking about, that this bill is today intended to exorcise the people of power. I warn the people of Ukraine that this bill prepares the most extensive forgeries that will take place during the next election. I warn everyone here in this room and the people of Ukraine that there are three "active cows of elections", these are the electoral lists, these are ballot papers and these are summary voting protocols. I'm telling all of you that it's in all of these chapters that we're planning to make the changes that will allow us to falsify the elections. Election lists. How many scribblings have been broken around us to create a State voter register. Unfortunately, the Presidential force that is here in Parliament, which is in the Bank, has made every effort not to do so. Today, the law even allows us to speak and refer to the voter’s register. We've already talked about the problem of summary voting protocols, when you can even count on your fingers who needs to be issued during the election, put it out for study, put it in the archive, and it doesn't even have enough originals to vote on. I should say that everyone claims the authority of the people, and the people should come and say their word, but when it comes to the threshold, the threshold of the appearance for the elections, here they take away the right of the people and say, quite one sentence to write "the elections took place if the President of Ukraine came to the elections." I claim that the faction of the Company of Ukraine in this affair against the people of Ukraine will not take any part.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u220	One minute. Out of the way, please. Or from the rostrum? I'll give it to you. From the Committee by Alexander Alexanderovich. From the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u221	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! Good afternoon, Arsenia Petrovich! I'd like you to know this situation. The Committee of State Buildings and Local Self - Government Authorities, as the Main Committee considered in its first reading, made great remarks to Deputy Lukas, taking into account that 8 votes were taken against. At the second meeting, Mrs. Lukas did not come. I respect you, I see you're going to be a great mom, but the committee didn't support or support this project. So I would like to address the National Deputies: Respect our committee, and ours will respect every committee of yours.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u222	Thank you. Olena Leonidina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u223	Dear colleagues, I am pleased to hear all your criticism. And I can only say one thing: The fear of the eyes is great. And the amount of fear you have, the horror I've seen today, makes me think of one thing: a very correct and very timely bill. Now, a few words of the essence. I was accused here of trying to falsify the elections until lobbying the interests of banks and the National Bank of Ukraine. First. With regard to the inability to suspend the decision of banks, this is a standard in force. And all those who criticized me simply read the current Code of Administrative Procedure. I'm willing to give them a copy to raise my legal conscience. That's the first one. Therefore, I have nothing to do with this bill, and I do not have anything to do with it that has long since become law. Second. With regard to all other charges, they are caused only by one: fear. I want to ask you some questions. Do you want the 50 per cent vote rate to destroy 49.9 per cent of the vote on the site where people didn't come to vote? Then don't uphold my law. You want the lists of voters you've just cared about to be fully focused and created at the 2006 roster level, as required by the voter register law. Have you read this law? In 2008, 10th, 12th year, you want us all to define lists based on the 2006 list? Great. Don't support my bill. Do you want the border guards to provide us with data on the missing, and it's those people who are migrated to Ukraine today, not those who left to improve their lives many years ago? Do you want this to happen to the border guards again to give false information? Don't vote for my law. Do you want the tax office to provide data on voters that are not in principle present in the region, as it has already done once? Let's not support my bill. Do you want the people's deputies to fight for the right to form district electoral commissions and deprive the factions of this right? For example, do you want to deny the rights to form commissions? No questions, don't vote for my bill. You're just afraid for today, I didn't put in my bill that the election should be tomorrow. You're afraid of the truth, you're afraid of clarifying the bill, you like this cloudy water, you like our mistakes that we've made before. Well, all right, tonight's fear is great, but believe me, we'll get back to this bill. Let's go back when it's time to stop being afraid and start working on mistakes. Once we have allowed inaccuracies in the law, today we will not correct them, I understand. But I hope one of you will read this bill, think about the voter list, think about what fear is probably the worst.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u224	Comrades, I bet. Who wants it? For reasons Klukkowski wants. Please, Yuri Bogdanovich. It's time to vote. What do you say? Brick, brick? No, no, no, we'll work.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u225	Thank you. Yuri Klukkowski, "Our Ukraine." I would not like to see anyone who accuses others of fear at least distort the truth. Well, Olena Leonidivna, there's no standard for 50 percent appearances at the precinct. You made it up, it's only a norm in your imagination. Do not be intimidated by the “Clock of Lithuania”, he has the full right to submit to the commission. Therefore, we should not falsify ourselves with falsehood. But once again, the 50-percent rule, the border rules, the tax rule, are all the standards that your then coalition is offering. And I want to remind you that on June 1, 2007, there was a non-agreed bill, which you then worked on and voted on. Don't complain about those standards today, we've handled those elections and we'll deal with any of the others, and we'll still have time to fix those standards. However, once again, I would like to emphasize: to create conditions for for forging elections through limitations of protocols and all other things are unacceptable and not acceptable.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u226	Comrades, then, next offer. Attention, colleagues! The fact that there are a lot of questions in this bill is objective. That is why this bill is put to the vote in the first reading on the basis of which national deputies consider it and make their proposals for second reading. That is why I am voting for the adoption on the basis of Bill No. 3294 on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Elections of Ukrainian People's Deputies. Attention, colleagues! Based on the base. Please vote. The committee's working on it, and tomorrow we're looking at it. Vote. [[14:56:14]] For 222 It's not a decision, colleagues. Please show by factions. Don't scream! Colleagues, let's move on to the next issues of the agenda. So I'm offering. Attention! So that we can look at the following issues of order of the day by a reduced procedure. Can you hear me? So we can take a quick look. Everybody calm down! So I'm proposing the following approach: we're now voting on the whole bill. We've got four more ratifications that didn't go into the anti-crisis package. Ratifications are generally voted on, all other bills, as agreed, are voted on in the first reading only. I'm betting on a vote on the consideration of short-term bills, this is Bill 3283, 3308 and Ratification 0092, 0100, 0068, 0090. Please vote in favour of the summary procedure. Vote. [[14:57:41]] For 222 Decision taken. 150 votes short. Comrades, what are you looking forward to? I don't understand. We've got to work, we've got a deal. Have a seat. It's okay. I declare the next bill 3283. Xenia Mikhailno, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u227	Xenia Leapina, “Our Ukraine”. I understand that this bill is perhaps the most resonant today. I understand that he caused a lot of emotion here in the hall, because he really opens the way to overcoming both the economic and political crises. I want to focus on a few separate thesis of this bill. First. What is the specific feature of the financial crisis in Ukraine? It's a crisis of trust. How can we overcome this crisis of citizens' trust in banks, one bank to another bank, how can we overcome this crisis? First of all, when the state, and in this case this is a function of the state, will take on guarantees that will ensure the honest functioning of the banking system. This is exactly what the main point of this bill is aimed at: increasing the guarantee fund for individuals. Because it is the physical person who suffers most from any crisis and is most inclined to act more emotionally than rationally, economically. And that's natural, because they're just people who want to save their money. This is actually the first and most important function of the state. It's in my bill. The other one. What all governments should do for at least the last five years is to create a stable fund. We understood that the state of Ukraine was not on any particular island, that our economy was sufficiently integrated into the world economic system, that the world economic system could be subject to various rises and downs, and that we should think about what would happen when we rise.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u228	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u229	I'm asking you to finish the date. We didn't think about it, we didn't create a stable fund. Now this fund is needed to get out of the crisis. Finally. The financing of elections is a necessary step to overcome, in fact, the economic crisis because of the political crisis. There is no force today that will take responsibility for the destruction of the democratic coalition. For such a force to exist, it is necessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u230	Xenia Mikhailno, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u231	I'm gonna make an election. It's a democratic procedure. So I think this bill today will show you as a lacquer paper that is really for democracy, not for a twig, but for real steps. And the last. I want to point out that it is immoral, sitting in high office chairs and afraid to let them go, to stand up against the elections. Thank you. I'm ready to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u232	Please sit down, Xenia Mikhailno. All of it. Mikola Ivanovich Derkach. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u233	Okay, I'll tell you everything. Dear Arsenija Petrovich, honourable members of the national parliament, the bill has been drafted to address the most current socio-economic issues that require the allocation of budgetary resources in the current year, namely to take measures to minimize the negative impact of the global financial crisis on the economy and the financial sector of Ukraine, the financial provision of pensions for the holding of out-of-court local elections. The bill proposes to increase the expenditure of the state budget general fund of 6.8 billion dollars to increase pension subsidies to the Pension Fund by 5.8 billion dollars, to cover its cash gaps in pension payments, and to increase the minimum amount of pensions for miners in accordance with the Mining Act. An increase of the statutory capital of VAT “State Export-Import Bank” by one billion dollars to give it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u234	Mikola Ivanovich, your honor, is a very different bill. Report now 3283, and then 3319, Mikola Ivanovich, 3283, please sit down. Two — “for”, two — “against”. Prisoner, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u235	Vladimir Vyzynowski, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense". I would like to address all the deputies and those who stand and those who want to work with one proposal. Political shullery we've already seen, I'd like you to see, the tact of "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense." When Yulia Timoshenko's Block, the Party of Regions and Communists in unison, in 350 votes, decimated this state, we didn't even allow ourselves to pull out any card in this case. And today, we saw our coalition colleagues yesterday draw cards from the National Deputies from our Ukraine, and that's why we had to make another card today. A Bilozer card was also removed by our colleagues from the Yulia Tymoshenko Block, and only to my insistence was it returned to the vote. I would like to see tact in this room, including the political ones, because that is exactly the position and the political lie before the electorate allows it to say that such a composition of the Supreme Council must be re-elected. And that's why it's very relevant to propose to Kseniya Ljapina, to vote in favour of her bill, which solves both the economic and the political crisis in this very composition of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u236	Adam Martinyuk, please. Colleagues, I'd like to ask you a question. I'm sorry, Adam Ivanovich, because passion needs to be calmed. I'm addressing Ivan Grigorovitch Kirilenko, to you, I'm asking you to calm down a bit, because we're overheating the room. Dear friends, from the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, I ask you to lower the boiling temperature a little bit. Andriy Anatolyevich, you yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u237	Dear colleagues, I'll start with the last one, from someone ripping out cards and so on. You can't do that, but the Constitution forbids anyone from voting with a foreign card, and you can't do that either. And so if we want to do the right thing in front of each other, let's do the Constitution. And I didn't happen to mention the Constitution because, unfortunately, in the last few days of our work, we have rewritten the Constitution, the basic law of Ukraine. We are now allowing ourselves to do whatever the Supreme Council wants, the Supreme Council has voted 226 votes against the Constitution. What am I talking about? I'm talking about that unfortunately, these are the fundamental bills that we're looking at today that are being considered without committees. And 89 articles of the Constitution state that all the bills should be considered before the committees, not to mention the ones that we are considering today. It's really a bill of life or not a state's life, and we just react to it like that. We, unfortunately, are doing Parliament's work, our actions, our actions, what we are doing now, ripping out, including the cards, showing the people how we should treat the Constitution. As far as the bill is concerned, the first two articles have already been adopted today, namely, you have accepted, voted in the presidential vote. With regard to elections, dear colleagues, we have been fighting for a week over where to find funds to save the situation. And we're throwing 500 million in the wind right now because someone needs to make a rating vote. The person who wants to make the election should pay his own expenses and conduct them, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u238	Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u239	As far as the charges against our colleagues are concerned, someone's taking the cards. Here's a Ribakova card in my hands that voted in favour of the bill. A duplicate card is made, and it is unknown to whom it votes. Where's the deputy who was voted for? Where's the Deputy Vakarczuk, who said a month ago that he was in charge? Why do his cards vote? It's for the gentlemen who are yelling that someone is ripping out their cards. Return Ribakov's cards. How many duplicates do you have on the Ribakov card? Give up all that there is, and then tell me that someone's ripping something up. Now for the bill that we're discussing. Dear Mikolo Ivanovich! The Committee on Budget Questions did not review Bill 3283 under the authority of the honourable Mrs. Lupina, and why did he not consider it? Because there was no quorum. Why was there no quorum? Because representatives from other factions did not come. The BJTs came, and the others did not come. And we wanted to look at it, give it a grade. What is proposed? The first is a stabilization fund based on privatisations over the amount defined in article 22. Today, article 22 envisions 8 billion volumes, of which 400 million have arrived today. Where are the others to go? The privatization plan has not been implemented. Why? Because the President blocked the privatisation. The author proposes to reduce these volumes to 401 million. And everything on top is in a stable fund. And the election is 417 million. By the end of the year, how much will the Stabilisation Fund find, taking into account procedures and so forth? Give God at least 100 million dollars to come. I mean, for a stabilising fund -- 100 million, for an election -- 417 million. And we're saying that this bill is meant to be solved. to overcome the economic crisis. You're lying! This bill pursues one goal: to kick the money out of the election! As soon as we vote on this bill today, there will be a castle on the Supreme Council tomorrow, a new presidential decree and a parliament will appear again.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u240	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u241	Who Will Overcome the Crisis? The responsibility for overcoming the consequences of the crisis will lie with those who provoke Parliament to be dissolved. So I urge you not to vote for this bill!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u242	Turn off the microphone. So that's it. My colleagues from BUTU, from the "Timoshenko Block of July", please take over my sector! I'm asking you to take over your sector! Stop provoking another part of Parliament! Now, about the Ribakov card. Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko! I'm asking you to make an order! Ivan Grigorovich! I'm asking your faction into my own sector! Break, comrades! Let's split up! Now I'm going to comment on the situation on Ribakov's card. Rybakov wrote a statement that he had a stolen card and received a duplicate card. So I want to understand who had the Rebakov card stolen, and was it stolen? Colleagues! I'm asking you to sit down. Have a seat, please. The bill is being finalized. Do not provoke deliberate opposition in Parliament! I beg you to sit down! Sit down, please! Colleagues! Attention! Everyone calmed down! BUT, please get out of the sector! Please exit the “Our Ukraine” sector! I understand that you want to get into the new blocks now, because that's going to be interesting. We'll all fall, but not into the blocks!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u243	Where do I know? You took it from Rybak's card! Where do I know where you got it? Why do you have a Rybakova card? I don't know! He said he had it stolen and he wrote the application. Colleagues! Attention! Calm down! Question closed. It is only in the first reading that the bill on the adoption of Bill No. 3283 - draft of the State Budget Act, introduced by Lapin, is on the basis of vote. Please vote, vote. [[15:12:35]] For 222 The decision is not taken. Comrades from BUIT, move into your sector, we're in another sector. Next question of the agenda. I don't see Pinzenic's minister of finance, so I would suggest that there's no Pinzenic for us to consider the bill. Well, show me the factions. Colleagues, I suggest the next approach: attention! – we have a budget bill of 3308 and 3319, which has not been included in the agenda. Now I'm going to ask about the inclusion in the agenda of Bill 3319, which was talked about by the Ripper and asked for Litwin. I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of Bill 3319. [[15:13:47]] For-64 I didn't. There's no Pinzenic, so I propose. Ivan Grigorovitch, these gestures, it's somewhere else! The head of Parliament is still in charge. You'll be the head of Parliament, you'll be showing gestures, you'll be on the railroad. We have the following questions of the agenda. Attention! In order to resolve part of the financial issues today, we need to vote four ratifications, we voted them in short. I'm asking you to go through four ratifications quickly. Alone. There will be no voice. Hand over the cards, why did you collect them? Let's go quickly to 0092, sold to Yuri Vasilovich. Yuri Vasilovich, on the rostrum, we'll get through the ratifications quickly.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u244	Dear Arsenia Petrovich! Dear National Deputies! For your consideration, see the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of a Credit Agreement for the Construction of a High Voltage Air Line 750 kilovolt, the Plain Nuclear Power Plant, the Kiev Substation between Ukraine and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The reconstruction project that is financed under the said loan agreement is essential for the further development of our state. Its implementation, among other things, is envisioned by decisions of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine. Not only is the project not only unnecessary, but it is also extremely convenient. Its implementation will not only remove the problems that exist with the power of nuclear power plants located in the Western region, but also provide the basis for the development of atomic power plants for the future. The project will allow the production of additional power at nuclear power stations, which will positively affect the total cost of electricity. Appropriately, there will be honorable national MPs and all consumers. The project is also important in the context of meeting the energy needs of consumers in the central region, especially taking into account the need to provide an increasing demand for a football championship in Ukraine in 2012. There are environmental benefits from the project. Its implementation will allow the net and substation 750 kilovolts to be phased out in pollution in the Chernobyl area. As far as the language loan is concerned. They are also extremely convenient and predict a low interest rate on credit. Cheap loans, as you know, are virtually impossible today. Ladies and gentlemen, the project presented is the first project to build a new 750 kilovolt highway line during Ukraine's independence. Given its importance for Ukraine's development, its energy security, please, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u245	Thank you, Yuri Vasilovich, please sit down. I invite you, Oleg Grigorovich, please. It's Belarusian, isn't it? Then I propose two in favor, two in favor. I suggest you leave this moment alone. The bill is clear. Is there no objection to the voting procedure? None. I put to the vote the issue of the ratification of Law 0092, the consent of the Supreme Council to the obligations of the international treaty. Colleagues, we vote on the basis and in general, ratification. Please. Yuri Vasilovich, back to the rostrum. [[15:17:44]] For 369 Decision taken. In addition, we're going to get some serious money for the reconstruction. Please, Bill 0100, Sold Yuri Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u246	Dear Arsenia Petrovich, distinguished national deputies! I thank you for the previous bill. This bill is a draft law on the ratification of the loan agreement between Ukraine and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The electricity project is a self-sustaining investment project. The project will provide for the rehabilitation of transformers, the construction of power lines to produce the power of an important strategic object that is being built, the Dnistrov Hydroaccumulation Station. It also envisions stabilizing the Crimean Regional Energy System through the implementation of priority measures for the development of electricity infrastructure. The project will first remove critical bottlenecks in the transmission networks of our power lines, increase the stability and reliability of our energy system, and move closer to the technical requirements of the UCTI European energy system. The total cost of the project is $238 million, including a $200 million loan from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Credit is a pretty good project. It predicts the arrival of currency in Ukraine. So this is an investment project. I'd like to ask him for his support, distinguished national MPs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u247	Have a seat, Yuri Vasilovich. Oleg Grigorovovich doesn't have any wishes, no wishes? Oh, Oleg Grigorovich, I'm asking you to come to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u248	The Committee on Foreign Affairs has also considered this bill, and found that it is very convenient for Ukraine to have loan contracts and that these loans should be supported. The Committee recommends to the Supreme Council that the Scientific and Export Authority support ratification as possible and appropriate. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u249	Thank you, Oleg Grigorovich. Shall we proceed to the voting procedure? Colleagues, I am voting for a mandatory international agreement on Ukraine through the adoption of the Law on the Ratification of the Loan Agreement 0,100 a project on the transfer of electricity to Ukraine and the International Development Bank. Please vote. [[15:21:09]] For 373 Decision taken. 0068. Anatoly Arkadyovich Maksuta, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u250	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! The agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany in 2005 is a framework. I would like to point out right away that it was already under consideration in the Supreme Council, and this law has already been registered, but it has already been restored to the government for reconciliation, and we are resubmitting it. Ratification of this agreement is very important because it will enable Ukraine to obtain additional sources of funding for important social and investment projects under favourable tax conditions and to continue its cooperation between the two sides in the economic and financial sphere. This is especially important in today’s situation. The funding lines are determined jointly by the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany. Under the agreement, loans of 80 million euros and grants of 10 million euros can be obtained from the German side. These costs will focus on projects such as support for small and medium-sized enterprises and energy efficiency and renewable energy. Since this agreement is a framework, the mechanism for financial terms, the use of credits, conditions and directions for the use of grants, possible lenders of credit funds, financial institutions, project contractors, the real terms of contracts between borrowers and grants should be defined in appropriate credit contracts that are compatible with the Cabinet of Ministers and will be an immediate part of the agreement. Request to support and ratify this agreement.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u251	Thank you. Please sit down. Vladimir Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u252	Dear head, distinguished national MPs! Germany is one of Ukraine's most important political and economic partners and holds first place among Europe's countries in terms of external trade operations with our country and holds first place among the world's countries, with the volume of direct investment invested in its economy. The ratification of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on financial cooperation opens the way for the launch of new programmes in the area of financial and technical cooperation between Ukraine and the Federal Republic of Germany. Ukraine is interested in further financial and technical assistance in areas of priority for financing the German side. First of all, it improves energy efficiency and saves energy, modernizes energy objects, such as hydro and thermal power plants, use of alternative sources of energy, support for small and medium - size enterprises, and development of social infrastructure. On October 8, 2008, the European Integration Committee reviewed the project and decided to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a whole. The Committee's decision is also in line with the findings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Supreme Council Committees on Finance and Banking and Foreign Affairs. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues also confirmed that the ratification of the said Agreement would not have a direct impact on income, budget expenditure and the volume of government debt. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u253	I propose to proceed to the voting procedure. I am voting on the issue of consent to be bound by an international treaty, the ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany. [[Law 0068]] Please vote on the basis as a whole. [[15:25:57]] For 367 For 367, the decision is made. Next bill, Anatoly Arkadyovich, 0090. You've made a brief report, so once again.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u254	Dear National Deputies, this is actually another of this series of our cooperation with the Federal Republic of Germany, a project that has already been set up in 2006. The main focus is energy efficiency. These are the tax terms. The total amount of 100 million loans, 184.5 million euros of loans and 1 million euros of grants. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u255	Thank you, Anatoly Arkadyovich. Vladimir Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u256	Dear Head, honourable national deputies, the Agreement provides for the collection by the Federal Republic of Germany of the necessary funds to implement a number of projects aimed at improving energy efficiency and other measures and promoting socio-economic development. As the document indicates, the terms of the loan are acceptable to Ukraine. Taking into account that the total amount of the loan for the contract is $184.5 million. The euro, one can conclude that the efficiency of borrowing is high enough. The risk of entry into force of the guarantees of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine under contract is low enough, and borrowing will not affect the possible increase in Ukraine's external debt. On October 8, 2008, the European Integration Committee reviewed the draft Financial Cooperation Act and approved the decision to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a whole. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in its conclusion also supports the ratification of the agreement. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u257	Thank you. Colleagues, I propose to proceed to the voting procedure. It is based on a vote on the adoption and overall Act on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on Financial Cooperation. Bill 0090. [[15:28:49]] For 375 Decision taken. Comrades, now I ask you to return to the question of the inclusion in the agenda of Bill 3319, which was introduced by our colleague, Mr. Pickle Ivanovich. Arrangements need to be made. We made decisions at the Conciliation Council. I ask you to return to the vote on the inclusion in the agenda of Bill 3319. We'll look into it tomorrow, colleagues. Tomorrow we're looking, not today, but we're putting it into the agenda. Please vote for inclusion in the agenda. Return, sorry, to the vote, and then to the inclusion. Return to vote on inclusion. Vote. Yeah, the Pickle Bill. [[15:29:42]] For 247 Now for the inclusion in the agenda of Bill 3319. We're not looking at it right now. We'll be looking at it tomorrow. [[15:30:02]] Yes, there is, 246. Decision taken. So tomorrow, colleagues, we're going to have 3308, 3319. These are two bills that are ready to be considered. I'm asking you, which one of the reasons for the vote, please, can you sign up for who you have. I ask the factions to sign up for the reasons for the vote. Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u258	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “Our Ukraine”. Dear colleagues, in any case, the issue of solving the economic and political crisis needs to be solved. And that's why if someone thinks that if someone thinks that someone's handing out other people's cards and being a bully in the ranks of a foreign faction is a success, they're wrong. Tymoshenko's block has gone into hooligan action, ripping cards right out of the ballots of the Ukraine faction's deputies. This is a direct violation of all the arrangements that were made at the Conciliation Council. So once again, I want to warn everyone that there will be no voting in one gate, and we must return to the complex solution of all issues. In addition, I officially declare that as a result of the hooligan act, at least two of our deputies' cards were removed from the ballots and at least one MP's card did not work. That is why we insist on returning the matter to the vote in the daytime. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u259	Semerak.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u260	Please pass the word to Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u261	Ivan Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u262	Dear colleagues! There were emotions, there were experiences, there were many speeches, there were many thoughts. But today we thank all the faction leaders who have come to meet the government, to meet the President, to meet the Ukrainian people, to our nation -- and to put first what life demands today: we have put first to vote the defeat, the impossibility, the minimization of what might be with the country, with people, with the state. Thank you for having us in the support room. It's a state that got, it's not BUT, it's a state that got, it's a nation that got. We thank you for understanding that it is not an election today in time -- a fratricidal war that will divide the country. And the hall has already been identified. And the return that something didn't work, someone came running towards someone, that's all from the evil one. There won't be a return, let's work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u263	Sulkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u264	Arsenija Petrovich, I would like to raise a question, because the draft Law on minimising the impact of the global financial crisis on Ukraine's economy was discussed at this morning's meeting, and we heard from the President, the Prime Minister, that they would be painful for the problems of the people of Ukraine and would be reduced in their structures, within the structure of the President's Administration by 20 percent, although there should be a reduction of 50 percent. And today, when Mr. Schlapak was briefed by the President's Administration, he practically threw out this paragraph, which the President raised. That's how they hurt today, in words, and they're actually just lying to the people of Ukraine. So I have a proposal: tomorrow the President’s Administration will include this item: a 50 - percent reduction in its states. Then there will be no wickedness, but it will be true what the President said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-29-m0.u265	Thank you, Your Honor. The time for the performance is over. You want us to go back to the vote, Andriy Anatolyevich, please? I'll put it as you ask. I've got it soon. Dear colleagues, they worked hard. Until tomorrow. Closing the meeting.
