ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-28-m0.u1	Good afternoon, dear comrades! [[10:02:41]] There are 389 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. I'll brief you. You have in your hands the order of the day of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for today, which was agreed upon and voted. In order to consider the order in which we will address these issues, I invite the faction leaders to join me. A break for an hour is announced.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-10-28-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, pay attention! I'm asking you very carefully. So, first of all, with regard to the consideration of draft laws that may today be supported by the Parliamentary Hall. By 5 yesterday, we were actually working on a single bill. In order to avoid any claim to the authorship of this bill, and given that the President's Administration has taken a very active part in drafting this bill, it has been decided by the President and together we will submit it as the only bill signed by the President, and to define it as urgent. That's where the proposals came in, I emphasize, almost all the factions. It's a bill that's just been handed out to you. And I would suggest that the factions consider it now. For the second hour of the day, I invite the Prime Minister, the Head of the National Bank and the Minister of Finance to his office, and we'll try to answer all the questions I've just been asked by the faction leaders. In view of my negotiating with international financial organizations, I have been informed, but it is desirable for the government to answer these questions first. What should we do? The first is the urgent stabilisation of the banking system. The second is the need to stabilize the exchange rate immediately. This is what can be resolved by adopting this bill. The third question is population employment. The fourth question is economic survival. It's not economic growth, it's survival, it's what's on the agenda today. Elections are a very important question, but now we have to go through this package. That's why I'm bringing you to your attention: for the second hour, I have a meeting in my office -- the Prime Minister, the Head, the Nutzbank, the Minister of Finance, the faction leaders and the heads of the profile committees, for the fourth hour -- the meeting. We'll try to accept it. We have to. Thank you. I'm closing this morning's plenary session. Yes, please, Sergey Anatolyevich is giving me instructions to announce that there will be committee meetings. That's why there's going to be a committee meeting, both the Terochin committee and the Economic Committee, for you to draft the bill. At 12:30 a.m., there will be committee meetings. I'm closing this morning's plenary session. In 16 hours.
