ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-18-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, guests of the Supreme Council! People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Please turn on the "Race" system [[10:01:25]] There are 393 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The morning plenary session is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the Ukrainian national deputy Kravchuk Vasil Petrovich. I welcome you on behalf of the Supreme Council, please welcome our colleague. [[Applause]] Today, we have Tuesday, and according to article 25 of the Supreme Council Rules, we have 30 minutes to speak on behalf of authorized factions. Please sign up. Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-18-m0.u2	The distinguished Alexander Vladimirović, respected colleagues, television and radio listeners, is a major threat to our State when the non-professionalism of the current Cabinet of Ministers and its economic crisis in the State is beginning to be exposed to aspects of the global financial crisis, a danger to be left in the face of the development of the world economy. This is because we have a country with strong economic, scientific, technical and technological capabilities, highly skilled personnel. What are my fears based on? In reality, when the entire civilized world is looking for partners, we are looking for partners in relations with the north-eastern neighbour, the Russian Federation. And the actions of the current authorities in this aspect of the direction in strengthening the pedalling of the question of the Holocaust, the fight against Russian language and television channels broadcasting on Russian, dangerous gambling with States that are consciously hostile to Russia, and others are unlikely to hope for improvement here, under this authority. Europe, where Yushchenko and his team promised to bring us two more years ago, we're just beginning to get angry. The main patron and parent of the orange government, the United States of America, at the last summit, the “twenties” stated that each crisis must be selected on its own. On such a schedule, as well as internal problems that potential partners also see, we hope that we will not be disturbed. Hence the conclusions: whether we are consolidated in politics, economic governance, financial processes, industry processes, rid ourselves of populists and jointly stop a State from sliding into the abyss of dissension that the current Government is up to, or lose any prospect for many years ahead, or even the State as such. At the same time, I would like to point out immediately: to play Timoshenko against the question that, in a political crisis, a Government that does not rely on the majority is dangerous because of its irresponsibility and uncontrolledness. Therefore, the first and most important thing we need to determine is whether there is an opportunity in the current political timetable to create a responsible majority or not? And Yushchenko once again recalls that it was he and Timoshenko who pushed the country into last year's illegal elections that created the current political and economic crisis. Second. We must understand the logic of the Government's actions in the context of the crisis and, above all, how much, how much, what will the State earn and build on what industries? What remains the priorities and actions of the State to preserve and develop them remains for us. Third question to the Government: what is the depth of the strengthening of the role of the State and what industries do we have to protect in order to prevent the loss of international competitiveness? Fourthly, we must be very frank with the people and hear from the Government his point of view on the issue of who will be the main burden of costs in the implementation of the future crisis programme? And his vision of what groups of people will be allies and what opponents. If we can go through a crisis, we have not reduced the social standards set today. We can continue to ask what we should have answered a few months ago, lost to the country of the months when Timoshenko, in her latest version, knew that there was already a crisis, but did not do anything to minimize its consequences, which in itself was a crime before the State. Now we all have to urgently look for answers to very difficult questions, and, knowing that the majority of the crisis is losing to the majority, but the units are winning, we also find that, with this Government, the country will clearly not be among the latter, but the latter among the first. Therefore, the second thing we have to decide sooner or later is to replace the current Government of populists with a Government of better-trained and already reputable professionals. And the sooner that happens, the better it will be for the country. Although these experts themselves will find themselves in a very difficult situation in making unpopular decisions. Here again, we return to the fact that the work of such a Government will require a stable majority in Parliament, and how we come to it, whether through elections or without, depends, among other things, on every one of those present in this room, no matter who wants to be baptized. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-18-m0.u3	Grenevetsky Sergey Rafailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-18-m0.u4	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! The Lithuanian bloc is concerned about the situation that is taking place in the politics of our country, and believes that we are at the border, and more precisely have crossed the border, which is called “the threat of national security”. Let's really talk about what balanced all branches of power, practically paralysed parliamentaryism, the quota principle for the formation of the Cabinet of Ministers leads to inefficiency and non-professionalism, the judicial branch of power in confusion, and more specifically in systemic crisis. Lying and falsifying have become the foundation of national politics and corruption as a means of governance. In these circumstances, it is not surprising that the state is third in poverty after Moldova and Albania, but first in billionaires, first in Central and Eastern Europe. Everyone agrees that the reason for this balance is the election system on closed party lists. Everyone spoke beautifully on TV shows about changing laws and deciding to open party lists. What's in the way? The ambitions of individual politicians are hampered, and more specifically, by those who maintain political powers, including in the Supreme Council. I think we need to focus today on shaping the governing body of Parliament and making decisions on how to get out of the world crisis, at least within the limits set out in the previous parliamentary action. We need to form a 2009 budget, and we need everyone to understand that there will be no donor regions in 2009. We're not talking about what's going on at the local level. In a state where property issues, land issues are unresolved, the issue of energy dependence, where total corruption, the authorities begin to solve their own issues. And finally we come to the point that people don't trust that authority. The Lithuanian bloc therefore insists today that the issue of the election of the Supreme Council head be addressed first and that all branches of government be brought to justice. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-18-m0.u5	Tomenko Mikola Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-18-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, once a classic of Ukrainian literature and a poet who decided to pursue Ukrainian politics, Vladimir Winnichenko said that Ukrainian history without brom could not be read. If he were to look at the situation today, I think he would find a more graphic passage as to how to assess the Ukrainian political situation. We have heard for a few months that we will be saved from the crisis and irresponsibility. Now we've heard that only a fool is in favor of the early elections, because Victor Ivanovich Baloga, on behalf of the President, has made it clear to us that all normal people are now struggling with the crisis, the elections are an irrelevant issue. I have a question: Where were you two months of smart people when you were wandering the country for two months saying that only elections would save Ukraine? Where is the price of these two months and the crisis that society received when you were playing games in the Bank? On Wednesday, we were told that Ukraine would save the headless Parliament and remove the Supreme Council. With your headlessness on Wednesday, when you said that on Thursday you would come in to vote in favour of the Supreme Council and save Ukraine and today the society that watches the news every day and doesn't know what to do. On the seventh day, we expect the leaders of the key political forces who met yesterday with the President to take responsibility. We've been holding our fists for these key political powers for two days. The President said: “My friends, I am gathering the key political forces and I will tell you how to act.” What happened yesterday? The key leaders went home, and the President continued to deal with the famine. Where, I ask, are the Ukrainian people waiting for him? Our political power clearly and clearly stated that we are not interested in the name of the Head of the Supreme Council, nor in the color of the hair. There they guessed, the classics guessed a week ago what clothes would be, shoes that would be. We are interested in what this man will do in Parliament, what laws will he uphold? Will he take responsibility today with the government for the situation in the country and correct it? Will we choose both the wisest and the most beautiful Head of the Supreme Council? Our position is clear, we are ready to vote now, in the evening, tomorrow morning for that policy that says, my principles are, I sign commitments along with such political forces, I form a coalition and I promise to the Ukrainian society that in this Parliament there will be laws on social protection of people," this Parliament will adopt laws on the protection of the Ukrainian economy, there will be a budget adopted in this Parliament, there will be order in this Parliament and there will be no calls from different streets and say that we need to change and postpone the consideration of a bill. We're going to vote for this speaker. We will not vote in favour of the situation when. As we were told here, there are not many speakers who want to be held accountable. That is how those desiring to take responsibility will find our political power now and vote for it. Once again, the responsibility, the joint work, the coalition or the public commitment that the Head of the Supreme Council and the Parliament will make are the mandatory conditions that our political power imposes. I am absolutely convinced that the initiator of the next crisis and the creation of this situation — the “headless parliament” — needs to understand when they go, when they go on such a move, they need to understand that they create additional problems for this country and understand that they should answer to the whole country, not go on the platform and moralize that everything is very bad, let us work together. No, you guys, you've made this mess, get out of this situation. I'll put it this way: BUILD gives all its votes for the politician who takes responsibility for getting out of the crisis and the situation, and 155 of our deputies along with him are ready to save the country. If there is no such policy, our 155 votes remain with us, and you remain with the President, there are key political forces, and take responsibility for yourself, and do not divorce this Parliament or the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-18-m0.u7	Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-18-m0.u8	Respectable voters! The daily analysis of the socio-economic situation in Ukraine, which we Communists are conducting, gives us the full right to declare. The power of Yushchenko and his orange team, which protects only the owners of banks, metallurgical, chemical, mining and other strategic enterprises of the country, have so far done nothing to preserve jobs, prevent growth in unemployment, ensure social guarantees and pay full and curb prices. They didn't do anything to protect a simple person, a worker, a servant, a pensioner, a student. A special feature for Ukraine is that the financial crisis is turning into a social, economic and political crisis. However, all the powers and intentions of the authorities and oligarchs are aimed at achieving the sole goal of saving their capital. Management chaos, covering the country's avalanche of dismissals, reductions and unemployment, a reduction of 30-50 per cent in wages in the industrial sector and a fall in GDP, has already led to a sharp reduction in budget income. In the new year 2009, pension money will no longer be available in February-March. Stopping or reducing production will inevitably result in a sharp reduction in income to the employment fund, without paying unemployment benefits, no funds for re-profiling and adapting programmes to teachers, doctors, librarians, staff of other budgetary organizations. Delays in the payment of salaries will already take place in the first quarter. There's nothing to pay for community services, social services, teachers, doctors. Industrial unemployment will be followed by social unemployment. Dear colleagues, I once again urge you to consider our, the faction of the Company, proposals for the withdrawal of Ukraine from the crisis. Our programme has been tested over time in our country in Soviet times and its basic principles abroad. I would like to recall that strict and radical measures, similar to those we propose, are: enhanced public and public control of strategic sectors of the economy, nationalization or transfer of the stock control package to a group of enterprises, if the owner is unable to secure employment, sufficient levels of pay and social obligations. Homopoly on alcohol and tobacco, and so on, enabled Roosevelt to cope with major depression. Noting that the basic principles of Roosevelt's new course have been taken from the experience of socialist change in the Union and have suggested that market self-regulation and the transition to economic planning, i.e. the abandonment of liberalism in the economy and politics, the provision of social guarantees for job creation rather than reduction, the establishment of good neighbourly relations in the international arena and the rejection of the policy of confrontation. Yushtenko, in association with nationalists and nationalist large capital parties, is doing everything the other way around – giving up national interests by throwing people under the IMF's credit hammer and the Soviet divide. Together with the national falsifying forces, he is pursuing a confrontational policy against our strategic partner, the energy donor Russia, by striking a devastating blow to Ukraine's energy security and the livelihood of our people. It destroys jobs, distorts mass layoffs and reduces wages. Here are just a few examples. "Dniprostina". The enterprise operates in one shift, instead of three, by April 900 workers out of three thousand are planned to be reduced. A low-provoian pipe factory. The first and second camps have been shut down. On the verge of the fourth and fifth stops. Various data suggest a reduction of up to 3,000 persons. Dnepropetrov plant of metallurgical equipment. There are no more than eight jobs per month. A reduction of 2,000 workers out of seven thousand is planned. Ordjonik D.O.C. Production has been stopped, only administration and security are in operation. The salary is reduced from two thousand 300 bracelets to 800 bracelets. It's a Herson machine shop. Production has been suspended and workers have been asked to resign. Autocraz. Up to the new year, 500 people are planned to be reduced. The company was transferred to a four-day week. It's a Poltava auto-aggregating plant. Four-day working week. A 20% reduction in employment is planned. First Maid Dizelmash. Reductions in working hours, massive vacations at their own expense. First-May sugar factory. Mass dismissal. It's all over Ukraine. Respected workers, unfortunately, have become owners and oligarchs in the years of independence of the trade union, with few exceptions. They are torn apart by the smoldering of sanatoriums, prophylaxis, kindergartens, and pioneer camps. Trade union bonds have long denied the protection of workers' rights, that is a fact. That is why I appeal to you not to go to trade unionists and nerds, but to unite in the struggle, to protect your rights and your social security. Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-18-m0.u9	Complete, please, Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-18-m0.u10	Ukraine needs new trade unions, and today it is through the creation of working committees to protect businesses and jobs. That is what we today, Communists, see as one of the key steps in the organization of workers in the struggle for their jobs and jobs. The faction of communists will therefore stand and provide all support to the labour communities in the protection of their rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-18-m0.u11	Davidenko Andriy Anatolyevich, please. Kirilenko Viacheslav Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-18-m0.u12	Viacheslav Kirilenko, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense". Dear colleagues! Dear voters! Despite the difficult situation in Parliament, I'm going to start with what I think is most important this week. This week in Ukraine will be a tribute to the memory of the victims of the genocide of the Ukrainian people, which took place from 32 to 33 years ago. Of course, throughout the country, people will render due compensation to those who have perished innocently during this Stalinese crime of hunger. And it's not just a reflection of historical events, it's a famine that has had the terrible demographic, political, economic and cultural consequences that Ukraine still has. This week, monuments, memorials, millions of Ukrainians will be opened throughout the country to honor victims of Communist terror. I think that every honest Ukrainian in this week will light a candle of memory because those who have died innocently in those terrible times need to remember them. The decision of the European Parliament called Holodomor a crime against the Ukrainian people and a crime against humanity. The 14 countries of the world have already recognized the famine as a genocide of the Ukrainian people. During this week, seven presidents of the great European countries will arrive in Kiev in our capital to commemorate the victims of the Holocaust. We regret that instead of arriving at this sad ceremony, we have received a contemptuous response from the Russian President, who once again demonstrated that unfortunately Russian leadership is not ready to accept the realities of the new world and is not ready to accept the truth about Ukraine and about Ukrainian history. We regret that we are still denied the right to teach our own history and to celebrate our own dates. We regret the tone with which the Russian President addressed the President of Ukraine, the internationally elected and legitimate one. We believe that this kind of tone does not contribute to the strengthening of Ukrainian-Russian relations. And we are convinced that sooner or later in Russia, Russian leadership will stop taking the word “holiday” into quotes, because this approach is a disregard for the memory of millions of Ukrainians who died in those sad times from the Communist Stalin regime. And those who do not want to confess to the crimes of this regime are, in fact, associated with these crimes, if that is the way they are taken to arm the current Russian leadership. We believe that internal parliamentary life should be considered this week. Of course, someone is going to be the speaker of Parliament, but it is important for us that, under the guidance of the new speaker of Parliament, the Supreme Council adopts laws rather than continue to demonstrate to all Ukrainians the inability to work. So we now urge everyone this week to quickly complete the procedure for selecting a new speaker and to start reviewing anti-crisis laws. If they are in the government, let the government carry them, if these are laws that need immediate approval, let them vote immediately, spending as little time as possible on committees and in the discussion room. Our Ukraine, for its part, has introduced a social anti-crisis bill, which, by the way, has already been supported by a profiling committee, for which I, one of the authors, thank the members of this committee. We have introduced a bill that provides for changes to four laws, but which are very urgent. Now, everyone's talking about unemployment, which is affecting Ukraine, part-time employment or partial unemployment has already become significant, if not mass in metallurgy, chemistry, and construction. That's why this bill requires us to introduce a temporary unemployment fee that should be counted at two-thirds of the tariff salary. In the budget next year, we have to anticipate a large amount of money for public work in order to employ people who will be forced out. And we have to make sure that from January 1st we don't see that the salaries of the budgeters are reduced, and that's the question of a single tariff grid, and we don't see that pensions are reduced for pensioners. And this threat is both in terms of government and in view of the imperfections of the regulatory framework. That's why we're calling for this bill to be adopted tomorrow, because since January 1st the people. It'll be too late next year. And, as always, we call for constructive work.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-18-m0.u13	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Yesterday, there were meetings of parliamentary factions who agreed to the schedule of meetings for today. The vast majority of the issues that you are now dealing with were in agreement with all parliamentary factions, i.e. their authorized representatives, part of them are not. There is a suggestion that now, on all matters, before we can determine ourselves in the session room, when we include them in today's session schedule, because most of them are not included in the agenda of the session, we have not made such a decision, we have to vote in the session room. Any questions in order of business? Please sign up, and let's talk about how we're going to form today's agenda. Efraemov Alexander Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-18-m0.u14	Dear Alexander Vladimirovich! Dear colleagues! I think it's clear to everyone that without the Speaker of Parliament, we can't work effectively in the session room and we can't move on. Therefore, the main issue that remains so far is to agree on a candidate that will pass in this room. We know that active consultations are under way on this issue. We know that there are appropriate nominations that are proposed for the Speaker's post only to conclude those consultations. It would therefore be logical, Aleksandr Vladimirovic, to take a half-hour break now, to consult with the faction leaders on the matter, and then to take a decision on whether to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-18-m0.u15	Thank you. Quiet Paul Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-18-m0.u16	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, I don't understand why it was necessary for me to change the leadership of the Supreme Council if you don't have a clear agenda and a plan, which is why it all took place, but Oleg Lazko will say more about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-18-m0.u17	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. We believe that the bill 3308 should be considered in the first order, as presented by the government, the changes to the budget for this year. There the anticipated additional expenditure on the Pension Fund is what our colleagues have been talking about, which is a threat to the imbalance of the pension system, although precisely to avoid this imbalance, the government is offering an additional six billion dollars to the Pension Fund. There are almost two billion dollars to be paid to coal miners; there are several billion additional dollars to stabilize the work of Naftogaz Ukraine, to support the Ukrainian Armed Forces, which are urgent bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-18-m0.u18	Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-18-m0.u19	Simonenko, the Communist faction. I wanted to use this minute to further explain to our voters what was going on in Parliament. Parliament is still in the worst fight for the President, and it is clear that the President and his orange fools are trying to paralyze Parliament's work and, to that end, they have, of course, brought in an incapacitated team that is unable to deal with today's pressing, painful problems for society caused by the crisis. They're not specifically engaged in economics today, they're busy, they're sorry, they're just talking, and they're sharing what they haven't assigned yet. Therefore, the faction of communists has categorically insisted that we consider anti-crisis measures as a matter of priority, we once again suggest that we return to our proposals and make it clear that today's main task is to keep jobs and that if workers are to be driven out of work, these enterprises must be put back under the control of the workers, that prices, tariffs must be frozen today.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-18-m0.u20	Chef Roman Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-18-m0.u21	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, I see no reason to take a recess again in our plenary session as suggested, because I would like to remind you that we are actually the third or fourth day in a consultation mode on the election of the Supreme Council Head and there is no reason not to take up this issue at all. But with regard to the order of the day, Your Honor Alexander Volodymyrovich, I would like to remind you that the faction insists on the inclusion of a daily bill of 3344 on social protection measures against the consequences of the global financial crisis. There's the conclusion of the committee of profile on this subject, it's positive, there's all the materials in the hands of the national MPs, and I'm holding it right now, i.e. a project given to the people's deputies, there's no reason not to look at it at all. The faction insists that this project be included in the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-18-m0.u22	Demyanchuk Victoria Alexandrovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-18-m0.u23	Please pass the word to Alexander's Ally Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-18-m0.u24	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Aleksandr Vladimirović, if a recess is announced, is only to clarify the agenda for today's meeting and the agenda for this week at all. We really need to urgently consider draft legislation that deals with the crisis in Ukraine's economy. The Communist faction has introduced a number of such bills, unfortunately they have not been considered in the Supreme Council Hall. Therefore, I believe that we need to urgently require the Government to introduce relevant legislation. We must urgently consider the changes to the 2008 Budget Act and return to it the amounts that, in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision, should be returned, including payments to children of war under the Children of War Act. We know that the Constitutional Court has repealed a number of articles of the 2008 Budget Act. However, the Government has not reviewed the financial and financial side of this.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-18-m0.u25	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-18-m0.u26	I therefore believe that the amendments to the Budget Act, the Constitutional Court's decisions, the people's social benefits and benefits that they have set up under the Constitution should be made first, and that the additional funding of the Pension Fund should be reviewed because there are problems with the payment of pensions. And then consider a package of anti-crisis laws, including those introduced by the Communist faction. This should include a suspension of the work of the Supreme Council, an urgent adoption of the agenda on which all these issues should be included. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-18-m0.u27	Kosov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-18-m0.u28	Mikhailo Kosov, faction of the Yulia Block Timoshenko, Party “Reforms and Orders”. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, I have reviewed the order of the day that is proposed for today. And that's right, you're proposing to take a half-hour break, because in the list of issues, it's only roughly possible to say that we're going to be looking at anti-crisis documents today. In particular, we would need to support the proposal that came out of Láška, from Zvarič, concerning document 3344. We need to take a look at that package of documents that the Cabinet of Ministers submitted to address the crisis in Ukraine. But last and foremost. But no matter what we accept, we can only agree on a day’s arrangement today.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-18-m0.u29	Vollinec Evgeny Valeriovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-18-m0.u30	Please pass on the word of Cibenko to Petra Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-18-m0.u31	Thank you. The Communist faction Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, I think that we are all in the same line of thought as we are doomed to the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to decide immediately on the issue of the election of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Does it take a break or not? We don't think so. Because yesterday there was a meeting of the Conciliation Board at which the agenda was set. And one more thing I'd like to pay attention to. Today, there is information that seven heads of state will come to Ukraine. You know, dear colleagues, I knew that the President of Ukraine had many best men, but I didn't expect so many. You know, when it comes to the financial crisis, it's not even a poor country like the United States of America that found it possible to delay the implementation of the September 11 memorial, and we're guessing.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-18-m0.u32	My fellow Members, I would like to inform you that yesterday, during the debate, we were looking at all of the projects that have now been mentioned. The status of the profile committees is not 3,308 or 3344. I've just been very specific to the head of the Secretariat. They said these guys aren't here yet. I also want to say that there were discussions on other issues, and yesterday there was no agreement on issues that did not appear on this list. You know, in order to form the agenda, we need the support of MP factions that have more than 226 people's deputies in Ukraine. All the questions that are now being raised can be discussed once again and resolved in this room, which we will consider and what we will not. In view of what has now been discussed, I have a statement from two factions asking for a 30 - minute recess. I'm announcing. The faction of the Party of the Region and the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. A break of up to 11 am is announced for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-18-m0.u33	Dear colleagues, we are continuing our morning plenary session. The meeting of the leaders of the parliamentary factions was concluded. I would like to inform you that there has been an issue on the consideration of individual bills that have not been included in the project for today, as well as the general approach to this week's work. Given that we are currently looking at four draft laws sent to the Cabinet of Ministers, which are of an anti-crisis nature. And these bills today are on the agenda of the profile committees. And what is coming to the Supreme Council today is the next big package of laws from the Cabinet of Ministers that have to be considered in the profile committees before we get to the session hall, and that we have a number of bills from the Ukrainian National Deputies that deal with the same problem and are to some extent alternative to those projects proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers, the faction leaders agreed that we would now put forward a proposal for a change in the calendar plan in a way that we would allow in the professional committees to consider these issues and get to work on Thursday at 10 a.m. Please sign in from the factions by procedure. Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-18-m0.u34	Simonenko, the Communist faction. I also proposed to the Conciliation Council yesterday, and today, to consider the issue of the leadership of the Supreme Council, thus enabling us to work under normal conditions. But I also want to make my point of view that the President is insolently involved in the organization of the work of the Supreme Council, which is pressing on the Supreme Council, is forcing you to become, let's say, looking for new agreements between representatives of a powerful capital and practically desecrates our activities. Today he leads the line to destroy the Supreme Council in public, to form mistrust, and thus, to usurp power, to do everything today in order to remain in office. I am deeply convinced that he will not create with the Supreme Council so that he will not do so by killing the people of Ukraine, the people of Ukraine will certainly say their word to him in the elections, and I am convinced that he will never again be President of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-18-m0.u35	Thank you, Peter Mikolaiovich. Efraemov Alexander Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-18-m0.u36	Thank you, Alexander Vladimirovich. Dear colleagues, we have had a small debate on the legality of the Rules of Procedure of the decision proposed by Aleksandr Vladimirović. I wish to clarify that articles 19 and 50 of the Rules collectively permit a one-time rejection of the Rules, with subsequent application of this as a protocol decision. Therefore, we can take this decision, which Alexander Vladimirović has proposed, and make a record of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-18-m0.u37	Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-18-m0.u38	Dear Head, dear colleagues, once again we want to emphasize what happened last week, we see the consequences today. The authors and organizers of the action that took place last Wednesday regrettably have no next plan of action. And the hostage became the Supreme Council, the hostage of the bills, the hostage and the crisis that we are now under obligation to settle. Unfortunately, we are inactive today because there is no Head, no Head. That's why we have to go to the fairway right now. To put to the vote today any candidate that's not negotiated, that's not worked out as a result of the consultations, is to put on a show again. Once again, we insist that this issue should be resolved immediately and in the context of creating a new coalition, not a situational majority, but within the framework of the creation of a coalition. Create, colleagues, a coalition in any form and assume responsibility, let's end these games. The country is not waiting, the situation is extremely difficult. That's until Thursday. But that's the last option. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-18-m0.u39	Matvienko Alexander Sergiyovich, please. Anatoly Sergiyovich, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-18-m0.u40	The Ukrainian Republican Party “Cobor”, the “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense” block. Dear colleagues, there's such an impression that we don't understand what's going on on the street at all. In times of crisis, we have to understand what Ukraine is, is its national interest, and any adventure, and even more action on this adventure is a betrayal of national interests. I, Alexander Volodymyrovich, am addressing you as the chief organizer of the adventure that you locked up in this room and created a coup. If you have no answer to the question, What can you do next? - so please don't do anything, because it's not for your pleasure, it's for the disgrace of Parliament and the destruction of parliamentaryism. That's why I'm addressing you and all my colleagues right now. Friends, if there is no decision, let's cancel the previous one, apologize to Arsenius Petrovich, let him sit down and run. Until you create an adequate coalition, don't block Parliament's work. Well, you're funny and you're gonna make the whole world laugh. And if you can't do it, Alexander Volodymyrovich, resign because you are today.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-18-m0.u41	Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-18-m0.u42	Dear colleagues! Oleg Zarubinski. ‘Block of Lithuania’. The “Lithuania Block” advocates that if these two days have been given to work on committees, they should really be given to work on committees that are in charge of anti-crisis bills, so that this is not the time that would be spent on all kinds of conspiracies outside Parliament. [[Tuesday, Wednesday]] In general, it seems to us that if these two days are to be held in conjunction with committee work for some kind of consultation, it is clear that consultations with Parliament's organization of work should be held in Parliament. Any external factors, any way out of Parliament in these matters is always a brake to the solution, including, by the way, personnel issues, so these two days should not be devoted to this – not to culinary agreements and conspiracies, but to real professional work on committees. And there's something to work on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-18-m0.u43	Thank you. Dear colleagues, once again, at the suggestion of the leaders of the MP factions, I am putting to the vote now the question of changing the calendar plan, and that we should devote the next two days to working on the profile committees and continue our work on Thursday at 10 a.m. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:24:32]] For-300 “For” – 300, the decision is taken. Please, by the factions. Region Party – 169, "Timoshenko Yuli Block" – 107, "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" – 4, communists – 0, "Litvina Block" – 20. Dear colleagues, the morning plenary session is closed. At ten o'clock in the morning, we continue our work on Thursday.
