ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u1	Dear colleagues, let's register. [[10:03:48]] 431 National Deputy according to registration. The morning plenary session is open. I invite the faction leaders to my office to agree on the order of the day. Please. Well, we'll try in 30 minutes, colleagues. It's a real year, isn't it? Give me an hour. All right, we'll meet you in the conference room in an hour.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, we're starting work. Let me brief you on the situation that has arisen with regard to the order of the day. So the following questions are proposed for consideration. The first bill is a decree to amend the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, where Alexander Volodymyrovich and Mikola Volodymyrovich leave not the Supreme Council but only two committees in connection with their election to the Presidency of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. 3117, this is a bill that deals with standardizing the cost of our previous decision, when we increased scholarships for the most talented young scientists from a thousand to two thousand dollars. This is proposed without discussion. Then, Bill 2709, this is suggested in the first reading of the new edition of the Ukrainian Budget Code. Prior to the changes to the State budget and the adoption of the budget, we will try to decentralize the budget. We move on to 0871, this is the draft Law amending the 50th article of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government. Next, 2302 is the funding of the bookstore. Next, the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws, Bill 3151. [[on additional measures to ensure the implementation of the Constitution]] A very interesting bill, I think we'll listen to it. Next, 2031, this is a bill amending some of the Ukrainian laws on regulation of the entrepreneurial activities of our colleague. At 12:30 a.m., we will begin the procedure by judges, colleagues, judges, and judges. 2298, second reading is veterinary medicine. 2088 is the restoration of the debtor's ability or recognition of bankruptcy, 1101 is the non-encumberment of enterprises, institutions and organizations, it is the amendment of certain laws of Ukraine, i.e. the so-called anti-rider package. 2137 draft of the Law on Wholesale Markets in Agriculture and 2704 – this bill we have withdrawn if I am not betrayed by memory, 2704. Yeah, we got 2704. There will also be a separate vote on each bill that I have just notified you, and a separate order on the Saqami sanatorium will also be put to the vote. Colleagues, now we're going to have to vote in favour of every bill on inclusion in the agenda, so I've made a decision, now I'm going to give it with a motive, so I've taken a decision by the Conciliation Council. Please, three minutes, sign up for motive. Please. Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u3	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. Dear colleagues, Your Honor Arsenija Petrovich, you read the agenda, which is designed by two new factions of the majority, the Party of the Regions and the Block of Timoshenko. The question from other factions to this order of the day is, unfortunately, impossible to ask. That is why I would like to announce before the entire Chamber that the Constitutional Court has finally reached a conclusion on the changes to the Constitution on the lifting of parliamentary immunity. The documents are already in the Supreme Council. The Supreme Council is now demonstrating the possibility of voting in 360, 370 and 400 votes. Nothing holds us back today, to the maximum tomorrow to raise questions about the abolition of parliamentary immunity to vote, and all factions have every reason to fulfil their obligations and to vote in favour of lifting parliamentary immunity. Therefore, “Our Ukraine” insists on putting this issue into the agenda and the vote, because the question is finally ready. We need to vote and cancel the inviolability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u4	Vladimir Litwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, our faction will support the proposed meeting schedule for this day, at least we need to demonstrate that there is an understanding, there is work, on one condition, on one request, that the Supreme Council of Ukraine supports decision-making in support of a specialized spinal sanatorium called the Burdenko Academy in Saki of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. The question is not politicized at all, but it is related to spinal cords, people who are in extremely difficult conditions. And it's clear that there is a need for state support for this sanatorium. I'd like to ask my respectable colleagues to step out of political hostility and support this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u6	Mikola Kravchenko. Peter Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u7	Simonenko, may I have a word with you?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u8	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, once again, I would like to propose to you that we, the Supreme Council, work today, on the one hand, in carrying out our decision, and on the other hand, in the future. I point out that we have not yet implemented a decision in view of the fact that a law has been adopted regarding the use of money to eliminate the effects of floods and the establishment of a commission to control the use of this money. People in these regions are indignant that the authorities are stealing government money and are not pursuing an assignment to eliminate the effects of floods. That's why we suggested, so I insisted on the Conciliation Council that the personal composition of this committee be approved immediately and it started to work. Secondly, I suggest you consider the issue of voter registration and listen to information from the head of the Central Electoral Commission, who today is preventing the creation of a voter register, which is not being done by Ukraine's law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u9	Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u10	Thank you. Dear Arseny Petrovich! The faction of the Party of the Regions supports the proposed agenda. And I think we're going to provide a consolidated vote. I'd just like to hear a little bit about the constant speculation of pseudo-democrats about the MP's so-called inviolability. Yes, indeed, there is a decision of the Constitutional Court, and let's stop lying to people in the end. Let's bring the Institute of Inviolability into line with the Constitution and common sense. We're going to bring the Presidential, Judicial, and Deputies into line. Or you're stuck with those deputies and you're trying to get yourself some cheap political capitalist. But that is not what bothers our people today. We're standing on the threshold of winter, and it's not clear whether we have gas in our shelters, we're at the threshold of galloping inflation. That's what the Supreme Council should be focused on: social policy, productivity, the competitiveness of our economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u11	Thank you, colleagues. The first question is about making changes and additions to the Constitution in part of the withdrawal of parliamentary immunity. Yesterday, I officially came to the conclusion of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. I have instructed the Supreme Council apparatus to immediately prepare the packets of documents that are necessary to include this issue in the agenda. I think from tomorrow we will have all the formal grounds and all the materials to address these issues in the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament and put them to a vote. And we're going to watch who backs up and who doesn't. Next, regarding the personal composition of the Commission for the control of budgetary expenditure in the removal of the effects of the flood in the western areas of Ukraine. The commission was formally created and in the final positions of the law, which defined the basis of funding for the liquidation of flood effects, it was clearly stated that Parliament would perform its constitutional function, namely, to control the use of these funds. I have been formally offered proposals regarding the composition of such a commission. So tomorrow we're going to start voting on the first question, namely, the personal composition of the commission. We'll give the commission a maximum of two weeks to inform Parliament of how the government has used the funds, the problems that need to be solved, and who needs to be held accountable. Third question about the Central Election Commission. There is a proposal to put to the vote questions about the information of the Head of the Central Electoral Commission on the formation of the voter register, and this proposal was discussed at a meeting of the faction leaders. When do we listen to the information? It is objective that we will not be able to make it tomorrow because the head of the CBC will not be prepared. For next plenary week. Tuesday means Tuesday. We're planning for the next plenary week. Colleagues! I'm going to put every question to a vote and then, if anyone has a objection, I'll give them another opportunity to speak. Let's go day by day. 3136, Amendment Order of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine We're voting for inclusion in the agenda. [[11:26:01]] For 364 Decision taken. Decree No. 3117 of the Ukrainian Supreme Council Amendment Order on the establishment of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's name scholarships for the most talented young scientists. Vote. [[11:26:28]] For 373 Yes. Now, colleagues! Order of the National Deputy of Ukraine Volodymyr Litvina, draft Decision on State Support for the Specialized Spinal Sanatorium of the Academy of Sciences of M.N. Burdenka in Saki of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. There must be a vote here, first on the inclusion in the agenda and the consideration of this issue without a committee, because there is no committee for this act of law. Please vote. [[11:27:07]] For-147 The decision is not taken. Not turned on. Please show by factions. Region Party – 10, BUT – 29, Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense – 61, Communists – 27, Block Lithuania – 20. The next piece of legislation is Bill 2709. This is a draft law amending the Code of Budgets of Ukraine. Vote. [[11:27:45]] For 372 Decision taken. For 372. Next bill, number 0871. It's the second reading, it doesn't need to be voted on. It automatically falls, but so that we don't have any questions, since we don't have an order of the day session as a whole, we better vote. 0871, we vote. This is local self-governance, the procedure for nominating the secretary. [[11:28:16]] For 374 Decision taken. The next bill, 2302, is a draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine relating to State support for the publishing industry in Ukraine. [[11:28:42]] For 419 Decision taken. Next bill. Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on additional measures to implement the Constitution of Ukraine]] In fact, this is a change to the Criminal Code and the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine, which refers to the seizure of power, the dissolution of parliament and so on. From the procedure, sign the procedure. Three minutes. Vladimir Karpuk. Roman Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u12	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, at the meeting of the faction leaders, I have pointed out that if we consider this project, we will violate the Rules in part that requires at least a seven-day deadline for the MP to get acquainted with the relevant bill. Therefore, when this project is included in the agenda, it is necessary to vote in favour of an expedited procedure for its consideration in the session room. That's the first one. It's different. I was assured that the committee had considered this issue, and I would ask the deputies to be given a decision by the committee on the bill. And since the project is assured that it was considered by the committee, it was only possible for it to do so when it came to the conclusion of the Scientific and Scientific Administration. I would also ask that this conclusion be given to the deputies in the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u13	Persevere, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u14	Please hand over Alexandrovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u15	Alexandrovska, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u16	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. I believe that we must begin today to consider this very important serious issue, because it is indeed necessary that we learn to give in hand to those who violate the Constitution and violate the laws of Ukraine. We must be criminalized for such offences we must have reason to tell the public that he is a criminal. We therefore support this proposal and will vote in favour of the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u17	Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u18	Oleg Zarubinsky, Block of Lithuania. Dear colleagues, I would rather say, honourable voters, I would like to draw your attention to what is being voted on and what is being proposed in the Supreme Council: political bills whose purpose is purely conjunctural political relevance, including those governed by the Constitution of Ukraine. That's not acceptable. The proposal to support the first group of people with disabilities — spinal cords. That's what you don't accept! I'm just asking you to pay attention to what the Supreme Council is doing.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u19	Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u20	Thank you. May I have the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Gritsak, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u21	Vasil Gretzak.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u22	Basil Gretzak, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear colleagues, this is a matter that is currently under discussion, and yesterday the committee discussed it at its meeting. I want to prove to you that there was quite a lively and serious discussion. And by putting it to a vote, the committee unanimously adopted this question to look into it in the Supreme Council Hall, and I think the Chamber will support the committee's decision. In addition, I want to assure the National Deputies, let them look at their place of work -- I have in my hands the conclusion of the expert board, he is, you can get to know him and the secretariat of the Supreme Council has distributed him to the Hall. Whoever didn't get to know you, I can give you a hand right now, and you can get to know him yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u23	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I will report on the outcome of the discussion. Signed conclusion of the committee on law enforcement by Comrade Sovkovic. It's given away. And the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration is. As far as this bill is concerned, it is not as legal as the political bill. This is paragraph one. Item two. The draft procedure will meet the strict regulatory requirements. If at least one Ukrainian national MP had a proposal for a second reading bill, the bill would be sent to the Supreme Council Committee to prepare for the second reading. Let's do it by law. And I have proposals for this bill. Dear colleagues, I am putting to the vote the question of inclusion in the agenda and the consideration of Bill No. 3151 is the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on additional measures to ensure the implementation of the Constitution of Ukraine]] [[11:34:20]] For 345. Please show by factions. Region Party – 159, "Clock of July Timoshenko" – 146, "Our Ukraine" – 1, communists – 27, "Clock of Lithuania" – 12. Next bill. Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on the regulation of entrepreneurial activities. [[2031]] Vote. [[11:34:55]] For-360 Next. For 360, the decision is made. Next, colleagues, the election and release of judges at 12.30 p.m. Vote. I'd rather vote, Adam Ivanovich, because now they say it's not 12:30, it's 4:40. We already have experience. [[11:35:20.]] For 385 Yes. The next bill, 2298, is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Veterinary Medicine Act. [[second reading]] [[11:35:44]] For 343 I'm reporting to someone who's particularly talented. The second reading does not vote when there is an order of the day session. And since there is absolutely no order of the day session, we are obliged to vote on every act of law in order to avoid contradiction. 2088 is a draft law amending the Ukrainian law on the restoration or bankruptcy of the debtor. Vote, colleagues. [[11:36:20]] For 373 Decision taken, 373 in favour. 1101 is a draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine (unaccepting the acquisition of enterprises, institutions, organizations). [[11:36:43]] For 369 The next bill, 2137, is the draft Law on Wholesale Markets in Agriculture. [[11:37:03]] For 348 Next. Information from the head of the Central Electoral Commission on Please speak to Petra Mikolaiovich Simonek. And Roman Tuck.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, I have made this proposal and I ask your support. But I would like to make one point so that we don't have any arguments or artificially delaying information. I propose to vote on the inclusion in the agenda of the Central Electoral Commission's daily information on the creation of a register, i.e. the Central Electoral Commission, and I would like to ask you to vote in this editorial.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u25	Roman Tchac.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u26	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, when the 2704 was removed concerning the special taxation regime, I ask that you include instead 3024 – a government bill that deals with the special tax regime for VAT-producers from January 1, 2009.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u27	As for 3024, we'll turn it on after lunch. I'll give it to you. I'll tell you why. We mixed up the number of laws, and it became clear that we understood one act of law, and we included another in the order of the day. We're going to be reformatted, we've made our decision. After the break, it will be included – 3024. I'm going back to the machine to reproduce, and we're going to look at it last. Colleagues, then. I'm betting on the vote on information from the Central Election Commission of Ukraine about the formation of the voter register for the next plenary week. Vote. [[11:38:53]] For 374 Now, the “Litvina Block” and “Our Ukraine – the People’s Self-Defense” have requested a 30-minute recess. Here's a statement. Do you want to take a break or do you want to speak now? Break? 30 minutes off, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u28	We continue the meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The two factions asked for a break – "Litvina Block" and "Our Ukraine – The People's Self-Defense". That is why I would like to give the floor to Lithuania's statement, Volodymyr Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u29	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank those colleagues who have supported the inclusion in the agenda and the consideration of issues relating to the Saki sanatorium. I am convinced that you feel the pain of people who are limited by their different circumstances in life. I want to apologize to more than 30,000 spinach because the Supreme Council of Ukraine has been deaf to their problems. Because, of course, it is better to share authority, to take authority from one another, rather than to think about people who display examples of heroism daily. I want to say, the honorary colleagues in the hospital: this is a hospital, 34 years old, where every visit is treated to 700 people who suffer from life. For 34 years there was no repair. I want to tell my colleagues who didn't vote cynically: when these people come by train, they're wearing them on a blanket across Saki. Please tell me, what was the political question? Don't look at it. You could have expressed your point of view, your argument. We wanted to tell the screams of those people that no one was talking about. It's said that there's been a breach of regulations. But today, when they're considering bills -- about taking someone's power away, giving someone -- they're actually violating any standard. When they were looking at the subway support program, they supported any standard. And here's one recommendation: let's all draw the government's attention, to these people who are comfortable in the premises that were built 34 years ago. Room for four men and one sink. And all the comforts. And all these people, at best, in a wheelchair. Please tell me what kind of politics this is. Please tell me, did you want to put our faction in place? You put 30,000 of these people in place. I don't know what to say today, how to reach out to you, how to yell at you to wake up. Well, you don't agree. We could discuss this question, make a normal decision, but draw attention to these people, and in Ukraine we have 2.5 million, and we all walk under God, we don't know what's going to happen to us tomorrow. Tell me, dear colleagues, what kind of tolerance can you find to hear, after all, the Ukrainian people? Do you want to get on your knees? I mean, despite all your efforts, it won't work. I'm going to fall, but I'm not going to fall to your knees!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u30	Do you have a wish? Well, please, three minutes of motivation. Write down who you want. Vladimir Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u31	Please pass the word to Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u32	Viacheslav Kirilenko, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u33	Viacheslav Kirilenko, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense". "Our Ukraine" shares the pain that came from the head of the "Lithuania Block". Now we're looking at any questions, because the two factions -- the Party of Regions and the BUIT -- are shaping the order of the day, but beneath themselves, under their figure. And the questions that can be voted on in one minute, they don't give in to the agenda. The sanatorium in Sachs really needs support, and by the way, there's a lot of sanatoriums. So there's good reason right now for the matter to be resolved in one minute and to give appropriate instructions to the Cabinet of Ministers. Just as there is good reason for us to begin to consider the issue of overturning the MP’s in touch today. The Constitutional Court has reached a conclusion, saying that the deputies have every reason to take away the inviolability. Procrastination shows only that the two factions that now control the agenda - the Party of Regions and the Block of Yulia Timoshenko - do not want to undo the parliamentary integrity. And that's bad.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u34	Mikola Kravchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u35	Cowchenko, the Communist faction. But when there is no political power to speak of, it begins to speak of parliamentary integrity. And without deciphering it, not proving to this day what they want. But that is against the political power that is squeezing today. I'm talking about Vladimir Mikhailovich. Indeed, the Communist faction voted in favour of such a decree. But it's very bad that the performance doesn't sound today, the tragedy that today with the TBs, the tragedy that today with the miner regressionists. So let's not pry in the rostrum about just the spinners, but let's say in general that there is a disaster in the country, that there is a tragedy in the country today. And if we don't take action together, of course, we won't help people. And, of course, you have to make a decision on spinal cords. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u36	Alexander Paklusenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u37	Dear colleagues, respectable Vladimir Mihajlovich! I think most people in the room share your anxiety, your pain you've been talking to. I'll just give you a few phrases from your statement. “Bring a cry”, “call attention”, there are no words. It's probably a very important thing to bring out a scream. But the main question is that this scream is not in Saka, but throughout Ukraine. Which you won't take to a medical facility, and that's where that scream stands. Therefore, if we want to resolve the matter on the merits, let us address it on the merits. I propose to set up a working group. On Saturday, I'm going to take a ride with Kabmin. And next sessional week, consider this issue in the budget committee and address it with money rather than shouting. People are tired of our screams, they're waiting for real help.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u38	Peter Gashuk. Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u39	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Our faction supports this issue. I witnessed the discussion at the Conciliation Council. There was no faction that would object to considering the matter. But the Head of the Supreme Council proposed, and this was supported by all the faction leaders, that let us consider not only one sanatorium in Sachs, but an analogous sanatorium in Slovenian, is, as Pecklusenko, another sanatorium, rightly said. Let's look at this issue in the complex and predict it right, not by shouting help, but by money. Moreover, the government of Timoshenko in the next year’s budget project has planned a significant increase in budget costs to address these problems. In addition, the sanatorium that we're talking about is a professional sanatorium. And to give, as is stipulated in the Cabinet’s decision to transfer him to his own property, well, that's a little out of line with the right. That's why we're here to see.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u40	Colleagues, be careful now. First. The initiative proposed by Vladimir Litwin is correct. But unless a decision is taken by Parliament on the inclusion in the agenda, it means that the decision is not yet supported by a part of Parliament. For us to make a legal and financial decision, I propose the following. To the Committee on Disability and Budget Affairs of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a draft decision would be provided for, apart from the Sanatorium in Saka, other sanatoriums, with a clear formulation to be included in the budget. Without funding, any decision will remain a declaration. That's the first point. Second item. As early as 1994, a decision had been made on the systematic consideration of disability health and sanitation, regardless of the form of property, which should meet normal standards and the normal quality of health care. It's been 13 years. This is the next situation. The Ministry of Health has a part of the sanatorium and there, it is clear that the budget may have an impact. Next, the unions have no relation to the state form of property, they have no relationship with the Ministry of Health and Budget, but they are performing a health - care function, out of sight. Public organizations such as UTOS, which also has a sanatorium in Eupatoria and Crimea, terror, not sanatorium. They were also out of sight. So there's a proposal, first of all, to support the initiative made by Volodymyr Litwin. The other one. The following plenary week, based on a decree made by Lithuania, make a clear provision that would provide for: (a) financing and inclusion of expenditure in Ukraine's 2009 draft State Budget Act; (b) a clear and clear state programme. We're not going to deal with a single sanatorium in a systematic way. And the third question about ownership is that once again we're back to one of the key issues that's not solved in Ukraine, trade property. That is why I, as the head of Parliament, want to give an appropriate mandate and give it now, in order to process and submit an appropriate draft regulation to Parliament. Let's move on to the day-to-day issues. Before announcing the question of the election and release of judges, I would like to brief you on our decision that we have taken after hearing the information of the Central Electoral Commission on the formation of the voter register. Article 3 of the Ukrainian Law on the Central Election Commission clearly states that the intervention of any body of officials and officials, citizens and their associations in the resolution of matters that fall within the commission's powers is not permitted except in cases provided for in Ukraine's laws. The current law does not provide a direct norm for the provision of information, but I hope that when we decide on and hear this question, we will find a compromise position with the Central Electoral Commission. That this is not an intervention in the work and work of the Central Election Commission. Now I'm announcing the election and release of judges. Please, Kiwalov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u41	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished national deputies, present! Taking into account the large number of judges, I suggest that we first consider all draft judgments concerning the selection of judges on an indefinite basis, in numbers 2659, 2663, 2723, 2737, 3180. Then proceed to the decision regarding the election of judges previously elected on an open-ended basis at 2660, 2664, 2724, 2738, 3181, and then draft decrees on the release of judges from office 2661, 2725, 3179. And a draft ruling on the dismissal of a judge for violation of oath 2662. Honorary colleagues, the Supreme Council's Committee on Justice at its meetings on June 11, June 18, July 2, July 9, 3 and September 10, 2008, considered the appointment of the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Administrative Court, the Head of the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine on the selection of judges on an indefinite basis; the election of judges previously elected on an indefinite basis; and the appointment of the High Council of Justice on the release of judges from office under general circumstances and the violation of an oath. Honorable members of the national parliament, under the procedure laid down, read out the name of the judge, the judge rises from the seat, and if there is a warning to him, the national deputies report it from the place. Such a judge is temporarily removed from the draft decree. And we return to his consideration after the vote on other candidates. The judges are in the guest bed and on the balcony. Draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine 2659 of 18 June 2008. The committee recommends that judges be selected on an untimely basis: the Court of Appeal of the Zakarpat district of Condor Roman Yuliyovich; the Court of Appeal of the Luhansk Region of Korotenko Evgen Vasilovich;
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u42	Sergey Vasilovich, please stop for half a second. I'm asking Alexander Volodymyrovich to conduct this matter and close the plenary session in the morning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u43	Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u44	Sevastopol Administrative Court of Appeal Ishchenko Galin Mihaylovna; the local Bahchisarai District Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea of Pozniak Aleksandr Mikolaiovich; the local Jmerinian Regional Court of the Vinnitsk district of Senko Love Yusefowna; the local Zamostian District Court of Winnice Kovalska Irina Anatoliyevna; the local Petropavlovsky District Court of the Dnipropetrov region of Poloban Mikola Petrovich; the local Wallova Regional Court of the Donetsk district of Mohov Evgen Ivanovich; The local city court of Demetrius, Donetsk district, Klepka Ludmila Ivanovna; the local Jenokiev City Court of the Donetsk Region of Polakov Svetlana Anatoliyevna; the local Novoazov Regional Court of the Donetsk Region of Presnjakova Angelika Anatoliyevna; the local Proletar District Court of Donetsk Zaitev Svetlana Andriyevna; the local Mukativ District Court of Zakarpatsk, Kamenski Evgen Eduardovich; the local Vilnius District Court of the Zakarpatsk District of Crnenko Love Ivanov Ivanovna; the local Irpine City Court of Kiev, Sliva Jurija Mihajlovich; the local Tarostian District Court of the Kyiv Region of Poterajko Svetlana Anatoliyevna; The local Anthracite District Court of Luhansk, Afanassiev Vadim Alexiyovich, Skovordek Olen Aleksandrovna; the local Sverdlov City Court of Luhansk Olejnikow Volodymyr Ivanovich; the local Malinov District Court of Odessa, Jaros Alla Ivanovna; The local Hellenic District Court of the Herson district of Krapi is the wine of Olen Pavlovna; the local Darnitsky District Court of Kiev, Vuka Evgen Igorevich, Irina Alexandrovna, Rusik Tetjan Volodymyrna; the local Dniprovsky District Court of Kyiv Bespalogo Alexander Alexandrovich; the local Nakhimov district court of Sevastopol Burlakov Glib Sergiyovich; the local court of commerce of Kyiv Yakimenko Mikolayayovich. The Committee requests support for these nominations.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u45	Honourable National MPs, at the time of the submission of these nominations, none of the members of the People's Parliament have made any warnings about the candidates mentioned in the draft decrees. In this regard, I am voting on the draft Decree No. 2659 on the election of the judges mentioned in this judgment. Please vote. [[12:47:59]] For 389 Decision taken. Thank you. Next draft of the ruling.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u46	Draft Decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine number 2663 of 18 June 2008. The committee recommends that judges be elected on an indefinite basis: the local Winnick district court of the Vinnitsk district of Hankin Irina Anatoliyevna; The local Saxegan District Court of the Horn of Creature of Dnipropetrov district of Ostapenko, Victoria Alexandrovna; the local Berdian District Court of Zaporozhye District of Panchenko Olga Mikhailovna; the local Kamyansko-Dniprovovsky District Court of Zaporozhye District of Petrov Volodymyr Vijacheslavovich; the local Hrodnik District Court of Ivano-Frankiv district of Nichik Galin Ivanovna; the local Irpine City Court of Kiev, Savchenko Sergio Ivanovich; the local Malinov District Court of Odessa Ishchenka Alexandr Vasilovich; local Primorski District Court of Odessa Andruhiva Vadim Vasilovic the local Suvorov district court of Odessa Poznak Viktor Stepanović; the local Lubin Regional Court of Poltava district of Chabanenko Valery Aleksandrovitch, Alexiyovich, I'm sorry; Aleksyuk Tetjan Ivanovna, local Kitchman district court; the local right-wing district court of Kyiv Vintonjak Romana Jaroslavovich; The local Solomonese District Court of Odessa, Boukina Olen Mikolayivna; the local Shevchenkov district court of Kyiv Savitsky Oleg Anatoliyovich and The local Odessa District Administrative Court of Kathayev Ella Valerievna. Please support these candidatures.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u47	Dear colleagues, there were no objections to the candidates. I'm voting on draft Decree 2663 on the selection of judges on an indefinite basis. Please vote. [[12:50:48]] For 402 Decision taken. Please take the next draft of the ruling.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u48	Draft Decree 2723 of July 8, 2008. The committee recommends that judges be elected on an indefinite basis: the Court of Appeal of the Donetsk Region of Barkov Viktor Mikolayovich; Odessa Administrative Court of Appeal, Krusyan Andrija Volodymirovich; Kharkiv's Administrative Court of Appeal, Dukarev Svetlana Volodymyrovna; Philip’s Tetian Leonidian of the Zitomir Farm Court of Appeal; the local Jankojsk District Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Kuznietsov Larissa Mikolayevna; the local Cosyatian Regional Court of the Vinnitsky district of Proza Victor Andryovich; the local Ladzijin City Court of the Winnitsk Region of Igor Volodymirovich; the local Yampil district court of the Viennese region of Jerin Mikol Mikhailovich; the local Covellian Regional Court of the Volin district of Sarunovich Vitali Volodymirovich; the local Lutsky District Court of the Volin district of Kuchej Ruslan Vitaliyovich; the local Burdecé District Court of the Žitomir Region of Velmik Angelik Eugenyevna; the local Lugina District Court of the district of Nechuya Bogdan Petrovich; the local Swalava District Court of Zacarpat district of Viner Edith Antostovna; excuse me, Potter Larissa Fedorovna, Uliganian Pavel Ivanovich; the local Chernigiv District Court of the city, the district court of the district of Lomeika Vitaliy Valeriyovich; the local Novoarchangeli district court of the Kyrovograd district of Zaporozz Oleg Mikolaiovich; the local New Ukraine Regional Court of Kirovograd, Karpenko Alexandr Leonidovich; the local Cominternov district court of the Odessa District of Radnik, Rodnik Irina Jurijovna; the local Dubensk District Court of the Plain region of Ostapchuk Allo Alexandrovna; The local Regional Court of Kharkiv district of Klimenko Sergey Alexanderovich; the local Sosnov district court of Cherkasa Derunec Olga Anatoliyevna; the local Glossiev district court of Kyiv Shevchenko Tetjan Mikolayovna The Committee requests support for these nominations.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u49	Ladies and gentlemen, I am putting to the vote draft Decree 2723 on the election of judges without a due period. Please vote. [[12:54:27]] For 386 Decision taken. Next order, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u50	Draft Decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine number 2737 of July 10, 2008. Choose judges on an untimely basis: The Supreme Administrative Court of the Ukraine of Gashický Aleksandra Vasilovich; the Court of Appeal of the Donetsk Region of the Railways of Rome, Mikolayevna; the Court of Appeal of the Zakarpat district of Marchuk Alexander Petrovich; Odessa Administrative Court of Appeal Potopchuk Viacheslav Aleksandrovitch; Kharkiv Administrative Court of Appeal Shevtsov Natalija Volodymyrna; the local Krasnogvardsky District Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Proscurny Sergio Mikolaiovich; the local Lithuanian District Court of the Zhelikhovsky Viktor Mikolaiovich, Silchenk Alexander Vasilovich; Objection?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u51	Please, what can I do for you? Son of a bitch?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u52	Let's take it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u53	Come on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u54	The local Trieste Vinnitsk district.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u55	Stop, please, there's still an offer. Keep going, it's wrong.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u56	the local Trieste District Court of the Viennese Region of Volosin Igor Andryovich; the local Kovell Regional Court of Volin County, Logwinyuk, Irina Mikolayevna; The local Lutsky District Court of Volinsk-Kochuru, Tetjana Viktorovna; the local Yellow District Court of Dnipropetrovska Maznicu Andrija Anatoliyovich; the local District Court of the city of Donetska Yanchuk Tetjana Alexandrovna; the local Kuibyshew district court of Donetsk Larionov Natalija Mikolayovna; the local New Year’s District Court of the Luhansk district of Copanyev Olen Mikolayovna. Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that the candidature of Copenhagen’s Helen Mikolayovna was considered on the July 9th committee, and then on August 8, she married and changed her name to John. The original certificate of marriage was given today. And I propose to vote with her new name as judge of the local New Year's District Court of the Luhansk Region of Ivanov Olen Mikolayovna. The local Lenin district court of Lugansk Zaporozhenko Olen Aleksandrovna, Masenka Denis Evgenović; the local Malinov district court of Odessa Plavič Igor Volodimirovic; the local Berislav district court of the Hersson district of Zaharchuk Volodymyr Vasilovic; the local Hmelnicka miscirional court of the Hmelnitsk district of Luvancuk Andrija Olexijovich; the local Jarmolintsky district court of the Kmelinitz district of Misinkevich; the local Novozadov district court of Chernigova Artyuh Katerina Volodyrovna; the local Shevchenkov district court of Kiev, Horb, Irina Mihailnovna. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u57	Ladies and gentlemen, I am putting to the vote draft Order 2737 for the removal of Judge Slick Alexander Vasilovich's candidature. Please vote. [[12:58:52]] For 380 Decision taken. Next draft of the ruling.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u58	Draft Decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, number 3180 of September 17, 2008. The committee recommends that judges be elected on an indefinite basis: the Court of Appeal of the Lviv district of Shandra Martha Mikolayevna; the Court of Appeal of the Herson district of Krasnov, Igor Volodymyrovich. Note.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u59	Wait a minute. Last name?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u60	Krasnovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u61	Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u62	Dnipropetrov's Administrative Court of Appeal, Kojan Mikola Petrovich; the local Lenin district court of the town of Vinice Grabik Vitalia Volodymyrovich; the local Lutsky District Court of Volin County of Kostukevitch Alexandr Kostinović; the local Novomoskov Regional Court of the Dnipropetrov region of Lila Vitalia Mikolaiovich; the local factory district court of Dniprožinska Dnipropetrovska District of Djačkova Sergija Vasilovič; the local Zitomir district court of the Žitomir district of Barenko Sahibjamal Heinulnovna; the local Basilian District Court of the Kocheva Innu Viktorovna District; the local Melitopol Regional Court of Zaporozhye district of Vasiltsov Oleg Volodymyrovich; local Communist District Court of Zaporozhye Kuhar Sergija Viktorovic the local Shevchenkovsky District Court of Zaporozhye Zarutín Pavel Viktorovich, Happy Helen Volodymyrna; the local Svetlovodsk District Court of Kirovograd, Shirokoroda Roman Volodymyrovich; the local Yellow District Court of Luhansk Rudsk Svetlana Mikolayevna; the local Bousky District Court of Lviv district of Melnik Sergey Romanović; The local township district court of the Lviv district of Strus Lydia Bogdanovna, Sheremet Nadia Olegnowna; the local Jewish District Court of Lviv district of Sali Volodymira Vasilovich; the local Zoločov District Court of the region of Gulak Vasil Vasilovic; the local Mikolai District Court of the Lviv Region of Berez Victoria Ivanovna; the local Radehiv district court of the Lviv district of Crete, Andrija Igorovich; the local Skolivian District Court of Lviv district of Humenna Natalija Mikolayovna; the local Tatarbunar District Court of the Odessa District of Seminouk Ludmila Anatoliyevna; The local Ternopil Regional Court of the Ternopil region of Kostiva Alexandr Zinovovich; the local Glossiev district court of Kyiv Kolomeets Irina Andriyevna; the local right-wing district court of Kyiv Graglje Oleg Vasilovich, Stupak Olga Vejacheslavna; the local Holy District Court of Kyiv Naborznyak Mikola Ivanovich; the local district administrative court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Margaritov Mikhail Viktorovich; the local Wallin District Administrative Court of Denisuk Ruslan Stepanović; the local Luhansk District Administrative Court of Olenna Petrovna; the local Hmelnick District Administrative Court of Romania, Vladimir Leonidovich; the local Czerka County Administrative Court of the Smiljanz Edouard Stanislavovich; the local Czernigow District Administrative Court of Djakov Viktor Ivanovich; Alekseiev Mikola Vasilovich, local court of commerce. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u63	Honorary colleagues, following the removal of the candidate of the Krasnovsky Igor Volodymyrovich, I am putting to the vote draft decree 3180 on the election of judges on an indefinite basis. Please vote. [[13:03:55]] For 383 Decision taken. Please, next draft of the ruling.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u64	Let's move on to the draft rulings on the selection of judges who have been elected on an open-ended basis. Draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine 2660 of 18 June 2008. The committee recommends that judges previously elected on an indefinite basis be elected as judges: the Court of Appeal of the Cherka district of Potter Nadia Ivanovna; the local Žitomir District Administrative Court of Macko Evgen Mikolaiovich. Please support this draft decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u65	I'm voting on draft Decree 2660 on the election of judges. Please vote. [[13:04:52]] For 377 Decision taken. Next project, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u66	Draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine 2664 of 18 June 2008. The committee recommends that judges previously elected on an indefinite basis be elected as judges: The Court of Appeal of the Winnitsk Region of Suprun Volodymyr Vitaliyovich and Kyiv's Administrative Court of Appeal, Zacjila Petrovich. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u67	I'm voting on draft regulation 2664. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:05:39]] For 369 Decision taken. Next project, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u68	Draft Decree 2724 of July 8, 2008. The committee recommends that judges previously elected on an indefinite basis be elected as judges: The Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine, Raising Aunt Samuel; the Court of Appeal of the Luhansk Region of Zinchenko Love of Own; the days of the propetrov administrative appeal court of Miroshnick Mikhail Volodymirovich. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u69	I'm voting on draft Decree 2724 on the election of judges. Please vote. [[13:06:32]] For 369 Decision taken. Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u70	Draft Decree 2738 of July 9, 2008. The committee recommends the selection of judges previously elected on an indefinite basis as judges: Sevastopol’s Administrative Court of Appeal Krapov Zha Illewna, Omelchenka Viacheslav Anatoliyovich; the local District Administrative Court of Kiev Kašický Mikol Ivanovich and Shelest Svetlan Bogdanovna. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u71	I am betting on the vote of Project No. 2738 on the selection of judges. Please vote. [[13:07:27]] For – 377 Decision taken. Next project, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u72	Draft decision 3181. The Lviv Administrative Court of Appeal of Bogchenko Sergey Ivanovich; Odessa’s Administrative Court of Appeal, Kostov Irina Petrovna; The Kharkiv Administrative Court of Appeal, Makarenko Jan Mikolayevna; the local Wynnick District Administrative Court, Drachuk Tetjana Alexandrovna; The local Kyiv District Administrative Court of Starov Nina Edwardovna. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u73	I am voting on the draft Decree 3181 on the election of judges. Please vote. [[13:08:24]] For – 372 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u74	We move on to the draft rulings on the release of judges. The draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine 2661 of 18 June 2008. The committee recommends that the judges be dismissed: The Court of Appeal of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Mamasov Ludmila Alexandrovna in connection with the application for resignation, the Sage Valentina Vasilovna in connection with the application for resignation; the Court of Appeal of the Donetsk Region of Honcharova Hennady Grigorovitch in connection with the application for resignation; the Court of Appeal of the Odessa Region of Bu3odymyr Matviyovich in connection with the application for resignation; the Court of Appeal of Kyiv Kuzmina Mikoli Leonidovich in connection with the application for resignation; The local Stahanov City Court of the Luhansk district of Romashka Valentine Petrovna in connection with the application for resignation, the release at your own request. Dear colleagues, we have a statement, and Romaka Valentina Petrovna withdraws her application. Please. He's calling off the application, and we're on the committee to consider this application.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u75	Dear colleagues, I am voting on draft regulation 2661 for the removal of the candidate of Roma Valentina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u76	I haven't finished reading that order. the local Ravenna City Court of the Ravenna district of Gladyuk Galin Leontiyevna in connection with the application for resignation; the local Zmijov district court of the Harkow district of Horungj Ivan Demyanović in connection with the resignation. Please support the removal.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u77	Please, a question. People's deputy Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u78	Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Dear Sergey Vasilovich, this is the Supreme Council. The East judge applied for a resignation, then he wanted to call it off, maybe he'd like to file it again, then he'd change his mind again. I think that if there are such circumstances, first of all we need to ask this judge why she was making the application and why she is withdrawing it now. Maybe she's under pressure, maybe there's some other circumstances? And if this is not a reasonable explanation, we need to take it and vote. I don't want to do that. I don't want to do that. I don't want to do that. This is an important state case, the judiciary today has filed, tomorrow has failed, perhaps it is an unbalanced person who changes his mind five times a day, let’s listen to the judge.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u79	Dear National Deputies! This candidature is removed from this draft ruling, we are all candidates for which questions are to be asked, or for release after the decisions are made, and the question of resignation is the subjective will of the judge. And it is obvious that all circumstances will need to be determined in order to make decisions. I'm voting on the draft Decree 2661 on the release of judges for the exclusion of Romani Valentina Petrovna. Please vote. [[13:12:10]] For 369 Decision taken. Next project.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u80	Draft decision 2725. The committee recommends that Mikolajczuk Valeri Leontijovich be released from office as judge of the local Corstosov district court of Zitomirsk in connection with his resignation. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u81	I'm voting on draft Decree 2725 on the release of judges. Please vote. [[13:12:53]] For 355 Decision taken. Next project, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u82	Draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine 3179 of September 17, 2008. The committee recommends that the judges be dismissed: The Supreme Court of Ukraine, Nikita Yuri Ivanovich, in connection with the application for exemption at your own request; the Court of Appeal of the Kyiv Region of Chervinko, Katerina Stepanovna, in connection with the application for resignation; the Court of Appeal of the Montenegrin Region of Pottery Georgia Mikitovic, in connection with the application for a state of health pension which prevents the continuation of the duties; The Kharkiv Economic Court of Appeal, Lashchenko Ludmila Dmitrovna, in connection with the application for a state of health pension; Autonomous Republic of Crimea Kurendou Vitali Josipovich, a local city court of Autonomous Republic, in connection with the application for a state of health pension; the local Pistachio District Court of the Ruzicki Region of Ruzicki Marjana Fresnovich - in connection with the application for resignation; the local Kamen Kashir District Court of the Volin district of Kuzmić Galina Leontiyevna, in connection with the application for a state of health pension; the local Shakhtar Regional Court of the Donetsk Region of Chekin, Valentin Sergiyevna, in connection with the application for a state of health pension; the local Yagotin District Court of Kyiv district of Koszczya Mikola Nichiporovich, in connection with the application for resignation; the local Primorski District Court of Odessa, Borovské Valentina Ivanovna, in connection with the application for a state of health pension; The local Auto-Zavodsky District Court of Kremenczuk Poltavsk district of Michna Volodymira Panasovic - in connection with the application for resignation; The local Çartkow district court of Ternopil district of Tes luka Jaroslav Stepanović - in connection with the application for resignation; The local Ichnian District Court of Negoda, Anatolia Mikolaiovich, in connection with the application for resignation. Please support these candidatures.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u83	I am voting on the draft Decree 3779 on the release of judges. Please vote [[13:15:47]] For 374 Decision taken. Next project, make your decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u84	And the latest draft of Supreme Council Order 2662 of 18 June 2008 on the dismissal of a judge. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Justice decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that Kukalishvili Yuri Lavrentiyovich be released from office as judge of the local Shevchenkov District Court of Kiev — in connection with the violation of his oath.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u85	Please sign up for a question to the Head of the Committee. The Najdion People's Deputies, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u86	Please, Beaz.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u87	Dear Sergey Volodymyrovich, I'm here in the Company. I'd still like to go back to the question about the judges that we took off the list. Are we going to discuss it or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u88	We'll be there later.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u89	Of course, we're going to solve this now, and then we're going back to those.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u90	Okay, thanks.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u91	People's Republic of Labunsk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u92	I don't have any questions, I just want to inform the hall that we probably don't have a lot of unanimity on the committee. And as for this judge, it is not necessary to see that he has sent a very tearful letter to all the deputies, to all of them in person with his father's name, asking him not to release and accuse everyone and everyone in political repression. I can tell you that the legal world is actually going to issue a collection of decisions for this judge, the lawyers. They're already here, it's the judge's legend. What decisions did he not make and for what political power to be able to accuse someone of political repression? I think the faction's decision is unanimous and I'm asking you not to look at the letters, there's nothing to look at here, it's been a decade since there's been a question of releasing the judicial system from this judge. Let us vote, for the legal world will not forgive us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u93	Liszko Oleg Valeriyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u94	Oleg Lazko, Yulia Block Timoshenko. I personally know Yuri Lavrentiovich, Sergey Vasilovich, under the transcript I correctly call his last name because you misnamed him Kuchileshvili. As long as he was serving as a judge in the Solomonese Court, he then went to the Shevchenkov Court. I have a lawyer who's in charge of the case, where she's taking the stand on the case that Yuri Lavrentiovich is looking at. He has been considering the matter for five years. Find out where the code provides for such terms of reference. This once-known woman comes home at twelve o’clock at night, asking: “Why is it so late? ” It turns out I'm questioning and calling, Yuri Lavrentiovich, really, he's holding court hearings by 11 a.m. I say that before I support Mrs. Labunski, you have to make decisions about Yuri Lavrentiovich. Yuri Lavrentiovich, I don't think you're contributing to your actions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u95	Thank you. I understand the situation. Am I, is there a question to the committee because we've moved on to a discussion? No questions asked. I put to the vote draft decree 2662 on the dismissal of the judge, the release of Kuchileshvili Yuri Lavrentiovich from the position of judge at the local Shevchenkov District Court of Kiev, in connection with his violation of the judge’s oath. Please vote. [[13:20:08]] For 349 Decision taken. By factions, please: Region Party - 158, Timoshenko Yulia Block – 141, Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense – 8, Communists – 23, Litvina Block – 19. Now we're going back to the two candidates who have been asked questions. candidate for Silchenka Alexandre Vasilovich. Who did we have to ask? Please, a question. Raise your hand so they can see. National MP Lukyanov, please ask Judge Silchenka Alexandre Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, I have no questions to Judge Silchenk, questions to the other, there are facts, I have two letters, one letter I sent to the Ukrainian Security Service in the Winnitsky area, and I received an answer that in the course of the operations of the administration, information was received about the possible illegal actions of the person in question. The test materials were sent to the U.S. Attorney General's Office for further follow-up to the Ukrainian Attorney-General's Office for due diligence. I've sent a request to the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine, and I'm awaiting an answer today. I don't have that answer for today, so I'd like to ask you to put that question away. The other one. I have a letter addressed to Arsenija Petrovich Arsenyuk as Head of the Supreme Council of the People’s Deputy Catherinechuk. I can read it. The point is that in August 2007, the decision of the judge of the Latin District Court of Silchenk, who is also the head of this court, ended. In accordance with article 20, paragraph 7, of the Ukrainian Judicial Act, the suspension of a judge’s authority stops him from exercising his authority as an administrative judge. However, according to the complainants, Judge Silchenko continued to exercise the authority of the head of the court.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u97	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u98	During this period, he hired court officials without having to announce a competition. According to the above, the materials are located in the procurator’s office in the Winnitsk district. In addition, Ukrainian Security Service personnel are being tested for obtaining a bribe from Judge Silchenko on the charge of Matsuk and others under article 307 of Part 3 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code. In view of the above, and in line with article 16 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Ukrainian People’s Deputies, please defer consideration of the question of the appointment of Silchenk as judge on an urgent basis in connection with the need for a review. That's why we're asking
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u99	Thank you. Sergey Vasilovich, have you been the subject of the committee's consideration of the materials?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u100	Nope. I only heard them in the hall right now. We didn't have that kind of complaint.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u101	I now have a question for the people’s representative of Lukyanov. Did you know that the candidature is being considered on the Justice Committee and you have not turned there for what reasons? Please, the Lukyan microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, first of all, I went to the committee, not with this data, but with some of the others. So the head of the subcommittee knew that there was a question to Judge Silchenk, and there were no relevant documents. Now these documents are coming, so I'm ready to introduce them.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u103	Sergey Vasilovich, your offer?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u104	There is an offer to postpone and then on the committee to consider at the next meeting of the Supreme Council to consider the appearance in the hall. So there's no problem with that judge.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u105	Please, National Deputy Beales, question.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u106	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished Sergey Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! I'm going to use a slang that my colleague, Lazko, used. I personally know Silchenk, he worked for me as chief of the district police in the Viennese region. He has one serious flaw: he doesn't know how to give bribes. That's the only one. Everything else about it is all emotion. I have specific documents. If my colleague doesn't have them yet, I have an answer from the U.M.S. Information Technology Department that Silchenka has absolutely no claim. And whoever's initiating this stuff on Winnitzkin, I know exactly who it is. So I think that if there's any doubt about it, let's really move it to another meeting so that it doesn't fall.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u107	Sergei Vasilovich, please make a proposal to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u108	I've already made a proposal to the committee to move to the next meeting of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u109	Dear colleagues, next week we'll be deciding on alternate candidates to serve as judges on an open-ended basis. And there's a proposal for us to consider this proposal next week so that no questions arise for Alexander Vasilovich Selchenk. Is there any objection?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u110	None.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u111	Thank you. The next candidature we had was the Krasnovsky Igor Volodymyrovich. Who had that question? Samolik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u112	Thank you. Dear Sergey Vasilovich, distinguished colleagues, so it turned out, Alexandre Volodymyrovich, that I had actually received documents and letters after the meeting of the committee, and a decision was made. But I went with these letters to Sergey Vasilovich and asked him to ask again, by the way, the judge of the Court of Appeal of the Hersonian district of Anatolia Petrovich Ivaniszczuk, for them to study further the facts set out in this letter. And I think next week, if these facts are not confirmed, Igor Volodymyrovich is a young man, and I think if the facts don't confirm, then next week we're going to vote in favour, and he's going to be loyal to the jury. Sergei Vasilovich, please for next week.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u113	How do they decide?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u114	Please have any further thoughts on the candidate of Krasovo Igor Volodymyrovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u115	Agree.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u116	Sergey Vasilovich, do we agree next week?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u117	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u118	Any objections to the national MPs?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u119	None.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u120	None. We're transferring the decision to the next plenary week. Ladies and gentlemen, on your behalf, I welcome all appointed judges on an open-ended basis and wish them the opportunity to work successfully and for many years.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u121	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, we have a national MP, Lazko, who asked questions about Romazko Valentina Petrovna. She filed an application.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u122	Dear Sergey Vasilovich, I answered that question. The right to resign is a subjective right of the judge, and no one can decide it except for the judge himself. That is why this question is not being considered today. Please take your seats. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. A draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine No. 3136 on changes in the composition of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is under consideration. As reported by Sas Sergey Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u123	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! To carry out the mandate of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Mr. Arsenuk Arseny Petrovich of 11 September 2008, the Committee at its meeting on 17 September 2008 reviewed the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine amending the composition of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, introduced by National Deputy Yatsenuk, registration number 3136 from 11.09.2008. The Supreme Council of Ukraine was elected on 2 September 2008 to serve as the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and Tomenko Mikola Volodymyrovic as Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. At the same time, they continue to serve as the deputy head of the Supreme Council Committee on Legal Policy and a corresponding member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Family, Youth Policy, Sport and Tourism. The author of the project proposes to withdraw from the post of deputy head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the legal policy of the national MP Lavrinović and. People’s deputies Lavrinović and Tomenka are members of the Supreme Council Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport, and Tourism. The appeal of a committee member and a committee deputy shall be carried out by means of the adoption of a decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in accordance with part two of article 7 of the Act on Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In addition, an editorial clarification is proposed in paragraph 2 of the draft decision, namely: delete the word “first”. In view of the above, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the bill be supported. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u124	Any questions for the reporter? Please, there is one question. Anybody else? National Deputy Kamchatny, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u125	Kamchatny, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko”, Kharkiv region. Dear Sergey Volodymyrovich, well, you and I are members of the Regulatory Committee, and we remember well that in due course the decision to elect heads, first deputies and so on, committee members were given one decision. Today in the Supreme Council, in addition to the decree you have just presented, there is another decree that applies to our colleague Pauline. [[3184]] And for reasons that are not clear today, it is not introduced into the session hall to be selected by a member of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government. At Lemzi's college yesterday, a positive decision was also made: on recommending it to our committee, on recommending it to the Committee on European Integration. Once again, however, this is not included in the hall. Do you not consider it possible to unify all these three issues into one single decision, and today to vote? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u126	There's no need to answer, Sergey Volodymyrovich. We're looking at question number 3136 right now. Is there a question on this? No questions asked. I'm voting on draft regulation number 3136. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u127	Please be supportive. [[13:31:49]] For 331
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u128	Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u129	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u130	Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Draft Resolution on Amendments to Supreme Council Order 774-V of Ukraine of 16 March 2007 on the establishment of named scholarships to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the most talented young scientists. Please, Polodimir Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u131	Dear colleagues, Your Honor Alexander Volodymyrovich! I would like to remind you that on September 4, this year, the Supreme Council reviewed and adopted a decree on the appointment of nominations for the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the most talented young scientists, but there were several proposals during the discussion, which were intended to increase the amount of scholarships from one thousand bracelets to two thousand bracelets for PhD students and doctoral students, whose doctoral dissertation materials were adopted for consideration by a specialized scientific council for the protection of doctoral dissertation. The proposal was put to the vote by the Supreme Council, so it was appropriate to prepare appropriate changes to the decision establishing the name scholarship, that is, before the March 16, 2007, ruling. The design of such a decision is prepared and distributed to you. I want to say that the Committee of the Supreme Council reviewed this draft decree and unanimously approved it. I will point out that the 2008 decree on the appointment of named scholarships to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the most talented young scientists adopted on September 4th has already been signed by the Head of the Supreme Council, but it takes effect only since the adoption of this decision. I'd like to thank the faction leaders and you personally, Alexander Volodymyrovich, for quickly putting this issue into order today. And lastly, with a few seconds out of 10 minutes, I'd like to say, I'd like to ask the faction leaders, the leadership of the Supreme Council, or the presidency of the Supreme Council, and all the deputies, when it comes to the question of the new Higher Education and Scientific and Technical Act, which is how we support the introduction into the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u132	Thank you. Any questions for the reporter? Please, there is a question on the rostrum. Question, Mr. Yavorowski Vladimir Aleksandrovitch, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u133	Vladimir Yavorowski, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear reporter, we absolutely support a beautiful idea. But here I keep thinking the Supreme Council has prizes for the best, say, teachers. They're nameless. Now we have a scholarship, and it's nameless. I'd suggest, maybe if not this year, let's go to the next one, but you have to, then they'll remember, they're more known. We have, we could have the same thing as Vernadian or Mouse, or Wetmouth or Eugene Patton. How do you feel about it so they can be, let's say, the Supreme Council's name scholarship, let's say, the name of Mousekova, let's say.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u134	The concept of “name scholarship” primarily has its own subject in the first sense, because for both teachers and talented scientists, it is a scholarship from the Supreme Council. This is already a nominal scholarship, a scholarship from the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Parliament. And what I'm saying is, it's a very prestigious scholarship. But your proposal will certainly be considered by the committee, because Ukraine has both in the past and today famous and famous scientists who may be, may be, may be, may be.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u135	Any more questions for the reporter? No questions asked. Is there a need to discuss? There is no need to discuss. I'm voting on draft regulation 3117, order for amendments to the regulations. on the nominations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the most talented young scientists. Please vote. [[13:36:14]] For 327 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we are considering the next issue of the agenda: 0871, the draft Act amending article 50 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine. Please, Mikola Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u136	Honourable Alexandre Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies, is proposed for your consideration by the draft Act amending articles 46 and 50 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine, in the second reading, on the procedure for the appointment of the Secretary of the Rural, Rural and Urban Council. [[Registration number 0871]] The bill has a long history and was adopted on the basis of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s fifth vocation on October 31, 2006. It is known that the status of the secretary of the village, village and city council is defined by article 50 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine. In accordance with this article, he is elected by a council of its deputies at the suggestion of a village, a village, and a city head. This bill provides for cases where the Secretary-General of the Council may also be brought before the Council and at least one third of the members of the Board. In particular, on the day of the first session of the Council, the elections of the respective village, village and city heads have not yet been completed, when the village, village and city heads have not been elected and have run for council, but the Council has not supported this candidature when the village, village, city head has not applied for the post of Council Secretary within 30 days of the opening of the session, or a vacancy has arisen on the part of the Secretary in connection with the timely cessation of his authority, the village, village, city head at the next scheduled session does not present a new candidate when there is a vacancy and a secretary, and a vacancy on the village, village head in connection with the timely suspension of their credentials. These amendments, supported by members of the committee, are extremely timely and practical because such cases are constantly occurring, and there are numerous proposals for the committee to deal with these problems. With these proposals, there was an urgent need to make appropriate changes, and the mechanism for convening and holding sessions of local councils as defined in article 46 of the Law changed somewhat. The committee received 15 amendments, with eight included, four taken into account, and three rejected. The proposals made for the second reading were discussed at a meeting of the Committee on February 13, this year, and it was decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine when considering the bill in the second reading to be adopted in a second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u137	Please note that the subject of the national MP’s legislative initiative, Lazko, is microphone. It's a second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u138	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! We propose that part of the first article 50 of the bill should state that the proposal for the Secretary-General of the Council may be submitted to the Council no less than half of the deputies from the general composition of the council concerned. And then the text. Thank you. Please take into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u139	Thank you. Please, this proposal has come and received support so that I ask you to take note of it now in order that we will then put it to a vote taking into account this amendment. Now I want to ask the Ukrainian national deputies whose amendments have been rejected, or who is insisting on considering these amendments? There aren't any? No one insists on their amendments? Taking into account the amendment that is now being tabled by the national MP Lazko, I am voting on the second reading and in the entire draft of Law 0871 ask the national MPs to be appointed. [[13:40:56]] For 322 Thank you. Decision taken. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Draft law amending the Code of Budgets of Ukraine. [[new editor]] Please, Kirilchuk Eugene Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u140	The honourable national deputies, the honourable chairman, are invited to your consideration to draft a bill amending the Budget Code, prepared by the National Deputies of the Committee on Budget Affairs for the participation of Ministry of Finance experts, the Secretariat of the Budget Committee, the listing of individual proposals from the National Deputies and other drafts on the matter, as well as the proposal of local self-government bodies and local executive bodies that came to the committee. [[Registration number 2709]] The bill is aimed at a comprehensive solution to the issues of improving budgetary legislation, which since the adoption of the Code of Budgets every year has been in the budgetary process and is normally regulated by the State Budget Act for the year in question or by other regulatory acts. The question of improving the codex has been on the table for many years. Thus, it was one of the first codes adopted in the Supreme Council, and many suggestions and comments came from it. And it's practically been working on this law for over two months on the budget committee. The proposed changes improve the legal framework for further development of the programming and target method in the budgetary process, medium-term budgetary planning and major strengthening of the financial base of local self-government, the application of modern debt management methods, the improvement of the system of monitoring compliance with budgetary legislation. The changes proposed in the project cover all chapters and chapters of the Budget Code. The main provisions of the bill include: The first is to specify the terms and conditions of the state and local debt operations, the involvement of state and local borrowings, and the provision of local guarantees. The second is to consolidate the status of the budget declaration and set requirements for its content, and it is also proposed to postpone the time of parliamentary hearings on budgetary policy issues for a more early period. The third is the adoption of the State Budget Act for the corresponding year, the clarification of the features of the implementation of state and local budgets in the event of the timely adoption of the State Budget Act. The fourth is to strengthen the income base of local budgets, primarily to perform self-reliant functions to local taxes, congregations, land payments, real estate taxes, and more. The fifth is the inclusion of local budgets, which are included in the definition of budgetary transfers, such as out-of-school education, in the maintenance of an early social rehabilitation centre for children with disabilities, vocational rehabilitation centres for persons with disabilities, and social services centres for young people. Taking into account the relevance and balance of the changes to the Budget Code, the Ministry of Finance supports the bill and considers it necessary to adopt it as a law that will help improve the functioning of Ukraine's budgetary system, increase efficiency and transparency, use of budgetary resources. The Budget Committee at its July meeting, as early as July 2008, considered the bill and decided unanimously to recommend its adoption to the Supreme Council as a basis. But considering that the draft law is directly affecting the organisation of budgetary policy in the following year, and this process has already begun, the urgent need to accept it as an urgent one, especially since local councils and city district and district councils are awaiting such changes. You are given a draft regulation No. 2709 P1, which proposes to adopt a draft amending budget code No. 2709 as a basis and as a whole as a law that takes into account changes made on the basis of the proposals of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council, the Court of Auditors, local self-government bodies, scientific institutions, the Association of Cities and Communities, the Association of Financiers. Such changes to the bill would greatly improve its position and ensure consistency with other legislative acts. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, with regard to local budgets, it is additionally proposed that from January 1, 2009, ten percent of the private enterprise income tax should be included in the local council's development budget. The other one. To include three percent of the ten tax revenues of enterprises in the development budget, in the budgets of cities in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and in the area. Change the distribution of environmental pollution between local budgets, increasing the share for local self-government budgets. This was especially the case with representatives of local councils from twenty to fifty percent to leave it in place. To include the final part of the 2012 European Football Championship in Ukraine, the city budgets, the regional cities, which account for seventy percent of the environmental pollution and ten percent of the income tax that comes into the development budget. You could count a lot of positive changes in the budget, especially, I've already talked about rehabilitation centers and it's very important that the local councils have asked us for fire protection at the local budget, and it's decided that it should be kept at the expense of the state budget. You could count it, but it's all multiplied, distributed, and you have everything in place, on your hands. Because of this, I propose to adopt the law both in the first and in general as the law today, because it is greatly awaited in places. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u141	Let's sign up for a question to the reporter, please. National deputy Haydayav, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u142	Please give the floor to the people's representative of Alexandrovsk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u143	Please, Alexandrovska.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u144	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Evgeny Ivanovich, in fact, introduce the Supreme Council into error because we have considered this draft regulation definitively and have come to realize that in the Supreme Council Hall we can and should only accept it on first reading, allow the deputies to comment, propose and return to the second reading next week. That's the first one. Second. Where it appears that by order of the Supreme Council to amend the laws, we have a bad practice at all, starting with the budget of last year, when we adopted the 2008 budget, we by decree of the Supreme Council adjusted the body of the law. This is absurd and we are now invited to legitimize the same procedure by our vote. I categorically object to this procedure, and on the substance of my comments, I will take the floor to speak out and say what are the serious problems here that require the removal of the draft law.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u145	I agree with your claim, in fact, the budget committee in the first reading voted 100 percent, support. But the P1, which I called, is that half of the members of the Committee on Budget Affairs and of all factions, except yours, have been signed for adoption. I won't deny it, but I just suggested that there's an option that can be accepted today and in general. Seriously, as you call it, they're gone. Because there is virtually no written comment on the budget committee that is unaccounted for and unaccounted for. Including two days ago when you were present, the national deputies made two proposals. And they're already accounted for. It's Easy and another MP, made an offer, they're accounted for. So it's the will of the hall. Or in the first, or we, if and
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u146	Question, Plednik's Alexy Vitaliovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u147	She's very interested in asking my colleague Inna Bogoslovska, and I'll give her my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u148	God's Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u149	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's not do what you do with your coalition agreement, where one is written, you don't do it. If we agreed that the committee and we were looking at it on a faction board, we would only support the law in the first reading. Because in the way he is now offered, it is impossible to accept him. We ask you not to overstretch the situation or strain our relationship. So I ask that you now withdraw your proposal to enact the law as a whole and offer to accept it as agreed between our factions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u150	As a national MP, I am entitled not only to myself but to a group of deputies signed under the P1 order to make a proposal. Why should I film it? If the House's will is to vote in general, as much as the local councils are asking, they have begun the budgetary process. And so the old codex lies, to use what they expect when changes are made. Because of this, I made this offer. Your will to support in the first or the second.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u151	National Deputy Karpuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u152	Vladimir Karpuk, “Our Ukraine”. Dear Eugene Ivanovich, according to the current Budget Code, the expenditure of local budgets, rural councils, rural councils, and cities of regional importance, which are included in the budget transfers, is included in health and cultural expenditure. [[Article 88, part one, appears to be friction, fourth]] You know what the situation is and what it leads to at the village level. It's a really painful question, because it's not enough, it's not being used rationally. And the heads of village councils or village councils who don't have the proper preparation and don't understand the importance of this issue, money can be said to be used according to their own judgment. Have the changes in the draft of this Code of Budgets been made, or are they foreseen for 88, corresponding to 89 articles of the Code of Budgets?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u153	I could say a general number. I've listed a number of possible increases in local budgets, including the name up to fire protection, including health care, and education, there is a serious improvement in the financing situation. In general, the code increases the possibility of local budgets by about 10 billion. This may be one of the most important benefits.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u154	National MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u155	Dear Eugene Ivanovich, would you please tell us how this law will help improve the budgetary process in the local councils? That's the first one. And the second. When will he be put into effect, since 2009, or since 210, I apologize?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u156	I'll start at the end. I think we're all interested in having him signed on the same day of adoption and sent to the President's signature. I don't think the President's going to bother local self-government and their budgets. And when it comes to input, it has to be entered from the day, that is, at the time of signing and publishing.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u157	I continue for 15 minutes this morning's plenary session. Please, I'd like to invite you to speak with the Committee of Alexander Mikolayovich Pecklesenka. Please sit down, Eugene Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u158	Respectable colleagues, respected TV viewers, radio audiences! I am sure that what is happening in this room is now under the spotlight of almost all local councils, because today we are considering a fateful, budgetary law with you. There is the phrase when they say, "Take your power in the land as much as you will." Indeed, the central authority placed all power in place in terms of responsibility. In terms of rights and, most importantly, budget money, she left everything in Kiev. Therefore, today is the first law we have adopted in favour of redistributing the powers of budget-makers in favour of the regions. It is not just a law, it is a fundamental platform of the Party of the Regions. We fought for this law, and we will fight. But we understand that today's law is only one percent of what is expected of us on the ground. But that one percent should also be given in 100 percent. Today, colleagues, you're trying to tempt this question, trying to use it as a political component again. Quickly doesn't mean good. On the committee, you and I have considered the issue, which is not taking into account the interests of the cities of subordination, which is 80 per cent of the rural population. How can we not solve this problem in our understanding? You want to move quickly – let us now take the first reading, declare a break, meet the Committee on Budgets, make changes, and after lunch or tomorrow we will accept it in full. That's why it's our basic law. We thank all who support our fundamental values. We thank all those who support the main work of the Party of the Regions. All power to the regions!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u159	Alexander Mikolaiovich, please return to the rostrum if possible. Let's sign up for Alexander Mikolaiovich's question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u160	I propose that the draft be adopted now on first reading, that it be finalized in the light of existing comments and, if possible, returned to its consideration or tomorrow, or the following sessional week.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u161	Thank you, Alexander Mikolayovich. The questions to you now. Cibenko Peter Stepanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u162	Thank you. The Communist faction, the first deputy head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons. Alexander Mikolaiovich, would you please tell the new edition of the Budget Code to remove the nonsense that exists today? And that's what this nonsense is all about. There is a system of rehabilitation centers in Ukraine. But since the budget code does not provide for the financing of these rehabilitation centers, rehabilitation centers are now financed by the Social Protection Fund. So the point is that the rescue of the drowning is the work of the drowning hands themselves. I am absolutely convinced that the financing of the rehabilitation centres of the right: the republican should be financed from the republican budget, the district budget, but today the budgetary code does not give such a right. Is there an answer to that question in the new law?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u163	Thank you for asking. Today, we are considering with you not the whole package of amendments to the Budget Code, or changes to the Budget Code, this includes, I repeat, a package approach to which the Tax Code must be incorporated, and the Local Self-Government Act. They can't be accepted in isolation. We therefore believe that there must be a systematic, mandatory change to the existing budget code, whose philosophy is aimed at building regions in line with ministers, where their problems are solved by beautiful eyes. It takes everyone to decide who makes money on the ground and leaves their needs on the ground. Therefore, we propose to hold parliamentary hearings in the first quarter, the first quarter, and the second, an integrated approach. Today is the first scale that can be implemented already in the 2009 budget. It's just, I repeat, one percent, it's more psychological and.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u164	Please, Suhi Jaroslav Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u165	Thank you. Dear Alexander Mikolaiovich! Of course, this bill should be supported, at least because it was written in the development of the requirements of article 5 of the Constitution, by which the people are the source, the sole source of authority, the bearer of the sovereignty of Ukraine. Thus, the development of local self - government is not just a political slogan or someone else’s conjunctural motto. No, nothing like that. That's why this bill needs to be supported, and the more the social dynamics we're not going to get if we don't give more financial rights in places, because no matter what the opposition is, no matter what the sabotage is, we're still going to start a fifth kind of socio-medical insurance, and then we're going to have to negotiate with the local self-government authorities. Please tell me how the changes have been made. You said about cities in the areas, and how will the requirements of this law spread to areas in district centers, for example, a district division where there is a district council, where there is no district council, how will funding be regulated there?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u166	Dear Jaroslav Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! Your question shows the correctness of the Party of the Regions, the factions of the regions, that this law cannot be passed as a whole. We clearly understand that our wishes cannot possibly match the full potential of the budget. But as much as possible today to take a step in favour of the regions, to give maximum incentive to local councils on the ground to look for opportunities, to look for ways to make more money, we can and should do it, but we must do it not quickly, as our colleagues suggest, but properly and quickly.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u167	Thank you, Alexander Mikolayovich. Please sit down. Is there a need to discuss? Are there people who want to talk? Please, Alexandrovska.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u168	Dear colleagues, we are discussing a very serious bill with you now. Indeed, the financial system itself, including local budgets, can undergo significant changes as a result of its adoption. I say, including. Because this bill does not only deal with local budgets. The Communist faction supports those proposals that relate to increased funding for local budgets. Here Peter Stepanovich Cibenko rightly raised the question that the budget code, which was proposed, does not show that we guarantee the financing of certain regional programmes, pre-school programmes, the return of out-of-school institutions. It's not here. Here, as the will of the Government: will the Government, it will do it, it will not do it, it will do it. There are clear guarantees of funding for grants. Thus, it is clear that it is the law, and the law of the Government must be enforced, and therefore subsidies must be imposed here. But I'm worried about something else. I am concerned about the procedure for drafting this bill and how it is discussed and introduced into the Hall. There are certain threats to this bill. It is the deprivation of us with you, your respectable colleagues, of the right to legislative initiative through the restriction of our right to introduce laws. That's what we're talking about today. There is article 27, which is known to all, which refers to the procedure for introducing any draft legislation. Any bill must pass through the budget committee and be evaluated in terms of whether it is budget changes or not, whether money is needed or not for the implementation of the law. Money is needed; this law must enter into force from the following financial year. We don't need the money, we can take it from the moment we vote, bring it back, and so on. What innovations are made in article 27? New developments are being made here that if a bill introduced by the People's MP, including an assessment by the Government, the Cabinet of Ministers, that the adoption of this law entails changes in the budget, that is, additional funds are needed, or perhaps even savings, the fact that the budget figure will be affected, this is the view of the Cabinet of Ministers, which will suggest that it be considered a basis for the Supreme Council of Ukraine to take a decision to reject the bill or to refer it to the finalization of the subject of the law of the legislative initiative. And you and I have a bunch of bills that deal with funding. You and I understand that there are very few bills that do not bring about a change in funding. That means the Cabinet of Ministers gets a lever. Their negative result will return, their assessment, which no one can deny, cannot be challenged, and the bill is already being tabled in the Hall with a resolution of the committee of the relevant budget on deviation or on the development of the subject of the law of the legislative initiative.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u169	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u170	Allow me to conclude, because my colleague, Pecklusenko, has become very emotional, like a real region. But I think there's still a lot to look at here. So this is the issue of article 27 which is very important. That's why today's adoption of such a bill, I think it's going to be a huge mistake. There's another question that we need to draw your attention to. Alexander Vladimirovich, I am addressing you as the former Minister of Justice. What's going on in Parliament? Where does this show that the Supreme Council decree changes laws? Amendments to the law by definition may only be subject to changes, i.e. only by laws. What about us? You and I have adopted the 2008 Budget Act at the rate of crazy. Come on, let's say it's a good situation. This is where Pinzenyk read the amendments that are being proposed, and we voted with you, without having them on hand, but we couldn't even understand what they were talking about. One second.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u171	Alla Alexandrovna, I'm sorry, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u172	Please don't shut my mouth, because, once again, the question of the future of the regions, the future financing of Ukraine and the future relations between Parliament and the Government. That's a very serious question. Therefore, what we are invited to do by a draft regulation, which is allegedly supported by the Committee on Budgets, to amend the law, I do not think that is acceptable. Last.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u173	Alla Alexandrovna, I'm sorry, the schedule is long overdue.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u174	Date of adoption. You know, this is where you suggested, Kirilchuk said that we should adopt this law and it should enter into force from the time of its publication. What is it? At the committee meeting, the Ministry of Finance suggested that if we made these changes, i.e., we would adopt a new budget code, the second reading of the draft budget law, which would be finalized by the Government in the light of these things. It's not bad, but we understand what we're doing to you. Logically, this law will enter into force on 1 January next year and a new budget will be developed next year, taking into account these new relations between the regions and the centre, between Parliament and the Government. That's our offer. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u175	Thank you, Alla Alexandrovna. I want to say right away that we will never have to adjust the laws to the Supreme Council's rulings. It doesn't take that much emotion, it's an absolute alphabet that we all know well. And we're not going to go through that adventure path that we once tried in this room. Are there any other people who would like to discuss it? If there aren't any. Hare Ivan Alexanderovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u176	Dear National Deputies! I was writing down to ask the reporter a question. Since time was set aside so that I could not ask the reporter, I would like to speak. The thing is, there's a lot of talk going on here about saving local self-government. And all of our proposals are, in any case, not to fill in the financial capacity for other resources, the organizational capacity to fill the basic level, is the village, the village and the city, but it's to say that if we run the performances on the district council, if we don't give more opportunities in the budget process to the district council or district, that's how the problem will be solved and local self-government will live. He didn't live. Because you have to put the money at the base level. And so I would like all of these changes to the budget, to the Budget Code, to be consistent with our practice. You analyzed the changes to the State Budget that the Cabinet of Ministers gave us a few months ago. And what did we see there? There was a procedure for such manual support, such as small cities. We give a category of small cities there a few hundred million or, for example, a billion dollars. But there are cities of district subordination, such as Hust in Zakartat, which, by all parameters of population and other parameters, belong to these same small cities, and they do not have any funds, please. Therefore, if we do not take such manual control into account by this code, no local self - control will work. So I think there are problems in this direction. And you certainly need to improve the code in that direction. The second question. We have to somehow give ourselves the opportunity to form a financial base at the base level. But on the other hand, to build mechanisms that allow the Republican authorities to control many processes. Today, for example, housing and utility tariffs are essentially the prerogative of local authorities. But they are growing, in fact the government and other central authorities have been removed from control of this process. But we hear that the power of guilt is on the top and so forth. How is all these issues agreed upon in this Codex of Budget? I mean, that's where I'm headed. We need to find the “gold in the middle” where we will give full freedom, enable us to form the financial resources of the village, the village and the city, and, on the other hand, the control that does not allow us to create self-sustainment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m0.u177	Thank you, Ivan Alexanderovich. Are there no more? I put to the vote the adoption in the first reading of the draft Law amending the Code of Budgets of Ukraine. [[No. 2709]] Please vote. [[14:14:11]] For 369 Decision taken. Please, by the factions. Region Party – 173; Timoshenko Yulia Block – 146; Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense – 4; Communists – 27; Litvina Block – 19. We've adopted a very important bill. There is a suggestion that the preparation for the second reading be carried out very actively, effectively and in short periods so that we can have a full document as quickly as possible. Is there no objection? Committee assignment, please, we're working on a short rule. At this morning’s plenary session, I declare closed.
