ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u1	Good morning, dear friends! Please register. [[10:02:47]] There were 438 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today we have the birthday of Sidelnik Ivan Ivanovich. Let's welcome our colleague on his birthday. [[Applause]] I hope this isn't the last time we'll applaud each other today. Dear friends, we have 30 minutes to perform for the national MPs of Ukraine. Please sign up for the performance. I want to let you know right away that we've had an accident on a satellite that broadcasts the "Council" channel and other channels. We'll find out. I mean, for some technical reasons, it's temporarily stalled. Now we're dealing with this. But it happened in space, it's not on Earth. We're already on, space included. The system has already been turned on. Olena Lukash, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u2	Turmanov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u3	Turmanov. Comrade Turmanov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u4	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues! It will not be an exaggeration to say that the recent events on the Carl Marx mine in the city of Enakiyovo have left a deep mental trail in the heart of each worker. Virtually all the inhabitants of our country have followed developments with great concern and empathy. We, the people's deputies, are not involved in this tragedy. Here, however, I would like to ask all of us this question: why are miners remembered only when there is another explosion, a fire, a major accident that is taking many lives on the mine? As soon as a few people lose their sorrows, the social resonance of the tragedy declines, almost immediately everyone forgets the urgent needs of miners and the numerous assurances and promises made by politicians about the need to develop the coal industry, to allocate from the State budget, including development, to mining science, to improving the safety and security of coal enterprises. From the mouth of public leaders of the highest rank, we hear repeated statements about the need to develop the coal industry. However, everyone is well aware of one fundamental truth, and even the owners of small businesses in the business, that without investment, there can be no development of the business. Our high-ranking husbands in the government certainly know that too. The Government has repeatedly made proposals with detailed calculations of the trade union, the need to increase the budget for the coal industry in 2008 by 13 billion grivens. These proposals have been supported by the TEC committee of our Parliament. But it's the same as before. The budget has allocated 7.1 billion of them to our energy. And worst of all, as I have already said to the Prime Minister, from these billions of coal enterprises must pay 250 million as a profit tax. What kind of income are we talking about? Funded for five months this year, almost 700 million industries are underfunded. Since the beginning of the year, there had been a total of 354 million technological weapons and 825. It is a matter of particular concern that the Ministry of Finance has little response to well-founded requests and the treatment of trade union and Minugleprom. Even direct instructions from the Prime Minister on the approximation of the funding deadlines for coal programmes by Minfin are simply ignored, and there is no government response in this regard. And on my parliamentary notice, we only get one write-off. And we have to say that in the first quarter, we've heard from the Kabminov workers about the victory march for increased mining in the first quarter. But it's all quiet today. And where will the coal come from if it doesn't go into the program in five months? Six kilometres of basic production. From last year, the backlog was 5.5. As a result, today is a daily day.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u5	Let me finish. Ten seconds, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u6	As a result of this funding, the monthly loss of production is 400 tons per month and the corresponding loss. the coal industry's income is almost 130 million. The main reason is the lack of funds for logistics equipment. is equivalent to 250-270 million monthly. As a result, the necessary costs for coal-mining enterprises as a whole are financed by half.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u7	Thank you. Oleg Lazko. Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u8	Dear voters in the South, North, East, West in the center of the Ukrainian state. You may have noticed that a super-historic event took place in the Ukrainian legislature yesterday, I would call it the moment of truth. The subject that has been discussed so much, and the subject of so many speculations, and the subject that has led very often to the Ukrainian Parliament of people who know how to speak one another, to think another and to write quite another. Yesterday you know that the Yulia Timoshenko Block introduced its bill in which it restricted, I emphasize, the feudal, feudal benefits that the national MPs were supposed to have. That is, frankly, idiotism, if the MPs are not elected to the Supreme Council, that is, he lost the election, then he's paid a salary for another year. For what? When he lost the election. We introduced our bill, for which the Party of Regions did not give any, no vote, instead they introduced their bill, a very progressive, super interesting one, was taken off by a single blow, under general drug abuse all the MP's benefits, and a national deputy was paid a thousand dollars. This bill was introduced by one of the authors and members, even the leaders, some speakers, as it is fashionable to say to the Party of the Regions. You've heard this sleep for ten minutes. The colossal love for the Ukrainian people, all of which was so warm, so hot that it was not possible to support this bill, "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko" simply couldn't. We had no other way out, and you know that after that, when suddenly they all raced, what to do, some people were nervous. The “Julia Tymoshenko Block” is actually unanimous, there are two or three that have not been able to vote, voted in favour of the bill. They're themselves, the initiators: Mrs. Hanna gave her voice, and I'm very grateful for that, Headmaster and Lukash, -- three votes at all, that's why it's all in place. The subject of the MP's benefits in this call has been removed once and for all, and the people just need to know who lied, who was telling the truth, dot. Once again, I ask you not to go back to the subject. It's all clear. Let's put a dot. And finally, I want to say about the person that I personally respect, but unfortunately the press writes about her very many things that she has served there and there, and I want to thank Mrs. Hanni for actually working on the "Timoshenko Yulia Block" and working very fruitfully and talentedly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u9	Oleg Czerpicki. Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u10	Dear colleagues, I wanted to draw attention to yesterday, as one president says, to a unique day in the history of parliamentaryism, when we witnessed a political theater, which sometimes seemed like actors from a burning theater. So when we heard the leaders of many factions tear themselves up here and talk about how they will protect the Ukrainian people and how they will save them from accidents, from droughts, from the floods of the Ukrainians, and when it comes to voting, it turns out that yesterday we took one of the most disgraceful steps, I think, in Parliament of the Sixth Call -- a bill of order in us with crashes on the roads failed, which was prepared, half a year worked on by experts, psychologists from all over Ukraine, destroyed in this session hall. I want to ask you, maybe next to those crosses that we have on the road, like in Afghanistan, maybe a list of MPs who didn't vote yesterday. Because the price of the question of yesterday's bill is no longer a question of hundreds, but thousands of people today who are afraid to go out because we already have, but we don't have drunks, we can have a bribe of a little "smoking away" from any violation. So I think, Arsenija Petrovich, that we need to think about how to correct this mistake and if the President doesn't submit it immediately again, we need to correct this mistake, go back to this bill and vote. Because yesterday's game “find 226 cards” is interesting for the Party of Regions, but sad for the Ukrainian people. Did you want the circus here to show that there are no cards? The price of this circus: The Road Traffic Act is over, a bill that, I think, is interesting to both the Party of Regions and our Ukraine on amnesty and other political forces has failed, a bill on social dialogue has been withdrawn. So, dear friends, I think that once again the idea of having a theater comes up, don't be in this session room. Coalition issues will be resolved; don’t worry. The coalition will work, act, and if it fails to endure trials, it itself will dissolve and a new coalition will be created. But the price of the question that Ukrainian society should be counted for political struggle and showed that a month or ten days here in the session room cannot be decided I think it's not just political cynicism, it's a political dream. Because when our citizens were watching the meetings yesterday, they couldn't understand what was going on in this session hall, that leaders were talking about and worrying about the Ukrainian people, and the MPs, by chance, half the hall, didn't fall for the buttons. So I would very much like this session room to have no struggle to prove that there is 226 or 226. I wanted there to be a struggle in this session room to prove that the Parliament of the Sixth Assembly has a chance to work in the interests of the entire Ukrainian people, not in the interests of those who are sitting outside this session hall and the threads are being suppressed as political puppeteers. So I believe that this Parliament will work, not for puppeteers, but for the people.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u11	Zinov Skutak.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u12	Honourable deputies, Ukrainian citizens, this year, for the first time in years of independence, Ukraine will not be able to make entrance exams to higher education institutions, and graduates will enter on the basis of independent external testing, the first stage of which has been successfully completed. Testing is a breakthrough in the development of an education system in the state, and it has shown the ability to reform the educational sector thoroughly. Recall that on July 4, 2005, President Viktor Yushchenko of Ukraine, by his Decree on Urgent Measures for the Functioning and Development of Education in Ukraine, created preconditions for the introduction of external testing in the education sector in Ukraine and gave serious impetus to this process. The goal of creating an external single-test system was to monitor the quality of education and to obtain real and true data about the level of knowledge of school graduates and the quality of schooling. Creating such a system is a call to eliminate corruption when entering higher education institutions, because external testing is a part of both graduation and entrance exams. The Democratic Coalition in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Sixth Call has identified in the coalition agreement the need to introduce an independent external test of all graduates of the school as one of the primary tasks in the education system this year. The findings of this year’s test showed a sufficiently high level of education for Ukrainian graduates. Only five percent of those registered for the test did not get the required number at 124 points for the test. At the same time, more than fifty percent of the graduates who passed the test gained 150 out of 200 possible points. The “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” faction supports the determination of the President of Ukraine, Victor Yushchenk, and Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, to bring order and transparency into the educational field, especially with regard to ensuring a level playing field for all graduates when entering higher education institutions. At the same time, we call on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to increase funding by 46 million dollars to effectively complete testing, and we ask that we take this into account when making changes to the 2008 National Budget of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u13	Andrew Parubius.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u14	Our Ukrainian People's Self-Defense faction. A statement by the faction "Our Ukrainian People's Self-Defense" concerning the issue of the withdrawal of the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation from Ukraine. “May 28 was 11 years old since the signing between the Russian Federation and Ukraine of the status and conditions of the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation in Ukraine. During this time, discussions are ongoing about the presence of the Black Sea fleet in Ukraine. And if Ukraine does its part conscientiously, the Russian Federation is wise not only to use Ukrainian land and property for nothing but only in a brutal way to break the agreements that have been stolen between Ukraine and Russia. Very often, the Russian Federation is using the Black Sea Fleet theme to blackmail and hysterics against Ukraine. Here are just some facts that confirm the violation of the conditions of the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation in Ukraine. The first, which is self-absorbed by the Black Sea Fleet, is land plots, aquacultures, property complexes and other funds, according to very low data, is 75 plots of more than 150 hectares, 86 sites being used on a free basis. Until now, there is no mechanism for implementing inter-government contracts in part of compensation for local budgets of Sevastopol, other population costs associated with the presence in their territory of military formations of the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation There are unique facts of violations by the Russian side of environmental legislation and the threat of an emergency that requires an immediate assessment of the environmental situation and the development of a coordinated programme of appropriate cooperative measures aimed at preserving the ecosystem and preventing pollution at the Black Sea sites. Of course, all these violent facts, the breach of basic agreements by the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation, provide sufficient grounds for Ukraine to unilaterally break these agreements. At the same time, the Ukrainian authorities do not question the immediate withdrawal of the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation from Ukraine. We are fulfilling all our obligations under the basic agreements, instead, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" supports the President's decree on the decision of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine of 16 May on measures to ensure Ukraine's development as a maritime state, which requires a two-month deadline for comprehensive assessment of the consequences of the Black Sea fleet's temporary stay in Ukraine and to begin preparations for the withdrawal of the Black Sea fleet from Ukraine. Instead, we, at the same time, urge the Russian Federation to begin work immediately to phase out the Black Sea fleet from Ukraine. We think it's this one.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u15	I'm sorry, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u16	Presumptuous, the Communist faction. The distinguished electorates, on 16 June 2008, of the Order of the Trudé Red Name and the Order of the Peoples'Friends, the International Children's Centre, Artek, celebrated its eighty-third anniversary. During the difficult years of Soviet education, one of the first decrees on universal education, on the elimination of neglect, on the recovery of children and on “Artek” was adopted, one of the links of the chain aimed at educating the full personality of the children of the dead communists. What did Artek come with at its eighty-thirtyth anniversary? In a state of powerlessness, corruption and lawlessness, the children's centre, which the whole world admired, is on the verge of disappearing. The 2008 summer season may be the last for Artec. Mass reductions are under way. What, though, should you do to people living in Gurzuf’s territory if they lose hundreds of jobs? For the first time in history, except for the military years of nine camps capable of hosting 3,000 700 children, this year only 4 per 1,000 people will be found, not to mention that Artek has ceased to be a round-the-clock centre. While there are no gifted orphans, children with disabilities, children whose fate should be disturbed by the State, the financing of which is now virtually null and void. Is it no longer necessary for a country of athletes, chess players, just active and proactive children who simply do not have the resources to send their child to rest and health? For everyone knows the uniqueness of the Crimean south-coastal climate and no one is the secret of the situation in Ukraine today with tuberculosis. Where, then, are these so - called 100 steps to meet people? Where's the human breakthrough? Where is all this, I ask you, Mr. President and Mr. Prime Minister? After all, all your zeal ends in breaking the Order and trampling on our history. Maybe it's just a unique place that Artek is in, and it's already in the agenda of what's called privatization? And it is expected to have the same share that has reached other greedy parts of Ukraine, which are now called everywhere, unlike the debacle of the land. Our task today is to preserve a unique children's institution for future generations, to ensure its operation throughout the year, to resume funding and this is the case of today's authorities. The upbringing of an adult generation must be in the spirit of internationalism, friendship and mutual understanding. We are proud of our history and will not let anyone forget its best pages. And as for today's speeches, I want to say. A respected coalition can't translate from a sick head into a healthy mess that you've cooked into a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u17	Malishev, Malishev. Kors.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u18	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, please give the floor to National Deputy Korje Victor Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u19	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues! Ukraine and Poland's victory in a tender to hold the Euro-2012 finals gave rise to the State's guarantees of direct organisation of this important forum. To this end, the government of Viktor Yanukovic has adopted a series of priority measures: the Ukraine Act “On the Implementation of the Final Part of the European Football Championship”, approved an appropriate national target programme, approved by the Cabinet of Ministers Regulation on the Establishment of the National Agency of the Euro-2012, approved and prepared more than 20 legal and regulatory acts, created the necessary preconditions for effective preparation.All of us have been able to implement in just 7 months, leaving our successors with a package of legislative and regulatory acts on the solution of the complex of existing problems. As the new power came, all of us witnessed an endless series of populist statements about the brilliant state of affairs and the wonderful progress of preparation. At the same time, the faction of the Party of Regions points out that the state of preparations for the Euro-2012 is causing great concern today as a result of the complete inactivity and irresponsibility of the authorities. The state programme, which has been reconfirmed by the new government, has increased by 11 billion public budget expenditures by 10 billion, reducing investment revenue, thereby reducing the investment attractiveness of the project as a whole. In the presence of the winner of the competition for the reconstruction of the Olympic NCC, and the possibility of starting it on January 1st, particularly the financial one, an additional one was held with a number of distortions of the competition, which resulted in the victory of an unknown firm in the world with a further ban on the implementation of the project by UEFA. [[You know, 300 million dollars was set up in the 2008 budget to implement the project.]] It raises concerns about ignoring the President of Ukraine's assignments, which required the completion of a state-wide plan in January-February to prepare for the championship and to make proposals in accordance with the laws, about ten, which were already set out in November last year. A complex of issues remains to be resolved regarding the repair and reconstruction of airports, railways, including infrastructure repairs, and so on. With the aim of legislative regulation and proper organisational provision for the holding of Euro-2012 on 4 March this year, the People's Dept. of the Party of the Regions introduced a draft decision on the holding of parliamentary hearings. This issue is particularly relevant in the light of previous critical findings of UEFA experts and the report of the Federation and the National Agency on June 27 in UEFA and the visit to Platinum on July 3, this year. Taking into account the days remaining until the end of the session, the faction of the Party of Regions asks you, Arsenija Petrovich, to give a protocol commission to the government for the urgent introduction to Parliament of the necessary bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u20	Let me finish. Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u21	Introduce a quarterly report to the Government of the Supreme Council on the issues of “Euro 2012” and put in order a day-to-day draft decision on the holding of appropriate parliamentary hearings. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u22	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u23	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday in the Supreme Council, draft laws on the abolition of the benefits of national deputies were considered: 1408 and 1356-2. No one was approved even in the first reading. In the existing legislation on activity, a large block of what is now called benefits has been formed. Indeed, many of them do not endure criticism, for they are fundamentally immoral. But it was for the abolition of these immoral benefits that a bill of both our coalition colleagues and a representative of the opposition was sent. The whole country has heard a high-level speech by our colleague, the representatives of the Party of the Regions about the need to give up these benefits, appeals to colleagues, both from the opposition and the democratic coalition, to support this momentum for bringing justice to Parliament. Our faction was ready to vote on such a bill immediately followed the first reading, and generally. We've shown it by voting. What a surprise for all parliamentarians and the Ukrainian public when the Party of Regions voted in favour of the bill gave three votes. This is because the opposition spoke about the willingness to support the cancellation of the benefits. In voting for this bill, cynicism and deception of the Ukrainian electorate were demonstrated on another occasion. Let's not do that, let's work for the good. And in this regard, I have an offer to come out of that war, the undeclared war on the road. According to incomplete statistics, one person dies every hour in the country, 24 people a day, 720 people a month, and 10,000 40 people a year. Many more injured and injured. And that bill, which was amended by numerous amendments from all factions, was also failed yesterday. After all, he anticipated an increase in the amount of a car - driving fine to between 80 and 100 untaxed minimum citizens ’ income — 1,300 and 2,500 dollars. But the politicalization of Parliament, which led to absurdity, led to the fact that when we declared love for people, we buried the bill. I propose today the first question to go back to this bill and consolidate the entire room. That's why both the position and factions of the Party of Regions and Communists and the Block of Lithuania, where on absurd grounds they refused to vote in favour of this bill, is not acceptable to me. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that 2/3 is now in the post office of the courts in Ukraine, and to the situation that has arisen in the civilian chamber of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. Today, 40,000 are there, and people are there.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u24	We're running out of time. Ten seconds. I'll add, don't worry.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u25	I'm calling, Your Honor, to all of you to understand that we've already made a decision when we've sent a case to appeal. Now we're standing on the threshold of the same story again. I warn you all that what happens in the Supreme Court is a threat to our people, and the complaints have to go not to us, but to be there, including here. And I'd like to look at the bill on reforming the judicial system more quickly. Thank you, Arseny Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u26	Sergey the Headate.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u27	Dear Mr. Head, honourable fellow MPs, I was forced to come to this rostrum only by the fact that yesterday there was a call from the high court to the formal legal criteria when applying the Constitution. You know, I think learning to count to 10 is taught before first grade, even in kindergarten. When it comes to formal legal criteria on the existence of a coalition or not, they are actually established in the Constitution, and the Constitution says that the coalition is formed by deputies, the subject of the formation of a coalition is a deputy, and that's what the sixth article, which forms a coalition of factions, consists of most of the deputies -- the deputies enter, they form a coalition. But once again, if you take a formal legal criterion, article 66 of the Rules says, the cessation of coalition activity: the coalition stops if the number of coalitions decreases to the number of national deputies lower than the Constitution. The Constitution states that the majority of the coalition is 226 and two are out. Arsenius Petrovich, on June 6th, you announced the legal fact that two deputies had come out. Seven minus two is five, that's a legal fact. And that's why making a political decision, a political decision, whether there's a coalition or there's no coalition, that's different than it is. Every lawyer knows that a political decision by a faction is one but a legal fact that is not to be testified to. You don't have to testify that today June 18th, because that's a fact, the legal fact that two of them were already taken from seven, they took themselves away. Legal fact that the creator. That 450 is a member of Parliament as a whole, it's the primary element, it's an oath. It is up to the MP to adopt the Constitution – 300. One member depends on the adoption of the law – 226. It is up to one MP to approve the Crimea Constitution - 225. It's from one MP. So why. As they say in Ukrainian. and anecdotes: “Don’t make your father a fool!” After all! So of course, those who can count to 10 and those who can read and by 10 count to kindergarten and read in first grade learn, of course, who can't count to 10 or who can't read should go to the Constitutional Court. Wise people need not go anywhere to establish legal facts; they must recognize that there is a legal fact. Therefore, of course, there is no need for interpretation by the Constitutional Court, there is nothing to interpret. Once again, legal facts, formal legal criteria.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u28	Katerina Samuelk. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let me finish. Give it to Catherine Samylik.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u29	But because there are MPs in this room who can't read, they don't want to read, they don't want to count, they don't want to count, of course there's no other way to go to the Constitutional Court. Maybe 18 judges can read and count to 10. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u30	Katerina Samuelk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u31	Nadona's.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u32	Naydenov, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, Arsenija Petrovich, I would like to draw your attention to our fellow countrymen's attention to the case where once again the so-called Democrats – BUT, Our Ukraine, the President – are speaking abusively about caring for children, about the health of the nation, in fact concealing their low intentions – to destroy the education and education system. Herson's Children's House, Teremok, in the first days of the war, adopted orphans, gave them families, replaced their families, gave them education, and put them on the road. President Yushchenko once again deceived you, he declared this year the year of the national adoption of orphans. From this rostrum, I ask why double standards, why lie to the people of Ukraine? Or do you want to maim the children's fate? Fraud, deceit — indeed, the BUTT card, Our Ukraine, the President and his field peers. On many occasions, Hersonian deputies have been asked by the leaders of Hersonian Children's House Teremok not to destroy the children's home. In turn, we went to the Ministry of Education and Science, the President to stop the illegal actions of the head of the Herson Selenkov administration, the Head of the Herson Education and Science of Suha, who wanted to destroy the Teremok Children's House, to disperse orphans everywhere, and it was not difficult to predict what would happen to the children's home, the administrations. From this rostrum I appeal to the President of Ukraine to stop his satraps in the Herson region because they are. For they have waved at the holy saints, the children. They're already destroying the boarding school, Herson High School of Sports. I would also like to say that these days he participated in protests against NATO. We saw once again the hypocrisy of both Yushchenko and July: before the elections, they did not say that they wanted to join NATO. And who gave children the right to advertise for joining NATO? Did you ask their parents? Stop! History will judge.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u33	Dear colleagues, according to the Rules, we have two factions who have requested a recess, but for the declaration. I'm going to give you a replica, half a second. But for the declaration. That is, the Lithuanian Block and the Party of the Regions have requested an appropriate recess. If you don't need time, you're ready to announce your application, I can give you my word right away. And the replica, please turn on Hanni Herman, and after that, is a statement by the faction or “Block of Lithuania”, or the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u34	Dear colleagues, I'm very sorry that the coalition really doesn't exist. Because if there was a coalition, I don't doubt it would vote in favour of my bill to abolish the benefits. Two coalition speakers confirmed that they wanted to, the coalition often wanted to, but rarely could. I'm sorry there's no coalition. Regarding what Mr. Writer said I work for the BAT. I didn't want to break it. I didn't want to talk about it. But since Mr. Writer has already begun, I will. Which, indeed, was what I received yesterday. But I refused because Timoshenko’s “Blank of July ” is working for one person. And I will always stay with those who work for all of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u35	Mikola Haritonovich Shershun, please. Declaration of statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u36	Mikola Shershun, “Block Lithuania”. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! In the background of political disputes, intrigue, and scandals of particular importance, eternal values are the health of our people and, above all, our children. We still have a fresh memory of the events involving the attempts to dismember the Ohmatdit Children's Hospital, this whole healing complex, the efforts to alienate the premises and land belonging to the hospital. Only through the intervention of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which adopted an appropriate decision in 2005, has this medical facility been preserved. On 30 May 2008, a decree was signed by the President of Ukraine to grant the Ukrainian Children's Hospital "Ohmatdit" national status, which was renamed the National Children's Hospital "Ohmatdit". It would seem that after such decisions, any attacks on such an authoritative medical facility will be stopped, but the hospital and its employees, and the main patients, our children, can actually face a new threat again. There is reliable information that has recently been suggested by the Prime Minister to merge Okhmatdit with the Institute of Pediatrics, Obstetrics and Gynecology, which is subordinated to the Academy of Medical Sciences of Ukraine. The main argument behind such a proposal is that this seems to correspond to the European strategy for the health and development of children and adolescents, where Ukraine is defined as a pilot region to implement this strategy among the countries of the European region. We want to make another fatal mistake, as with vaccination, where Ukraine was also a test site. For this experiment, one child is known to have paid for her life, and over 200 more children have been hospitalized. To our deep conviction, the unification of these two institutions cannot be conducted on such grounds. First. The concentration of material, technical, human and financial resources in one facility, and more precisely in one hand, will create conditions for another corruption scheme in the state and put an end to the rational use of public funds in the field of medicine. It's different. The mechanical merger of two institutions will result in the reduction of medical personnel, the release of professionals with invaluable experience in providing high - quality and specialized medical care to children. Because Ohmatdit is a day-to-day help to children, many of whom get there on ambulances. Because of this hospital, which has 28 specializations, sick children from all the radiation-polluted areas of Ukraine, whose health doctors continue to observe for many years. The specialized Ohmatdit Hospital today is the standard for providing preventive care without exaggeration.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u37	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u38	And that's because it's only funded by 50 percent. So please take into account my official request to Prime Minister Yulia Timoshenko for the purpose of preserving this unique Ohmatdit medical facility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u39	Dear colleagues, announcements. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law “On the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine” and article 59 of the Provisional Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I am informing you of the entry of the Ukrainian National Deputy Danilenko Vladimir Andriyovic into the Ukrainian Communist Party. Colleagues, now regarding today’s agenda and how we will work. Once again, I would like to go back to the question of completely meaningless discussions as to whether there is a coalition or no coalition. A perfectly correct decision has been made, to address the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, and I hope that when counterpart Sergei spoke of the fact that wise people should not go to the Constitutional Court for this reason, he did not mean the faction of the Party of Regions that collected 106 signatures yesterday under constitutional application. Now second, I would like to remind you that the operation of illegal acts and those that do not comply with legislation must nevertheless respond appropriately to these things. Yesterday, the decision of the Constitutional Court was called the 1998 Constitutional Court, so in 2005 we changed the entire electoral system. There are no major MPs today. I am reading to you article 1 of the People's Deputies Act, which you voted in 2005, “participation, not individual MPs, is involved in the distribution of MPs’ mandates.” The whole structure has changed, if there's a major or mixed system, there's no questions, and today it's about the role and place of the party, and the faction that's formed by the respective party or the election block. So we're going to make a completely legal and constitutional decision, as the Constitutional Court will make clear, so I'm going to make the right decision, and I'm not going to give myself the opportunity to push on constitutional acts and not constitutional actions. The second is about the order of the day, the honourable colleagues, in order of the day, only those bills that you've all asked for for for quite a long time. The Ukrainian Parliament is said to be working poorly, both working and having problems. But I took statistics and analyses on how other parliaments of other countries work. So I want to tell you that, for example, the German Parliament, we've adopted 290 laws in our Parliament today, and 292, the German Parliament takes 200 a year, the Poles take 100 a year, the French take 65 a year. So, how do you want us to work a kilo, or what? Including the stretching of those or other lobbyist acts. There is no lobbyist bill in this order of the day. In this order of things, there is no legislation that has color or the beauty of any political power or of any other kind. It's just that things that everybody says are painful, everybody's in pain, everybody's in pain and they're burning, they're going to see a doctor. And if this is about working on state things, let's vote. I urge you to go back to the Road Traffic Bill and vote on the Road Traffic Bill for everyone and show that Parliament is really in the state's best interests. And if anyone wants to put the keys to parliament in someone else's hands, as has already been done, I will not do that if they want to break the foundations of democracy and parliamentaryism in Ukraine. So I ask you to work on a schedule and show that it does not hurt and burn, but we want to work for the fate of the Ukrainian state. In accordance with article 99 of the Rules, any bill required to be voted on is required. We didn't vote in favour of drafting drafts yesterday, including drafts that have a purely social character. I'm announcing a review of the bill to Thurman Viktor Ivanovich, a draft of the Mining Work Act. If Viktor Ivanovich refuses to report this bill, I must put to the vote a question under the 99th Rules on the repeal of the bill. Please, Victor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u40	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues! I tried today, but the time was only three minutes and the problems I wanted to highlight in Parliament today, I still wanted to finish. Because that's what we're talking about to the Government, that's what we're talking about to the President, but we often don't discuss the coal industry here in Parliament very often. I just finished and said that today the parade marches are over because today there is no development, today there is a decline in volume, and this trend is worrying us very much that we are going to winter. Where are we going to buy coal abroad? With regard to safety and safety issues. I would like to remind all colleagues that, when the 2008 budget was being considered in this room, where one issue at the time was that there was a need for serious resources to be made available today on the subject of labour security and security, because the industry is in a critical technical situation today and we have allocated only 105 million. Last year was 185. But I would like to stress that here today is the chairman of the budget committee, Derkac Nikolai Ivanovic, who has signed the document, a unanimous decision has been made on the budget committee to allocate 400 million bracelets for work and security, but has been allocated 105. I asked the Prime Minister where the rest of the money was from the Minister of Finance. And today, of these 105 million we know what the situation is in the industry today, one accident, the other accident, 26 per cent funded since the beginning of the year. Twenty-six percent! We need to buy personal protection, we need to solve the question, because in these depths, where Carl Marx's last mine accident took place, at a thousand-meter depth, there's very high mountain pressure, we have to design a degassing program on such deep mines, but it has to be financed, but there's no money. The situation is therefore very serious and critical today. We have prepared, and the opposition government of Yanukovic has considered the problems of the coal industry, adopted a decree on June 5th, and I will not read it and tell it to the MPs, it is very serious, it is all reflected here. We would therefore like, as the Government has said, to work with the opposition. This decision needs to be considered in the Cabinet of Ministers and taken as a basis because it is prepared by professionals, there are clear positions on how to get us out of the crisis situation in the coal sector. And with regard to today's Act on the prestige of mining work. I said yesterday, and today I want to remind you that this law has been waiting for miners for a long time, but the political situation in the past has not allowed us to consider this law, and this time we are leaving and, again, I stress as a person who has not been the first year in this Parliament, that this law is very important. But we must remember again today, Arsenija Petrovich, here are such serious laws, when we have today warmed up all the political forces of the factions in this Parliament, I am just very concerned today that the law may not pass and be precipitated to go through it again. I would therefore like a coalition to be clearly identified, so that Parliament understands clearly that it is making the decisions that are needed by the industry today for the people. That is why I cannot present this law today and ask it to be withdrawn. Move. Move.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u41	Dear colleagues, in order to support this proposal, I must put the matter to the vote in order to properly transpose the bill and thus make a decision. I would like to remind you that the conditions for not considering this bill in Parliament are now 226 votes on the table. If there is 226, we do not consider the bill if it does not appear, I am obliged to keep going and move accordingly. Comrade, pay attention! I am voting in accordance with article 99 of the Rules on the issue of the withdrawal of Bill No. 1097, introduced by People's Deputy Thurmanov Viktor Ivanovich. Please vote. [[10:54:28]] For-0 The incredible unity of Parliament. Parliament wants to work. So we continue to consider the bill. I invite the Vice-President of the Committee on Fuel Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, Volinc Mikhailo Yakovic, to the podium. Please, Mikhail Yakovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u42	Dear friends, I am very grateful to you, all the representatives of Parliament, for allowing us to consider this bill in a few months because it is extremely important to Ukraine. Energy prices are on the rise all over the world. Especially on oil. And all over the world, they're very active in the coal industry. It's being developed in India, China, Australia, South Africa. And we're going from year to year. If we actually think that we're extracting 75 million tons of coal per year, if we bring it by world quality standards, it's actually going to be 60 to 62 million. That's the first one. And the price of coal in the world is also rising. The world’s oil, gas, and coal reserves account for 65 percent of the world’s coal supply. If you look at the world’s oil, gas, and coal reserves in Ukraine, you have 2.6 percent, oil 2.4 percent, and coal 95 percent. We have 117, 4 billion tons of coal. We have almost 170 active mines. And if we look at it, at the same time, from year to year, we're getting less and less infected by lava. This is a systemic crisis that has taken many years and has begun in Soviet times. And that's why a group of deputies drafted this bill, and I'm also a co-author. At the same time, I want to say that the government had already begun drafting a bill to enhance the prestige of mining. The same bill was drafted by an MP from the “Julia Timoshenko Block” by Natalia Královska, but Natalia Královska, as a result of the negotiations, withdrew her bill and the MP was registered more quickly than the government. But this is the situation, and I've drawn up two previous calls, and I've drafted a bill that's designed to increase the income of miners, to reduce the wage tax on miners working underground from 15 percent to 10 percent. But there in that bill I predicted that it would touch all the miners involved in underground work, including mining of iron ore, margin, color metals, zirconia, uranium, and so on. But in this bill, unfortunately, this rule has fallen out. I studied the matter carefully and worked with the mayors of mining cities. And the measures of mining cities definitely don't support the MP's bill from this position, because they calculated that local budgets would lose 500 million dollars, so they're explaining that the teachers, doctors, and so on. In addition, the tax bill does not support the tax bill and does not support the tax committee. But the basic Energy Committee, where I am the deputy head of the committee, supports this bill. Now here's the next one. The bill is designed to increase pensions for miners. But what I want to say is that the government bill also provides for this. And on Carl Marx's mine, there's a situation where the salary is one and a half thousand dollars, and the pension is from one and a half thousand to three thousand dollars. So, in the coal sector, there's an imbalance of 60 percent of those working in the field are people of retirement age, and senior managers are 85 percent. In addition, a large part of them have regressions. And that's why they're not interested in working productively in the coal sector and developing it. There are other stimulus measures that are needed in the government bill. The MP and government bill also provides assistance to families of miners on housing, credit, and so forth. Special attention is paid to children of disabled miners, children of coal miners who have lost their lives in manufacturing, there is a provision for free training in budgetary institutions, and credit benefits and the like. To conclude, what I want to say is that there is a great advantage in the government bill over the MP's, that the government bill provides that the bill is distributed to all miners employed in underground works, that is, miners working from mining iron ore, margin, zirconia, uranium and various colored ore. So I propose not to overthrow the MP’s bill, send it back to read again, and then merge it with the government, and do the good for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u43	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u44	I ask, once again, to vote in a friendly manner, organized by all MPs, to send a parliamentary bill, where I am a co-author, for a second reading so that we can unite with the government and take into account all the interests of all miners who work underground. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u45	Thank you. Questions, Answers. Please return to the rostrum. Let's sign up for questions, answers. Paul Silent.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u46	Paul Mokchan, faction of the “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear Paul Michael, we have witnessed, the whole country, those tragic events that we repeat as nightmares, those disasters that occur systematically. Tell me, what is the proportion of private mines and the distribution of state cats that stand out? Because I hear the same tune all the time: "Give money, give money." Who collects the profits? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u47	Every year a large portion of the budget is being stolen. I don't have time to unlock all these mechanisms right now. It's pepper. The branch is pervaded by corruption, and so next to this bill, I want to say that the government provides in its bill for measures to bring about a system of coal.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u48	Vladimir Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u49	Vladimir Bondarenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Mr. Michael, we have heard a lot about the conflicts that have arisen in the mines in recent times because their owners have demanded that they work on the riots even when there is a ban on the Circumstance. Well, we've been reading in the papers lately that Mr. Efim Zweigilski was threatening the inspector, we know that Carl Max's mine was working when it was banned. After all, are there any proposals for legislative approval of the responsibility of mine owners — those who receive profits for the sacrifices that take place there? It is necessary to put in such order that the state does not compensate the wives of miners or their children for the damage the family has suffered in connection with the loss of the breadwinner, but that the one who is today seeking more mining of the mine itself to increase his income so that he can pay the widow in life to raise the children, to teach them at his expense, and so forth. Do you have such suggestions?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u50	Well, first of all, the situation on private mines is that the better mines have been taken to the states, they work productively with big profits, profits, and they're robbing the entire coal sector because the funds are being redistributed into those mines that are in worse shape or that have already marked their century-old Jubilee. But what I want to say is that in the MP's bill, unfortunately, we haven't been able to predict the standard of responsibility, but this standard of responsibility is laid down in the government bill, which provides for the introduction of hourly pay. Now there's a system in place where there's a bonus pay, and miners, in order to make money or pass meters, are themselves forced to break the safety technique, otherwise they don't earn anything, wages can be twice or three times lower. The government bill is designed to increase wages by 25 percent of coal miners immediately when they move to hourly pay, and this will encourage employers to apply new technologies, run a new job organization, and supply new technology to keep the job from losing productivity.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u51	Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u52	Vladimir Yavorowski, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, town of Kirovograd. Dear reporter, under my constituency, there are uranium mines under Kirovograd. But, thank God, there are other problems than those on the Donetsk mines. And, of course, that terrible truth that's been revealed literally in the last few years, and the tragic series of deaths that have occurred. Of course, it impressed Ukrainian society. And today everyone understands that something needs to be done immediately and radically, I emphasize it, I do. Because of this Yulia Timoshenko bloc, the very ideology of this bill, which was introduced by the People's Deputies, we support it because it really draws attention to some painful moments of mining being. But I have a specific question, look what we're doing: article 4, where we write that if miners are killed, their children have the right to study at the expense of the State Budget, but in mining and occupations. How evil that sounds! Why? Or maybe these children can never climb that mine after their father’s death! How do you feel about that?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u53	Even though I am a co-author, it is clear that everything could not have been polished. I realize it's a bit of an ear scrapper because the kids have lost a breadwinner, and they can't choose a new college, and they can't have the support of their parents. Yeah, there's no excuse. I thank you for raising the question of what are the mines from the extraction of other useful fossils, such as the mines of the Kirovograd region that extract uranium ore. They were closed businesses, we don't know much about them. There are mines at a depth of 1,600 feet. You can imagine the worst conditions. In the mine of iron ore mining, Yellow Mine, for example, three people died a month ago in a second turn. If two people were killed in the third change, another person was killed in the fourth change, or conditions are not good. And that's why the government bill takes into account many of the things that are here.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u54	Mikhail Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u55	Thank you. Dear reporter! You know, at a meeting of the opposition government that took place last week, the issue of the coal situation was being considered. And today, it's a shame that an active government doesn't finance safe working conditions, technical resupply, the introduction of new lava. And I'd like you to talk to the committee today, but you're not just talking about your own position, you're talking about the committee's decision. As far as I know, the committee decided to support the first reading of the bill, which is a member of the Turmanov Faction. And I'd like you to make your position clear to the committee. But you had a proposal for some rereading of the first reading. Request: Report the position of the committee, however, and follow the rules of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u56	I want to explain that last year it was originally intended to fund a 4.2 billion-dollar sector. Under pressure from miners in April of last year, funding of 1.7 billion dollars was increased. This year, funding has increased to 7.1 billion. At the same time, changes have been made, and coal financing has increased — 11.3 billion, 13 billion. This has never been the case in the history of Ukraine. Regarding the position on the Fuel and Energy Committee, I said that this is the only committee based, and I'm the deputy head of this committee. We voted in favour of this bill. Once again, I'm his co-author. And so that this bill doesn't fail, the miners are waiting for it to get better and take into account all the interests of all coal miners working underground and coal miners in the part where the government makes a better bill, I ask you to correct, vote for the first reading again.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u57	Thank you. Mikhail Yakovich, please sit down. Colleagues, marches from factions and acts by national MPs. I'll give it to you after the show. Victor Ivanovich, I'll give it right after the show, okay? Let's sign up, please. Mikhail Yakovich, please sit down. Thank you. Efim Leonidovich, I'll give it to you, wait. Let it go, everybody sign up now, okay, and then I'll give everyone my word. Yuri Carmazin. It's from the "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u58	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, you know I read all the bills. I advise everyone to do so, then you will see that in this bill eight articles, one of which relates to pay terms. The first is simply the scope of application, which is an increase of 30 percent from the legislation, then the characteristics of taxation, the decrease from 15 to 10, then the characteristics of education, then housing, the establishment of state awards, the support of families of the dead, the absolutely declarant norm, and the characteristics of pension insurance. This is the whole bill. Everything that's been talked about so much can be said in one minute. And now, if you look at what's going on, it means from the local budget to increase the costs and put them there. Not to be overlooked at all the interests of miners who extract iron ore, marganic, uranium, zirconium, and other colored metals. This is the Kirovograd area and the Yellow Waters. This is the Dnipropetrov region, this is Marganese, six mines per thousand meters. It's Curve Rig. There's a mining law. It's a great law. Article 37 states that workers of mining companies are also subject to other regulations regarding the work of taking into account the features of this law. That's where you have to change if you have a question. There is the Law on Emergency Rescue Services, the Act on Paying for Work, and it does not provide for such a social guarantee differentiated in the fields of economics to be imposed on only one profession. Next. Finally, there is the Act “On Stately Compulsory Pension Insurance”. And I want to tell you that even the introduction of new orders for the noble mining work of the first, second, third degree to let you know that there is the honorary title “Deserved miner of Ukraine, the flag of the ‘Sakhtar Glory’, the ‘Sakhtar Virtue’. So the bill is completely not what they said it was saving the industry. He doesn't solve any questions. It's not complex and it needs to be. And it's completely unwarranted. There's no financial help. So we need to look at the government bill, and this bill, sorry, has to be sent to the authors with respect for paying attention, but I would very much like them to take a closer look at these issues. And they saw that they just didn't make up their minds; they had complex choices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u59	Please sit down. Mikola Kravchenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u60	Cowchenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues! The Communist faction of any improvement in the proportion of miners will be positive. It is understandable that if this bill were not to be politically said, the web would clearly support the bill. Since the year 98, I've been elected as a major in mining, and I've been working on this problem. And I would like you and our deputies to understand little about the tragedy of today's situation. We produced 226 million tons of coal in Ukraine. In 216 when the minister was reduced, he was removed from work in due course. Today, we produce as much as 80 million tons of mountain mass, with about 38 per cent of it, at the time it was 20-23 per cent. You realize it's 50, about millions of tons of coal. Most importantly, the coal industry has been hit in successive times to close. And so far, colleagues are proposing here that we should vote in favour of the government, but the fact is that we do not know what programme, what government policy will run today with regard to coal industries. And today, I remind you again, on Carl Marx's mine, right after the explosion, without realizing what happened without realizing how many people were killed and so on. The First Deputy Prime Minister of the Turks of the East appears: “The checkout will be closed”, and 15,000 people around the mine. I'll give you an example of the city of Ukraine that we were able to stand when the mine was shut down and the city became a depressive zone, where people moved out, recovered the mine to date, rebuilt the village, lived and flourished. I'm the only thing I'm going to say to you right now is that we're in real danger that the government will allow coal imports from Australia. The protocols already exist, they are signed, and imagine what we can talk about, let's say, the prestige of mining work, if the coal market in Ukraine is generally released. Therefore, the Communist faction will support the bill, but the only thing we know is that it will be overthrown by the so-called coalition, which to date does not have the number of votes that are needed. Although they claim that they always support miners, unfortunately that is not the case.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u61	Alexander Stoyan. Will you be out of town, Comrade Stoyan?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u62	I ask you to give the word to Thurman Victor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u63	Victor Ivanovich, you're just going to have a closing word, so you know.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u64	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues, I have already spoken under this law today and this is a confirmation of what I have said today. This is where my colleague here spoke on the right side of “Our Ukraine”, telling us for this law that he was not prepared, that there is nothing there and the fifth and tenth. Here is Mikhail Yakovic, who represents the Vice-Chairman of the Committee, which is a government law, today we are considering a law that we have prepared and today is the decision of the Profile Committee, where the First reading proposes that the Supreme Council support the bill. But what I want to say is, today, the Cabinet of Ministers, in the face of the financial administration, in the face of Minister Pinzenic, categorically against this law, I inform you, distinguished deputies. For one reason this law today, they say nothing there, is today worth 1 billion 873 million. And I would like this law to be passed by the MPs consciously because the miners are waiting for it, it's an increase in wages, it's an increase in pensions, it's a solution to the social issues that need to be addressed today, but we don't have a law. Therefore, I would like the Supreme Council, as my coalition colleagues have said and spoken today, to support issues related to the social, mine-related issues. But we only support when accidents occur, and we never support matters. So I would like to ask today, today all factions have made informed decisions, this law is yet, I stress, two years of miners waiting and we must adopt it on first reading. On second reading, when this law is being prepared, we will take into account all the proposals made by fellow MPs in order to consider it and adopt it, in fact, as a law, not as they wish to adopt today: a hat on the prestige of mining work, inside everything, and the signature of the President. That's not the kind of law that miners need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u65	Vladimir Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u66	Vladimir Bondarenko, Yulia Block Timoshenko I'd like to make sense of logic in this room for everyone. If we want this law, let us adopt it, not postpone it yesterday, today, and beyond. If so, I offer to postpone it only for a second reading, since it has a lot of gaps. Because the prestige of mining is not just working conditions, although this is the most important, perhaps working conditions, protecting people's lives. Today, there is a system that does not stimulate the introduction of new technology that stimulates only the slave work of people, including private, individual and mine mines, which are now private and state-owned, the same system. It gives the product, and at any cost, this product reaches, and you really have to go to the hourly wage, then the owner of the mine, and whoever it is, will be interested in giving every hour the maximum return on the miners' work. Consider, too, the terms of the work, not just the terms of the work itself, but the terms of the pay. It's about that it's the toughest real profession, the most dangerous one in Ukraine, and that's why someone who takes risks, who goes to the mine, and unfortunately our mines are very gassy and therefore very dangerous, has to get the right pay. And here we need to enjoy what the miners say about mines that today have an income in human life and health. I'd like to address this question, who gives guarantees when they close the mine of manufacturing conversion, which are the corresponding perspectives for those who work in mines, for their children in the city, because mines tend to grow in housing and it's so called monoactivity, there's no other conversion moments, there's no system for real retraining of those people who worked in mines when they were young, there's no housing here, and they shouldn't move to another place. I have been in contact with real miners from the Horn of Curve because my wife’s family, my wife’s brother, and many of his children are working in these mines. I can say that this is really very hard work and very little guarantees. Today's on. The mines are closed, the housing is moving, the houses are left alone, which no one is interested in, it is impossible to live there, it should also enter into the law on the prestige of this work. And I'd like to draw attention to another thing that's not touched here in this bill, it's an extraordinary corruption in the payment of regressive payments. This is an extraordinary corruption, there are now special groups that collect taxes from these miners for the loss of health and life sometimes paid only by bribes to those who make these social payments. Then the law can be passed into the hall and considered and adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u67	Yuri Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u68	Dear voters, distinguished colleagues, Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. Of course, we are now looking at an extremely important bill -- a bill on prestige, respect for miners, the prestige of this profession. But I would like both those present and those who hear us to see what is happening in this room. I think it's another example of hypocrisy. That's what it's all about. It lies in the fact that, on the one hand, the coalition claims that it exists and even a person who has a higher legal education, which I highly respect, Arsenius Petrovich Yatzenyuk claims that there is no reason to doubt that there is a coalition, and that there is a majority, but at the same time there is an incentive for minorities to vote for the bills. I urge you, fellow honourable colleagues, to let us be frank and honest with you, because we expect you or an honest assessment of what is happening, that there is no coalition and we should be thinking not about how we can pretend to be, but think, or turn back to those two deputies who have left the coalition, or maybe think about a new coalition, or tell our constituents frankly that we are not able to work and prepare for the next election, or make no manipulation, because what we are currently considering is the bill, because I have a day-to-day order, there were no such bills in the agenda, they stand here for inclusion in the agenda and decision-making. That is, what has happened is that the bills that are social orientation throughout the work of the Supreme Council until now have not been put into the agenda, but now to motivate, because how can they vote against the Party of Regions or Communists, or the Block of Lithuania, let us put them in place and thus provoke them to recognize the presence of an active coalition. Dear colleagues, this will not and will not be because we are against miners, but against what you hypocritically do. You'll never give a billion eight hundred to miners! You can't change the 2008 budget what you had to do! You cannot live up to the obligations already imposed on you by the laws that are already in force, but you are talking about an increase in expenses. You're just not doing the right thing right now! That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u69	Vladimir Ariev You're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, let us reject politics in this regard and speak honestly to one another. In fact, the law that we are now proposing is necessary for consideration. But it's a Syrian bill. I want to ask. Why is the miners being distributed? Why is coal mining more prestigious than mining work? This moment should be included in the bill. Otherwise, if we adopt the law in the form that is offered to us today, it looks like lobbyism. Otherwise, we have to work seriously on this bill. Also, I think that the bill should strengthen the social responsibility of mine owners who are privatized. In the same way, to pay very serious attention to the responsibility of the owners to maintain the mining safety of mines. Otherwise, it gets weird. We, on the one hand, want to increase the prestige of mining, as if we're looking after miners, but on the other hand, we don't take into account the moments that miners need most today. And yet I still want to go to the miners. Dear miners, the State is dating mines. And this is done by all Governments regardless of color. Coal owners get their profits from coal sales, and you're covered in their political interests, not thinking about your destiny and well-being. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u71	Mikhail Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u72	Thank you. Dear national MPs, our constituents! You know, this bill, it's very useful, because today I've heard a few versions of it raw, not raw. Conceptual issues that need to be addressed today regarding wage increases for mining workers. Need to Decide? You have to. Do we have to raise pensions? You should. Social protection of families, the right to education, the right to first place of employment, that is, conceptually, this law is ready for adoption in the first reading. In addition, you know that we are consistently engaged in the promotion of the prestige of mining. The first draft of Ukraine’s law was done during the work of the government of Viktor Fedorovich Janukovič. I made my own decisions and took part in the drafting of this bill. And this is the project that's being considered today. See, I would like to see a few of these conceptual points taken into account when preparing for second reading. First. That if a pension is set at 80 percent of the average monthly salary, it is also necessary that it be written here that the State Budget provides for a grant to the Ukrainian Pension Fund to cover the gap between the amount of the pension that is accrued under the U.S. National Pension Insurance Act and the law applicable here, that is, the equivalent of the pension insurance of government officials. Similarly, when it comes to lowering the income tax on citizens, i.e. on wages, it's lowering revenues on local budgets. At the same time, an article has to be written that the State Budget Act provides subsidies to local budgets to cover this shortfall in funds to ensure that mining cities that today’s main income line to the local budget are paid for land and income tax from citizens so that they do not lose access to local budgets. We would also like to be more specific about the right of children of mining families to education in this bill. For it to be written that it is not at the expense of mines, but that these children are guaranteed to go to government. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask that, when we are determined to support this bill, we support the committee's decision to adopt it in the first reading, and that it may be further developed before the second reading. I would ask the coalition to support this bill not only in words but also by pressing the green button, which is called the "button for". Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u73	Thank you, Yuchim Leonidovich Zviagilski. Turn on Yuchim Leonidic microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u74	Dear Andrei Petrovich, in his statement, MP Bonarenko stated that the West Mine was a private enterprise. For everyone's information: the mine is state-owned, is leased and pays $750,000 a month to the Treasury of the State. Next. The West Mine, like nowhere else, invests large amounts of financial money in security technology, the West Mine works, does not take a penny of donations from the State. It's for information. With regard to the relationship with the Secretary-General, I declare that the major corrupt financial schemes for personal purposes that the Chairman of the Committee, Storkczak, makes should not be overlooked in the State. The State Security Authorities, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Attorney General's Office are in charge, and you'll know soon enough.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u75	Thank you. Final word, Viktor Ivanovich Turmanov and Volinec Mikhailo Jakovic. The Microphone's in place, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u76	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues, I have listened to my colleagues today who have spoken on this bill. There are indeed proposals that need to be taken into account for second reading. Therefore, in order to say specifically under this law, it is not wrong today to say that the coalition is not ready to vote in favour of this law that they are willing to vote in favour of a government law that is still unknown where it is being drafted. Once again, I know that the Cabinet of Ministers has made clear that this bill that we are considering cannot be supported, especially by the Ministry of Finance, which categorically asks the question. Once again, if we want to adopt an empty one with a beautiful title for the prestige of mining work and not put anything there, there is no need for coal miners today. That's why I would ask you, Arsenius Petrovich, Arsenius Petrovich! I would ask you, in accordance with our Rules, to submit this bill, as has been adopted, and it has been considered in the Committee. It was considered there, and the Committee decided unanimously to adopt it on first reading. Please ask such a question as to make it clear to everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u77	Thank you. Mikhail Yakovic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u78	Mikhailo Volinec, faction of the "Blanket of Yulia Timoshenko". I regret that my colleague Victor Turmanov has become a hostage to political intrigues and command rules of the game, which are not for the benefit of miners, because this bill raises a whole layer of questions, and with the government he would help solve the most important, most painful issues not only for miners, but to ensure the energy security of our state and our independence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u79	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the bill is critical and extremely important. Clearly, there are things in the bill that need to be worked out. And this is actually expressed in the position of the committee, because the committee is offering to accept it in the first reading. Last year, I went down into the mine of a steep fall on a 1,000 - foot [1,000 m] horizon straight to the lava. What happens in mines, how these people work, is terrible. For three thousand dollars in absolutely inhuman and terrible conditions! That's why. Well, that guy that you and I were in the lava with, he was paid three grand because he had an overtime. It's just a terrible situation. If we don't move this situation out of place, we won't be forgiven. So, colleagues, I suggest we all take this bill very seriously. So the decision is to adopt the bill as a basis. The second point in the second reading is to take into account the position of the national deputies of all, and it is essential to take into account the position of the Cabinet of Ministers. But on the first reading, we must accept the bill. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the adoption of a draft law on the promotion of the prestige of mining work in the first reading, in accordance with the newly read second paragraph of the Proposals Decision. Vote please, Your Honor. [[11:35:14]] For 218. Please show by factions. Region Party – 1, Yulia Timoshenko Block – 148, Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense – 69, Communists – 0, Litvina Block 0. In accordance with the Rules. [[B in m in s a l in]] In accordance with the Rules, I can put to the vote for re-reading, colleagues, not to take this bill off the table, but to vote for the re-reading. Attention! Ladies and gentlemen, we vote in favour of re-reading the bill. Adam Ivanovich, rereading the first reading. You won't? All right, let's vote. [[11:36:11]] For 223 Please show by factions. Region Party - 1, Yulia Block Timoshenko - 153, Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense - 69, Communists - 0, Lithuania - 0. So, a key bill. [[B in m in s a l in]] Thus, the key bill has not been voted on. With five minutes of motivation, please sign in. Alexander Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u80	Dear radio audiences, television audiences! I'd like you to understand why the Party of Regions doesn't vote. The point is that yesterday Yatzenuk claimed that there was a coalition, and the coalition would vote for all the laws. By our vote, we wanted to see that there really is a coalition. [[B in m in s a l in]] And remember yesterday when the first-reading bill said that the coalition would support and voted 25 votes, we saw that there was no coalition. And today we are not against the law. We're all in favour of adopting all the laws and other social ones. But we'd like to see, if a very large coalition for miners, if a very large coalition for a minimum wage, for a minimum of living, everything else, let them vote 226, and that's fair. Once again, we want to say that there is no coalition. You don't have to imitate the work of the Supreme Council. The Supreme Council won't work. Mr. Yatsenuk, stop this circus, dissolve Parliament or take a break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u81	Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u82	Thank you. Martinyuk, Communist faction. Dear voters, I ask you to take personal control of the following ballots about the next plenary week. And I'm asking very carefully to control how these bills, and the Supreme Council will definitely go back to all of those bills that we talked about yesterday, we're talking about today, we're definitely going to be looking at them. But, honourable voters, especially the honourable miners, I ask you very much, when we consider these bills, you watch closely as those who today tear up a shirt on your chest and say that it protects you how it will be when political problems disappear, how then they will vote for these bills. Here, I'd like you to follow and take a look. And I'll explain again. It's about what is specifically, consciously, and that's what the ruling coalition is doing right, which is putting bills that aren't theirs because they don't want to fail.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u83	Paul Silent.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u84	Please convey the word to Oleg Lášk in connection with what he is.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u85	Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u86	Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. In fact, what's happening today in the hall is not an experiment or a coalition, and these are experiments on Ukrainian citizens. Today over miners, yesterday over those who die on the roads and their relatives, and yesterday over Ukrainian citizens, when they promised to vote for the elimination of the benefits, and yesterday they did not vote. And I want to point out that the Law on Enhancing the Prosperity of Mining, which was voted in full by the Democratic Coalition, is the law by the authorship of our opponents, and our opponents don't vote for it, so they don't care about miners and their work, because they want to prove something to someone here. I think that all Ukrainian citizens no longer need to prove who is in this room for the people, but who is just using people as cannon meat to come and take a soft chair.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u87	Alexander Klimenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u88	Alexander Klimenko, Ukrainian People's Party, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". I would like to remind many of our colleagues that, unlike many coal miners, I worked directly in five years in the Strelchenka Brigade, and then we extracted coal, unlike today's current rate of growth, just as much as the entire Donetskwugil union, which our opposition has led to. Now for the record. In fact, this bill. Today, wages are not paid. This is the first time. She's not in the right level today. Second, there are no security rules today. And the third thing is, today is ignored, first of all, is articles of mining law 49th, 48th. People don't have any coal today. There are no programs to improve life. There is no program at the state level that today could properly say where it is, the miner, to be treated. I want to remind you, first of all, it's just the central areas of Donbas that only work today in these conditions. In terrible conditions! In ten years, they have become deep in such depths.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u89	Let me finish. Jaroslav Suhi later.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u90	I wish that we would now reject these political colors and take care of our energy independence, and of those people who are waiting for us today, parliamentarians, for real help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u91	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u92	When a democratic coalition was formed, consisting of 227 Ukrainian people's deputies, I somehow thought that this sly majority, 227 of our parliamentarians, would teach our political elite. He will teach you to make a deal, teach you to seek compromises. Today's cynicism, hypocrisy, ugliness and provocation of the former democratic “kaolithic” has no limits. I'll tell you, we're going to adopt social laws, we're going to do without the flutters, but many of you won't, and Parliament's leadership is going to be normal, and it's not going to play in front of the minority because the coalition broke up, and you're now trying to make the hostages of your failure all over Ukraine. But there will never be, never will be, and never will be. We'll pass the laws. We'll build a beautiful Ukrainian house, but without many of you in power.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u93	Time is up for discussion. Dear colleagues, the only thing I can comment on. At one time, they blocked the rostrum, and others began to block. For one time, Parliament was dissolved, and now others want to dissolve. Life is cyclical. There will be no winners in this fight. In this fight, they will be defeated. Let's see, it's time to put everything in its place. Take your time. You don't want to vote for the state bills, let's see. And as for the schedule, this schedule was in line with the Conciliation Council, dear friends, read a transcript that was solved a week ago when you did not decide not to vote. There's no need for speculation. Let's be honest. So time will set things straight. It's gonna be okay. Let's go to the next draft of 1440. National Deputy Hara Vasil Georgievovich, draft of the Act on Social Dialogue in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u94	Dear Arsenius Petrovich! Dear colleagues, today that we do not speak in this Chamber, the main problem of the country is the lack of full, full-blooded legislative power. There is no coalition, it is the second day of the theatre of absurdity. Yesterday showed that there is no de facto coalition, and we are performing our function, showing that there is no de facto coalition. The country's life under threat, economic chaos, many enterprises on the verge of halting and reducing the number of people at the enterprise, the unprecedented increase in prices throughout history, the unprecedented inflation, the lack of budget, the lack of a social and economic development plan of the country, the deterioration of people's lives, the so-called democratic coalition, which in time assumed responsibility for acts not only in Parliament, for activities in the Government, is unable to manage both the economy and the country as a whole. In such a situation, any action in the Supreme Council is useless. They're turning to failure. Right now we've been looking at the mining bill, don't we know it's going to be on the basket? We don't know that everything on the agenda is going to be thrown into a basket, we go out and we say beautiful patriotic words here. There is no coalition, the opposition does not vote, so no decision will be taken today and that is understandable to everyone. I address the representatives of the former coalition, good people, in the name of Ukraine, do not cling to power as a lice for skin. Dear Arsenius Petrovich! The time of this coalition has passed definitively, no matter how long we wait until the holiday, after the holiday. And I appeal to you, find courage in yourselves, Arsenija Petrovich, in accordance with the Constitution, declare that there is no coalition, let us form a normal fighting coalition. You can't keep trampling around, you have to move on. And given that I, we all know, am not the only one who knows, including journalists, that today all the bills on the agenda are on the verge of failure. There are bills such as social dialogue, a living minimum, which we are already talking about as Father Ours, which should be included in the 2008 and 2009 budget. I don't want them buried in this hall in the name of our people. I therefore request that these bills be transposed on working days when Parliament is in a position to work and make decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u95	Thank you, Vasil Georgievich. Dear colleagues, he asked me to postpone voting on the issue of expulsion from the agenda of the relevant bill and, accordingly, article 99 of the Rules. Vote, I need 226 votes. There's no 226, so we're still looking at the bill. [[11:47:25]] For -0 Once again, parliamentary unity, "for" is zero votes. So, everyone wants to work, the bill continues to be considered. Let me once again comment on the coalition for those who have misheard. Decision of the Constitutional Court. Everyone appealed to the Constitutional Court. Imagine if Yatzenuk declared one position and the Constitutional Court took another position, what would that mean? It's not a constitutional coup and an attempt to capture the state power where you drag me, and it won't be. So by law, dear friends, all by law. You wait for the decision of the Constitutional Court and vote, vote, and the court will clarify everything. If you are to be in authority, do not be anxious. You will return to it, but if you do not have it, you will not be. Come on, let's go work. Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u96	You know what is happening today in the Supreme Council of Ukraine is, in principle, such a collapse in our work and the work of the coalition. Why? Because the opposition has decided not to vote, not to support the bill. To make sure, in principle, that the people of Ukraine are not formally identified, that the coalition is missing, that the coalition is not effective, and, in conclusion, is not a viable government. In addition, such bills are important, such as the Social Dialogue Act, which somehow did not introduce the government. Why didn't you bring it in? Why did the government not immediately introduce the Ukrainian Act on Change in the State Budget of Ukraine? Why don't wages go up now, and pensions go up to the inflation rate of what's going on in the country? You are today, and I would like to see all the government bills put in place tomorrow in the order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Although I know that today there is a government that is practically non-legislative, but that tomorrow the government bills will be put in place and that the coalition will confirm tomorrow how it can work, how it is able to provide legislatively for the government's activities. It's a bill. On February 20, 2008, a bill on social dialogue was discussed by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which is sponsored by national deputies Hara, Suhi and Stoyan, and the committee unanimously decided to support the bill. As members of the committee have pointed out, the presence of social dialogue in any country is a sign of the democracy of society. And today, if we're talking about the Europeanism of our country, we need to make decisions in a way that is envisioned in traditional European democracies. Today, parliamentary democracy and it's supposed to be seen by people, it's not working. It is therefore necessary to strengthen democracy today, that is, so that Ukrainian citizens take part in making decisions and in controlling the implementation of those decisions. And this bill, which creates such a mechanism, is the existence of a tripartite socio-economic council that includes government representatives, representatives of workers, and representatives of employers. And in a dialogue, a permanent dialogue, there will be a solution to all socio-economic issues, socio-working relations, minimum wage, minimum pension. And the draft Law just introduced, and it defines the concept of social dialogue, its principles. It also predicts how we will procedurally create national triangular socio-economic councils at the state level, at the sectoral level, at the territorial level. Also, the Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine believes that this bill can be adopted as a basis. Honourable Ukrainian national MPs, this bill needs support not only because it is creating a mechanism and tool for citizens to take decisions, but it will, in addition to everything else, take the first step of Ukraine to such a term as a consensual democracy, that is, when all decisions are taken by consensus in society. Only in those countries where decisions are made, in which all decisions are made in this way, are they democratic today and are prosperous today. In view of the above, please, the Ukrainian National Deputies, on behalf of the Committee, adopt the draft Ukrainian Social Dialogue Act on the basis and in general. But given that the opposition has decided not to vote today, I would ask the coalition to reaffirm whether it exists or not. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u97	Mikhailo Mikolaiovich. Let's sign up for the question. Come on, guys, let's go. Volenec.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u98	Dear Michael Mikolaiovich, there is now a situation in the country where five families control the whole country, all the means of production. Sixty percent of people are in poverty, this is the development of a third world country. Please give me an answer, not as a politician, but as a man, as a minister in the past, who knows what a social dialogue is, why does it happen? I mean, because we don't have a social dialogue, we've been waiting for this bill, and today Hara, the head of the Committee on Social Policy is taking this bill off, please give an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u99	You know, I'll tell you more because we don't have a social dialogue, we're having these problems that we're talking about. So the fundamental understanding of justice in our country is violated, violated in the course of privatization, by the way, the ideologist of this privatization was Mr. Pinzenik's current finance minister, and ask the people who are now without anything, if they believe that this privatization has been done fairly and why. Because in making such decisions it was necessary for employees, government representatives, employers in the social dialogue regime to make informed decisions that would be of interest to all Ukrainian citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u100	Andre Petrovich was the cuddler. There is no Andrew Petrovich. Well, let's believe Cleav handed Larina over. Give the word to Larino. And Larina's gone? Right. Come on, who's next? Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u101	Good afternoon! Give Oleg Lazko a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u102	Oleg Lazko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u103	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear Mikhail Mikolaiovich, you said in your speech that we have such a government that it does not write laws. I want to prove to you that there are 107 government bills registered in the Supreme Council for the government of Yulia Timoshenko, 30 of which have already been considered. And it's a problem in our room that we're not looking at these bills, not in a government that doesn't write them. Now, here's the question about the draft law that we're considering. Now you've been speaking, so convincingly proving how much this law is necessary for a consensus of achievement in society, and you've ended up with what, but we're not going to vote for it. Tell me, Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, and the Social Dialogue Act, who needs him, is that he needs coalitions or he needs society, whether he needs coalitions or oppositions, all the more so as your fellow MP's bill. Who Needs a Social Dialogue in Ukraine? Obviously, both the opposition and the authorities must unite and vote for the bill and give for the country’s interests.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u104	Thank you. Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, you know, you basically answered your own questions. In normal countries, such laws are written by the government. It is the government’s obligation to write such laws. And it was when Ukrainian national deputies were forced to assume the functions of government and write the Law on Social Dialogue in Ukraine. Not only is it needed by the People's Deputies of the “Regions” faction, but I think it should be needed primarily by the government. And with regard to your drafts, let's confirm tomorrow how you're all supporting these 107 bills that the government has tabled. [[You say 107 bills.]] Please, there's no problem. The opposition wants to see and, I think, Ukrainian citizens also want to see if the coalition can pass the laws that the country needs. If not, give thanks and take the side. Let those who will be able to make these decisions engage in both legislative activities in government and in other executive bodies.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u105	Yuri Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u106	Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear Mr. Mikhailo, please tell me if you can consider the Social Dialogue Act at a time when there is no dialogue in society, and in the Supreme Council itself, it is not that dialogue, not even common sense, is no longer available. When we say that there's a coalition in the country that wants to rule, they say, under any circumstances, it doesn't want to give power. And remember last year, when they turned off the lights, they blocked the rostrum, they called for early elections, and they came out of the hall, how important were the bills that we passed, but then they refused to accept them. Now they probably expected us to block the rostrum when their numbers went down, and we said, no, we're just going to act within the Constitution. If you have a coalition, please adopt laws. If you don't, dear colleagues, you don't have a right.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u107	Dear colleagues, I think that the citizens of Ukraine will confirm that the problem of our government and our coalition is that they can't do the wrong thing, they can't even do the law. Because I'm going to give you an example. There is an active Ukrainian law on subsistence minimum, which clearly states that the government establishes a minimum of living in the State Budget Act of Ukraine following consultations with trade unions and employers' organisations. That State budget that was adopted on December 28 did not agree with either the unions or the employers. That's why today we have a consciously underprivileged government living minimum, which is why today every pensioner is under 150 dollars a month, every budget worker between 300 and 350 dollars a month. Just like the Pay for Work Act, where the minimum wage is clearly fixed, the government sets up after consulting the social partners. They were not consulted by the government. I mean, they're now making decisions about breaking the law. In addition, even new laws that would somehow resolve this issue -- the issue of social justice -- the coalition is unable to adopt today. Admit it, thank and go sideways.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u108	Ivan Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u109	I give the word to Michael Volintz. Arsenius Petrovich, Michael.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u110	Mikhailo Volinec, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear Michael Mikhailovich, the whole world is building a social dialogue to avoid social tension. And that's why the International Labour Organization has allocated not one million dollars when you were still the minister for us to build a social dialogue together. And work was done with the participation of the government of the previous and last government, with the participation of employers' organizations and trade unions, but this bill is being usurped by three deputies from the Suhim, Stoyan and Hara Regional Party. And they've been all of our collective work today for many, five years, they've all collapsed, they've just failed. What do you mean, cynical or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u111	You know that we are currently looking at the draft bill of three Ukrainian national deputies. As minister, he participated in the drafting of a government bill to be tabled by the government of Viktor Yanukovitch. But because of the events that took place, in December 2007, this bill as a government law was not introduced. Therefore, the Ukrainian national MPs, who are the people’s deputies of Ukraine as the subject of the legislative initiative, have the right to introduce a bill. By the way, this bill is very different from the bill that the government was drafting. By the way, until the second reading, we have the opportunity here to address the issue of representativeness, where it is clear and clear to establish the representation of professional associations, employers' organisations, the quota of this representation. So there's a lot on the sectoral level. Also today, if you take traditional European countries, they have a social dialogue at the national and territorial levels. The way we wrote a social dialogue here on a sectoral level, I would write it a little differently. I will exercise my right of legislative initiative in preparing this bill for my second reading. Let us accept it, and today it settles many questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u112	Thank you, Michael Mikolaiovich. Break to 12.32.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u113	I'm glad we're signing up for the show. Now I'm going to give the lines after the recording. Don't worry, I'll take it easy. Now there are speeches by the national MPs. Two lines. Who wanted a line? Even three lines. Jaroslav Suhi, Hara, and Stoyan. Yeah, it's a replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u114	Dear colleagues, I've asked for a repulsion because here in this room, a party failure, an eternal poster and a complaint to my address, has made accusations of usurpation of legal work. I've never heard such a circus in this session room. So I ask this man not to use more words that you do not understand by reason of your intellectual development. Power can be usurped. So today the former so-called pseudo-democracy coalition is trying to usurp power with the help of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The other one. The legal process was never pleasant for the orange and palehearted. It's a boring thing, it's not a pier, it's not a press conference. Since 2005, no legislation aimed at reform has been introduced progressively, and no one has submitted a consistent social sphere. That's why we've introduced these bills, and we're going to make them. And there will be very little time when there will be order, peace, peace, and a constructive business environment in this session room. I guarantee you that.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u115	Hara.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u116	Respectable colleagues, respected radio and television audiences are some of the people for whom lies are the most important weapons. I want to tell you that I, Suhoi and Stoyan, have saved the Labour Code, which has been in Parliament for eight years under the auspices of the International Labour Organization, for which money has been paid by the United States of America and we have finally thrown it into the urn to save the bill, we have taken it to work and Parliament, the glory of God, accepted it on first reading, we are now very active in preparing it for second reading. If this person had a conscience, and I knew for certain that he didn't have a conscience, he would have remembered that I, by proposing this bill from the rostrum, the first thing I did, had told the fate of this law and why we had taken it together to present it to Parliament so that the work would not fail. Therefore, before making such false accusations, it is still necessary to think a little bit, and it is desirable that at least the proportion of the person's conscience should appear when he rises to the highest level.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u117	Stoyan, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u118	I think I'm going to be speaking and I'm going to explain who needs a social dialogue and why. But I'm surprised by the speech of a colleague from the U.S.B. who runs an independent mining company. Why Surprised? Because his representative was part of a working group that worked on this more important document. I would like to remind you that the President of Ukraine was the initiator of the adoption of the Social Dialogue Act. And then we voted in the first reading, but in view of what the coalition wanted, more loyally, then it was the opposition, it wanted the next election, we didn't get it to lead to the second reading. [[Tymoshenko, "Our Ukraine"]] And so, as my colleague Vasile Hara said, saving this important law, I'll tell you about it in my own speech, saving this law has been passed by three signatures, but we've been offering it to everyone. And from Volinz's colleague, I'm an objective person, working people and making offers. So instead of calling on his one-party “one-coalitioners” to vote, he says such nonsense. I'm just embarrassed, Mikhail Yakovic, for what you are.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u119	Thank you. John the Rabbit. Step away from the factions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u120	John Haretz, Ukrainian People's Party, faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! This is a very important bill, because we finally need to have a social dialogue between workers, between employers and between authorities. And everyone knows very well that today a simple person is not protected. If we don't put a normal legislative base under this dialogue, we're still not going to protect our workers, and the owner is going to do what he wants -- he's going to give us the money in the envelope, he's going to want to -- he won't give us that money. So the bill is very, very important. This is the case when the bill was submitted by the President of Ukraine, Victor Yushchenk, when he was taken into arms by the representatives of the Party of Regions and it would seem, let's vote on the bill today. Let's finally take a position so that our work doesn't go away. And I'll remind you that the social dialogue, the rules of his game were being worked on by all these working groups -- government representatives, employers -- for five years. I think that very many members of the Party of Regions can report how many times they have gone to Switzerland to take on the experience of how many round tables were held in the country, and today, you see, our opposition does not want to vote because it is fighting the coalition. Dear friends, yesterday you fought against the coalition and did not vote for the Road Traffic Act, and every day we have so many victims. Today you're fighting a coalition and you don't want to vote to protect the workers. So your position reminds me of that man, I would say, perhaps the foolish man who fought mice. He had a mouse in his house. People are watching, the house is burning. The people behind the bucket are saving the house because the neighbor is on fire. The neighbor says: “No, wait, wait. Let it burn." “What are you doing?” he said, “I am fighting mice.” He says: “This is how the house will be burned up. But – he says – and the mouse slaps.” So are you. You're going to be fighting opposition today, and you're doing what you're doing right now is creating a situation that leads to a very bad situation. to the bad consequences as a whole. both for the workers and for the whole state. So let's face it, you're the authors of this bill. Even though you did not usurp, as Mr. Michael said, but you have done with this bill, you have the courage, the courage to vote, or the courage to vote in such a way that you submit these bills just to plough in order to deceive people and not actually solve problems. We came here to solve problems, so if you don't want to solve them, just say that your position is not to set up a social dialogue, but rather to set up a strike against workers, the same miners, the same metallurgy, the same agricultural workers. So I urge you all to vote in favour of this bill, to finalize it, this bill, and.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u121	Oleg Lazko. Mikhail Volintz.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u122	Too bad, what is not said in the substance of the bill – what is a “social dialogue”? Only one representative from the committee that reported here tried to explain what the bill was all about. Unfortunately, the authors didn't try to talk about it because it doesn't bother them. I want to say that the world, so that there will be no social wars, unite with the International Labour Organization and pay huge membership fees. And so they have the ability of employers, people who are hired, or tradesmen, and representatives of governments around the world to meet on a permanent basis and decide not only on wages, but on the whole of human social life -- it's slave work, it's child labor, it's pay and so on. We're not talking about it here today because it's all going to be political. I am the head of the independent mining industry of Ukraine and the head of the Confederation of Free Trade Unions of Ukraine. And that's what the trade authorities have been fighting for many years, carrying out mass strikes, a lot of different actions to protect the people who are hired. But then we realized that there's another civilized way, that there's a social dialogue where three sides sit -- employers sit down, unions and governments sit down, and we've been doing it for years. But the drafters of the bill met in Geneva many times during these seven years, and they did well at the expense of government funds, at the expense of international organizations, to rest well, and eventually to the end they took the bill that we worked together, and they collapsed it today. In this session, we can no longer consider it. I say again that I am very sorry because I also had a bearing on this bill. But when the bill was drafted, it was better when we developed it. The authors made it worse, because when we look at it, there's no way on the bottom line of social relations, social and labour relations, which is the level of representation of representative bodies. It's from employers' organizations, from trade unions. One of the authors of the bill predicted that this was in the Donetsk region, which could be representative at the regional level of a group of 350 or 500,000 people. So we know that these people are in the old unions, that the independent unions that really represent people in the hired work, they don't have the numbers that they're just developing. And so because of working on these bills, they tried to fail, to fail. Finally, under the pressure of all the participants, all three sides and the government, you've drafted a better bill. You took it, you filed it, even though I'm saying you made it worse. And as a result, you failed it yourself. You've failed the ability of people to regulate relationships normally, as is the case in the entire civilized world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u123	Jaroslav Suhiy gives Stoyan his word.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u124	Alexander Stoyan, faction of the Party of the Regions. First, a small replica of a colleague who spoke up. Dear colleague, according to social dialogue, the drafters have never been to Switzerland. Unlike you, when you go there every year, representing some independent trade unions. Now essentially. As early as 1993, the first president of Ukraine, Leonid Krawczuk, initiated a social dialogue. He then invited the unions all -- the Federation of Trades, other trade unions -- and they were looking for ways to understand each other. After that, we really worked on this law. I mean, I've had to take the lead for 10 years on the trade side, which included representatives of all the trade unions, and we've seen in practice what social dialogue is. Who needs him first? The government needs him first, the President needs him, the employers need him. Why? Because if there is no social dialogue, then trade unions, with great rights, with the Trades Act, can carry out protests, may demand the resignation of the government and much more. Social dialogue involves cooperation and dialogue. Moreover, there is a tripartite reconciled commission. That's why, when President Yushchenko passed the Social Dialogue Act, we, our social committee, with great experience, even more Hara, a professional, I worked for many years, we brought together everything better. And I want to say, personally, I've made 17 proposals that were supported by the government to secure the right to protect the right of employers to protect the right of trade unions. And I'm surprised that a colleague who runs as many as two organizations of independent unions and as many other organizations as possible is part of the International Labour Organization, and he says it's a bad law. But you're cutting yourself off from the bitch you're sitting on. And now we need this law. Here's the President's decree of 19 May 2008, the President's decree, which states that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine will be required to accompany the Supreme Council of Ukraine with the participation of representatives of the national tripartite social commission to adopt the Labour Code and the Social Dialogue Act. That is, the President of Ukraine commissioned Julia Timoshenko to accompany this law. Accordingly, your president, your government, the president very much wants this law on social dialogue, so please, coalition, in this law, show that you have 226 votes. Now, by the way, Mr. Yatzenuk, I have three more minutes, I'm third, add that I don't go out for the second time. And because I still signed up as a physical person.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u125	You're not here.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u126	Quiet. Last, give me half a minute. The last thing about an active coalition, Mr. Yatsenuk, is I'm reading a coalition agreement in the Supreme Council, where it's written that the coalition shuts down if it includes less than 226 votes. Mr. Yatsenuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u127	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Chechtov Mikhail, please. Pass the word to Stoyan, please continue for three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u128	All right, here's what I'm saying. [[Shut up, sit down.]] So, I mean, respected TV setters, respected compatriots! Imagine the situation in 2007, and at that time in our coalition, where there were Communists, Socialists and the Party of Regions, there would be 225 votes. Imagine the weight you would have lifted! We had 260 votes, and then you called for an extra election. You have 225 votes today. I read your agreement, chapter thirteen: “The coalition ceases to exist when it includes less than 226 votes.” In this connection, you have 225 votes, I read paragraph 13-2: “The termination of the coalition is due to the submission by the Prime Minister of Ukraine and the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the application for resignation.” Mr. Yatsenuk, you've been running the Supreme Council illegally for two days. Please write your application immediately. And one more moment, Mr. Yatsenuk, using the opportunity, I went through the Herson region, was in the villages, and in one of the villages people gathered and said, Mr. Stoyan, please tell Yatzenyuk to apologize to us. What's the matter? The thing is, two weeks ago, when the technique didn't work and the President was here, you said, "You can't work, you can't go to the farm." You've humiliated those people who work on the farm, because believe me, on the farm, it's worse to work with your buttons on the table. You insulted the farmers, you insulted the people of the common peasants who feed today when they're given a pint of milk, when there's no subsidies today, when we grow a pig, we have to buy $1,000 for 300 dollars of fat, and the pig, the living weight looks like 12 bucks. So, Mr. Yatsenuk, I urge you to apologize to all the Ukrainians of the village who are working honestly, decently, and not sitting in rich offices. We will not vote in favour of this law, we value this law very much, we are in pain for this law, but we want to do it honestly when we have a coalition. You, members of the President-Julie coalition, obey the President's Order and give me 226 votes for the social dialogue. And we'll see.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u129	A very short comment. Unfortunately, I have the distinct impression that I'm often on a farm and I work because the filth that's in this room is sometimes out of bounds. And you'll learn public rhetoric for the time being. Klimenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u130	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs! I'd like to address you today, first of all, and urge you to let us now work in the session room as we will work on the committees. I would also like to highlight those very important bills for our society that we were going to consider during both this session and the past, but unfortunately, political coloring and, unfortunately, political ambitions today do not allow you to determine the fundamental issues that exist for our nation and our society. Today we were discussing issues about the prestige of mining. It's a very sensitive question, especially in the Donetsk region, and we haven't just ruined it today, we've disgraced all the mining work, the miners today. Today, people are practically working on the very enthusiasm and only the reasons that we constantly promise politicians that we will enhance their prestige precisely because of motivation, because of the increase in wages, and then we will now give breath to those cities that make up our cities, which today have become one ruin. It's not just living with our Ukrainian people, we've done everything to have a social dialogue, there's not even a dialogue between politicians today. Unfortunately, today our political irresponsibility leads to what we show and demonstrate a lack of political culture. We need to respect and respect any work, and we need to pay attention to the fact that today our children are no longer going to the exams, today our children are going to go to the higher education institutions by almost a hundred percent, and please tell us, because of this policy, first of all, who is going to go to work for the simple workers today? Who's going to be working on the construction work today, which is why programs can make us significantly higher today in terms of housing availability. And these bills are under consideration today. I'd like to address my countrymen from Donetsk today, and we've always been together when this was primarily about our regional interests. Today everyone's interests are our Ukraine and we have the only Ukraine. And I would like us to continue to work together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u131	Paul Silent.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u132	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, what are we talking about? I'm listening to the initiating authors of this bill, the authors of this bill, anything but the law itself. They're talking about the coalition, whether you're not here or most of you, they're accusing me of the legality or illegality of the presence of the Chief of the Supreme Council, and I'm surprised about the bill itself. Remember last year in the heat you brought people here to Midan and assured them that you would make them happy. I'm not going to be here by name, I know a lot of you, I know these problems are incredible, the conditions where they work, these trenches, where miners get illegal coal to feed themselves and the family. You know how depressed most of your cities are, and you're talking about what these are, because they don't pick three or four votes. But if it's yours and you're hurting, support it. What kind of dialogue we might have, is quite Byzantine. Some are added with others somewhere outside, even in the presence of most people. The Byzantines in what is being distributed, the Ukrainians are being dispersed, they're coming down to a small group of people who are paying for it, and I've been asking those who came and became buses from the capital road to the Staravodnicki, what did you come here for? And because 40 or 50 dollars were given because they were unemployed. You were talking to them, were you talking to them? Why you're the only legal organization that really wants good is the unions, Michael Wolinz, you don't support. Why is the boss who sits on a television screen and works on a thick pocket and a wallet, and the one who heads the so - called official trade unions, standing up for their positions, not those who receive these 50 bracelets for going to Kiev? Think, at least think about the things that you have prescribed when you write about coordination, coordination of organizational arrangements for the creation of the National Council, being carried out by the central executive body. For whom you wrote this, for the authority you form, that you support, that you don't want to change. But fear God, do what is necessary for the people, add your votes to our vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u133	Alla Alexandrovska.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u134	Dear colleagues! Respectable voters! The issue that is currently being discussed in the Hall is very important. The previous speaker addressed us all and asked for support for the bill in that it should take into account the role of so-called independent trade unions and refer to trade union bosses who speculate on employees and so on. Let's speak frankly and to the end, today people are actually speculating on the mountains, on the sad fact that they have no job, that they have no wages, today a hired worker, and not only is the employee, the hired worker is both the teacher and the doctor. Today, the employee is completely inequitable, and I would like to say frankly, today the trade unions in general are very weak, and independent, including Volinca, are protecting people's interests. It is therefore not about who will speak on behalf of those people, it is about what we should do with you, you and me, MPs, that should allow these people to express their protest and defend their rights, and that will not happen until these people are guaranteed from moral, psychological and economic pressure. That is, if they have guarantees of work protected by the Labour Code which is not available today, there is protection of the employer's right and if they have such wages that they can have an hour of free time per day so that he can read a book and think about something so that he does not work 12 to 13 hours per day. That's what we're dealing with here today, and not because we have to give priority to some union, we have to make this person independent, a man of employment. Salaries, employment, employment guarantees must be resolved in Parliament. These are the laws that talk about social partnership, you know, it's such an easy flier that comes up with the disdain of the law that today rules over employers and employees. As long as we have such unemployment and such miserable wages, until we have no social partnership laws, we will not solve this problem with any guarantees. It's all a bluff and a myth of capitalist society, I speak as a communist. Therefore, we are Communists in a capitalist society, of course, supporting any legislation that at least brings a person closer to the social protection that he really needs to have in life. At least one step at a time. But today, there is a tremendous mystification in this room. Mystification of the coalition's activities, which formed the Government and pretended to be working. It's not working. She's incapacitated. And she won't admit it. This is the enormous mystification that we, Arsenius Petrovich, must overcome. Yes, referring to the Constitutional Court is only because it is to find an arbitral judge who will define the discourtesy that is taking place today in the orange majority of the room. There's no majority. They have to raise their quotes to the top and say, "We can't work."
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u135	Davidenko. Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u136	Ivan Hare Ukrainian People's Party, faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. That's my last name. Isn't that nonsense? When the representatives of the Party of the Regions submitted the bill, writing a preliminary draft of the President and refusing to vote for it. Why you don't want to vote for him, I understand as political. Not because you're fighting a coalition, it's just a superficial layer, it's just a verbal half, and in fact you don't want to normalize the relationship between a working man and an employer. Between a working man and power. Because you all represent a big business before that opaque origin. And this big business in Ukraine today has profits. Because there's lawlessness, because there is, if you want, and there's injustice, and you're protecting the situation where a simple employee is today. That's why you're against NATO, because you also know that Ukraine, if it's in NATO or in the European Union, there's going to be the same rules as for a simple person who's a minister. And there's a minimum wage. which distributes the gross domestic product so much that 80 or 90 percent of it falls to most citizens and forms the so-called middle class, people economically independent of power, from circumstances, people who are carriers of democracy, who are carriers of national tradition and national custom. And I can see why the left against this bill, and they don't want to vote because they also know that it's a European tradition aimed at protecting the worker. It is better to talk than to create mechanisms so that this simple person can make ends meet. That's where your policy is built. Now, specifically, according to the bill. How it can be improved in the second reading. First of all, we need to pay attention to the need to strengthen the status of socio-economic councils, because they're written down, we're going to say so, amorphically. The project does not provide for the mandatory execution or at least taking into account the arrangements of the authorized authorities, but it obliges the designated entities to consider such arrangements. So that's a big difference between what you have to do and what's written. Similarly, we need to understand the problems of representativeness. There are not only trade unions, there are not only people organized, but there are so many workers that we call self-employed persons, there are millions. How are they represented in this mechanism? It's practically not. So in this direction, you have to look in the same way. So, our opposition representatives of the Party of Regions and Communists, let's not fight against the coalition, let's finally testify that you really want to defend the interests of the labour people, not just to engage in demagogies, you're not just trying to pyrate.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u137	Cowchuck Vasil.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u138	You know, it's so nice to hear the patriotic sermons of MPs from the Party of the Regions and so disgusting to see when they don't vote for their laws when I know that there are leaders of large businesses behind which there were thousands of labor groups, and who know the problems of these groups, how they need to adopt these social laws; when I see when there are leaders who need the country, and when they don't vote for the bills that people need, I can't help but say how hard it is for me to look at it. Yesterday, when, by the way, the Party of the Regions, the Block of Lithuania, the Communists did not vote in favour of the Road Traffic Act, four people were killed again at the Hmeln farm, one of whom was the head of the Shepet regime. It's not laughter, it's trouble. Why miners should suffer, by the way, your potential voters, your voters, because you don't vote to improve their working conditions. The "Julia Timoshenko Block" votes in favour of your bills, the Party of Regions, the Communists, votes in favour of Mrs Herman's genius law, and at the same time you don't support them. I am simply asking you, “Don’t embarrass Ukrainian Parliamentarianism, people are listening to you now, people are looking at you, and don’t experiment with your own voters.” Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u139	Colleagues, reports, reports. Hara has a reporter. Please, Volinec is a replica; Herman is a replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u140	Mrs. Alexandrovska mentioned my last name. I am grateful that she raised an important question, and she said that social dialogue was a harmonious part of all labour legislation. And I want to add that the three representatives here in Parliament are the authors of the Social Dialogue Act. You are the authors of the new draft of the Labour Code. The project foresees a significant deterioration in the position of people in employment: there is no obligation to conclude collective agreements, no accountability for non-compliance with collective agreements, no provision for recalculation of funds for enterprises, no provision for housing, no provision for giving or refusing to grant exemption from employment. So I want to point out that we're still going to be looking at the draft Labour Code in the second reading, obviously, and we also have to deal organically with social dialogue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u141	Hanna Herman, line up.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u142	I regret that the coalition voted in only 25 votes in favour of the brilliant bill on the abolition of parliamentary benefits, as the previous reporter put it. Remember that last year, at the same time in this parliamentary room, we, our coalition, then, anti-crisis of national unity, canceled the benefits and voted in favour of such a bill. Now it was your turn, but you didn't cancel the benefits. Instead, when we form a new majority in Parliament, we will once again put this bill to the vote and together we will show you how to cancel the benefits. Your 25 votes, unfortunately, didn't help.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u143	The closing word is Vasil Hara and Mikhailo Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u144	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, we understand what's going on in the hall. We are present today in the lesson of shining hypocrisy. For three months, we were unable to get to the rostrum to report our social laws in a normal manner. Once such a situation had been created, when the coalition was unable to make any decisions, those laws had, as a matter of special importance, been put in place to collapse. And this is the walling of all the representatives of the former coalition from the rostrum, calling for our support, more than hypocritical. Where were you when we asked for these laws to be passed and passed for three months? Where were you when we talked about the subsistence minimum that had to be updated and put into the 2008 budget? Where were you when we were working on the bill? You didn't make any suggestions at the time, and then you go out like this person before us and you still haven't submitted, and the deadline is over, although you're twice as big as the President of the Supreme Council, not a single proposal in the Labour Code, and then you go out to the rostrum and you start to talk about the "snack of the mare". Dear Arsenius Petrovich, we understand that there will be no productive vote today. This law that we are considering is very important and very important. You know that yesterday and today it is decided to reaffirm the de facto failure of the coalition, and this is very important for the country to know that we have a political power that is responsible or not, we do not vote. That's why I have a request. At least, we discussed it, let's not vote. Put to the vote when it is possible to vote for it. And I would also like to say, distinguished colleagues. Here we are being accused — me, Stoyan and Suhogo — of passing some unknown drafts. Dear colleagues from the former coalition, even if I had not told the background of this bill from the rostrum, no one would have even known what those bills were from where they came from and why they were needed. Only because of our honesty and decency, when we tell the story and take years of work in Parliament, as it is in the Labour Code, in order to save it and make it a normal field of work, do you go out and say all kinds of crap instead of working on the Labour Code and making it one of the best in Europe as possible. Arsenius Petrovich, I'm addressing you again. You know 100 percent more than I know that no positive decision will be made today. Please postpone the vote for tomorrow, for the day after tomorrow, for another day when Parliament will work properly, and we can adopt the normal law necessary for Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u145	Mikhail Papiev. Is there a room? There is no member of Papiev Mikhail Mikolaiovich. Fellows, you will remember my word that Parliament will work equally. One more day, two more, three more. Our main weapon is stamina. So, we're going to proceed to the Rules now, to vote. If the bill is not supported and we already have four bills, I think tomorrow or after tomorrow everyone will vote in a friendly way. You'll see. We're going to go back to voting on these bills without considering the bills in fact, I'm just going to ask the question of voting, and it's going to be in place. Don't worry, it'll be fine. So let's vote in favour of the 1440 Bill – this is the Social Dialogue Act. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. Let's vote, colleagues. [[13:13:52]] For 214 They didn't touch a bit. Show by factions. Areas “for” – two, BUT – 152 “for”, “Our Ukraine” – 60 “for”, Communists – 0, Block Lithuania – 0. I announce the following bill, colleagues, 2107 is a decree on the order of determination, formation and establishment of a minimum of living. Vassil Georgiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u146	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues! Well, honestly, I refuse to understand what's going on in this room! Today.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u147	Vote? Vote, please. If you think you're a coalition, you should have a majority, and you shouldn't depend on the opposition, which is completely different. O ye who are great! Don't hold on to power like you're wearing a fur coat! I've already talked about it. Dear colleagues, well, it's a disgrace! You can't work, and you can't honestly admit to your incompetence! Respectable colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u148	Vassil Georgiyovich Hara, in accordance with the requirements of the Provisional Rules, I am not asking you to report the bill in essence. We already had a speech this morning from the deputies. Please report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u149	The distinguished Arsenius Petrovich, according to the Rules, can say what he is told and what he wishes to say. And what's more, when he's provoked by former coalition members. Dear colleagues, once again, I say that this is the fate of the fourth month of the wrong way, of the bills that are very important to our State. Our committee has repeatedly requested the Cabinet of Ministers to decide for themselves to approve a new subsistence minimum on the basis of the calculations made in 2005. And if the Government of Yulia Timoshenko had done so before this meeting, the subsistence minimum would have been 150, 200 more bracelets. This means that every Ukrainian citizen would have 100-150 greaves of wage supplement, pensions, scholarships, all social benefits. But the Government of Timoshenko ignored this rule. It has not introduced a new norm into the 2008 budget. As a result, the current Government and the current coalition, which is responsible for the Government, are occupying all 100 per cent of the population of Ukraine. Starting from the fact that the subsistence minimum is below the established standard, and therefore all salaries are paid on a single tariff grid. They're sitting there smiling. Fat, full of flowers. That's why I want to say it again. It is clear that this bill will not be adopted today. Dear colleagues, whatever you're doing, you're not gonna make it. You can't work, you can't make decisions -- good and bad. I therefore ask once again to postpone the consideration of a very important issue, which should affect the 2008 budget and the 2009 budget, to postpone consideration to another day when Parliament will be able to take decisions. And since we have no coalition, no 226 votes, no decision can be taken today. Please transfer the bill, which is very important, at a minimum, for the next sessional day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u150	I'm betting on the vote on the motion to withdraw the bill. Let's vote, colleagues. [[13:18:12]] For 1 The unity of Parliament is no longer the same as in the previous two ballots. We continue to consider the bill. Alexander Mikolaiovich Stoyan is invited to the rostrum. The account. Out of the way, please. Turn on Stoyan's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u151	Dear TV viewers present in the hall today are indeed a very serious law that provides for a change in the calculation of the subsistence minimum. I'd tell you what it does for people, but I just want to say one phrase. Yesterday, the president of Ukraine assessed the government's very low work in combating inflation. He said that pensioners, because of their underprivileged subsistence minimum, lack 200 dollars. And my colleagues said that the underestimated, underestimated 300-400 dollars of workers in the budget area. I will no longer discuss this subject. Why? Because the coalition won't vote for this law again. I want him put away. And I would like to address you, Your Honor Arsenia Petrovich. Something's been pulling you on the farm all along. So you send the workers to the farm, now you say we're all pigs, and you're a shepherd. Mr. Yatsenuk, you're a bad shepherd, you don't know how to run Parliament. And if you want to learn life, run to the farm, work, see what hard work human labor is, and you will not from there offend those who work day and night on farms, giving you meat and milk. For God's sake, don't insult the villagers by that name. I won't report it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u152	Let him speak, let him speak. Colleagues, are there questions for Vasil Georgievic Hari? Let's sign up. Valerius Kamchatny.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u153	Kamchatya, Yulia Timoshenko, Kharkiv district. I would like to ask the honourable colleague of Parliament a question. Whose last name did you mean when you called "fat harley", a more faithful "fat rose", I apologize?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u154	Please, Alexander Mikolayovich, answer me.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u155	I couldn't call it "fat flowers," because I didn't report it. I called you a "shepherd" you made a mistake, that's not what I said. And the “shepherd” I called you, said that a bad shepherd to learn how to shepherd pigs well, you need at least one month to live in the village. The question isn't for me, it's a question for my colleague, so ask him again.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u156	Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u157	Dear Vassili Georgievich! Indeed, objective criticism has been voiced in social policy by the Government, as it is the path to nowhere, the price shock, inflation, people already being intimidated, people do not know what awaits them tomorrow in these political and social cataclysms to which the Government, the former Government of Mrs. Timoshenko, is leading. You rightly said that financial resources were practically scattered until the country was dissolved, but. As it was legally logical, there was a time when the Government was still working de jure when the de jure coalition was under way. And now the coalition is gone and the government is gone, and that we will give them the opportunity to push the country further, how long can we endure when this agony ends? Leave quietly, allow for the creation of a constructive majority, allow for the approval of a normal government and work for the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u158	Comrade Bodnar.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u159	Thank you. I mean, the opposition wants one. They want to take an anti-Ukrainian position and take their position, and show their inability to work in power when that government was in power, now they've stolen two billion dollars of budget money, now they're in opposition and they can't work again. Ladies and gentlemen! I want to tell you, speaking to those representatives of the Party of Regions who have been speaking out now with such dust and heat. Ladies and gentlemen, on the Conciliation Council, you said that there were no social issues, so look, there are social issues, and you don't vote for them. As your incompetence can be said, I think it's marginal philanthropy, no more and no less. And I think if you don't want to work, you have to say it out loud, you don't know how to work in power, you don't know how to work in opposition, you don't have anything to do here, respectable.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u160	Upstairs, please, colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u161	Deputy Podgorny, faction of the “Blanket of Yulia Timoshenko”. I want to address the voters of Donbas. Dear voters, today you see who you voted for in 2006, in 2007, giving up your majority to the Party of Regions, whose fraction is probably 90 percent of the representatives of Donbas. And today, these representatives, that's exactly the term, in Russian, for "throw." So they're abandoning you, honourable voters of Donbas, they don't want to vote today for those laws that you may have received as a will as an election assignment. And that's why I have a question for these authors, with which slogans you're going to go to the future term elections that you want so much and so much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u162	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u163	Yuri Carmazin. You've seen what you're proposing, you're proposing a two-point solution, you're going to approve a new product set, it's for the government to pay attention, and the second, to submit a draft law. The author's inadequacy today is visible to the whole state, unless you've seen it before, you can't pass such bills. But we're showing that we're going to vote for them, and you're going to see what we're voting for, even for this paper that you just filed, and you're saying it's a bill, because no one reads it or knows it, and I'm going to tell you what you wrote here.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u164	Ala Alexandrovska.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u165	I'd like to give Kravchenko to Nikolai Vasilevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u166	Mikhailo Kravchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u167	Cowchenko. The Communist faction. Respectable voters, respectable colleagues! I'd like to draw your attention to our speaker's behavior. The first is cynicism towards the people's deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u168	Turn off the microphone, please. John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u169	Dear National Deputies! You see, we're back in the clonch, again the same system of arguments, no arguments. What is it? Don't bother!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u170	You've lost your nerve. What are you gonna do to a man?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u171	Kravchenko will speak with a reply after the performances of all the national deputies. Sit down, Comrade Kravchenko. Sit down. We're looking at a bill now, and then they'll give you the right to a replica. Have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u172	Dear National Deputies! Let's still calm our nerves and finally work properly. The point is, I understand the position of opposition that the coalition is responsible for is his government. But if you think that opposition is not power, you are deeply mistaken. The opposition is the same authority and it has its functions, and these functions are designed to provide an alternative to the course that forms a coalition and forms its government to criticize the coalition. What are you doing? You're not making any suggestions. We don't.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u173	I'm asking you to act on the substance of the bill, and I've just turned off the microphone for Kravchenkov because he's not actually speaking. You have proposals for a bill, don't you? If you don't have any suggestions, I'll turn off your microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u174	We made our proposals, we support it, this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u175	All of it. Please, colleague Kravchenko with motive. Write it down for motives, three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u176	I'll keep thinking. I'll keep thinking. So it's because you, Arsenija Petrovich, as chairman, are making such social laws provocative, in my opinion, when the Supreme Council Hall is torn apart, and when you're worried about the computer, not listening to the MPs. Tell me what you're watching or watching movies or what you're protecting in your computer. What are you looking for? You'll see the laws that stand and are being considered. Today, 107 laws passed by the Government have not been put on the agenda of any of you today. You provoke Parliament by calling them pigs, calling them farmers and so on and so forth. It's you in Chernovcea that lets you do it. You know, where you've been raised so badly, and you're not going to do that to Parliament. And the second. If you're still here.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u177	Sign up, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in, you're in. Would you please conduct a motive entry for five minutes? Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u178	Oleg Lazko, Yulia Block Timoshenko. The key to what's happening in Parliament today was the phrase that my colleague Yuri Miroshnichenko said, they mean we don't want to give them power. This is what our opponents are fighting for, they're not interested in social legislation, they're not interested in the interests of Ukrainian citizens. They talk about what the speaker is provocative about today's social bills, and whether the opposition demanded that they be given Wednesday, the day of the opposition vote, because we're going to meet the demands of the opposition, we're doing more, we're voting for the bills that the opposition is putting to Parliament and what the opposition is doing in the struggle for power, trying to destroy parliament, destroy the country, they're sacrificing the interests of millions of people that they've been using in a few months, they've been putting a tail on their ears, and they've promised them gold mountains. That's really a formal piece of shit, and that's what the Head says.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u179	Alla Alexandrovska, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u180	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. The bill, which is now being put to the debate, is very important and would be particularly important for Ukrainian citizens because it allows the opposition to exercise control over government activities. But this is only possible if the Government is working if the Government is taking concrete steps that can indeed be criticized and constructive proposals. What is proposed in the law. The law proposes that each month the Government should provide the Committee of the Supreme Council with an appropriate factual calculation of the subsistence minimum, including by region and then the Parliament, especially the opposition, could criticize the Government, make concrete proposals and make a public assessment. But today in this room, show me at least one bill drafted by the Government, which we, the opposition, could discuss here, the bill that the majority of the Government could pass. There are no laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u181	A mosquito.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u182	I would like to give the floor to Deputy Pecklusenko, Alexander Nikolaevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u183	Alexander Pecklushenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u184	Dear colleagues, today there have been many different words: conscience, responsibility, truth. The key word, Arsenius Petrovich, is true. And until you, first of all, tell the truth to the whole country that Parliament is in a severe political and parliamentary crisis and exit from it is not through a farce, when you put laws that cannot be voted on, we understand that, but we can vote in a legitimate parliament, we do not vote today because for that moment the absence, the legal absence of most parliaments makes it illegal. Tell the truth throughout the country and act on your conscience.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u185	Stanislaw Arzeviteen. Roman Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u186	Dear colleagues, I'll speak frankly. You decided to deal with us here today, you decided to show us your experiment? I think you've already received yesterday what might be the result of your experimenting here in the session room. You didn't get a lesson. Only you don't realize that your experiments don't work on us either. And in fact, the victim of your experiments is the entire Ukrainian people you say you're suffering. You actually spit on him. So. Now you want to see the consolidated position of our coalition. You'll see her soon enough. The Coalition Against These Bills. And that's exactly how we're going to vote in the session room. We're against all the laws that stand in opposition.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u187	Vladimir Bondarenko, Peter Gasuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u188	Vladimir Bondarenko “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear friends, I'm surprised today that people speak mostly to the most powerful traitors in Parliament. Today, they teach us how to live, how to act, how to preserve the coalition. One once betrayed Yushchenka, the other betrayed Communists, Lenin, Stalin, Peter Simonenko, and all others and went to another faction. And they tell us today how they kept their time as a coalition. We're working today. If you want to work for the people of Ukraine, not to seek power, as you do every day, no matter what you think about it, you should obviously consider that these laws are needed by people, not coalitions. And to vote, apparently, on our own conscience, not on the instructions of those who want to win the highest peaks of power in Ukraine, deceiving, deceiving, deceiving, continually betraying those who have brought them here. So let's calm down the traitors and stop talking. Let's work for the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u189	All the time for the performance is over. The replicas of who called who. Now I have to give the word to Harry Vassil Georgiyovich as a reporter and Stoyan. Then the lady's lines.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u190	Dear colleagues, well, we've calmed down a little bit. We've talked a lot. But I want to get back to what I was talking about in the beginning. Indeed, the bill is very much needed, and this has been promised by all the political forces before the elections, that we will make social standards that at least resemble European standards. This is one piece, a small piece of work with the same standards that exist in the European Union. But once again, I want to say that, in fact, today it was not necessary to impose these social laws on a large scale, because they were not being addressed in the perspective in which they should be considered. They did not need to be considered because everyone understood that the coalition did not have votes, and the opposition allowed them to show themselves to feel for themselves what they did not really have. Therefore, everyone knows that it has been decided not to vote and not to vote today. And it's very sad that the laws that we are today, well, we're ridiculously considering, are very important to the population of the country, they fall under meat and actually end up in an urn. So once again, Arsenija Petrovich, you have given such, well, hope, that even if they are not adopted today, we will return when Parliament is functioning and we accept them, because they are very necessary for the country. I would like to remind those who have a smile for this order. It's a very simple decision. The Housing Minimum Act requires a review of the collection of goods, products and services at least once every five years. We last considered and approved in 2000. In 2005, scientific and public expertise approved a new list, an expanded list, and thus a higher standard of living. And the Cabinet of Ministers had to approve it and give it to Parliament. i.e. approve and grant to Parliament for approval. Unfortunately, this has not been done. We have repeatedly taken the decision of our committee to the Government to adopt such a decision and to approve a new set of goods, products and services, as required by the Housing Minimum Act. That's what he calls for. And if we do, and we are obliged to do so before the changes to the 2008 budget are made, then all social norms will become higher, as the most basic social standard is the minimum of living. The minimum wage will be higher, the full salary will increase, the pension will increase the minimum, and all social benefits will be increased. So please save Arsenija Petrovich, this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u191	Please, Stoyan Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u192	Dear colleagues, I want to confirm once again what my colleague Hara said. Since 2005, food and services packages have not been reviewed; and when there are food and services packages, they have considered a new standard of living for a working person, for a disabled person, for help to families with children, and so forth. So we went in a series of ways, first with this decision to approve the new product set, the new set of services, due to inflation. And the second question we have here is to change the minimum of living. Unfortunately, we're not gonna make it today. But I want to ask, when the former coalition now says that, you see, opposition is putting social laws instead of voting for them, they say, I want to ask: “Where is your single social law? Where are your laws, butlers, to recover savings in two years, and without law, you won't do it because you have to find the money? Where are your laws from “Our Ukraine” when you promised to lend to young families; when you promised that the average pension would be on average by production?” And that's why we were forced, like opposition, to take your laws. I took your eight social offerings and formed laws. We helped you implement your pre-election program. So don't assume that these are our laws, we're voting for them. These are your laws, these are laws that Ukrainian citizens need. And please vote in favour of these laws, because once again, I emphasize, no social law has been passed by the Timoshenko government. Keep going. You say we don't vote. I offered you a social dialogue, the President asked for support, Timoshenko was obliged to support. We gave three votes. If you had 224, you would have 227. Here I received a list, see how they voted in favour of a “social dialogue”: Omelchenko – did not vote, Catherineczuk – did not vote, Mr. Zvaric, but you are the closest person to the President, why did you not vote in favour of a “social dialogue”? Are you against the “social dialogue”? An explanation for all people in Ukraine, is that a bad law? You have your position -- you don't need anything, you need excitement in the hall, you've asked social questions by trying to show that opposition to them. But you're against everything in the state! You're against social policy! I'm going to confirm what my colleague from BUTU said, yes, you need authority, and you see that you're losing it, because you have to write a statement by Jacinuk, you have to write a statement by Timoshenko, you have to review the composition of the new government or go to the elections. And now you're doing everything, you're imitating the work of the Supreme Council, you're clinging to that authority. Unfortunately, in 2005, you lost it, you lose it now, because people realized that you couldn't be in power, you couldn't solve people's issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u193	Colleagues, there were several names. Miroshenko, Haszuk, Zvarich, who else? I think that's it. No, your last name wasn't, Yuri Anatolyevich, it's not true, it's not true. Please, Miroshnichenko, Haszuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u194	Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear colleagues, I address everyone! Dear fellows, let us be ashamed! What are we doing now? We're spilling dirt on each other. And if anyone thinks it's going to win a coalition or opposition, that's the wrong way. The problem is not that we are the subject of these bills today, we all understand very well what we are talking about is a more serious, deep problem, and we need to find a solution to this problem not because we blame each other here on this rostrum, but because we need to think about either how to restore the coalition and work properly, or how to transform it and not spoil the image of our trust in us, and in general, I don't know, the normal attitude towards us as members of all Ukrainian citizens. Dear colleagues, people will figure it out because they see the problem. Please. If you are.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u195	Peter Gashuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u196	Dear colleagues!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u197	Excuse me, Mr. Peter. Well, we have Yuri Romanovich asking for a conclusion. Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u198	If you say it's our day, today the opposition is shaping the order of the day. We ask you, given these circumstances, not to provoke the situation, to postpone these bills and, when possible, we will consider them. Now we don't blame you for not passing the budget bill, for not offering to stop and so on. Dear colleagues, we're not going to be constructive, we're going to destroy the Supreme Council of the Sixth Assembly if we don't stop now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u199	Roman Zvaric. I'm sorry. Peter Heisuk and Roman Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u200	Dear colleagues, we've already agreed that we're simply going from our names to whole cities. I want to talk to you. Comrade Communist “This is not in Chernovitsa. ” I want to send you to this city, this beautiful European city, which, by the way, is going to be 600 years old this year, and which, by the way, has a European history of parliamentaryism much larger than some other cities. Please go there and learn. And I want to tell you that there are at least 10 Black MPs in this room who probably support my opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u201	And the hammocks are smaller. Roman Zvaric, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u202	Some might tell me that it would be beneath my dignity to answer the former second issue of the Yuschenka block, which then betrayed my colleagues, but I will still answer the question I was asked. That's not me. That's why I didn't vote in favour of this project because I don't want to be involved in your adventure of bullying the Ukrainian people. If you think there is no coalition, that means you have 226 votes. Why do you not then make a draft decision on the resignation of the government? Which means you're actually, if you don't have that confidence, you're on an adventure and I won't help you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u203	Thank you, colleagues. There is a proposal to move on to the voting procedure. The question of adoption is put to the vote on the basis of Regulation No 2107 on the order of determination, formation and establishment of a minimum of living. Please vote. [[13:45:58]] For the 10th. “For” – 10 votes received an excellent ruling. Dear colleagues, please show by factions. Thus, the bill is considered, not supported. And now to calm your emotions. Well, dear friends, we're adults and serious people. Well, what are we moving on to? I'm sorry, you don't have to watch pornography, it goes sometimes after we act, live. Well, what about it. With what face will we then look at each other? Well, let's get some memory! Please, it'll be a day or two or three, and we'll kiss again, hug! Well, how we behave, after all! Well, you have to have some basic conscience, elemental! I'm not asking much! Well, what you're going into is that you're watering each other to such an extent that you can't even see the shores anymore! It'll be a day or two, you'll see what we're doing!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-18-m0.u204	But it was you, unfortunately too, who called the pigs, not me! Now for the vote. Guys, we've passed these bills in full procedure. We will now have it when we come to political agreement. And the fact that Parliament is in a political crisis, it's been in a political crisis for 17 years, it's every day in the political crisis, because every day we don't know how we're going to start or how we're going to end. Therefore, we have passed the whole procedure, we will have the opportunity to return to the voting procedure on all drafts without considering the relevant bill in full procedure, only after the vote. So calm your emotions, let's go work on the committee today, and we'll figure it out tomorrow and then tomorrow. About the order of the day. The agenda was agreed upon by all of you, all of you voted for it. It's gonna be okay. I'm closing the evening. Plenary session. Until tomorrow. Bye.
