ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u1	We all look so bright today, dear friends, we register. But I've already seen that we can go back, well, we'll be right in. [[10:01:31]] There is a constitutional absolute majority of 403 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, faction leaders have already gathered in my office. I would like to inform you that there is a decision by the Committee on Budget Questions to support the bill tabled by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Also introduced is an alternative bill by the President of Ukraine, which, by the way, has full constitutional authority. I'm gonna stop at this separately. Now we're going to negotiate with the faction leaders. And as I predicted yesterday that the political temperature was going down, I think we're going to make a constructive decision today. In 30 minutes, I hope we start the plenary session.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u2	There's some news. First news is we're starting a plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at 12 o'clock. The second news that the faction leaders are now gathering you to report the faction leaders' position, and to get your support for the vote, or not for the day-to-day vote. Thirdly and most importantly, I was able to reach a compromise between all the factions' leaders and the prime minister of Ukraine, who was present at the faction leaders' meeting. The first question that will be proposed for the vote is the continuation of today's work until the issue of amending the State Budget Act is completed. In view of the fact that we have two years today -- the final stage, therefore, the first is the continuation of work until we consider the Budget Act today. But the most important thing that I would like to start with is the compromise found to address the issue of the government's mistrust resolution. The prime minister and the coalition agreed that the resolution of mistrust should be addressed with the first question. The second is to consider making changes to the State Budget Act. And the third is the calendar plan. As for the voting procedure and the conduct of the matter, I will inform separately. And now I'm going to have an in-depth discussion with the initiators of the resolution of mistrust to replace the decision, because the decision on responsibility and the decision has to be replaced by a clear regulatory institution, which is the resolution of the mistrust of the Cabinet of Ministers, as Victor Andryovich Yushchenko was sent from the same rostrum to resign. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to break up with the factions. At 11:45 p.m., the faction leaders, after meeting you, have me. At 12 o'clock, we begin the plenary session.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u3	Sit down, dear fellows, take your seats. I was surprised to see that for a short period of time, the rostrum was blocked again. When are you going to lock up? It's one or the other. Dear colleagues, we're on the subject of daytime affairs. Dear National Deputies! Have a seat. Welcome to the government and the Prime Minister. In accordance with the Rules, the question of the responsibility of the Cabinet of Ministers is foreseen by the presence of the Prime Minister and the members of the Cabinet of Ministers, and we are only walking in line with the letter and spirit of the Ukrainian law and the Provisional Rules. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you of today's order of the day and of the approaches that we are about to have in our consideration of the agenda. First. The faction leaders asked for three minutes to speak out in order to express the factions ’ position on the issues discussed today. After that, the Head of the Supreme Council, in accordance with the Rules, will promptly read 53 requests from Ukrainian national deputies. The issue of approval of the calendar plan for the third session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is then announced. The question of the continuation of today's plenary session until the conclusion of the debate on the amendment of the National Budget Act is then announced. The question of the responsibility of the Cabinet of Ministers is then discussed. I will inform the procedure – 226 of the Provisional Rules, 226, 227 of the Provisional Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Just like the book says. After that, one God knows what will be on the board, but we know that we will have an orderly day. – this is the Ukraine Act "to amend the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget of Ukraine". Two bills and an alternative, introduced by the President of Ukraine, will be considered. Then it's an hymn. And a dot. Yes, we've agreed on local elections, colleagues. I don't think there's gonna be any objection. There are 92 local elections. A decision has been made by the faction leaders, and it has been decided by the faction leaders to consider this issue in the session room. [[Adam Ivanovich, don't wave your finger]] Is it supported? I'm announcing a statement by the faction leaders. Three minutes from the rostrum or from where the faction leaders wish. For some reason, the “Block of Lithuania ” did not register. Colleagues, just two factions. Please repeat the entry. Honorable national MPs, monster, recorded by the factions. Repeat the statement from the factions for three minutes. Vladimir Litwin, “Block Lithuania”. Please, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to say there are some lines, I'm not going to scatter the pearl, especially when there's no one to scatter it to. I would ask you to calm down and be human. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs! It is obvious that today all the questions proposed for consideration are translated into practical terms. I am grateful that the coalition and the factions that have not entered the coalition have essentially supported the meeting schedule that we have proposed. I just want to say that faction leaders don't ask for a word, and they speak when they make decisions by the Supreme Council and when they make decisions by the people's deputies. Then it turned out that they were asking for a word. That's the first one. The second thing I was going to say. We thought, and we thought, and we talked, and we'll talk, and we'll talk, if we don't set out in key approaches, all of this decision short-circuited in order to run and then argue with information capabilities, and we understand where these information possibilities are greater -- who has more money, how they love the Ukrainian people. Third thing I wanted to say. If the budget is to be considered, it should be considered seriously. There are two options, which means that the President of Ukraine, who made his choice, is also expressing mistrust of the government, expressing distrust of the basic economic law. That's true and obviously that's what we need to talk about. And it would be desirable for the Supreme Council of Ukraine to decide on the same document that we will consider. Now we have two to consider. Please specify which budget to vote on. That's why we made a decision -- our faction -- to propose that after considering the bill, we should take it as a basis and then work on it. Or one of the bills is rejected. Next. We propose that the decision of the Constitutional Court be implemented. Amendments to the laws. Finally, we suggest that the minimum wage level defined by this document be. We propose not to make this decision by means of a cavalry attack, but to consider the fundamental economic law. Everything else is a political debate that will give absolutely nothing. I'm convinced that we have to answer about how to then compensate 12 billion VAT taken in advance and why 8 billion VAT are not compensated. Where's the money for the social programs we're talking about? I am convinced that we need a serious conversation, not this political campaign that we have proposed today, in order to complete the infamous second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u5	Valerius Kamchatny. Ivan Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, honourable chairman, distinguished voters! I'll be brief. Colleagues who do not belong to the majority, resignations of government, responsibilities of government, resolutions of mistrust of government. And we were quietly accused of being afraid of it by blocking the rostrum. Dear colleagues, for today, and more precisely, for yesterday, for 22 hours of the evening, when a decision was made by the Committee on Budgets was made, and the decision was made positive: to support the changes to the State budget and to distribute 30 billion, and in terms of multiplication -- 60 billion, for the economy, for the regions, for the people, for the areas -- we took off at the same moment of the blockade, in order to consider today the very main issue that concerns us: the changes to the budget -- in order for the economy to develop. In the hall, this requirement continued: “Let’s make changes to the budget”. Changes to the budget in the hall. We are absolutely in no way at all responsible for the situation, we are not afraid of a resolution of mistrust. And when our colleagues asked us to do it, we took off the siege because we insisted on looking at it first. When colleagues demanded: “No, the first resolution of mistrust,” we agree. That's not what's important today is that the country develops. So my brief presentation concludes with what I urge you to do: let's get to work. Today, we must do as much as we have not done for three months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u7	Anatoly Kinach.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u8	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, distinguished Julia Volodymyrna, distinguished national deputies! Parliament is considering issues that affect not only all aspects of the state's life, but also the fate of every Ukrainian citizen. And when it comes to the State Budget, the social protection of Ukrainian citizens from inflation, the competitiveness of Ukraine's economy and the protection of national economic interests, it is necessary to combine both high levels of responsibility and professionalism and clear work. We insist that before we accept the changes and additions to the budget there be a government report, because those socio-economic subsidies that exist in Ukraine create a very large system of risks. Within a short period of time, Ukraine's economy has suffered a devastating blow, on the basis of a reduction in customs tariffs, we open the internal market, we administratively revalue the bracelet, and we raise the competitiveness of imports, and we have an unprecedentedly high increase in the negative external balance, and the National Bank is simultaneously increasing the account rate, and the commercial banking system is the cost of credit resources, and the output is inflation, which is very high in Europe. On the basis of this, I would ask, regardless, and this is the position of the faction, in the political color, to unite efforts on the issues that are at the core of the vitality of our state, this is the first. Second, changes and additions to the State Budget. You can't repeat that disgraceful situation when, last December, we were on our knees, in a hurry to adopt what's called the 2008 technical budget, which instead of creating conditions for state development, energy conservation, energy efficiency, support for small and medium-sized businesses. Innovation policy, the improvement of the tax system, has become a source of financing for adventurous political projects and the first stages of the electoral company of the future president of the state in the face of development. As a result, all the ingredients need to be taken into account, including a major concern that energy prices are steadily rising, primarily oil, natural gas, the energy efficiency of Ukraine's economy is 2-3 times higher than in neighbouring countries. And already in this budget for the second half of the year, we need to take into account, reinforce the development strategy, the strategy for modernizing the economy, energy efficiency. Economic adaptation programmes need to be deepened very seriously in line with the WTO conditions and the fundamental importance of adopting before considering changes and additions to the budget of a package of social laws to protect Ukrainian citizens in conditions of unprecedented inflation. Our demands remain that way. We're ready to work 24 hours a day, but the result should be for development, not for the next populist political.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u9	"Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" and the KPU are not written down. Will you be performing? Please, Peter Mikolaiovich, will you?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u10	Dear colleagues! First of all, I would like to address our voters and explain what is happening in Parliament, showing the main process that cannot possibly be completed during the years of independence in Ukraine, is the struggle for power with all the consequences. I will not address specific draft regulations, will be included in the agenda, we will express our views. But I would like to draw the attention of the distinguished voters to the fact that the Ukrainian Parliament has been blocked since 2 April 2007. Just when Yushchenko, the head of the orange madmen, issued an illegal decree to disperse Parliament. Last year, an entirely orange team blocked Parliament's work, many social laws were not enacted, the economy was transformed, full criminal capital was under control, and the result was that, as a result of an elite conspiracy, i.e. large capital, through early elections, the interests of the people had been transformed into capital interests, which today and continues to fight in Parliament's walls for chairs, for money, factories and factories, your respected voters, for your salary, which is collected from you and transferred through offshore zones to the pockets of those who speak today about the people's interests. The orange team is constantly biting: the President is fighting against the Cabinet of Ministers, although last year in the European square he swore that he was in charge of an orange team, which he personally heads. Who and how he leads, we see with you: he has made draft changes to the budget and he has fled to Switzerland. Not to get the hell out of here and run the country, he ran away. The people of Ukraine today have become a hostage to those processes that have become the subject of direct deliberation by representatives of large businesses under the control of, of course, American and overseas screenwriters. It is obvious to all that corruption has also increased, that in fact many issues have not been resolved today. We are witnessing with you that the President is trying to destroy the main institution of democracy in our country today, and Mr. Baloga is doing a lot of good, judging by how things are happening here in Parliament and in Ukraine. I would like to draw attention once again to the result of this and the rehabilitation of the fascists in Ukraine, the rehabilitation of those who killed our grandfathers, fathers and ancestors. This is what they are doing today, in fact, in the power of those who will engage in the falsification of society. It became clear that a new threat had emerged for Ukraine, in fact the Galico-bander occupation of the country. This is under the leadership of the President of the country. That is what the people of Ukraine should know in order to make a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u11	Viacheslav Kirilenko, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u12	Viacheslav Kirilenko, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense". Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! Above all, our faction certainly rejects any insults to the address of the President of Ukraine, because this is the head of state, and this is the President elected by all the people. At the same time, we are pleased that the work of the President of Ukraine is evocative in the fifth column. [[Applause]] We hope that the same activity in the fifth column will trigger, evaluate and act as a government, because I understand that Communists determine whether the President is consistent in the European course, in the Euro-Atlantic course, and whether the government is acting in this course in a consistent manner. We are convinced that the President, the government, the coalition, regardless of the discussions that you are sure happy about, should act and act in a coordinated manner, regardless of what the difference is in some approaches. And so I'm convinced that the communists shouldn't expect the President to act in one direction, and they will separately in the government decide the issue of the Cabinet acting in the other direction. Certainly not, because there are 50 percent of the cabinet that consists of “Our Ukraine – the People's Self-Defense” and we are the people who stand up for the program that Yushchenko won the election and he gets a sense of trust. Now with regard to the resolutions of mistrust. Of course, we're not going to vote for it, and I'm sure it won't get support in society, because we don't understand what the reason is for putting the issue in order of the day. Perhaps the prime minister of the shadow office will say today, so I can see he's gone. Perhaps one of his deputies will be so interested in hearing. We believe that when it comes to changing government, it should be not about the cabinet, not about the chair, not about the positions and the portfolios, but about the principles of change in the country's course. And we don't see such discussions on the part of the Party of Regions, unfortunately, because we don't see it because we're convinced that the approach remains old-give first authority, the cabinet, and then we'll do what you say. This is the approach of the day before yesterday, because we believe that any government should act in the way that a coalition agreement stipulates. If our coalition partners do the coalition deal, we'll work together as the only team. It's a simple formula, and it only needs daily execution. With respect to the budget. Yeah, two projects. What's the tragedy? We don't think so. All the principles of the presidential position must be included in the government bill. “Our Ukraine” was working on this yesterday and yesterday, two days ago. We've done a lot. Part of the rules are being secured in the government project so far. I hope that the Prime Minister, the ministers and the Cabinet will meet in this regard, and we will vote on the budget, so necessary to the country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u13	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm reading requests from Ukrainian national deputies. Request by the National Deputy Vasil Gritzak to the President of Ukraine for a possible violation by officials of the Central Electoral Commission of the Law of Ukraine on the State Register of Voters. Colleagues, first I put to the vote to support this request and then to send this request to the President of Ukraine. Attention, colleagues! Gretzak's request to the President of Ukraine for a violation of the Act on the State Register of Voters, we ask for support. Attention. Vote. [[12:40:38]] For the 180. Not supported. I move on to the next question: Igor Ribakov to the President of Ukraine on a group of violations and abuses during the processing of natural gas imports into Ukraine. Dear colleagues! I'm betting on supporting this request. [[12:41:08]] For 193 Now, in order to request the President of Ukraine, we need 226 votes, please. [[12:41:32]] For 199 Ribakov's request is not supported, 192. Next is a request by Vasil Gritzak to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Secretary of the RNB, the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Head of the CSL, the Acting CSB, the Attorney-General for the possible violation by officials of the Central Electoral Commission of the requirements of the Act on the State Register of Voters. Andrija Pavlovski to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regarding the payment of pensions to the veterans of the Armed Forces. Victoria Demionczuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the head of the President's Secretariat, the Ukrainian Security Service, the Chief of the Department of Public Service, the Minister of Justice, the Attorney-General's Office on the inaction of the Attorney-General's Office and the law enforcement authorities. Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Ternopil district government administration, on an extraordinary situation related to the unauthorized transport of unknown poisons in the village of Tarasovka in the Ternopil region. Vladimir Moysik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the illegal construction of the central part of the city of Suvirna. Igora Kaletnik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the Office of the President of Ukraine, Acting Head of the Board of Auditors, Head of the KRU of Ukraine, Head of the Office of the Chief of Staff of Ukraine, Minister of Justice, Head of the Court of Auditors and Prosecutor-General for the lack of response from the authorities of the State to numerous abuses. Eugene Wolinz to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for discontent with the reply to the parliamentary appeal regarding the eviction of residents of hostels in the streets of Surikov and Barenbojm in Kiev. Igora Ribakova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on gross violations and abuses during natural gas customs and damage to the State budget. Igora Sharov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the unsatisfactory conditions for the storage of agrochemicals in Kirovograd. Mr. Dercert to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to take action to continue the construction of the metropolis in Dnipropetrovsk. Mr. Komara to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on social protection of pensioners. Mikoli Shershuna to Prime Minister of Ukraine for increasing the cost of youth housing in the Plains region. Michael the Orphan to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about the inadequate response of the executive authorities to the request for drinking water in the village of Grebinka in the Kyiv region. Oleg Zarubinsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the groundlessness of the closure of the railway station of the Lipovets region of the Winnitsk Region. Alexander Tkachenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the annulment of the Cabinet order of 5 September 2007 No.692. Alexander Shepeleva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about the allocation of funds for the renovation of the school in the village of the town of Yarmolinka Hmelnicka district. The Group of Greenewecko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the facts of the decline in the quality of the training of army officers of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Anatolia Griesenka and Mikoli Petruka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the use of urgent measures to return to Ukraine's Land Army fighting helicopters MI-8MT. Group of People's Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the limitation of citizens' rights. [[The mosquito, Hara, and others]] Anatoly of Matvienka to the Head of Dermitives for the control and prevention of customs violations. Victor Olijnik to the Ministry of Regional Development and Construction of Ukraine, Ministry of Environmental Protection of Ukraine, Ministry of Public Health and Attorney General on illegal construction and destruction of the Kowalski street in Kiev. Victor Olijnik to the Ministry of Environmental Protection of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine, on the illegal construction of Lake Blue in the village of Podgorka, Obuhiv region. Victor Taran to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine regarding the illegal services of mobile TV operator. [[MTS]] Victor Taran is acting as head of the Ukrainian Security Service for the protection of mobile communications from outside interference. Vladimir Yavorowski to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Head of State of Ukraine from land resources, Attorney General of Ukraine for the establishment of an interdepartmental commission to investigate land affairs in the Kyiv region. John Hare to the Minister of Ukraine for Emergency Situations and Protection of the Population from the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster on the Improper Consideration of the MP’s Appeal on the Accidental Status of the Bridge in the Vorobijovka Village of the Winnitsk Region. Igor Sharov to the head of the Social Insurance Fund for the temporary loss of employability of the executive director of the Kirovograd District Office of the Social Security Fund in accordance with article 57 of the Education Act. Mikoli Kulczynski to the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine on the failure to execute judgements by Bristol and the Court of Appeal of the Lviv Region of August 6, 2007. Mikli Kulczynski to the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine on the threat of the closure of School No.35 of Poltava. Mr. Mikoli Potanczuk to the Acting Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Attorney General of Ukraine for the formal inspection of the Ukrainian Security Service for violations of legislation by the management of the Volin County Consumer Society Association Mikoli Shershun to the Head of Government of the Pension Fund of Ukraine on the need to recalculate the pension of citizen Tkachuku Roman Grigorovich. Mr. Mikhail Zubc, Acting Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Minister of Internal Affairs, Prosecutor General, on the illegal seizure and sale of Leleka's rest base of the Ascan Academy of Agrarian Sciences. Oleg Malič to the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine on the purchase of fuel-oil materials at higher prices by the Ministry in the first half of 2008. Alexander Shepeleva to the Ministry of Environmental Protection regarding the environmental situation in the Kerchny Strait and the immediate response to the disaster. Helen Condratuk to the Head of the National Council of Ukraine for Television and Radio Broadcasting about the provision of information regarding the fulfilment by radio broadcasters of the requirements of the new Ukrainian Advertising Act. Paul Jerbrowsky to the State Tax Administration of Ukraine regarding the purchase by the State of cryptographic information protection. Paul Silent to the Ministry of Environmental Protection regarding the destruction of the Dniper ecosystem near Caneva. Jury Karmazin to the head of the Court of Auditors, the Attorney-General, for the conduct of a thorough audit of abuses in financial and economic activities of the higher educational institution by former Rector of the National University of Kiev, Taras Shevchenka Viktor Skopenk. Vassil Krawczuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of the abuse of power by exceeding the authority of the rural head of the Agricultural Council of the Hmeljna district of Valérie Demianchuk. Andrija Pavlovski to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal construction of the land area at: M. Kyiv, Beraznakovska Street, 12. Jury Karmazin to the head of the Supreme Council of Justice of Ukraine, the head of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine, the head of the Council of Judges of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine on the examination of the facts of the violation of the oath of judges, the making of a legally unjust ruling by the head of the Sikh District Court of Lviv by Judge Lesnim S.E. Vitalia Kuril to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of citizens' rights to housing and illegal possession of state property by a limited-liability company called the Housing and Exploitation Authority in Lugansk. Vladimir Litvina to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the situation in connection with the liquidation of the limited liability society Kivshovata AO, Kyiv region, Tarastian district. Vladimir Pilpenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of the concealment of information by the Rector of the Dnipropetrov National University of Mikola Polakov on the circumstances in which Tetjan Korniak received a falsified diploma on higher education. Vladimir Pilpenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the investigation of the spending of millions of dollars for personal purposes on joint flights by private aircraft to the SBA and the Ribakov People’s Deputies. John Vernidubov to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the restoration of violated constitutional rights that cannot be compensated. John Stoyk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the existence of signs of criminal acts in the work of the VAT Mikolaivoblanergo. Igor Kaletnik to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal alienation of land from notaries Alexander Bobkova, Oleg Fedorishin, Sergey Mikhailenko, and Olena Mihirova. Michael the Orphan to the Attorney General for speeding up criminal investigations with regard to the use of budgetary funds for gasification of the village of Antonovka in the district of Herson. Oleg Ccherpicko to the Attorney General of Ukraine for violations during the conduct of the criminal investigation on the basis of the opposition to the legitimate economic activity of the Society with limited liability "Agrarian-Polysia". Saint-Oliynik to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the rightfulness of Sergey Demchenko’s duties as head of the Supreme Economic Court of the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine and his wages. Jurya Kostenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine for an improper examination of the MP's appeal regarding the legality of the removal of the land of TOV "Mike" in Kiev. Mikoli Tomenka and Andrija Kožemiakina to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the verification of information regarding the use by Wenko Prikerchenska of personal data by four persons. Alexia Plotnikov to the city’s Kiev head for the children’s playground in Kyiv on the street of the Adventure. Jury of Miroshnicka to Novgorod-Several City Head of the Chernigow region on the issue of budget documents, land allocations and municipal property. Dear colleagues, requests have been read, let's move on to daytime issues. Once again, the vote is now on the calendar plan for the third session of the Supreme Council of the Sixth Call. The calendar plan is considered by the Standing Committee. Alexander Sergiyovich, you insist on the information or you entrust me. May I? Yeah, I'm good. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to support the proposal of the Regulatory Committee on the calendar plan for the third session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call. The committee's decision is. Let's start with the first number at the Conciliation Council meeting and the second number at the opening session. Next on the calendar. Attention, colleague, the draft regulation 2665 is being voted on as a basis and as a whole on the calendar plan for the third session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call. Vote. [[12:51:49]] For 436 They started working for 436. Dear colleagues, the question of the continuation of today's plenary session in the agenda is now on the table with only three questions. The first is the question of the responsibility of the Cabinet of Ministers. The second is the issue of amendments and additions to the State Budget Act. And the third is the question of the early elections of rural, rural and urban heads. Three questions. Until the end of the discussion of the third issue, because we have introduced urban heads, namely, urban, rural and village heads. Is it supported? Let's put it to a vote. [[12:52:49]] For 417 Dear colleagues, the decision is made, for 417. So once again, we only have three questions, just today and only until 24:00. We need to consider these three questions. You voted 417 for that. Attention! In accordance with article 87 of the Constitution of Ukraine, Ukraine's National Deputies were drafted on the basis of 155 signatures of Ukrainian National Deputies from the faction of the Party of the Regions on the responsibility of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the adoption of a resolution of mistrust by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. This question is referred to in article 14 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers, which foresees the need to address the issue no later than 10 days after the introduction of the bill. I've been stressing the legal coalitions that are in this bill, and I'm still in my position. However, in accordance with article 226 of article 227 of the Ukrainian Supreme Council’s Provisional Rules, I am announcing the question of the responsibility of the Cabinet of Ministers. The following steps will be taken to consider the matter. First. The subject of the legislative initiative is either the President of Ukraine, or a group of national MPs, who is a faction of the Party of Regions, defines a national MP who has the right to speak from the rostrum of the Ukrainian Parliament within 45 minutes. [[But not the President brought this submission.]] Upon the completion of the presentation of such a national MP, Ukrainian national deputies ask questions about the subject of the legislative initiative, that is, this national MP, who represents the position on the Resolution of Disbelief, within 45 minutes. It was agreed. This is in line with the standard. After that, a speech by the Prime Minister of Ukraine in 15 minutes. After this question and the answers of the Prime Minister of Ukraine also up to 15 minutes. Then there's the vote, the honourable colleagues. There's a faction statement there just in case there's a committee submission, then we're making statements by committees, like there's no committee statement, we're just leaving statements from factions to 3 minutes as prescribed by the Rules. After this vote. Three, Your Honor. But we will continue on your request, Peter Mikolaiovich, in order to be able to express our position So, I'm announcing the issue and I'm inviting the subject of the legislative initiative from the faction of the Party of the Regions, which is defined by the factions of the Party of the Regions to present a resolution of mistrust to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Please, dear fellows. Mikola Janovich, are you? The faction of the Party of Regions, colleagues, calmly, behave culturally. Dear man, Mikola Janović Azarov represents the position of the faction of the Party of the Regions. Please, Mikola Janovich, you have 45 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u14	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, distinguished people's deputies, we should have made one decision today: to extend the session for the next week and start next week to review social laws, review the budget and consider the issue that we are considering today. In one day, Arsenija Petrovich, it is not a disrespect for parliamentaryism, not for the political parties that initiated the issue, nor for the Government's disrespect. Let us quietly, objectively analyse the outcome of the Government's six-month work. Strangely enough, the Prime Minister has three times less time than I have to talk about the impressive achievements of that Government. In the past, however, there have been encouraging assessments of the international investment society, which had predicted to Ukraine in 2004 the role of the Eastern European tiger. Today, the agency's rating leaves Ukraine with ever-increasing sceptical estimates, and the risk index of investments in the Ukrainian economy, known to the entire economic community, in front of the securities, has reached its historic maximum, is worse now than during the financial panic at the end of 2004. What are the performance indicators for industry, construction, agriculture? They show a decline in business activity, a slowdown in economic development. Undoubtedly, the indicator of the FTS index, which unfortunately has little use in our statistics. Since the beginning of the year, the stock market index has declined by more than a third. This means that the capitalization of all our domestic companies, our entire Ukrainian economy, has automatically declined by one third. So, unfortunately, there are no special reasons for optimism. In fact, the situation is quite dramatic. Even after the President's annotated meetings, the entire economic bloc and the National Bank still do not understand what macroeconomic projections the country will live on during the second half of this year. Who can answer, what will be the exchange rate? Who can answer with absolute certainty what will be the inflation? Not to be considered a serious inflation rate now 15.9 with already available inflation in six months 15.5. The growth rate of gross domestic product in Ukraine fell from 7.9 per cent to 6.4 per cent. But the main thing is not even that, in principle, six per cent could be considered a good indicator if we look closely at the components of this economic growth. Here, the Government should draw attention to the fact that trade was the leader of growth, who had actually identified the main contribution to gross domestic product. What's that supposed to mean? It turns out that there is an unprecedented surge in imports, i.e. value added payments created abroad. Since April, a significant proportion of taxes have been introduced. These two components have made a major contribution to the growth of gross domestic product. Unfortunately, instead of a critical approach to our work, our Government has been welcomed. It's self-esteem. For example, it is stated that Ukraine is demonstrating the best rate of economic growth in the region. In fact, it was regrettable that Ukraine had slowed its growth pace against the background of other Commonwealth countries, and according to the CIS Inter-State Statistical Committee at the rate of industrial growth had dropped from second to third. A few words about the so-called stopping path of the economy. Those economic activities that create jobs have increased the value added since early 2008 and have therefore grown marginally. For example, in the processing industry, the increase in May was only 0.1 per cent. An even more deplorable situation in energy. Gross value added in construction since the beginning of the year did not reach last year — think about it! - Levels and 5 months. For 6 months, physical strength decreased by almost 4 per cent. The trend in industrial production as at 1 June 2008 is a third behind last year. If the rate of growth in industrial production was 12.2 in 5 months 2007, this figure fell to 8. This is considered to be a record increase in 2008. Since the beginning of the year, Ukrainian refineries have produced almost 30 per cent less diesel. That is why the price of diesel has increased so rapidly, that Ukraine is firmly moving to import diesel and imports high inflation, which is characteristic of petroleum products, respectively. In the light industry, production in most commodity positions has continued to decline for a year. The production of metallurgical products is declining. Overall, the metal production index has decreased by five times. All of this demonstrates a negative trend in the economy, both with limited own resources and with insufficient support from the budget and the banking sector. Related industries have responded to the volume of construction. Compared with last year’s declines in the production of spherium, asbestos, cement, wood, windows, doors, both sides, plates, tiles, cement and so on. The domestic sea and river merchant fleet reduced freight transport by 7 per cent in five months. There has been a significant decrease of 21 per cent in the volume of oil transport on the pipelines. We were recently shocked by the statement that Ukraine was ready to feed the whole of Europe. However, every Ukrainian who goes to the store every day raises a legitimate question: How? In Ukraine, agricultural processing, food production, food production has dropped by almost half in six months, production has decreased by 15 per cent, pork by 48.6 and so on. Consider the Government's prognosis of relatively good harvests, respected colleagues. Of course, we are pleased that this year we must reap a good harvest. However, for the sake of objectivity, it will be noted that our Government has made a major contribution, which has increased by 25 per cent the number of crops under winter crops. And here's the deal with the spring-field work, let's pay attention. In 2008, the seed campaign took place much slower last year, at the beginning of June. This year, for example, spring crops are sown in much smaller areas, with a significant increase in the weight of seedlings in the structure of crops. It is also concerned that Rapsa cropland has increased almost twice. Another fact that cannot be overlooked is a significant reduction in sugar beet crops by 38.5 per cent this year. Among the reasons for this situation are the low cost of cultivation of this culture and the increased administrative pressure on domestic business. The slowdown in Ukraine's economy is reflected in the high price trend. We're being told about some kind of victory over inflation. But let's note that inflation in six months was compared to all of last year's inflation, only on the consumer price index. And if we talk about the industrial product price index, which, as a huge ostrich, hangs over our market, it is twice that of last year, twice that of today, twice that of 29.6 per cent, versus 14 per cent. And the consequences of this hangover will be felt in the coming months. Compare, if June's inflation is anomalous -- 0.8 per cent -- anomalously high, I emphasize, anomalously high, and we are told that it is 2.5 times higher than that of Janukovic in June. We forget what Janukovic had in June. On the second April, as you know, a decree was issued to dissolve the Supreme Council, triggering political instability and confronting the consequences of this political instability in June. Nevertheless, the inflation of the Government of Yanuković for 6 months was 4.5 times lower than that of the current Government for 6 months. And that's a fact. He's an unpleasant fact, you don't like him, but he's a fact. Of course, we live in our country, and we are more interested than your Government in curbing inflation. The Government seemed to have an opportunity to take serious measures to curb inflation. What's done? We will discuss the budget – we will go back to this topic and talk. On the contrary, your budget, which you have submitted to the Supreme Council, will unfortunately cause very serious inflation, especially in the fall. We'll get back to that. By explaining the causes of inflation, global trends are usually reported. And even sometimes it is said that in June, for example, in eurozone countries, inflation killed everything. More than 3.9 percent of the record. However, it is forgotten that euro area inflation is considered year by year, and 3.9 is estimated annual inflation. And we have, as you know, this inflation is nearly five times higher. Therefore, to explain the causes of price increases, we have exclusively global trends or European trends, which means that we do not understand the reason for our own inflation and price increases, and that means that we do nothing to curb the serious rise in prices. However, the experience of European countries shows that inflation can be managed, and the strong actions of the governments of the eurozone and the central banks give every reason to believe that inflation will decline there and that annual inflation will be below 3.9 per cent. And now we have those numbers. We are very much talking and thinking about social protection for the population. And this is where my colleague, many years old, said, "Why criticize the government?" So I'll be responsible for what. In May 2008, Ukrainian citizens were forced to buy: sunflower oil is nearly 1.8 times more expensive than last May; eggs are 1.5 times more expensive; milk and cheese 1.4 times more expensive. [[B in m in s a l in]] And in the countries of the European Union that you so like to refer to, respected colleagues, at the same time, these products have a maximum price increase of 13 per cent. [[B in m in s a l in]] And we'll talk about cabbage, don't worry. The domestic demand for industrial products is closely linked to the volumes and conditions of credit, which have deteriorated significantly this year as a result of the tight monetary measures of the Government of the National Bank. Credit support for the national economy is far behind last year's level and is declining from month to month. During April 2008, the amount of legal persons'loans increased by only 1.1 per cent. And given the increase in inflation, there has been a real decline in the lending of legal entities. The second consecutive month was not more than 2 per cent in the national currency, and in May of this year it had virtually stopped. Everybody knows who's dealing with bank loans. The high rate of interest is an obstacle to long-term investment projects. In turn, the policy of artificially strengthening the bracelet has been an additional blow to both domestic producers and citizens. In addition, the tax pressure on Ukrainian companies continues to increase due to overpayments, tax evasion, VAT collection, and administrative regulation of prices by the executive branch. The impact of such actions is evidenced by the resumption of business loss trends as the main indicator of national economic development. During January-April, growth rates remained at almost last year's level, and losses increased by one and a half times. This is what any other Government has thought about at least one indicator. Why has the loss of our domestic enterprises increased by one and a half times? What must be done to restore the former rate of growth? The accumulation of losses in food production is a matter of concern. They've increased by 1.6 times. In the woodworking industry, 1.7 times. In paper and paper production, 2.2 times. Such trends would not further increase domestic supply and reduce inflationary pressures. The chaotic, populist, short-sighted movements called economic policies have already led to a significant increase in producer prices, especially those of economic activities that directly affect consumer prices, particularly electricity, gas costs, water. The January-May increase was 1.3 times. This will certainly affect the entire range of consumer goods. Based on trends in recent years and given the Government's inaction to curb price increases, inflationary pressures can only be expected to increase in the future. This is due to the lack of a systematic anti-inflation policy of the Government, the tight monetary, fiscal policy of the Government and the NBA, the reduction of the supply by the domestic producer in many commodity positions. Maintaining political stability and increasing inflation expectations. Literally a few words on the work of the Government in the implementation of the State budget. During the six months of 2008, the budget is severely violated, which is the basis for a balanced and stable implementation of the budget. Noting that a hundred per cent of funding has been made for only 68 budget programmes, it is 7.6 per cent of the total number of programmes. Less than 50 per cent, 131 budget programmes or 15 per cent are not funded at all. Every seventh budget programme. The question is, who gave the Government the right to decide for itself whether to finance or not the budget programmes approved in the form of a law, budget? In order not to give a few examples, and a few words about it, what does the Government consider to be a priority? What is financed even more than a hundred percent? Two billion from the General Fund for compensation to NAKU Naftogaz Ukraine purchased the price differences of imported natural gas and its implementation. This is the goal of spending the amount planned for the entire rickety. The crime of that special fund was spent on this target of 2.7 billion rubles. There's a fund-raiser on top of the plan. ?? The bank and the living resources in the budget are six billion, 6.7 billion have been funded, other programmes have been withdrawn, and 700 million have been additionally seen for this purpose. Government funding for social programmes was extremely low. For example, to develop new types of prosthetics and services for disabled persons in stationarys and prosthetics, think about this figure, 9.7 per cent. The provision of 7.5 per cent vehicles for disabled persons and Chernobyl in general. Radiological protection of the population, environmental recovery of 15 per cent of the territory. Activities to overcome childlessness 6.4 per cent are during the first half of the year. And 1.8 per cent per year. The construction of housing for the blind and the disabled has not been funded. Health care. Programmes aimed at overcoming tuberculosis and AIDS epidemics, treating diabetes mellitus, and centralizing organ and tissue transplantation have not begun. In the six months that have passed, no amount has been allocated to the completion of the reconstruction of the Scientific and Practical Centre for Child Cardiology and Cardiosurgery. Only 3.2 percent of the annual assignments are allocated to the reconstruction of the premises, the acquisition of equipment at the Dioxin Center, and the clinic at the Institute of Ecology and Toxicology. No amount has been allocated to centralized X - ray, diagnostic, and other health facilities. At a low level of funding, there are measures to combat epidemics -- 1.8 percent, eight percent. Provision of medical measures to combat tuberculosis, treatment of cancer patients is 10 percent. Construction, reconstruction and capital repair of the National Cancer Institute is 10 percent. Similar problems with spending on education, where information is not financed from public education, vocational and higher education institutions, computerization of these institutions. Preparation of medical pharmaceutical personnel by first and second levels of accreditation. Restoration and renovation of hostels for students in vocational and technical institutions. Agriculture is underfunded. Only fourteen percent of planned allocations are spent on financial support for agribusiness, which is in particularly difficult climate conditions. For crop selection, two percent. Such an approach is contrary to seasonal needs in the field and undermines the effectiveness of state support for the APC. Despite repeated coal-related incidents in this year, which have led to human casualties, the budget programme for the protection of work and the enhancement of safety in coal - and coal - mining enterprises, including coal - mining companies, the government has funded only 7.6 percent. Four months in a row, the government ignored the state-wide Housing Reform Programme and funded it only 0.4 percent of the annual allocations. Neither did the Pension Fund. In April 2008, a three - billion loan was granted from the State Budget to the Pension Fund, another two - and - a - half - billion in May, only at the end of June, a debt owed to the State Budget for the loans received amounted to 6.2 billion, and it is not difficult to predict when the budget and the Pension Fund will end. Let's stop. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yuri Anatoliyovich, Your Honor, do you think the government report is, to say the least, bollocks? And I think it's not, it's a responsible job, both the opposition and the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u15	I'm sorry, Mikola Janovich. Ladies and gentlemen, I address the coalition first. You can behave yourself, without these screams, well, let's listen to Mikola Janovich. Yuri Anatoliyovich, please sit down and do not disturb the agenda. He has the right to speak for 45 minutes. And please stop the discussion. Please, Mikola Janović.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u16	Dear colleagues, why does the Party of the Regions categorically require the adoption of social laws before the adoption of the budget? I shall now pay particular attention to this in my part of the statement. First of all, it is very important that the additional funds that have emerged, not as a result of the Titanic work of the Government, as we are told, but as a result of the normal increase in price inflation. I'm illustrating for the uncomprehensible in a simple example. For example, we have a trillion gross domestic product, roughly, there's a thousand billion, easier to count. What is 10 per cent or 7 per cent of additional inflation to what is calculated by the Government? For example, the Government has calculated 15 per cent, and it will be real 22. So what's 7 percent extra? A further 7 per cent is only 70 billion gross domestic product. What is 70 billion gross domestic product? That's just 21 billion fans of air revenue per year. We split half-billion dollars, we get $11 billion in cash. So our people need not fanatics, respectable ones, but real money, which is created in the real economy. It is only then that wage supplementation with real money improves their material situation. Take, for example, the social component. A fairly calculated minimum of subsistence should reduce the impact of high inflation rates on the most vulnerable segments of the population this year, as it is the basis for the calculation of basic public social standards and guarantees, inter alia, for the establishment of a minimum age pension, the determination of social assistance, including for families with children, children with disabilities, unemployment, scholarships, other social benefits, the definition of the right to social assistance, the definition of State social security and service standards and the provision of health care, education, social services and others. So it's not an empty conversation, what inflation is going to be like in a year. If inflation is understated, the minimum social benefits will not meet the requirements of the situation that will arise per year. The indicators in the producer and foreign trade prices market are the basis for forecasting the main taxes in the budget. In the event of a significant failure to confirm gross domestic product, financial performance of economic activity and foreign trade, the implementation of the income part of the budget is under threat. We do, however, have a situation where the Government is deliberately underestimating some of the indicators in order to report on the so-called brilliant results of its work. Therefore, attention to the figures approved by the current Government is not in vain. Unlike the baseless winning relations of government representatives, these figures clearly characterize the real intentions of the current government towards the Ukrainian people in the domestic business. We believe that the Government has significantly underestimated the forecast of the nominal gross domestic product or has exceeded the forecast of the real gross domestic product. According to the Government's decree, the precise forecast for nominal GDP for 2008 increased to 956 billion, or 35.6 billion, to the budgeted forecast, an increase of 67 billion bracelets. A more detailed analysis of the figures proposed by the Government also shows other significant inconsistencies. And I ask the distinguished people's deputies to listen carefully here. In particular, this year, the deflator index, which identifies real gross domestic product, has already exceeded 30 per cent, which was not even during the difficult period of the late 1990s. By the beginning of June 2008, the deflator of gross domestic product had continued to exceed the limits of the price corridor established by the average annual value of the consumer price index and the producer price index, which was 133.1 per cent. Such a high rate has not been fixed over the past 10 years. [[Pay attention!]] By the end of the year, literate analysts, their majority, the vast majority, forecasted a deflator of GDP between 122 per cent and 132.9 per cent. Thus, either the nominal GDP is underestimated by at least 15-20 billion, or the expected real GDP will be far less than 6.8 per cent, according to the Government, but only four per cent. And now we have to end these games with a deflator. I've known them for years. Given the level of reallocation of gross domestic product through the budget and the last few years it has fluctuated between 24 and 26 per cent, but today it is already over 30 years old, the declaration by the current authority of the pretanization of the economy should increase significantly. Even more questions are raised by the expected price indicators, which I think have been removed from reality. The Cabinet of Ministers has made the annual forecast of consumer inflation worse, as we know. It appears that the Government remains a mystery, and for society, how will these indicators be achieved? They have already been achieved. Even in view of the possible slowdown in consumer prices during the summer months, the price trend is expected to resume in September-December. This is evidenced by previous years and by world trends, and most importantly by the Government's failure to combat inflation. During the second half of the year, the main factors affecting price increases will remain: supply-side reductions in construction production, congestion in transport growth and a number of agricultural sub-sectors, price increases in agricultural products, price increases in food producers, beverages, tobacco products, the impact of global agro-inflation; demand-side increases in population demand in the consumer market, and a slowdown in population credit growth. Other factors: the convergence factor, the openness of Ukraine's economy, the increase in imports, the acceleration of inflation processes in most countries of trading partners, the persistence of high inflation expectations in society. The negative balance, I will pay your attention, respected colleagues, to purchase foreign currency for the population in January-May, has exceeded nearly $1.2 billion. [[not often fixed]] In addition, the Government has declared an increase in the cost of gas for the population, passenger transport, i.e. the inflation potential is not only exhausted, but it has all the conditions for strengthening. Even if current economic assumptions were maintained, the consumer price index would reach 20-25 per cent as a result of the year. If the Government, by changing the budget, does not respond to populist pre-election promises, it is only possible to have moderate inflation. Demand will remain high and enterprises will have to raise at least some of the funds, including those lost due to high inflation rates, by increasing prices. Thus, even with unarmed eyes, the government inflation forecast for 2008 is significantly underestimated. In its macro-indicators, the Government is making the financial performance of economic operators significantly worse. I've talked about this before. We were particularly surprised by this decision of the Cabinet of Ministers: to exclude the exchange rate of the bracelet from the approved main macro-indicators. This has never occurred to me in the submission of the budget, the State budget of Ukraine for a year. This shows that, despite the memorandums signed, there is no agreement on the economic policy of the Government and the National Bank. Indeed, without clear information and public policies in the currency and exchange rate area, our manufacturer cannot plan qualitatively the cost and price of products, especially those that have an import component, to implement development programmes, including through borrowing. Thus, the Government introduces an additional destabilizing factor in production and frankly encourages producers to place additional exchange rates at the cost of products. How could the Government, in the absence of an approved course, calculate the budgetary position of external debt service? How could the Government count the amount of resources involved and respond to many budget balances questions? I am no longer talking about when the Government will finally tell our citizens, and what the real course will be against the dollar, together with the National Bank, and when the Government will be responsible. It is clear that real wages are projected to decline for 2008. A forecast of 27.06.08 is the monthly average real wage of 11 and a half per cent. I would like to remind you that our Government, by its 21.11 resolution, planned this increase of 18.7, 1.8 times higher. [[No. 1340]] The Government is underestimating the actual negative balance of trade in goods and services. As a result of the fact that import borders have been actually opened since 2005. The balance of trade decreased from a positive increase of 6 billion to a negative in 2006, and as consumer imports dominated by consumer credit, the balance of external economic transactions from year to year deteriorates and this year reaches a negative of 20 billion dollars. This should make the responsible Government think about where we are going. The ratio of exports and imports of services over the past years remains positive, and this allows our National Bank to make sufficiently optimistic projections for 2008. However, I would like to ask respectable analysts, including the Government. And with the increase in gas prices since 2009, will the growth in financing be able to close the negative balance that we have created? And then what's going to happen to us? Of course, if our country were to develop dynamically, there would be a significant trade deficit, and the current account deficit could be overcome. But what does it say to you that we are laying the foundations for high and dynamic development for 2009? Today, unfortunately, we have an entirely different situation: the trade balance we have is a strong consumer type, and the imports of consumer goods are increasing. External corporate debt is increasing to pay for imports, with the subsequent increase in interest payments on debt-debtedness, which will exacerbate the current account balance. Our country is now reaping the fruit of a vicious cycle born in 2005-2006: increasing imports, creating demand for consumer credit, attracting external resources by banks, simplifying credit procedures for faster placement of funds, increasing consumer credit, increasing population demand, and increasing consumer imports. Where is our domestic industry? In such circumstances, it is highly likely that, in the face of the current lack of bank financing and the continuation of inflationary pressures in commodity markets in the near future, it will be sufficient to close the negative foreign trade balance by inflow of investment. Thus, if the public policy continues to focus primarily on consumption in the absence of wage productivity, rather than economic growth, it will increase the expendable nature of production and competitiveness of Ukrainian products in the world markets. So let me summarize. The Government produces many noise effects, unfortunately launches false goals for which both Parliament and society are diverted, and diverts the attention of society and Parliament from reality. What's the reality? It is: there are pre-election promises – they are not implemented, there is a coalition agreement – they are not implemented, there are statutory obligations of the Government – they are not fulfilled, there are objective, including the external risks of economic development – they are not subject to the necessary programme of action. For the second time in recent years, power has become the main source of the crisis in the State. Also, noise effects, I'm not talking about the effects there, biogas production -- 20 billion cubes. That's how much it takes to produce, I'm sorry, a fertilizer to make 20 billion dollars, that's 60 million tons of fertilizer! [[We believe in the mind of the incomprehensible]] Okay? Having about 5 million heads of cattle. It's okay, isn't it? Okay. I'd just advise before I say anything, well, give it a little thought and break it up. The following conclusions can be made objectively. The economic policy of power is unfortunately devastating. And that's an objective observation, my dears. Absolute objective statement. The management team, to my great regret, is also unprofessional. In any country such as us, the results of activities — actual failure, the helplessness caused to the economy — would certainly lead to the resignation of the Government. Rather, a civilized Government responsible to citizens who no longer have a parliamentary majority would in itself resign. Once again, we have economic pragmatism as a sacrifice of political expediency. So you're going to be able to evaluate all the numbers that I've given you here, go to this rostrum and tell me what number at least one I've called inappropriate reality, what conclusion at least one I've given to the wrong reality, not based on analysis, analysis. It is desirable that all this material, which the opposition Government is constantly producing and sending to the Government, should finally be used, taken into account and made written conclusions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u17	Thank you, Mikolo Yanovich. Dear colleagues, now we have a question mark to Mikla Janović, first from factions, and then from national MPs. Attention! Let's write it down: first from factions, then from the national deputies of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that the time for questioning before Mikola Janović is 45 minutes. He was already in the rostrum for 45 minutes. It's gonna be 45. minutes is an hour and a half. I think we'll be much smarter if we support my proposal, let's cut it down to 15 minutes. Well, speaking on the rostrum for an hour and a half, well, that's twice as long as the lecture course. Do you mind, dear friends? Thank you. Yuri Anatolyovich, who is aggressive today. Mikolo Janovich, first question, please, Alexander Stoyan, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u18	Dear Mikolo Janovich, you have little to say in your report about the failures that have taken place in the social policy of today’s functioning government. I have a question for you. Please tell me if this is enough when the minimum pension was 481 bracelets in April and the minimum pension was 482 bracelets in July 1st, i.e. added one bracelet. Please tell me if you can buy something extra for this bracelet. That's the first question. The second question. Mikolo Janovich, did you follow up on such a position that the government, more loyally when it went to Timoshenko's election block, promised voters to return 130 billion in two years of savings. Now they have made only five billion compulsory contributions. Do you think that by the end of the year, the government will be able to find another 55 billion so that 50 percent will return the savings to the citizens and will they be able to carry out the program at all? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u19	Thank you, Alexander Nikolayevich, I have not addressed very many social issues. Why? Because in front of the budget, and in the budget, we will understand these issues in detail. I had one question: the results of the Government's work. First of all, the economy is the basis for the well-being of our citizens, and I have set myself the task of analysing major gaps and failures in economic policy. Now, with regard to minimum wage. I would like to ask the Government why there are no 59 “Minimum wages” in the revised budget? Why did you keep it constant? I agree with you, Alexander Nikolaevich, that it is impossible to live on such a pension and such a minimum wage. One Government is therefore declared and another policy is being implemented. I have not once expressed my position on savings, I believe that it is the deception of our people, the most real. We have taken from everyone a lot more than a thousand bracelets by increasing prices long ago.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u20	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u21	I can count fundamentally for those who wish to do so, including for the Government, and show that every Ukrainian citizen in the first half of the year has an abnormally high price increase of two and a half times more than five million or six million paid for this thousand. Such measures as return and compensation for deposits could not be subject to pre-election promises. This is primarily the result of the Titanic work of all people, the multi-year programme, the State programme, which is the consent of all the forces of society, at last, only then can it really, without deceiving people, actually return their contributions to them. Therefore, it is not too late for this Government to review its approaches, to return to its positions of realism, of common sense.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u22	I'm asking for the Rules, Mikola Janović. Olena Bondarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u23	Noting the absolute absence of appropriate arguments and the unprofessional nature of the report, I ask that you pass the word to Mr. Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u24	Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u25	Dear Mikola Janovich! I am so grateful for this presentation. Such a gray, unwarranted speech can wait on behalf of the opposition, can await any government, I am very grateful to you, you are good. A specific question to you, correct or confirm my version, in 60 years you convinced the Ukrainians that their lives would be better tomorrow. Even your personal life has not improved for tomorrow. Please tell me, if this miracle happens and you suddenly return to power, does Timoshenko's government leave you with 30 billion extra costs, stopped inflation, a beautiful crop, please tell me, your life and the Ukrainian people will be better tomorrow or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u26	I said the same words to Julia Vladimirovna in December 2007. The Government of Januković left excellent results for her. I told her, let's not lubricate each other with dirt, but let's think about how to make Ukraine's economy grow as stable as it has developed with us. Yeah? Where did you start? Therefore, today, to my great regret, we are returning in August 2006, but at a much worse point, to a much worse one than in 2006. In 2006, we were able to correct the situation relatively quickly. It's not going to work that fast. Therefore, Vladimir Alexandrovich, I have never lied to people and never promised the manna of heaven, I have always said that this is what we sow, that we shall reap, that we shall distribute. We'll work properly, we'll pay normal wages, and we'll feed our fans, I don't think that's fair.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u27	John the Rabbit, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u28	Dear Mikola Janovich, as a former minister of finance as an economist, you know very well that economic processes have long-term action. Do you think you left high inflation or not high inflation for that government, and what concrete inflation did your government leave for that government in 2007? That's the first question. And my second question. The purpose of the coalition is always to offer an alternative to active power to society and to criticize professional power. So this course of yours that you define, is it going to develop or is it going to the Ukrainian people or against? When you don't vote for the mining bill, for the prestige of mining when you left coal deficits in the previous government, for example, energy.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u29	Vanya, don't worry about the miners. Okay? Don't worry, please. We will vote on the laws that are necessary for coal miners. We have half the people who worked in the coal industry. Why are you so worried about miners? Let's vote and say yes. You're being cynical. You know we cannot vote and you deliberately involve us in this vote. That's the cynicism I've never really met. [[Vanya, you and I are parliamentarians a long time ago.]] It's about high inflation. Let's face each other honestly, honestly, I stress. 2007, We have only 1.8 per cent inflation in five months — total. Who forced you to block the shield, the state flag to cover the hall here, the President to push for early elections, destabilize the situation? Who made you do that? You pushed us into early elections. Excuse me, excuse me.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u30	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u31	What policy should be ours when we went to the early elections that you dragged us into? What's that? Is that who made you do it? Because you came to the government for five years in December, you came for five years -- who forced you to open the inflationary spiral?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u32	Vladimir Bondarenko, Uliji Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u33	Vladimir Bondarenko Block "Julia Timoshenko". Dear Mikolo Janovich! I listened to you very carefully and I note that part of your argument, it does not bind with logic or common sense. Here you are telling us that this government has failed to raise the livestock’s head. You know, when a bull visits a cow, it takes nine months to wait for a calf to be born. And this government is only six months in power. There was a bull, and the calf will be a little later. I'd like to tell you. And that the prices for vegetables that were in this year are the vegetables that were grown last year. Let's see what happens this year. This will be the result of this government. So it will be with bread. It'll be bread and it'll be fine, there won't be any inflation. By the way, in September of last year, inflation was 3.2 percent and a month, it was your government. By the end of the year, it had become almost 18 percent. It's a curve that was started, it went up like this, it can't be broken by one movement. Thus, it is impossible to demand something incredible from this government in six months. But he did the impossible!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u34	Please, Mikola Janovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u35	I'm once again confronted with the distortion of what I said, I'm not talking about the growth of the head. You can take the transcript, Vladimir, respected, and look, I was talking about reducing meat production. If you're saying that my numbers on cattle and the amount of manure they produce do not correspond to reality, I'm willing to argue with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u36	I'm the only one who's going to add, I'm now starting to study agriculture actively, well, for various reasons, you know, anything can happen: the calf in nine months, and the pig in six. Please, Sergey Ribuk. It's the biggest pig in six and the smallest one in three!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u37	Thank you. Sergey Ribuk, faction of the Party of the Regions. I'm talking about meat, and I want to say that BUT and Arseny Petrovich are here for the cow. They cut 100,000 cows in six months, and the bull doesn't bring them, it just makes them, I'm just an agrarian. Still serious and without prejudice and without a meat policy. The WTO has entered, and the import rates have been reduced by 4.8 times. In January the meat was imported 4,000 tons and in June 54,000 tons. Why did the price go up and the inflation went up? Moreover, Mikola Janović, the price is down to both milk and meat in the internal market as raw materials. So why does it go up, you said right, the price of the product is ready. And the second. Give me three seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u38	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u39	Let's have meat, we need import. Now for the oil. Two million two hundred thousand tons is produced by Ukraine, four times if not five more than it needs to be produced. What was needed to limit oil exports, to stop from thirty - seventeen oil combinationes, and to lose 170 million to the budget every month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u40	Please, Mikola Janovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u41	The question isn't actually addressed to me, you know, the question is addressed to the Government. I mean, Sergei Nikolayevich, just one thing when you and I were working with you, you and I were balancing consumer demand and consumer supply, purchasing power and imported meat only to the extent that it couldn't really knock down prices in the internal market, well, it was. I don't see that balance right now. The Government should therefore do what it had to do. As far as butter is concerned, I was surprised at all. Yes, we used to threaten, threaten, but God forbid, we never really applied those measures. Yes, we were really forced to restrict the export and only when we were actually facing a shortage of grain. But having an excess of product, a significant surplus, to ban its export, fighting inflation, is not the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, I want to make it clear that the oil exports were banned by your government, Mikola Janovich, we will bring you your ruling.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u43	Julia Volodymyr, I'm sorry. I'm asking for the Rules for everyone else to be able to speak. Vitaly Olegovich, you will be, Zdnovsky. Yuri Sergiyovich Serbin. Turn on the Serbian microphone, please, Yuri Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u44	Dear Mikola Janovich, you've been talking a lot about social protection and poor construction. Two specific questions. First. Your government was required by its decision and by the decision of the Supreme Council by July 1st last year to set standards for the construction of social housing. Even by the end of the year, these standards had not been approved and are now being done by the government of Timoshenko. And then in this year's budget, there would be funds from the very beginning that would help the building industry get out of this breakthrough. So this is the first question, do you feel responsible for your government for the fact that social housing has not yet begun to be built in Ukraine, and that you have washed away the opportunity to help specifically the construction sector? That's the first question. And the second.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u45	Let me finish the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u46	You've talked a lot about real credit and budget control. I'm bringing you one building that you know very well about and you know why you know about it is the road of Kipty-Bachevsky. So that's how much money is lost on this road -- I have a question -- and why now that it was built under your government, it destroyed 122 million roads in two areas. While we were still in the technique, we learned that the roads were first built and then the main roads were built. So the question is, where is the credit and budgetary control of your government? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u47	Please, Mikola Janovich. That was the last question.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u48	Dear colleagues, first of all, I am far from idealizing the work of our Governments, our Government, far from idealizing. And there have certainly been shortcomings and many things to be criticized. However, for the sake of objectivity, here's what I want to say. Every year, if you change the government, you can find a huge number of shortcomings and shortcomings each year. Every year. It is important to have only a professional literate Government. That's the kind of government to appoint and calm down, you know. It's grammatical and professional. Your Government does not meet these criteria. That's why I'm on the rostrum. If I considered him to be a literate and professional, I would never go out on that rostrum and say what I said. Therefore, the comments you make have a basis. But I want to say one thing. If only we had a lot of flaws.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u49	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u50	With a lot of flaws, we wouldn't have built this road, so far we wouldn't have the Kiev-Odessa road. So I always look at these things very simply: no big deal is done without any mistakes, flaws. It is important not to plow and focus on small things, but it is important to see what a relatively good road is built in the country. Let us ask after 2004, where else did one such class come up? Nope. Where are the bridges we planned to build across the Dnieper River in 2006? Where are these bridges? Why aren't they here? I could name dozens of objects that we set up in 2004, and we would have finished them already. But that instability you gave birth to didn't let us do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u51	Thank you, Mikolo Yanovich. Time's up. I invite you to speak in 15 minutes at the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine Timoshenko Yulia Volodymyrovna. Please, Julia Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u52	Good day, distinguished national deputies, honourable Head of the Supreme Council, distinguished ministers! I'm, frankly, sorry to announce that the government's resignation was initiated for 45 minutes and the government's report for 15 minutes. I just think that these imbalances should actually lead to some sort of system. But under any circumstances today, our team is the whole government, our entire democratic team and I personally have agreed to consider the government report and the issue of government mistrust precisely because the Constitution has been changed, Parliament forms a government and no government will be able to work if it is said to be on the verge of resignation in 235 votes. If it is not based on the majority, then it should form a new coalition, then it is necessary to select a new leadership from the government to the Head of the Supreme Council. And actually, I'm very impressed with Margaret Thatcher's experience, when this situation came to light, she said quite clearly, there's no support, let's put it to the vote again, and she was only doing reforms after she got a trust quorum under these reforms. So I think it's going to be completely honest today to ask this question, and please there's another majority, make another coalition, there's no other way after the changes to the Constitution. I listened attentively to the report by a representative from Mr. Azarov’s Party of Regions. To tell you the truth, it was hard in principle to listen, but it was hard for an economist to listen to a geologist's report, with all due respect for geologists, when you didn't understand what it was all about. In addition to me, no one listened carefully to the report. I heard the report honestly from the first letter to the last letter, and I can say: I didn’t understand anything. And so I'm going to try on slides, on specific examples, on specific indicators to show the government's work in six months. And I would like to stress that this government is only working six months after, including Mikola Janović, was in power for 11 years with the former government, and left exactly what he left behind: ruined roads, airports, ports, damaged agriculture, corruption of such a level that we are in the last place in the world, a completely ruined system of practical work of NAK Naftogazu, Energoatum, which they today have declared bankrupt. I can tell you that in 11 years, I don't think any country has ever received such an inheritance. So we need to report to Azar's and his company in 11 years, and we'd better look even more closely. But dear friends! I think we're going to start with each country holding on to a promising economic growth -- then it can build everything: both social policy, and reform, and investment, and everything. And that's why gross domestic product is a key indicator. And at a time when all countries, including the countries of the euro area, have reviewed the gross domestic product to the side of the decline, because the oil price has only doubled in the last year. Because food prices worldwide have increased by 50 percent, which is why all countries have reviewed GDP growth rates, our government is not simply reviewing, but is still committing. And I want us to look at the first slide right now -- that's the rise in gross domestic product. After, indeed, I agree with the radical political crisis that led to the destruction of macroeconomic indicators. You see a steady increase, and in five months, we've got a 6.4 and I think we're going to keep growing. But at the same time, please show us what we look like in the background, including in European countries. Please use the next slide. You can see that Ukraine, at the rate of growth in gross domestic product, is at the level of Poland, and most countries in the world, including Europe, have a lower GDP growth rate, and that means that we are normally, absolutely moving forward. And I can also say that industrial production is growing at 8 percent. And if we're talking about who is the leader of economic growth in Ukraine, the leader is machine-building. We had these months when the production of the machine-building industry, which is on the final chain of production, was 35 percent higher, and it says that Ukraine is developing, not as a raw country, but as a country that is ready to produce the finished product, including machinery. If we're talking about other industries, for example, woodworking -- 21 percent -- for example, the food industry that I've just heard is going down somewhere, so 7.5 is going to go up, and almost all of the industries are going up. In addition to the difficult situation that results from last year’s agricultural production. You know, last year there was a record low crop of grains, and I can tell you that this year our country and the budget that we adopted with you were 40 percent higher than last year in support of agro producers, it gives us an opportunity this year to get, and the expectations of all are, twice as much crop of grain as last year. And I want to tell you that it's going to be, God forbid, that weather conditions have ended normally by the end of the harvest, and, indeed, with this crop of grains, this is the kind of land that returns the crop status of the region. And I think if it goes at this rate, we can take it up. This is the result. And I think if Mikola Janovich is still a specialist in agricultural production, I can say that we have raw materials for the food industry just when it grows in the fields. And that. That there was a record low crop of grains last year, of course, the food industry felt it because they were processing it. Thank you for collecting the crops last year. But today we see a normal, rapid increase in all economic indicators in GDP growth and in the growth rate of individual sectors. Moreover, it is very clear whether investors believe in Ukraine or investors go to Ukraine, and how the economy develops from the point of view of investment. I ask you, notice, the net increase in foreign direct investment this year compared to the corresponding period last year increased fourfold. Dear colleagues, these are unprecedented figures at all. A strong investment went to the Ukrainian economy. And what we have instead of 800 million. Last year, it's now 4 billion, says that the gross domestic product will continue to grow rapidly enough. And the other interesting numbers that I'd like to talk about are, of course, inflation, the consumer price index. Please show me the ninth slide, and you will see what happened in the country. I'm asking for a ninth slide. The fact is that inflation in the country, if it starts and starts powerfully, then it takes years to get over it, because it's going to be completely balanced by the economy. This is even known by the economist who received primary education in general. So I want to draw your attention to this slide. Look at what four quarters of last year looked like when Mikola Janović Azarov was in economic power, and I want to say that the inflation that was launched in the last two blocks, and in the last quarter, all the money and social mechanisms, the country never knew -- 17 percent. So I can tell you that then to stop it by one max, by tapping your fingers, no leader in the world and no government in the world can. And we've come across the legacy that Mikola Janovich gave us. And now that he's counting food, I want to remind you that Mikola Janovich himself has declared that only the cabbage has not changed its price, everything else has gone down by one and a half times in its prices. So tell me, what are the claims to this government? And today, in June-months, we can already say that we're putting inflation in a completely controlled direction. If you have, Mr. Azarov, the inflation rate in June-month was 2.2, we have it now two and a half times less than June-month. And that means that next month we'll have deflation with you. This means that we have stopped this shameful phenomenon of inflation, which was given to us by the previous government, led by Mikola Janović, in the economic and financial bloc. And I'd also like you to look at slide number 10 where there are consumer price indices in June 2008 in other countries. This is exactly what I want to show you a serious absolute indicator that shows that, as oil rises in the world at twice the price, because most of the world's countries have started growing oil crops and oil crops have brought the entire food basket up at a price, these are global processes that have taken place around the beginning of the second quarter of this year. We see that Belarus has 1.3 inflation in June, Kazakhstan is 1.2, the Russian Federation is 1, we have 0.8 already. This means that at a time when we got 3.5 more inflation in June than we did last year in the same period, we were able to absorb inflation, although inflation is certainly devastating in every country. According to food, if you compare our countries, you'll see the next slide that inflation in the June months in Kazakhstan was 1.8 in Belarus 1.2 in the Russian Federation - 1.1 in Ukraine - 0.6. It's almost half the size of Belarus. Why am I saying this? Because today food inflation is a catastrophe in the world. And today, you know, world organizations have announced not just the SOS signal, but special programs to combat hunger in the world. But we, as a country and as a government, have dealt with this phenomenon and in the next month we will have either deflation or zero. When I report the budget, I'll be more careful about what the components of today's June month inflation are. Now it's about our work. We have practically approached very significant structural changes in every field. We've had a breakdown and a fall. We started to see what we had with the airports when we were preparing for the Euro. All the airports in the country are divided into mosses, like the Shanghai market, into each hundred of their own: who builds the shop, who builds the gas station, who builds the terminal on the runway. I want to tell you that there is no such terrible situation with airports in any country. We've captured this situation almost at the last moment, when we were privatized in the shadow sphere by dispatchers, landing strips, and even weather information about airports, let alone the security bureau. And that's why we took the first steps even in these five months that were: we adopted the concept of airport reform, we adopted a completely different system of airport work, we made the airport -- the land of state, runway, dispatch, security and other services -- and where business wants to build terminals, gas stations -- in defined places, on the basis of open auctions. The same situation was with our ports throughout the country. Once again, the ports are divided into squares among the legendary oligarchs, and each one collects his own tribute. I just want to say that in the country of the state line, the state strategy was not clear. Now we're putting the same concept into ports where there's a state land. And the commercial functions under the terms of the auction are given to the individual business structures that won the auction. But the state has its hand in both airports and ports, as it is all over the world. I can tell you that this is the first time we've made a major investment in airports. And we're going to have all the landing capabilities repaired, and we're going to build the necessary number of terminals and, more than that, we're going to increase the passenger flow just a little bit. As far as Mingogluprom is concerned. Well, I'm not going to say that I just wanted to see with my own eyes how people work underground, what they are there and how they're actually provided with work today. No equipment, the equipment was purchased 4-6 times the market price for mines. Everything that was bought for mines is at 5-6 higher price. The wages were six times lower than those of miners in the world and three times lower than those of Russia. That's why, by the way, the price of coal for, well, coke, who knows this industry, knows the problem, coke coal, while the metal industry works at world prices, coal miners keep pitiful coins. And that means there was no market price for coke coal and there was no market price for energy coal. Now we've raised a substantial price for coal, we're putting an additional 3.1 billion in the budget for the full investment of this sector, and we're going to have an area with you that will seriously ensure our energy stability. And we're going to make miners pay the wrong salary -- below the minimum wage and below the minimum wage, we're going to start at the rate. And we're going to pay the wages that miners pay in the world today, gradually, but we're going to do it. Because in conditions like these, people work there, they're, we're with you every time we eat kilocalories, or kilograms of metal, we eat the lives of miners at the same time, along with what we consume, I mean the country, so we need to change this situation radically. I can also tell you what's going on, it's been happening in the aviation sector, my respectable friends. The aviation industry, the leaders who were assigned, including Mr. Azarov's Cabinet, have booked planes from all over the world, subscribed, no international contract has been executed, everything's broken down. One-and-a-half billion dollars is the deficit of only one Kharkiv factory because they subscribed and spent all their offshore bills. Today, we can complete the niches for both AN and cargo and especially high-density passengers. But what do we have? The bankrupt sector, behind bribes, betrayed intellectual property, when the drawings were handed over long ago in underground mode. And now we want to completely restore everything that's related to aviation, by creating, including, a normal joint venture with the Russian Federation, by financing those deficits, and rather, the thefts that took place at the level of one and a half billion in the budget, giving State guarantees. And today every airline plant is personally on my control, and we're tracking every step. Please tell me, what's going on in the shipbuilding sector? State-owned shipbuilding factories, by the way, by the way, where individual speakers are present. I think you all know who that is. So I can tell you that some state shipyards now only protect dogs because they don't have to pay their wages and everything else is ruined. And look at the condition we're in! Now we raise every shipbuilding plant, we put on our feet, we give state finances where we need to privatize. And to that, the 2008 budget changes. We want to put order in the farm that we've been left with. It's hard, but at the same time, in five months, in six months, it would be just, maybe, let's say, quite ambitious. But we already see the dynamics and we see very normal positive results.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u53	Julia Volodymyrna, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u54	Last sentence. I want to draw Mr. Azarov's attention to exports and imports. Dear friends, whom do we cheat in the country and in the world? We didn't know that we had our exports, including, on fictitious exports when we were doing VAT? FOR 5 billion. For 5 billion a year, we took a fake VAT and an export that we didn't find in other countries, boxes and technologies that don't exist, and we dumped imports with you. You've been scrambling, and we've been watching, without sweeping, without VAT, without any accounting. So, please tell me, if the customs value is down 200 times, what is the real import? And that's why it's not growing today, and we're legalizing it, and that's why we got 20 billion dollars more in the budget than just customs. So tell me, when do we need to legalize? Now. It's an unpleasant indicator to see that imports in the country have always exceeded exports substantially. We took out fictitious exports, completely legalized imports, and we see that, yes, Ukraine is an imported country, but smuggling, which lasted 10 years, destroyed the light industry, destroyed the agricultural sector, especially the animal industry, and we have the results. And that's why I want to end up optimistically. Dear friends, I am convinced that voting is very necessary today-trust, mistrust. If such a vote does not take place, the government is ready to continue its work, including reviewing the budget. If the vote takes place, then create a new coalition, and that's fair, find a completely new team. The only request to everyone is in no way to give the country back in case of negative results, not to allow a country with any new government to jump into the pit left by the democratic coalitions. And the chances in Ukraine are wonderful -- to be a strong economic, rich social and successful country, a European country with which we will be proud. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u55	Ladies and gentlemen, let's take a question. First, questions from factions, then questions from individual national MPs. Please record. I immediately report that the two factions are the Communist Party and the Party of the Regions have applied for a recess. But I would like to point out that we have made a decision and voted, and I want to emphasize the schedule for today's session, 417 votes. So now I am going to announce a recess during the course of the matter, and in a mild sense, I am not confronted with the Rules and with the decision that we have all voted on. There are now 30 minutes until the vote, two factions can hold an appropriate meeting within 30 minutes, Julia Volodymyrovna please answer the question. Vitaly Zudnowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u56	Please pass the word to Lashko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u57	Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u58	Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Dear Julia Volodymyrna! I don't have any questions for you, there's only wish, hold on, and you know that the entire democratic majority in the country, millions of people, we see it by letter, by request, they support you, they support our government. And I am absolutely sure that the democratic majority that is in Parliament will not give up either the government or the country's interests. Thank you. Hold on. And may God give you health.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u59	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u60	Mikola Komar. The faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u61	Thank you. Please give the floor to Deputy Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u62	Stand by, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u63	Dear reporter! At first you said that as a professional you did not understand what Azarov said. That's not surprising, because you couldn't understand High Professional Azarov, because in 2005, when President Yushchenko retired you, he said I had never seen such a professional government before. And you immediately showed your complete lack of professionalism. But I do have a question about another, an honourable report, 481 grubles minimum pension in April and 482 grubles minimum pension in July. Can a person buy something extra for one bracelet? The second question. 647 bucks a living minimum of you and 525 minimum wage, minus 122 bracelets. The government of Janukovič promised to bring the minimum wage and minimum wage closer to 100 percent of the minimum wage.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u64	You might say that when you return the property to your country, which was not treated very well. The next time you ask all of these questions, remember, I'm going to call the facilities of the sanatoriums and everything else that you've disappeared from Ukraine when you've led the trade unions, the glory of God, and you're not leading them right now. Now in terms of the average pension size and the minimum living standards, I want to remind you, Mr. Stoyan, that in 2007, when you were in power, the average pension amounted to 591 bracelets, this year we're going to have 808th, 36.7 percent plus. And that says that we raise the minimum pension, whatever it is we don't have, it's higher than you, that's the main thing, I mean, not you, as in the deputy, as in you, as a representative of power. As for the minimum wage, Mr. Stoyan, in your government the minimum wage was 460 dollars, we're going to finish the year, and I'm convinced that we're going to finish it, 605 dollars we're going to have, that's 31.5 above the minimum wage and the same minimum wage. So let's start with why you were so low.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u65	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u66	Yuri Carmazin. Madam Prime Minister, I thank you for the report, I wanted to ask you, you gave the program of activity to the Cabinet of Ministers, but contrary to the Constitution and Rules 222, part three, they weren't included, you didn't say anything about it today, even though it should have been done. Please tell these important people, who have a kind government in any world, that has a mother, the Holding Foundation, the Antimonopoly Committee, and through the parts of the state-owned enterprises that are, the non-application to the budget of 5 billion, how because they haven't changed the head of the Holding Foundation, how they've influenced and what you think you can do to improve the situation. Because the money they're talking about doesn't work. They included plans of these five billion that were to come from the Maintenance Fund. But they didn't. How do you think to activate these tools in view of the tremendous opposite?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u67	First, with regard to the Government's Action Programme "The Ukrainian Breakdown", which was submitted to the Supreme Council as provided for in the Constitution, within 30 days of the government's work. We looked forward to this program being rescinded, as we would like the national MPs and supported by the government to be able to gather for the Government's Action Programme "The Ukrainian Breakdown". But at the same time, 15 days had passed, and they had already passed, I take it, times ten or maybe twenty. And the program is because, really, not everything here in Parliament is normal, it wasn't voted, and it wasn't even put on the agenda. This means that the government, in fact, worked without the approved program. And if we stick to the letters of the law, we didn't have the right to report today. Because if the program is not approved and the Constitution is supposed to report to the government on the Government's Programme of Action, but at the same time we've decided that it's better to go through this procedure because we actually need a clear answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u68	Sergei Gordienko. The Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u69	Sergei Gordienko. The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Dear Julia Volodymyrna! The more emotional and such beautiful reports sound in this room, the worse, unfortunately, our Ukrainian people live alone. And that's what we feel when we meet in these regions of Ukraine. [[Deputies]] I understand how the government works. But I want to say one thing, I'm too worried about my colleagues, that many of the programs that are declared are not being implemented. In particular, support for individual construction in the village of “The Own House” on July 11th, July 12, 11th, was not funded. When can you build? And other things. You're fighting to create an inter-agency commission to share these with the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u70	Dear colleagues! To be honest, I always take criticism from the government. I'm going to analyze that with expenditure on the construction of this own house program. If there is such a problem, we will take into account our activities. And I think, in principle, we need to set up a constructive work of opposition and power in order to be able to feel where the problem is and correct it. I think we need to do things together now, not by criticizing each other, but by doing things together. The government is ready for this. And if your faction has suggestions, I'm always open to such proposals. As far as mediating structures are concerned. I don't think mediating structures are really necessary, and we even insist that tenders are made not by intermediaries, but directly by manufacturers to show the price. And the interlocutors, they're basically to control what this tender is and how it happens. But if we make a decision to buy it exclusively from the manufacturers.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u71	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u72	Only in the manufacturers, then we'll take down all the inter-agency commissions, because they won't be necessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u73	Sergey Podgorny.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u74	Dear Julia Volodymyr, distinguished members of the government, distinguished national deputies! We do not need to refer to the non-professional opposition that sounds today, because we are probably already used to it when from this rostrum, those who have spoken before turn to opposition, or to non-professional statements, or simply in the author's language, say, "Let's go!" So I don't think we need to pay any attention to that. Your speech, Julia Volodymyrna, highly professional, the figures you gave are more than convincing, and therefore I think the government is going the right way today. Your last visit to Luhansk just confirmed this and that more than five hundred members of the Party of the Regions have left this party in Severerodonetsk, it just confirms it. And finally, I'd like you to say a few words, what's the perspective in the coal sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u75	As for that, thank you for your kind words of support. As far as the coal sector is concerned. Our strategy, in principle, is very simple. Item number one, the real world price for coke and energy coal. And that means that wherever coal is sold, on the internal market or on export, coal miners and mines, the mergers will receive the very real cost of coal. The other one. We need to make sure that the coal sector is provided with investment for development and that's why we're proposing changes in the budget and making 3.1 billion additional investment resources for coal development. This will allow you to rearrange, replace manual work with mechanized work, allow you to expand the fronts of work, and that means that you will live and increase the production of the coal industry. Third. This is certainly the wages of miners and of all those who work in the field. Once again, I don't understand how the wages of miners turned out to be.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u76	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u77	That now that our government has come, it's three times as low as the Russian Federation in coal miners. Three times lower than any other country's SND. So the point is that we're going to raise wages to normal world standards, gradually but confidently. And the safety of miners, protecting their lives at zero. And that's why in the budget we're predicting money to equip the new system, to practically ensure the safety of miners. We will lift the branches, put them on our feet, and give them a second breath and a second life.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u78	Alexander Omelchenka is gone. Alexander Popov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u79	Julia Vladimirovna, I would like to draw your attention to page 26 of your report, which was handed out to us, where housing and utilities are involved. In my opinion, it's a complete zero. And I understand why. Because, unfortunately, no legislation has been submitted by the Government to the Supreme Council on housing reform and development. You have reduced investment in the industry twice, and in the first half of the year, you have not given a penny to the regions for their development. It's a heating season ahead. No meeting had been held at the Government level on the issue of preparations for the winter, unfortunately, to date. Advance gas price rises. The State's investment in energy conservation needs to be intensified. This policy is not implemented. My question. Do you really realize that this policy of yours, in my view, is not well thought out, can lead to a sharp rise in housing and utility prices?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u80	I'd like to ask you a question. Why, in 11 years of your authority, there is no law that has been passed that regulates.? And you've had much more time than we've had for five or six months. You didn't pass, you didn't fix it, and today you know that after 11 years of your rule, we have a completely decommissioned housing business today. What are we doing now to raise housing and utilities? First thing we do. We're now looking at how to create conditions to involve serious investments in reconstruction. private investment in the reconstruction and modernization of residential networks. And I know that, including in the Luhansk region, investors have already been involved, but so far it's not over, except for raising the price of water twice. It's different to involve investors. This is, I think, a strategic direction. That's different. I'm sorry that, for example, for some services, including water supply, heat supply, even counters.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u81	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u82	We haven't had enough in 17 years. We're now spending money to equip the counters, to rewire the power plants that, for example, allow us to use much less power to supply water, and we're doing a lot of other things. But at the same time, we've decided that by September 1st, after our government's approval, the concepts of housing-communal reform while they're resting, the government will provide a complete set of bills and will make decisions regarding comprehensive housing reform. We're preparing for the winter all the meetings are being held, all the control things are being done, so everything, I think, will be fine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u83	Mikola Ivanovich Derkach.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u84	Please pass the word to Vaszczuk Katerina Timofevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u85	Julia Volodymyrna, that's the question. Today, you know how much diesel prices have gone up -- a cube of more than 7 dollars, mineral fertilizers have gone up to 6 or 7 thousand per tonne, and that price is based on the purchase of the bread that was planned today is not going to cover the cost, and the bread is going to be cost-effective. Is the government ready to review the price of a minimum of at least one and a half thousand dollars? And the second. From the women of the civil parliament. What do you think, if I could make the government free of charge for treating, operating on other children at least 17-16 years old? Because today a lot of kids are dying because their parents don't have the resources to treat them, especially those with cancer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u86	Katerina Timofievna, you're absolutely right, there's a real tragedy going on in the world, because oil has only doubled in a year, and today it's practically going up every year. And Ukraine certainly does not provide its own oil. You know that. And that's why we also have imported oil, and the oil products are also partially imported. So what we're talking about is that the cost of diesel fuel, of gasoline in everything else, is the result of the world's rising oil price. All countries today are considering this crisis and will make their own arrangements and actions. What do I see? I see the only way out is for the country this year, but to move on to serious biofuel projects, to very serious energy saving systems, so that Ukraine can think today about how we can make enough of storm coal, which in Ukraine is enough to produce, including diesel. [[Unfortunately, nothing has been done in 17 years.]]
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u87	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u88	including the production of diesel fuel and gasoline from crude coal. These are our colossal resources. And it's a shame we haven't thought about it in so many years. Now we're going to do this and we're going to try to make sure that not only oil at this price is the basis for diesel and gasoline production. Next question. This is true of fertilizer - related issues. You know that most of their fertilizers are made from natural gas. The price of natural gas has increased enormously, including what we supply for industrial imports. It's obviously reflected on the value of fertilizers -- 70 percent of the value of the value of fertilizers of natural gas. And that means we're just hostages today of the world's rising energy prices. But I think your last offer is extremely correct. We need today, by voting for the budget, to increase the agrarian fund's spending by one billion dollars to buy grain into the state reserve, and I can tell you that your faction, I know, is based on an agrarian party, convinced, will vote for that budget and will give the agrarian fund billions of expenses, at which we can then stabilize the price of grain. And we're going to look at your proposal to raise the purchase price for grain if a budget is accepted and such an agrarian fund is accepted. In addition, our task with you is to make sure that it is not in every area of each grain trader that is launched, and it monopolizes the minimum prices on grain to farmers and farmers. Please tell me what you can do when the southern areas are now passing around and offering 800 dollars per grain. Tell me what it is. So we're going to work with strong structures, demonopolize this market, allow the markets to work properly and certainly state policy on the basis of the Agrarian Fund of the Reserve, and increase the purchase price of grain. I agree with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u89	Thank you, Julia Volodymyrna. Please sit down. The answers to these questions are complete. [[Applause]] Two lines. Alexander Stoyan and Mikola Azarov continued to act as faction leaders. And then there's the voting procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u90	Alexander Stoyan, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear reporter, regarding the cost of selling sanatoriums, please contact those whom you brought to power in the Ukrainian trade union during the orange coup. Now there's a corruption scandal going on about how they're selling sanatoriums. But most of all, the question is whether the 7.5 billion debts of EESU that you have written off during your premiere will be repaid, as spoke of by President Yushchenko. This money would have been needed to actually return the savings to the Ukrainians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u91	You had the Attorney General's office in your hands.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u92	Mikola Azarov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u93	I would like to remind you, Julia Vladimirovna, that you came to this hall later than I came here. And when I was elected Chairman of the Budget Committee in 94, when they wanted to hit me, they spoke and said “Geo”. Yes, I am proud that Yulia Vladimirovna, in contrast to some of his associates, graduated from Moscow State University, protected his candidate's dissertation, protected his doctoral dissertation, and then worked both in science and now in the economy. So thank you for reminding us of this. Now, basically. And in fact, unfortunately, you haven't answered any of the questions I asked in my report to any of them. As for the Harkov factory, the debts were there a year and a half ago, and they were created in 2005 when you worked as Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u94	Dear colleagues, we sign up for the faction leaders. The rules are set for three minutes, but if there is a desire for five minutes, we have an agreement: I will then continue my time. Please, let's sign up. Ivan Kirilenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, please. Colleagues, I want to warn you right now: this is the last time I'm going to give my word for not writing it down. I know these things, dear friends, so let's stop this practice.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u95	Dear colleagues, well-respected voters, respectable government! I'm not afraid to be the first to speak, even though it would be more ominous to speak last. And first of all, I want to say. I don't know what journalists will call today's action: who's going to call a flash circle, who's going to call a farce, I can say one thing: it didn't work. You looked, our colleagues, unconvincing. Who prepared the report to the respectable Mikola Janovich? “In the first terms of its letter” will be addressed to the government and asked to colleagues, and when will the government be responsible for falling IDA, IBF, Doe Jones, abghd, abgd? It seems to us that the voters of the decline of these indices are as curious as the fall in the work of synchrofrastrothron on a mission in Canaveral State, more loyal to Cape Canaveral in Florida. It's the same. And the end of Mikola Janović is the same. wrote: “The Government of Timoshenko deserves to resign because it is unable to produce 60 million tonnes of manure.” Thank you, we'll make it. Dear friends, if you're serious, a clear assessment of the faction: trying to ask that question, looking at it. It's an unscrupulous, primitive desire to dissipate. Dear colleagues, its contents and its content are that when, in fact, it was extremely difficult, and when, in fact, all the fun in the hair, remember March, April: the financial crisis imported into the country was devastating, and we imported for several years in a row and failed to pay attention to the attachment that reduced the national currency and brought a huge roof of inflation here. See, the dollar over these years we've been exporting, we've been exporting, and this is the colleagues on the left, because you represent a big business, you've been exporting liquid resources, and you've been importing unsecured greens into the country. Then she turned herself in to the National Bank, and the bank flooded the national economy with a lighter bracelet. This has been going on and on for years when the global financial crisis has also fired: March, April -- the most difficult months for the Ukrainian economy and for the Ukrainian currency. The global food crisis and the non-productive year that we received from you, but we didn't speculate on it, that was really hard, but then there was Jesuit criticism and abuse, but there was no word of resignation, because we were afraid to take power and responsibility, because we didn't know what would happen next. Then the situation was rectified by forces. Friends, and today, when inflation rates have gone down and when a good crop that gives us hope and guarantees by the next July of the marketing year is stable food prices. They give 60 percent at least in the price index structure that affects inflation when we see that, in fact, GDP can be below 10 percent by the end of the year, we'll surprise the world when we see that 30 billion.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u96	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u97	When they saw that there were 30 billion, and then when they saw what mechanisms were being set up, they could also put 60 billion into the economy, which industries were getting, which they had been expecting for years, how many pensions would increase at the end of the year -- 1.5 times. From March, from September, there's an increase in the wages of the budgeters at the expense of the tariff nets, as they get for the first time in the region, the small cities, the agriculture that really needs help today, and then someone wants to have a dish with a blue collar. The answer: “It won’t work out and it won’t work,” is understandable. My friends, we're already interested in the question of you staying in the room and voting the Ukrainian budget by 400 votes. I'm looking at the budget numbers right now -- your proposals are taken into account. Do you want to keep your business by our voices? Vote in 400 votes. We don't care about the first question, you lost it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u98	Anatoly Kinach, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u99	Dear national MPs, distinguished voters! The faction has to say that once again there was no fair, principled discussion of the real socio-economic situation in our country. Instead of objective evaluations, there are political conjuncturing, switching, and so forth. So we have to say the following. First of all, the inflation in Ukraine is not at all what was said in the report in the context of its pace in the first half of this year. 15.5 percent of consumer price inflation and 29.4 percent of industrial price inflation is the highest inflation rate in Europe in the first half of the year. In Ukraine, consumer price inflation is even more negative for Ukrainian families, because in this pattern of inflation, it is the order of 80 percent -- it is the rise in food prices, and the average Ukrainian family spends at least 50 to 60 percent of its income on it. Secondly, the issue of energy security, throughout the world, as confirmed and reported, is rising in oil prices. However, in view of the unconsolidated position of the Ukrainian authorities in the natural gas supply negotiations, Ukraine faces a very serious risk of a shock in the price of natural gas since 2009 at the level of medium-European prices, up to $400 on the border of Ukraine-Russia. So today, the issue of energy conservation, energy efficiency, the issue of clear housing policy, the precautionary measures to protect Ukrainian citizens are of vital importance. Unfortunately, we have not heard where the resources will be concentrated, our will to deal with these issues. External trade. Here comes the switch again. During the 4 months of the current year, Ukraine’s negative foreign trade surplus amounted to minus $7.4 billion. This is twice as high as last year. By the end of the year, at least 20 billion. This is the loss of thousands and thousands of jobs, this is the loss including the position of Ukraine in the internal, first and foremost market. That is why we insist on our conclusions. The government is demonstrating unsuspecting unprofessional work. Unfortunately, the government is turning the socio-economic policy of the state into another adventurous political project, and we urge everyone to vote in favour of the government's mistrust resolution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u100	Vladimir Litwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u101	Dear National Deputies! I would like to address people who are evidently listening to or looking into the matter today. Do you have any idea what's going on in the Supreme Council? We don't get it. Please tell me, dear fellows, what are we listening to? What was the program of activity of the Cabinet of Ministers? What did we have in full budget? What was Ukraine’s 2008 Economic and Social Development Programme? What are we listening to? What does that do? I mean, the conclusion is obvious: in the ocean, lies have no meaning whatsoever. This is where the waves were raised. [[Applause]] One more question. What does this give people — discussing this problem today? We have heard two truths. Truth from opposition and truth from the government. There's no point in the truth to the people. None. Dear colleagues, your active response indicates that I am telling the truth. Learn to listen to the truth. The report was not, as was not an objective alternative to assessing things in our household, in economics, in social, in the humanitarian sphere. So on behalf of the faction, I say to one side and to the other: with your insidious ideas, it's dangerous to carry them so far. What were we watching? Summary of accounts. Counting, that's all. There was no serious discussion as to the state of affairs in the country. So our proposal is to stop this discussion. If anyone wants to continue it, let's continue in the country club, in the district culture house, and so that all these diagrams, or these percentages, tons, square kilometers, are heard and understood by people. They didn't understand anything at all. The little Ukrainian we're so hot about, he didn't realize periodically that anyone wanted to. It's hard, I don't think it's hard to imagine people being irritated when they watch this circus today in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Well, there's no serious conversation, once again, not on one side, on the other, on the other, everything's fine, on the other, everything's bad. Where is the truth? Suggestions. Suggestions. Give all these graphs to people, and reports, and let them read them and feel how good they have been living. Rather, they would speak of the health of the Ukrainian people. Zero. It would be better to talk about the sense of uncertainty, the uncertainty, the irritation of people. Zero. It would be better to talk about the despair that exists in people today. They don't know what to do with the baby tomorrow. Zero. Then we will.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u102	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u103	But he drowned his child. I'm done. I'm talking like everybody said. They'd rather talk about pay. What's the minimum wage? A competition that raised more wages. But it does not compare with the wages of government officials and people. Let's put it together. Or people can live. Why aren't we talking about pensions? I am convinced that we are tearing the country apart by not having a serious conversation. So we suggest let's make a decision about salary, let's make a decision about. I'll tell you how we vote. Calm down. Let us now report, however, what has been privatized to each other and to whom. Let's say what's happening to the earth, because people in the Kyiv region are demanding the truth. When we talk about what we've got, let's say where and where are those who robbed the country have 85 percent of the wealth, that's going to be the right question. So, I want to say that we're participating, I mean factions, in these political games we're not taking. Our proposal was to vote today on a decision to listen to the government's report, normally, seriously, so that the committees would work in September-Yellow months. You wanted to let her out, please let her go.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u104	Peter Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u105	Dear colleagues! Respectable voters! The conversation that we have here today in this room confirms one flawless truth: the presence of large capital in power poses a threat to the national security of the country. That's clear. Second. The analysis shows that an orange team is unable to manage the country and ensure compliance with its commitments. This is confirmed by the progress that has been made in both the discussion and the policy they have been pursuing since 2005 to this day. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the plague continues in their midst, and this only indicates that there is no team. Yushchenko uses today and imposes a controlled chaos in order to do what the American team and the scenario set out in his election in a chaos today. The orange team itself today tells us how many tens of millions of dollars were used to elect the so-called President of Ukraine during the elections. Which is why we need to put the whole orange team away, the whole orange team, and I talked about it two days ago. Once again, I would like to reiterate that we must base our analysis on the fact that, as a result of the so-called policy, we have a concretely simple worker, specifically the person who expects power from the election, that power will work honestly. What resulted from the worker’s time in the orange authorities, including this part of his time? Increased prices for meat, bread, butter, dairy products, vegetables, products - up to 80% and more. That is, there has been a tremendous impact on the health of the nation and, as far as possible, the minimum living minimum today. Next, we meet today and the simple labourers feel it, the increase in electricity tariffs, gas, coal shows that the incoming team, it naturally transfers the most profitable markets for enrichment and to charge its own pockets. Furthermore, we feel today that the mere labourer did not feel what we promised when we spoke about the need to implement decisions, including the Constitutional Court, about the restoration of all benefits for all our categories, those and the children of war, the Chernobyls, the veterans of war, the disabled. We are also faced with the fact that simple labourers, as a result of this sweeping populist policy implemented since 2005, are constantly receiving only an increase in inflation. What is the rise of inflation, respected voters? It is a mechanism of looting of millions of Ukrainian citizens, not a mechanism to ensure the real sector of the economy, which must make a profit and fill the budget, but a mechanism to cut three skins off of ordinary people, namely the growth of inflation.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u106	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u107	Thus, the savings that have been made and, of course, have been destroyed have not been of any use today. Thus, inflation is transformed by these politicians into a tax on the poor for the benefit of the rich. At the level of corruption, Ukraine is now taking the lead in the post-Soviet area, selling land, privatizing the remains of the already major national economic complexes. Today, we must ask the question of resignation for permanent social populism, curbing wage growth and leaving prices for business. Because today the minimum wage, subsistence minimum and pension are held back and prices are released. In this way, the policy is only for the benefit of large businesses. Without stopping and protecting the interests of WTO accession, our national interests. We are witnessing with you today that the so-called monetary policy is only killing a domestic producer and working for the benefit of other States. The policy that is being implemented is to engage in NATO, to intensify relations with the Russian Federation, to attack the Great Victory, to rehabilitate fascist supporters and so on. As possible developments, of course, the whole orange team needs resignation. [[I conclude my statement.]] Because instead, the Government will also come with Orange and a coalition, which unfortunately we cannot create, another we cannot afford, which remains Yuschenka, who not only controls and manages, but also manically imposes its ideas on the consequences of which we feel today. Thus, everything is translated into the Supreme Council of Ukraine. On the other hand, I appeal to my colleagues, the Party of the Regions, with all the negotiations both with the President and with our Ukraine, to create a new coalition. And if you agree and know how to create it today, please announce it. And the Communist faction supports you taking responsibility for everything that's going on in the country. During the summer, the coalition will not be established, but Yushchenko will receive a carte blanche of 60 days for the destruction of Parliament today and the announcement, practically, on 10 September, that it will unleash Parliament. We must therefore draw the right conclusions from that experience, I mean, anti-crisis.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u108	Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u109	When Yushchenko was believed to have participated in the so-called early elections, Yushchenko and the orange team won, and Ukraine today boasts about it. Therefore, an anti-crisis coalition was destroyed and the opportunity to form a government was lost. And once again, I would like to emphasize that we must understand one thing today: this orange team must leave the political arena forever, and sometimes it must engage in self-destruction. And I believe that we are entitled to demand the highest degree of responsibility for all that they have done. Therefore, the faction of communists and today calls for all efforts to be made by us, Parliament today, to help people understand the true intentions of this orange team and to place the responsibility of the entire orange team from Yashchenk to the majority in Parliament and Government for everything that is going on in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u110	Kirilenko Viacheslav Anatoliyevich, please, Viacheslav Anatoliyovich. We agreed on a three - but - a - minute schedule. It's a deal.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u111	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. Dear colleagues, distinguished members of the government, distinguished voters! I want to remind you of last year's events that led to the dissolution of Parliament. There was also a debate on the economy, on the state of affairs in agriculture and transport, but then there were good reasons for not only that government to go but also for new elections to be announced in the country. Because there was such a situation that the police stormed the prosecutor’s office, and the chaos in foreign politics reached the climax. Of course, the citizens of Ukraine responded by elections. But with the united efforts of “Our Ukraine ” and“ the Block of Yulia Timoshenko. ” We made a commitment to create a democratic coalition, and we made these commitments through all the elections. Then there was an interesting moment when someone thought that suddenly, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" would withdraw from its obligations. I don't know why anyone thought that, but we stood, including in that fight, for creating a democratic coalition, by maintaining honesty before the electorate. We created a coalition and we formed a democratic government. We are pleased that the President's social initiative block was taken by the government to arms immediately. And it is true that these initiatives were implemented and pensions, wages, child support, student scholarships and other payments were raised immediately in the budget for this year. We, by the way, have to do one more social commitment year after year, the average wage for the first time has to go beyond two thousand dollars, as promised by the "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" Block in the elections. We're also being set up to increase the minimum wage. This part of the government's work, the tone that was given by President Yushchenko, is happening and it has a tendency to develop. Of course, we are not all content with government activities. Is there inflation in the country? I think that's a rhetorical question. Of course there is. But it's also true that 16.6 inflation came from the previous government of Yanukovic. Whether we were satisfied with how this government fought inflation, places like that, places not. We were not satisfied that sometimes there was lack of collegiality in the Cabinet meetings and there was a voluntary effort to make single decisions by turning ministers into blind performers of only one will. It seems to me that the government and the Prime Minister have found the strength to overcome these symptoms, and now every cabinet member is responsible for his direction and he is sovereign in his position. He needs to be heard. If they don't hear.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u112	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u113	If not heard further, then there will be problems with the coalition in terms of making agreed decisions. Moreover, we would certainly want this government to be more receptive to reforms. We would like to see the sharpness, the attitude towards tax reform, the resolution of the land cluster, all the issues related to the unlocking of the economy and the deregulation of the economy. I don't think there's enough work here, but the opposition is doing everything possible to complicate the activities and coalitions and the cabinet. Because if you count our days that were taken to work, probably half of these days went on to watch the Party of Regions stand with balls near the rostrum and then there was no tax or land reform or inflation, then the inflation wasn't interested. It was now that Mikola Janovich said something about inflation that said something about inflation, but unfortunately I too, after listening carefully to the report, didn't understand all the reasons that could be presented as weighty to change the Cabinet. Rather, I realized that there were no economic reasons, and there was a political desire to have our chairs in that bed. If there are voices, please sit down. The fact that you do not have a world view and an economic doctrine is now understood by the whole country. And to the end. Of course, we will want the work of the Cabinet to improve and, of course, the position of “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense”, the position of the President should be strictly taken into account. But we will do everything we can to ensure that the government continues its activities. And I want to say that now all nine parties that have formed the “Our Ukraine – the People's Self-Defense” bloc will vote against the resignation of the government. And this is our final decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u114	Dear colleagues, pay attention! We must now proceed to the voting procedure on this issue under the Rules. The first thing I'd like to do is start. I object to simplifying the situation in this room, to what we have talked about. An extremely responsible decision will now be made. And this is the very responsible decision of the Ukrainian Parliament. In that case, if the Resolution of Distrust finds the support of the Ukrainian people's deputies, the full responsibility for executive power rests with the Ukrainian Parliament. Moreover, under such conditions under article 90 of the Constitution, a government must be formed within 60 days. In that case, if such a government is not formed within 60 days, the President of Ukraine has the right to dissolve Parliament. So the point is that we are now taking full responsibility for what is going to happen in the country by this vote. The other one. I'm going to go back to the one I said to you in this room on Tuesday this week. It would be perfectly clear if there was a new coalition, a new cabinet of ministers formed for the vote, and so there is an understanding of the flow of power and the transition from one authority to another, there is no such thing. I have no right not to put this question to a vote, I have an obligation to put it, and it has been done. But I believe that the question of government responsibility in today’s conditions is nothing more than political irresponsibility. And the last. I fully and fully support the need for a serious conversation in the country, but we have made it difficult for this country to talk. The country needs serious action, not conversation. That's why I'm asking you, your honor, to pay attention. Now, by the voting procedure. Very careful with the voting procedure, colleagues. We have agreed that the voting procedure will not change and will be carried out by cards, i.e. by national deputies personally through the electronic system of the Council. The question of responsibility of the Cabinet of Ministers is exclusively a political issue. So I immediately warn you that if the question of voting on this issue is raised, I will not vote on it. This is a political issue that cannot be re-voted, the Rules provide for a vote only in the event of a breach of procedure. Attention, colleagues. So I ask everyone to prepare for the voting procedure on this issue. Anna Mikolayevna, please, can I have no motive? Please. Turn on Honey Herman's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u115	Arsenius Petrovich, you forgot to say only one thing that those who do not vote today for lack of confidence in government take full responsibility for what is happening and will take place in the fall.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u116	Dear colleagues, pay attention. So it's being announced now. Please prepare for the voting procedure. First of all, we have a mistrust decree for the Cabinet of Ministers. I've asked the legislators to change the name of the "Solution of Disbelief" so as not to create a legal precedent. Is this position supported? Subjects of the legislative initiative. Lavrinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u117	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! In accordance with article 87 of the Constitution of Ukraine, we offered to consider the responsibility of the Cabinet of Ministers. That is the question that is now being considered. Once the question of the responsibility of the Cabinet of Ministers has been concluded, the draft Regulation, which provides for the adoption of the Resolution of Disbelief, shall be voted upon in accordance with the draft. From a legal point of view, this project is perfectly accurate, as the Basic Law of our State requires. So I ask you to put it to a vote, so it's clear who made this proposal, who supported it, and who supports the current Cabinet of Ministers, is the right course and is responsible for this political course.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u118	Dear colleagues, I remind you once again, I immediately inform you, Alexander Volodymyrovich, that the resolution has been voted on once in this room. You know it's Kabmin Yushchenka's Resolution, which was called a resolution, so get ready to see that, if it's accepted, there's a basis for recognizing the unconstitutionality of this act, because it's not a resolution of mistrust, it's a determination, as required by the 87th Constitution. I ask you to stop this discussion. The kind of resolution we've passed, we'll vote for it. Dear colleagues, pay attention! There is a vote on the responsibility of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, whose resolution is the adoption of the Resolution on Distrust of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Attention! I declare a vote. Vote. [[15:19:05]] For-174 So, dear friends? Show by factions. Dear colleagues, it is very important that today, in fact, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has confirmed its vote of confidence, so that, Julia Volodymyrna, the responsibility remains with you. And we're taking a 30-minute break and we're meeting for the next issue of agenda. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u119	Please register. Although we didn't actually close the morning session, just in case we didn't ask questions. [[16:12:02]] 244 national deputies registered in the hall. Dear colleagues, we continue the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Honourable Ukrainian National Deputies, the following issue of the agenda is announced: the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for 2008 and amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts. First of all, I would like to begin with what I have received from two statements: from Anatolia Kirilovich Kinaha and from colleague Pecklusenko, that in voting for the Resolution of Distrust of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, two Ukrainian national deputies said they voted in favour of this resolution, but for some technical reasons, the monitor showed quite different figures. This does not affect the results of the vote, but I can tell you once again that the two national deputies -- Kinakh and Pecklusenko -- clearly pointed out the position where they supported the full position of the faction of the Party of the Regions in this matter. As far as Bills 2713 and 2713-1 are concerned. So we have two bills under consideration: the first is a bill introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and the second is an alternative bill introduced by the President of Ukraine. I'd like to take down any political and legal speculation right now. In accordance with the 2001 Constitutional Court ruling, the President of Ukraine has been empowered to amend and supplement the State Budget Act. Only one rule, namely the Constitution of Ukraine and the Budget Code, provides for the right of the Cabinet of Ministers to introduce the law itself, and amendments and additions to the law may be made by the President of Ukraine. So I ask you to stop speculation, and once again I repeat: the President took advantage of the constitutional powers -- and put into Parliament an appropriate draft law. This is his constitutional right. So today we're looking at two bills, but I know that when we look at the mass of President's proposals on the committee, the left-hand side has already been included in the corresponding Cabinet project. I think from this point of view we will be informed by both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance and the Head of the Budget Committee. So I'm announcing bill 2713. Julia Volodymyrna, do you report the bill? I invite Prime Minister Timoshenko Yulia Volodymirovna to the rostrum for a report on this bill. And the rules, dear friends, the ones we're supposed to have in general are the decisions of both the budget committee and, in fact, the 20 minutes for the report and the one submitted by the budget committee. Please, Julia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to thank all the people's deputies who, by their non-vote, have given the opportunity to work peacefully in the country and, in practice, not to return Parliament to the crisis and to the next consecutive election. I think what happened to the voting gives us the opportunity to find compromises, to seek out those bills that unite but do not disunite. And I think that the budget law is one of those documents where you can concentrate on accepting those changes and additions that concentrate on supporting the interests of those who presided today for all of our political teams. And first of all, I'd like to stop at the fact that the government has managed to raise the budget's income by 32.2 billion dollars a year in six months' work. This means that we have with you today an additional resource that the government has gathered, but to distribute this resource, this is certainly the case of the Supreme Council, the National Deputies, to find out where the priorities are, and where, indeed, what might be waiting for more. Thirty-two and two billion, what accounted for their collection? The first is economic growth, 13.4 billion is related to GDP growth, the growth rate of all sectors in the economy, and also the detonation of the tax system. Second, it's the local budgets of 6.8 billion to keep them at home without any redistribution. And Operation Contrabanda Stop, which, compared to last year, has given us 12 billion extra growth, and that tells us that we really have something to give to people today. The revenue dynamics of the budget, to make it clear that this isn't a regular figure, and this is really a kind of financial breakthrough that we're seeing today. If you look at the table on the screen that tells us how much of the budget's revenue went up compared to the previous year, you'll see that 2008 gives the highest level of income growth in terms of 2007 -- 39.4 percent -- that's exactly what the extra money is. I'd like to show you once again, literally, in a sense, those slides that relate to the growth of gross domestic product, and I think that when GDP is falling, practically, in most parts of the country, at the expense of the energy and financial crisis, we still continue to grow with you as a country at the level and rate of growth in gross domestic product. I'm saying once again that economic growth is based on four-fold foreign direct investment. And if we look at slide nine now, you'll see that by 12 billion dollars we actually have an increase in the revenue of the budget, that's why the DPA, we've significantly reduced the tax evasion, we've substantially reduced the shadow in the tax system and we have this increase. At the same time, we increased customs revenue by 87.8 percent only half a year. It's a real customs value, it's a lack of smuggling in many places, although smuggling is still, I'm sure it's still in some amount. But in addition, if you collect everything that's being done at the customs office today, you add 20.3 billion dollars to the budget. Going back now to the macroeconomic indicators that we've reviewed. The gross domestic product we had was 889.4 billion, now we're giving a precise forecast of 959.2 billion. Consumer price index, i.e. inflation index. It's extremely difficult, but we're going to have to look at it. The fact that it wasn't reviewed in time last year means that people just didn't get the minimum level of living that needs to be adjusted for inflation. Now there's a dispute over the inflation rate. I'd like to put a little bit more detail on the table right now, if you'll excuse me, where inflation is concerned, on the table today that describes the consumer price index in 2008 so that we can talk about it. It's 17 tables and immediately it's 18. You can see that the forecast that we're making today is taking full account of those inflationary processes that unfortunately took place at the beginning of the year precisely because there was a very high inflationary base last year due to the financial crisis that covered today's global financial markets and because we have a double price increase in oil today. But the prognosis that you see on the screen tells us that we've been getting lower inflation since June than we did in the previous year a month. And we're still going to step by step on the 15.9. By the way, the budget changes made by the President are also based on annual inflation -- 15.9. So this is where we agreed on this. But at the same time, I'd like to show you right now, and I promised you that, at the same time, the parameters of June months left inflation. This is primarily chicken meat, and in every other position we do not see inflation. If you look at Table No.23, where there are consumer price indices for bird meat, you will see that virtually all over the country the monopolies keep the price dynamics of the bird’s meat increase, and this brings the whole other meat market to the bird’s meat. I think we have now taken all the necessary steps. We asked the largest monopolist to examine all these things, look at his economic indicators, look at the profitability of his business and make certain conclusions. If you look at Table 24 “Medium-cut prices for bird meat in certain countries of the world”, you will see that Ukraine has 26 percent higher prices for bird meat than in Poland and 1.6 times higher than in China. This is about the fact that, with such incomes, our citizens ’ limitations today, we are practically offering them a bird’s meat at a price higher than in Poland. You can't do that. Even if there are monopoly markets. And I'd like to ask Parliament to still approve the leadership of the Antimonopoly Committee, and have the opportunity, not to have a job there, but to have a working person. In addition, in the June months we see another component of inflation, it's housing tariffs, and it's water tariffs. If you look at tables 25, 26, and 27, you will see that just five areas have raised our rent, which is what local councils do. Poltava raised the cost of the apartment’s salary one and a half times, without improving the quality of services. For example, water supply. The Donetsk and Lugansk region have increased the price of water radically. We have the Lugansk region by 165 percent increased the water tariffs, the Donetsk region by 131. And this is saying that this is what the components of inflation are because the tariff on the sewerage of Lugansk area has doubled, it's all going to be inflationary. But this has nothing to do with national inflation processes. And to understand that, please show me slide 22, where you'll see how inflation looks different in different areas today. And it's about today that there is a normal, stable situation at macroeconomic level, but in some areas, there is still a continuing disregard for their rights regarding the impact on prices and pricing within the framework of the Prices and Prices Act. Look at the areas, we have six areas of deflation, which means that the Sumska region, Odessa region, the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Zakarpatska region, Chernivetska, Mikolaiivska have deflationary processes. And that tells us that if others organized our work like that, we wouldn't have any inflation at all. At the same time, Kirovogradska, Ternopilska, Sevastopol, Vinnitska, Ravenska, Hersonska, Cerkaske, Dnipropetrovska, Zaporziska, Kharkivska and Chernigivska have much lower inflation than the average in Ukraine. This means that they are also practically in the way of deflationing their processes. And only five areas that give us just a radically negative result, this is the Poltav region, the city of Kiev, the Kyiv region, Lugansk, Hmelnicka, Donetska and Ivano-Frankowska, and I have called these areas, which, unfortunately, we have today those inflation processes that have no economic justification. I think that the inflation rate that we've just proposed is definitely the one that's justified. Now, dear colleagues, I'd like you and I to take a look at the table that relates to the allocation of additional resources. This is an important table because the government is now accused of populism policy, because there are no development costs, because, for example, we're only pushing social costs. But please look at the picture that you can understand on the 28th slide right now. We leave an additional resource of 31.9 billion, one third of them practically, 10 billion of them on local budgets for their needs, and even overturning local taxes, as has always been done in all governments, rather than redistributing them on the basis of formulas, we leave them in local budgets so that they can be used for their needs. In the State budget, 9.7 billion goes to development expenditure, that's almost a third, and we support all the investment programmes that need to be supported in the budget, and consumption costs go to one third, hopefully 12.2 billion. So in fact, the balance between development expenditure and social expenditure, expenditure on regional needs is much better than the budget structure of all previous years. That is why we are improving the development cost by making these changes. Next thing I'd like to tell you, consumption and development patterns in the State budget look like this, when we talk about development spending, in 2008, by 2007, they're increasing by 43.8 percent, and spending on consumption, practically social spending, by 9.9 percent. So the balance is very and very scrupulous. Now as we increase the resources of the local budgets for 2008. First of all, 6.6 billion is an increase in basic macroeconomic indicators that leads to an increase in the income of local budgets and we leave them at the local level. There's been an increase in the subsidies for socio-economic development in all areas, in addition to what we have, by 400 million. Now we're doing a program that wasn't done in Ukraine's budget in previous years. We have seen that small cities have virtually no additional resources today. And we're adding a special subsidy to the socio-economic development of district cities and district centers by $1 billion. And we're going to distribute them in proportion to the number of people who live in these areas in these small cities. In addition, there has been an increase in the numbers of the congregation from owners of vehicles and other motor vehicles and the mechanism – always 50 by 50 took on public roads and utility roads. [[I'm asking you to pay attention here.]] Now we're putting a hundred percent of the transport community in these budgets on the roads of utility, which is important for virtually all cities today in villages and villages. Next. For local budgets. Today, we predict for the first time in years that a hundred percent of the congregation for environmental pollution remains in the regions. And it doesn't go up like it did 50 times 50 in government and local budgets. This means that the fight for ecology will take place where environmental pollution occurs. It's also an extra expense that we're making at the local level. Subsidy for the construction of roads of municipal property has been restored, including those involved in the preparation of the Euro-2012. We're adding half a billion to those cities to build roads that are actually going to be adopted by the Euro-2012. This is certainly a serious and fundamental development. In addition, we are also giving Euro-2012 subsidies not only for roads, but for all the additional needs, for 250 million dollars. And the last. Other subsidies have been increased to regions at the request of factions, deputies, at the request of all those representing the area today for 693 million dollars. I can tell you that if you compare transfers from the state budget to local budgets, transfers are a set of targets. So if we compare 2007 fact and 2008 to change, we're going to have 42 percent more transfers to local budgets than we did in 2007. This suggests a substantial increase in regional policy, which must lead to a more stable life in Ukraine. The incomes of the local general budget fund, I say again, are still running out of redundancies, which have always been and have been made after local budgets have collected more local taxes, everything remains in place. That's about what we have with you for the regional budgets. Now here's the question. These are expenses for the preparation and implementation of the Euro-2012 preparations and arrangements. The key national programme for Ukraine de Ukraine is obliged to show such a high level of preparation and implementation of the Euro, only on which we are capable. Because this will give our citizens additional confidence, and infrastructure will enable them to build that wasn't built. Overall, in the Euro-2012, we're giving $1 billion 128 million extra money, and it's not just development costs, it's the fundamental cost of infrastructure development. Next. Increasing the investment component of local budgets. All together, 1 billion 918 million is certainly a breakthrough in the regional budget system. One more. You know, we have big cities, Dnipropetrovsk, Donetsk, Kharkiv, we have a huge underfunding for the development of the metropolis, and in some areas, Dnipropetrovsk and Donetsk, in one they can't even complete the construction of the metropolis, and in another they can't even start. And that's why we want to make our regional breakthrough in this direction. And we're giving government guarantees in a sufficient amount of a billion 225 million dollars for subway development: Dnipropetrovsk, Donetsk, Kharkiv. Why? But certainly in order to allow people to move normally, to provide transportation normally, and the money that we predict, a billion 225 million dollars, God forbid that Dnipropetrovska, Donetska and Kharkiv region will be able to conquer at all. Instead of talking about the lack of money, the question will be that they will be able to adopt them and give them to their metropolises, which many citizens of these areas are awaiting today. As far as the roads are concerned. We were asked a question in Mikola Janović’s speech, and how do you put money on the road? I can tell you how. First, even in the budget that we have today without change, there are eleven percent more cars on the road. But at the same time, this is certainly not enough. You know that many countries of the world have gone up economically, have achieved their prosperity, starting to build large-scale roads, both transit highways and roads of local importance. And that's why we're proposing not just to increase, but to radically change the policy of investing money in road construction. And that's why what we're proposing is not just based on increasing budget direct expenditure, but we're still offering 24.3 billion, that's exactly what it takes to make a hole in the construction of the road, to engage under state guarantees and build it on a public-private partnership, that's the model that the whole world uses. But now these changes to the budget will allow you to see the bridge crossings where they are planned and not built, and transit highways that enable Ukraine to become the most powerful transit corridor. And that's why we're increasing the total cost, everything that's involved in building cars so much that it's already being measured, not just by a few percent: 24.3 billion plus right now and plus 11 percent of the total budget expenditure. Now the question that concerns the agrarians and the agrarians of all our problems. I'm going to say that already in that budget that we approved for 2008, 37 percent more than in 2007 for the agrarian complex. That's why we work with agrarians today and have a much better result. And in fact, thanks to agriculture, the weather is that the government has increased its agrarian spending by 37 percent, we expect twice as many grain crops. It's not just a breakthrough, it's an absolute record. In Soviet times, if such a harvest is to be gathered, the stars have spread to all the leaders of Ukraine. We are doing this now in an independent Ukraine and in a larger extent than this. Knocked just in case. The weather, God forbid it'll do any good. But I think Ukraine is going to be a high country, but that's not our price. By the way, Mr. Dentist was speaking, when we were collecting agrarians and preparing changes and additions to the budget, I say that he said that, according to all predictions, Ukraine is capable of bringing up to 60-70 million grains in the right policy, not this year, I just want to say that you don't think, but in the next few years it's possible. The maximum that the Soviet Union was collecting, we mean in Ukraine, is up to 50 million. Dear friends, I also want to tell you that we are fundamentally changing the policy of purchasing grains for government money today, because we are running out of resources in this crop. And that's why, at the suggestion of the deputies and the Ministry of Profiles, we're increasing the expenditure of the general budget by a billion 118 million because it was costing the past budget at the expense of the special fund. Now we're transferring to the general fund. This is the guaranteed money that will bring us an absolute result. What's the result? Now we're going to buy grain into the peasants, into the agrarians, and we're not going to let the traders destroy the price policy. I am especially asking for the faction of Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvin. There are agrarians and people who understand this situation. I'm asking you, if we all want good agrarians, I ask you to vote for this budget, and tomorrow after the budget is signed, we'll start with the agrarian fund to buy grain at the prices we agree with you so that really for peasants it's not a cost-effective operation. As for the expenditure on credit on the production of the General Fund of the State Budget for agricultural purposes. We can now say that we're definitely going to support the loans with interest costs, and we're going to allocate another half billion dollars to save interest, and to allow us to actually engage in loans to agrarians. Individually, we're completely changing animal policies, completely. How do we change it? We predicted that 100 percent of the cost of developing large-scale livestock production would be charged to the budget, 100 percent. In addition, we have direct support for those who will be involved in animal production. In addition, you and I have reduced the weight of cattle from 390 pounds [390 kg] of air - conditioned weight to 330 pounds [330 kg]. This is about what the government could do: direct expenditure on livestock, credit will be worthless, because it will pay off the budget, and plus the customs policy, everything will be directed at developing its own animal production, and we will have enough of our own production. I think that everything about the aarrage complex, I think we're going to increase once again today by the same 30 percent of the costs for agrarian entrepreneurship. Coal sector. The coal industry -- I told you a little bit about the government report. I see that now, as a minimum, Victor Ivanovich Turmanov is sitting in this room, this is the person who runs the coal industry, Volinec Mikhailo Yakovic, who represents independent unions. And we have with you today exactly the only position to raise the carbon field. We don't have enough oil or gas. For 400 or 500 years, we're provided with coal. We need not just a Ukrainian breakthrough in this direction, but to raise the field as we need to. And that's why we're increasing the cost of the coal sector in this budget by 2 times. Two times! This has never been done. And this means that 3.1 billion of us are investing only in credit policies, through sovereign guarantees of the state, and this will enable us to raise mines, raise mergers. We're taking interest on these loans to the budget, and today we've planned all of the loan costs, we're taking loans in the coal sector into the budget and we've also set up the necessary costs for the safety of miners. I think a budget like this, at least, I know that the Communist faction wanted to see it, and the Party of Regions wanted to see it, because it's practically a new life for the industry. It's an airtight sector. We increase expenses, including a sovereign guarantee if we take 4.7 times. Well. I can tell you that our planes are waiting all over the world. Our NI is a unique phenomenon in aircraft construction. What are we doing? We're not doing anything. We've bankrupted the industry, we've destroyed the factories, and now we have a chance to give them enough money to make all the necessary calculations with other countries on the supply of planes. One and a half billion dollars of damage in the aviation sector today is because the money was spent in offshore areas. Now we need to change the situation. The aviation sector has support. The shipbuilding industry. Here I ask, let me take a break for a second: 25.2 times the cost we plan, taking into account the inclusion of loans and taking into account state guarantees. And you and I will be able to use those shipbuilding plants that are still in state property to enable them to carry out the orders they have. But they can't take credit because they're corrupt, and the orders are all, you know, executed. The production cycle is very long. And our guarantees will allow us to further increase our production in the shipbuilding sector. Department of Defense. The government's orders, the contractor's fees, the money, the food, the utilities, they're changing everything in the direction of the increase. But while we're going to pay more to contractors, at the same time, if we have 8 billion 179 million for the Ministry of Defense now, given the defense order, we're going to have 12 billion 138 million. This is what we're talking about, once we've increased by 22 percent in 2008 and the second time we've increased by 21 percent, now that we're clarifying. I want to remind you, the distinguished Party of Regions, all the factions of the Democratic Coalition, the faction of the Communist Party, what the defense order is. These are virtually all defence companies: Kharkiv enterprises, Kyiv enterprises. And I think we are now obliged to give them this money, and the money is substantial enough. 5.8 times the cost of space. And we can also be proud of the fact that not only do we have fundamental additional funding for such development costs. In addition, total expenditure on culture is 72.4 percent. In principle, we need to start from spirituality, from culture, from the inspiration of our people, and that's why we're increasing the expenditure on culture in 2007 2.9 was, we're giving 5 billion. And that means that by 72.4 percent of our culture we support more than we did last year. I can only say. The money for the development of Ukrainian is 2.9 times, for the development of national film is 2.4 times. Costs that relate to bookkeeping, otherwise, all of this will be fully supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u121	Julia Volodymyrna, we need a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u122	I need five more minutes. Okay? So now it's about lending housing, affordable housing for Ukrainian citizens. You know that we all had an obligation to make a program so that people could have access to housing. How did we want to build this program? First of all, of course, the cost of all the components of self-sustainability that are ineffective, and second of all, mortgage lending is mortgage lending when people could take a 25-30-year interest rate loan that is 2-4 at the level of world standards. Now with this change in the budget, we're starting this program. How do we start it? We're increasing, first of all, the direct cost of affordable housing. Secondly, two state banks are Savings Bank and Ukreximbank, and we increase them 400 million dollars by statutory capital. Why? Because they only get it under the affordable housing program for mortgage lending. So if we put together a government mortgage, two state banks by increasing capitalization, increasing statutory capital, we're going to have a multiplicative effect by involving money from all of the total sources of mortgage lending for people, and that kind of lending that I said. We can go into banks if we make this statutory capital and we make an additional mortgage facility, we can increase it by 6-7 and sometimes 10 times the amount of financial resources involved than the principal capital. What does this talk about? That we're going to spread the boundaries and let you borrow up to 13.5 billion dollars today for that purpose. God forbid we can adopt them by the end of the year and lend them to people. This requires budget changes. I can say in a nutshell that we are certainly increasing the subsistence minimum by 2008. The 58th slide is plus 24.5 percent, the 2008 change, the one we're about to vote by 2007 is 24.5 percent increase in living minimum. Minimum wage. If we do what we do, within the budget, by 17.5 percent. But what I'd like to say on salary is that we all promised you, I don't know any party that would promise no budget, no education, no medical staff, no scientists, no cultural workers -- we all promised an increase in wages. The adoption of this budget allows for the transition from first September to a single tariff network for all budget holders and a substantial increase in wages. I can say that if we take this budget, in 2008, compared to 2007 for budgeters as a whole in the year, we're going to raise 40.6 percent of the salary. I think that people are expecting this kind of decision from us, and to vote on this budget is to carry out each party's responsibilities and obligations. Average monthly salaries for military personnel on a contract basis. We had 970 in 2008. 1780 dollars. Those proposals that you now have, for military contractors, we're going to add an average of 925 dollars and we're going to have the average monthly payments -- 2010-2590 dollars. In principle, there is at least some support for the contractual army. With regard to the size of the average monthly payments made by military personnel, members of the military and the chief of staff, financial security, and free nutrition. With these changes to the budget, the average increase per person is 492 bracelets. From 1853, the average is 2,345. Increases in pensions. Minimum retirement age, it's important. If we make a decision with you right now, the average pension payment at the end of the year will increase 1.5 times compared to the end of last year. So if we want our pensioners to feel the changes, this budget needs to be adopted, and from July 1st, if the budget is accepted, the pensioners will get a 13 percent higher pension. And if we don't accept the budget change, from July 1st, as always, the politicians won't get anything. And our policy will lead not only to an increase in the average pension by 1.5 times a year and a change in the budget, but also to a decrease in the level of pension payments. We're completely differentiated today depending on our internship, on our average wage, and it's going on. And that's why the factions that left the hall now practically agreed that the middle one's pension would be much lower than it could be from today. What I'd like to say next. We're making a bigger program for people with limited physical capabilities. We make ten programs for them. And we're going to increase by this minute, if we take changes to the budget, the cost to people with limited physical capacity from the end of last year to the end of 2008 by almost 50 percent, that is, one and a half times. It's also a disability pension, it's also a rehabilitation system, it's also a recovery system, it's a learning system, it's all about their lives. I think that the material I gave you gives you a sense of what you and I can do for the disabled today. And the last thing I want to say on social issues is savings. All parties promised to pay their savings. By voting on the 2008 budget, nearly 6 million people received their thousands of dollars. Unfortunately, the inflation that's left over for us would, unfortunately, be the same, given the world's trends and the legacy of the previous year, but we gave people the opportunity to get this thousand. And in order to end the payments to thousands of people, we need another billion 400 that we put in this budget. Now, the question that's very important. This is the dynamics of the government debt of Ukraine. So what I want to say is, the last message that I want you to know that all the programs that you've just heard, all the programs that involve extra money from both the internal market and from the outside definitely don't increase the dynamics of government debt, on the other hand, decrease the percentage of gross domestic product. Government debt dynamics. If you see, in 2000, this government debt, as a percentage of GDP, was 45.3 percent. Now in 2008, we're going to cut by 3.5 percent more than last year's, and we're going to pay 9 percent of the government's debt in terms of GDP. This is certainly a very, very strong step that allows us to make investment costs, but government debt remains very low. In order to be able to compare, please see what the percentage of government debt in other countries looks like in terms of GDP. Italy is 100 percent of government debt, as much as GDP. Japan is 90.8 percent, France is 54.3. I won't say for long, but Ukraine has the best score today. And that's why I think that all the steps we're taking are done without increasing the debts of previous generations and reducing those debts. Besides, we leave the same budget deficit as GDP as a percentage of GDP, we don't increase it. Because we don't have the right to increase the budget deficit because it ensures financial stability and reduces all inflationary processes and all inflationary burdens. [[% of GDP]] In summary, I can say that I am personally, and I am convinced that each of the factions' leaders has these kinds of references from all over the country: from agrarians, from shipbuilders, from aircraft builders, from miners, from pensioners, from all people, from local mayors, from the association of cities, who are asked to vote for this budget, because it gives a sip of air to the country, and it ensures the commitments we have made all together in front of the country to improve the quality of life of the country and people. This is certainly a real breakthrough, but it's up to Parliament to support it, because the government can't accept the budgets itself. All we can do is raise money, offer politics, and benefit from it. I believe very much that, given all the factions' proposals, taking into account the President's proposals, and I want to say that all the proposals we've received have been taken into account. And plus we're still going to count that plate that we got from the faction at the last minute and from the President. It's all for that. And so I ask people's deputies, all factions, all leaders to vote together for this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u123	Thank you. Colleagues are recorded, there are still questions of the answer. I suggest you answer the question to the Minister of Finance, no objection? Do you insist on the Prime Minister? Ten minutes, Prime Minister. Whatever the Communist Party says, we'll do it, you know. Alexander Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u124	Anatolia Matvienka, please pass on the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u125	Anatoly Matvienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u126	Ukrainian Republican Party Council. “Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense Block”. Julia Volodymyrna, I'd like you to say more clearly, because we have a project put forward by the President, do we understand that the reconciliation of these positions is going to be an effective vote today, because you've suggested something like that, but I don't understand it. Secondly, I agree with the government and our coalition's desire to make the budget better, but I cannot agree with some of your optimistic political notes. First, according to the local budget, there's actually a gesture of respect for local budgets, but it's a mess. Let's say the administrative and territorial reform that's necessary to decentralize power, I think, takes about 7 to 8 billion. Do we understand that we have this number in front of us if we really want democracy and real local self-government? What we're betting, even the 10 billion, is to eat, not eat.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u127	You know, I want to emphasize once again that when the budget committee was working yesterday, and when we got the changes and additions to the budget from the President, we tried everything we could from the presidential proposals to take into account this budget. And besides, we still have a few more proposals to make right now for the minister of finance and we're going to vote. If there is a Communist Party, in the “Block of Lithuania”, in the Party of Regions, if there is a remark, we are certainly having a more detailed discussion to take these comments into account. As far as administrative and territorial reform is concerned, you know how many years we can't approach this issue, but we need to do it, including changing inter-budget relations. But at the same time, we need to first accept all the concepts, all the documents, how to change which inter-budget relations to build, how to make this administrative reform. We would like to offer you such a concept to the entire Parliament for discussion. And if our entire parliament -- 450 people -- does this administrative-territorial reform together with the reform of inter-budget relations for the benefit of local budgets -- think that this Parliament will carry out its historic mission, because this is question number one. I completely share it, and I agree.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u128	Roman Zabzaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u129	Undoubtedly, the proposed changes to the budget are unique changes that allow us to move towards, in fact, the “Ukrainian breakthrough”. That's why it needs to be supported, and I'm giving Taran the word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u130	Eugene Kirilchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u131	Dear Julia Volodymyrna! The previous government has left the economic ruin, but I still feel that it has left a spiritual ruin. And then the state is strong if it is based on national spirituality. And that's why I personally believe that, just as we do in the economy, you're making a breakthrough. Similarly, it seems to me that there must be a spiritual breakthrough in some state-wide program of Ukrainian rebirth that, say, identified us as a spiritual nation in a globalized world. That is, a program of Ukrainian spiritual rebirth is needed to accumulate both books and Ukrainian movies and to make it a legislative initiative.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u132	Everything about right politics in the sphere of spirituality and culture. I think we have a wonderful team today: there is a minister of culture, there is a democratic coalition, there is a whole parliament that is certainly looking forward to the spiritual development of our people. And I think what we're doing right now is we're proposing this kind of cultural rebirth program and spiritual rebirth. And we're supporting it with spending in the budget almost 72 percent more than we did in the previous year. This applies to both movies, and books, and languages, and just about everything that can be done to improve this year’s policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u133	Eugene Kirilchuk
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u134	Thank you. Eugene Kirilchuk, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. Dear Julia Volodymyrna! I have two questions for you, more precisely, one question, one suggestion. In order for this bill to become law and work hard, there are still a number of other bills that need to be adopted by the Supreme Council as a matter of urgency. Which one of these do you think is the most important? That's the first question. And the second. We were approached yesterday by the Defense Department's profile committee, and one day we were at a committee meeting, and he was going through a lot of trouble, and we missed their offer. They have to add a little bit of funding to military intelligence, because they don't have enough money to level up their positions with all the military. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u135	I think that on the budget committee and, in fact, the minister of finance will be standing here in the rostrum right now, you can accept, vote and put your proposals into the budget within the balance sheet. The important thing is that we don't get off balance. With regard to additional laws, 173 bills were submitted by the government to the Supreme Council. 173. And we would very much like to see them. But at the same time, in order to ensure now, including the budget balance, we propose to take one step of goodwill and, together with the budget, to vote on the law on increasing excise duties on tobacco and tobacco products. Three times our excises on tobacco in Ukraine are lower than in the whole world. Three times! And that's going to make it possible to add a billion hundred to the budget right now -- that's just this law. This law is going to be combined with the budget right now, and you're going to be offered to take all your proposals into account. Really.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u136	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u137	Even without the budget now being made, the country had long had to begin to increase the rate of excise duties on tobacco. Now we're doing, if we take the first step with you, I think the whole world is going to welcome this decision and, of course, the whole country.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u138	Grandma.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u139	Maybe.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u140	Please pass the word to Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u141	Ivan Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u142	Dear Julia Volodymyrna, I want you to make it clear to all the halls, to all those who listen to us and see whether the government has the right in the event of non-adopted changes to the State Budget Act, to regulate financial relations with the regions, with the industries, and so on. Why am I asking that question?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u143	No, it doesn't.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u144	If God does not give, it will not be voted on, we will put the village, not on our knees, but on four bones. We can't afford not to give a penny to the Agrarian Fund, not to waste credit, not to give grants, not to give anything. I would ask that you go back to the agrarians who are present in the hall, the agrarians from the hall, not from the regions, not from the communists, not from the Block of Lithuania. Please, please, that we will not be able to do anything later, and we will be powerless to help the village, powerless.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u145	I want to confirm that unless the budget changes are now accepted, there is absolutely nothing that the government can financially manage outside the budget. No expenditure on pensions or wages, no agrarians, no shipbuilders, no local budgets, we can't do anything. And so, of course, 177 billion offered us proposals. We can only count 32.2. We can't count everything, but what we're doing is a huge step forward, and that means that every voice that is now going to be budgeted will be devoted for every person in Ukraine and not just for the agrarians, but for every person, for the miner, for the agrarian, for the teacher, for the doctor, for every person. We just need to realize that this can happen now.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u146	Arzhevtine Stanislav.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u147	Julia Volodymyrna, today's good day at the Cabinet of Ministers, you have yourself, let's make this a happy day for many customers of the banking system and take down the commission that's in the budget. Commissions that are made in cash-free sales-purchase transactions, currency sales. This proposal was supported by our banking committee. It would be very good if we finally removed this provisional standard, which is promised in the fourth budget, that it will be cancelled.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u148	You know, I think there's a budget balance. This budget balance provides for certain incomes and certain expenses. Now if we start to tax the entire model, we just don't know where the deficits are. But I think your offer might be taken into account? It's gone, we're going to form the government's mandate now, and we can make this change individually after we count it, we're going to consult you, we're going to introduce you, knowing which compensators we're adding. I think when the minister of finance is in the rostrum, he'll tell us more how we can do it. But you're right, we've been going on for four years, we haven't done that yet, but we're going to be able to discuss this with a separate bill of amendments and additions. Okay?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u149	Oleg Lukashuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u150	Dear Julia Volodymyrna, I don't remember in years of independence, in 17 years of independence, that at least one government would increase the budget by at least a few million dollars during the budget year? This was done in your previous office by 70 percent, and it's done today by 300 billion. Please tell me, is all the reserves in use? Is much of our economy still in the shadows and what is done to bring to light the part of the economy that does not pay taxes in full? And I want you to want us to get together in a few months and distribute the extra funds that your government has invented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u151	I can tell you that maybe these 32.2 billion dollars that we've further found are just a small percentage of the resources that have to be removed from the shadow in real terms. And we're continuing this process. And I don't think it's ruled out that we're still in this year, if we get any more resources, we're going to come back to you people's deputies to distribute another 30 billion. God forbid it's like that. But colossal are still resources to fight smuggling, colossal resources to tax evasion, and economic growth also has potential.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u152	Dear colleagues, time for questioning is over. That's how it's written. You won't deny it, two more questions are from the Lithuanian Block. Our colleague Popov and the Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u153	We already answered Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u154	One question at a time. No objections? Let the factions, one question from the factions, determine. Now you don't know who's in opposition, who's in the coalition. It's all mixed up. Dear colleagues, I ask "Block of Lithuania", our colleague to give his word, then the Party of Regions, then the Communist Party will determine who. Give the Zarubinski Oleg a word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u155	Thank you, Arsenia Petrovich. Dear Julia Volodymyrna, I have a serious enough question, I think, a promising question. This draft budget changes again to other laws, you know this, with serious laws: “For economic societies”, “On taxes from owners of transport assets”, “On taxes on added value”, and the whole range. You know very well as an economist, as a financier, that you can't do that, and in principle, there's already a decision by not one Constitutional Court that can't be amended, stopped or amended by the Law on Budgets. Please tell me, is there a need for looting not to take the legislative initiatives that you want to pass into a separate law, which will be called “the draft law on amending certain laws in connection with the adoption of the budget”? This is one moment. And second of all, I think it's important. There's a lot of good words here about the village, but the village isn't just people who work in the field. What is the purpose of eliminating the cost of $1 billion for rural budget housing?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u156	First of all, they're not getting rid of. Just like it was in the special fund, that's all that's left. There's no extermination. I think you'll literally go through the finance minister with the budget per line. That's the first one. That's where everything stays. And secondly, I fully agree with you that if we now vote on balance, I'm convinced that we can draft it with a separate bill, as you say. Your offer will be taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u157	Colleagues, from the faction of the Party of Regions or Popov, or Gretzak, or Konovaluk. Identify who the elder is. The first one was raised by Popov’s colleague. Turn Popova on.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u158	Thank you. Dear Yulia Vladimirovna, you spoke in your statement about almost all sectors and said that you were making additional appropriations, but again you did not say anything about housing and utilities. I'll get the numbers. By the end of the year, you know, the price of energy for utilities is going to be about 30 percent. I won't go into the details, but you know it. So the actual tariffs will be raised somewhere between 20 and 25 per cent by the end of the year. But in the same situation, it's the right thing to invest in energy savings. Well, why in the housing and utility system this year, well, I'd say it's just a neglectful attitude with regard to energy savings, utilities. Let's correct that mistake. That's not right. We will put the population before the fact that they will not be able to count for public services and thus provoke them.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u159	You know, the problem is that we have a difference in gas prices, for example, where the thermocommunerge needs to be priced in full. That's why we have to support the housing system, including through decent prices. Right? And now we're in the budget just for these things another half-billion dollars to give them to the thermal utility, and so that they can spend them, including the reconstruction, the modernization, which will, as you said correctly, lead to some energy conservation issues. In addition, we also allocate additional money in this budget to the Drinking Water programme, which is also related to the housing and utility system, to the provision of water to people and, in addition, we have special subsidies in the housing and utility budget, which we will also pay in full. There's half a billion there, too. I can tell you that if we compare the past and this budget, we're making a substantial, substantial allowance for housing. I think it's separate.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u160	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u161	Apart from housing, while you're in the hall, and I thank you for staying in the hall, I think we can give you the numbers in each row and give you a comparison. That's why we're here, you're here -- we can still give you these numbers. It's actually increasing in terms.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u162	The Communist Party of Ukraine. Samolikka Katerina Seminovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u163	Thank you. I have a few questions. Julia Volodymyrna, you spoke very well about state guarantees for shipbuilding loans. That's very right. But you're counting on six months. Tell me, please, what's the fate? Because six months is nothing for shipbuilding objects. First. The other one. You have foreseen 50 million dollars in the State budget for a long-term housing scheme for young families. 50 million is 6 loans per area. Please take a look at this. Because what compensation provides for today is that banks don't want to deal with young people and they don't want to lend on these terms. [[126 million]] And finally, "Artek" and "The Young Guard." The “Youth Guard” was neglected for 20 years. We really did make it to the Ministry right now. I'd like to ask you very much: 20 million is needed there for repairs. 20 years.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u164	Let me continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u165	Please finish. Please finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u166	Thank you. And by "Artec." We all have a lot of claims. But we're going to have travel to sell abroad if we don't have enough funds to buy travel for orphans, half-cheese, low-income, gifted children. Add another 10 million to your travels, please, this is a very significant social program for the future.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u167	Mrs. Catherine, I think what you've just listed is absolutely right and correct programs for Ukraine and for the objects you've mentioned. Now, while we're looking at the budget, we're just going to talk to you separately now, what additional resources you're seeing for these expenses. I think we're going to be able to take your proposals into account now in the voting process. So, Catherine Semenovna, please, I'm "for" these expenses completely and completely.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u168	Thank you, Julia Volodymyrna. Please have a seat.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u169	Thank you all. And I want to say a few words of thanks to the budget committee before I get there. I want to tell you that this is a great example of how the Supreme Council can work, with all parties, all factions, Mikoli Ivanovich Derkac, all without exception, those who made the budget by mid-night and made it possible for this budget to be considered today. Thank you all very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u170	Thank you. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, the presentation of a bill tabled by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has been completed, I now invite Andrija Ivanovich Hončaruk to present a bill tabled by the President of Ukraine to amend and supplement Ukraine's State Budget Act. Please, Andrew Ivanovich. Ten minutes, if you want to continue, I'll give you extra time.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u171	Mr. Chairman, honourable national MPs, and I would like to begin first of all with what, indeed, is the option that is proposed to amend the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2008 and to amend some of the other Ukrainian legislative acts proposed by the President. Many of the things discussed above were taken into account, more specifically. However, I would like to draw your attention to the next, first of all, I would not take the liberty of saying that the macroeconomic scenario that the government has built, in particular the government's forecast of annual inflation growth of 115.9 percent, which is proposed by the government, coincides with the vision of the President's side. At the very least, the President had his position on this issue, and he sounded it in such a way that the State budget should be built on that macroeconomic scenario, first, real, and secondly, which would be consistent with the government and the National Bank of Ukraine. Well, as far as I'm concerned, I know that the National Bank of Ukraine has a slightly different forecast. The second difference between the approach proposed by our head of state is that the President of Ukraine, Viktor Andrievich Yushchenko, proposes that the additional funds that we are talking about be, in the first place, designed for development. And indeed, Mrs. Prime Minister has said that, according to our calculations, part of it is 57 percent, it's focused on development, and in the presidential proposals that I'm going to talk about below, 70 percent is going to develop. So, what are the differences, or, more specifically, what was not included in that budget or project of that budget, the changes to the budget proposed by the government? First of all, the President is proposing an increase in revenue of 2.3 billion dollars. And first of all, this increase is based on the forecast of the tax collection on the added value of the goods that were mobilized in the first half of the year, 38.6 billion dollars, which is more than the 41 percent plan. So it's not quite so realistic that in the next half of the year, in the second half of the year, you can also get more plans. And these additional resources, first of all, the President is proposing to correct, I said that they were not taken into account by the government. One billion dollars is a budget increase in the budget lending of NAC to Naftogaz Ukraine. And it's suggested, first of all, that this 1 billion be sent to a natural gas dump in the shelter, clearly, ahead of the price rise that seems inevitable to date. The president also proposes that 300 million dollars be allocated for the construction of Dniestrów’s GAES. One billion 310 million more than is proposed in the government budget, the President has proposed funds to improve the effectiveness of our Armed Forces. Including the purchase and modernization of weapons -- 200 million, repair and armament of military equipment -- 500 million, refurbishment of barracks -- 200 million dollars, service of military towns -- 120 million dollars, disposal of 200 million dollars for ammunition disposal. It is also offered for 500 million more dollars, more money than the government has offered to provide housing for military personnel. To raise money, 250 million dollars. As far as court facilities are concerned, 90 million dollars. Mrs. Prime Minister spoke about the urgent issue of filling the agrarian fund. The president concludes that the figure proposed is not sufficient and suggests an increase of 480 million dollars. With regard to education. In addition, 150 million dollars are offered for additional measures to improve its quality — more than is proposed by the government. For immediate information security measures, 60 million dollars. And Julia Volodymyrna also said that to start a socio-important program of building affordable housing in the budget, there are costs. But I want to remind you that these costs are only intended to compensate for the first contribution. On the whole of the program, the president proposes that 500 million dollars be recorded in a single line for these purposes. So the things I've called are the President's proposals that aren't covered by the government budget, and I think they're optimal in terms of both the development of our country and social programs and the support of important state programs. Therefore, I would like to ask the honourable national deputies to support the bill proposed by the president of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u172	Colleagues, question-answers, please log in. Five minutes. Oleg Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u173	Your Honor, from previous reports, we've come to understand that the left hand side of the proposal in the President's bill has already been taken into account. And what are you talking about when you say that I ask you to consider all the President's proposals? You're talking about those that haven't been counted yet, aren't they fully accounted for, or do you mean an alternative to the president? Please explain. It's very important. We have to go out with the bill that the government is proposing today, because everything and the Presidential Budget Bill must go through the government mine, through the Ministry of Finance system, through the Budget Committee, without it. I'm asking you to.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u174	Dear Oleg Grigorovich! I understand your question. Answer. This is what I tried to do in my report, maybe I didn't make it very clear, then I repeat. In fact, given that the Ukrainian Secretary of the President had worked quite closely with the government, with the Ministry of Finance on budget preparation, the changes to the government's budget, indeed, a lot of proposals, which were discussed today, have been made to this law. Now, I've made the most of the time for economics today, because a lot has been said about the presentation of the government budget, the proposals, the extra funds that haven't been added to the government budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u175	Sidekick.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u176	Ivan Sidelnik, Yulia Timoshenko Block. It's a matter of fact. I'd like to give the floor to a professional financial economist, Teryohin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u177	Thank you so much for my modest assessment. Andrew Ivanovich, I have one question for you, and one brief question for the chairman. A quick question for you. Three months ago, the president, assessing the possible movement of macro indicators, told the country that 34 percent of the ICC would be at the end of this year. So it's not clear why he's changed position now that he's offering a completely different number. More than that, you've talked about the additional resources to be reflected in the increased budget deficit, but now 2.1 percent -- under the government project -- and what to do with it?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u178	Sergei Anatoliyovich, thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u179	Sergey Anatoliyovich is still in the lead. Ask me, Sergey Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u180	Thank you very much. So no, not by summarizing the first question. What with what the President said earlier on macro-indicators and what he's proposing to add to the spending portion of the budget without resources. And now I have a question, Arsenius Petrovich, to you, and why this bill was registered in the Supreme Council when it was registered under the Budget Code, could not. Why? Article 52, chapter 9, “Improving Changes in the State Budget, ” states on what grounds these changes are made and who makes them. So I quote, article 52 tells you that when macroeconomics change, they change, it's the case. Article 53 says that when the income part changes, I quote: “The Cabinet of Ministers is obliged to submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine an appropriate draft law amending the State Budget Act. Article 54 of the Code of Budgets speaks of a reduction in expenditure, I quote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u181	Please answer, Andrew Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u182	Thank you. Sergei Anatoliyovich, thank you for asking. I have before me a table of additional income and expenditure related to the adoption of the draft law on budget changes by the President of Ukraine. By income, we have 27.7 billion dollars here, at the expense of 27.5. So from my point of view, everything is balanced. And what's not balanced, it could be in that previous project.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u183	Colleagues, time for questioning, is the same as the previous commentator. Oleg Zarubinsky, Konovaluk, and any of the Communists, please identify yourself. Please, Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u184	Thank you, Arsenia Petrovich. Mr. Reporter, Andrew Ivanovich, look at two documents, this is one draft budget, this is the second draft budget. One belongs or is presented by the Prime Minister, the government. The second belongs to the President of Ukraine, and they are no longer a group of Ukrainian authorities? Explain to me, the national MP, for which bill should I vote if the President of Ukraine is in power, the Prime Minister is in power, where is the harmonized bill? You are obviously not to vote for any of them because the authorities do not know what they want. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u185	Thank you, I propose to vote for the bill that is the most promising. From my point of view, I said, taking into account the proposals made by the President and contained in the body and the government bill. But given what the Presidential project is and that's the difference. Again, I want to make it clear that the difference is that the Presidential project is more focused on development. So I asked, of course, to vote in favour of the Presidential Project and I would ask you, Mr. Oleg, I don't think there's any difference here.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u186	Valérie Konovaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u187	Thank you, Arseny Petrovich. Dear reporter! First of all, I want to admit that for the first time in our new history, the President of Ukraine is introducing draft changes to the State Budget Act. I agree with Deputy Teryohin. Please tell me, which department of the President's Secretariat has developed these changes to the State Budget? That's the first one. It's different. What was the amount of the general payroll fund in Ukraine that the President calculated to recognize certain subsidies to local budgets? Please give me a number. And please tell me, from the point of view that it is not clear to me that if inflation today exceeds almost 7 percent of the current budget, what is the amount of money that is invested in the monetary income indexation for our Ukrainian citizens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u188	Thank you, Your Honor! First. There's no secret very easy to find the President.gov.ua website where the Secretariat is. No, let me answer, it's so popular to be heard by the country, and, of course, there's the Social and Economics Service, and I think that the formal logic is that, first of all, this service was involved in the development of this case of changes to the 2008 budget. Clearly, with the participation of all other professional departments, if this is true of humanitarian policy, foreign policy, and other matters. We also mentioned the allocation of the necessary funds for the courts and so forth, and so forth. As for the specific numbers, once again I want to say, I've called only the differences, I've announced them under a transcript that's not in the government project. I called them again, they're fixed.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u189	Sergei Gordienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u190	Sergey Gordienko, faction of the Ukrainian Company. I don't understand the logic of the president who's in charge of our budget. I'll tell you why. In all the countries where they live hard, they stretch out their belts and concentrate all their finances on what is most important. I'm reading the budget, and I see that 367 million are going to political action. I'm just amazed at the people of Ukraine, too, I guess. The fight against tuberculosis is three million, to be done. NATO states are more than three million, these programmes. And it's all going for Baturines, and for others, and for others. Is there a need for this when Ukraine or the people, who are for the President, is living so hard?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u191	Ladies and gentlemen, I think the Presidential proposals are quite clear. There is a wide range of priority spending on health - related goals. Well, that's also in the government budget. For example, what I am about to say is twenty million for treatment abroad. I mean, there wasn't that number, well, I don't remember it at all. It's also in the government bill. She's both supported by the president. For example, there seems to be a sum of 25 million for the construction of a hospital in Poltava. There are other health - related expenses associated with certain social programs. But clearly, there are also humanitarian programs that need development that need support, and somehow they need to be funded. But once again, I want to draw your attention from the point of view of spending, development and essentially social.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u192	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u193	In the project, it's more balanced, as you say, from the point of view of lifting the belt and moving forward.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u194	Thank you, Andre Ivanovich. Please sit down. Now answer Sergey Anatolyovich Teryochin. Sergey Anatolyevich, please give me a brief hint. The decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of 17 May 2001 No. 5-pp/2001, which clearly states that the only case in which a circle of subjects has been identified concerning the submission of the State Budget Act, which is the Cabinet of Ministers. Paragraph 2 of the decision determines that there is no definition for amendments and additions to the law of such a circle of subjects. In view of this, respectable Sergey Anatoliyevich, be guided by the decisions of the single body of constitutional jurisdiction. The other one. Article 116 of the Constitution of Ukraine states that only the Cabinet of Ministers imposes law. And third, Sergey Anatolyovich. The credit of confidence in you is constantly diminishing. You went crazy when you voted on the Customs tariff, you said the rates were in line with WTO standards. And the wise Cabinet of Ministers didn't support your proposals. After that, we have a WTO scandal. Sit down, Sergey Anatolyovich. Mikola Ivanovich Derkac, please. Sergey Anatolyevich, sit down. Well, you question the constitutional authority of the head of state, sit down. Mikola Ivanovich, please. Sergey Anatolyovich, but there's still a trust loan, but it's not that big anymore.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u195	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, distinguished national deputies, members of the government and invited! The Committee on Budget Affairs has considered a bill amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2008 and amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts, submitted by the Government at number 2713. During the work on the bill, working meetings were held with government representatives and members of the Budget Committee, allowing for a more thorough evaluation of proposals and taking them into account in the drafting of the law. The prime position of the bill was presented by the Prime Minister of Ukraine in his report. I will therefore inform you about the consideration of this bill by the Committee on Budget Affairs. First of all, it should be noted that the bill has been filed with a violation of the four-month deadline set out in paragraph 5 of the “Final Regulations” of the State Budget Act of Ukraine. Nor has the government carried out a mandate to provide at the same time as changes to the State budget for the 2008 National Economic and Social Development Programme project. According to economic developments in the first half of the year, the government clarified the main macroeconomic and social indicators for 2008, including an increase in the projected gross domestic product from 889.4 billion dollars to 959.2 billion dollars; a forecast of consumer price index from 109.6 percent to 115.9 percent was clarified. At the same time, according to the State Department, inflation has now reached 115.5 percent. The bill, along with the changes directly to the State Budget Act, provides for amendments to ten legislative acts, usually on taxation issues. Thus, the bill continues the practice of amending tax legislation that does not correspond to the Ukrainian Tax Act, the Provisional Rules of the Supreme Council, which prohibits the amendment of tax rules by the State Budget Act or amendments thereto. This was also noted by the Chief Expert Office of the Supreme Council. Therefore, the committee decided, to transpose the provisions on amendments to the said legal acts into a separate law after the adoption of the bill as a law, and to establish two legislative acts for signature. In the drafting of the bill, the proposals and the President of Ukraine were first considered and included, inter alia, an increase in expenditure: the purchase of arms for the Armed Forces, by 500 million dollars, for the construction of affordable housing, by 500 million dollars, for the budget animal subsidy, 200 million dollars. According to agreed proposals by factions, it is proposed to support an increase in the state budget's spending on improving security in coal enterprises – 50 million dollars, treatment of cancer patients, first of all, children -- 30 million dollars, socio-economic development of regions -- about 170 million dollars, other educational, scientific, health, youth policy, and so on. It is also suggested that the ratio of the environmental pollution congregation to the corresponding budgets be restored: 30 percent to the State Budget instead of 65 and 70 percent to local budgets instead of 35. Such a standard is in line with the Law “On the Protection of the Environment. Although the bill has received a lot of strong criticism, we all understand that there is an urgent need for its adoption, taking into account an increase in the subsistence minimum, which will enable the financial security of the most vulnerable population, pensioners receiving social assistance, disabled persons; an increase in salaries for budget workers, which will lead to a full recovery of the pay-as-you-go ratios and an increase in the prestige of the job; an acceleration in the transition to military service under contract and an improvement in the living conditions of military personnel; an increase in the cost of compensation for the lost citizens' money savings; a state food reserve of grain; a balance in the financial situation of the NAC Naftegaz Ukraine. The bill has developed an important step to ensure that the final part of the 2012 European Championship is prepared and conducted in Ukraine. A number of new budget programmes have been proposed, including the construction and reconstruction of highways and socio-economic development of cities identified for the preparation and implementation of the Euro-2012. In addition, the state's position on providing guarantees of 4.3 billion dollars to Ukraine and only 20 billion dollars for 3 years to contribute to the construction and development of roadways in preparation for the championship. Changes in the relationship between government and local budgets are aimed at solving the problems of all local budgets. It is proposed to leave at the local level a surplus of nearly 7 billion dollars and to direct them, first of all, to increase the cost of work, energy consumption, and other protected articles. To that end, an additional grant of 1.2 billion dollars is foreseen. The first in the budget is the projected subsidy for socio-economic development. District and city-type towns of so-called small city centres amounting to 1 billion dollars, distributed among the budgets of 475 corresponding locations. This will be a major contribution to the development of such areas. In view of the above, the Committee on Budget Issues decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law on the introduction of amendments to the 2008 Act on the State Budget of Ukraine and some other legislators. Ukraine's number 2713 on the basis and generally as a law that takes into account the changes made in the Supreme Council's draft, which are supported and distributed to you by the Committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u196	Let's sign up, colleagues. 5 minutes - questions, answers. Oleg Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u197	I suggest you don't ask any more questions. The report is comprehensive, balanced, and very productive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u198	Colleague Suskevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u199	Mikola Ivanovich, I want to join in thanking the Prime Minister of Ukraine for your support, the Budget Committee has supported such a draft of the State Budget, in which, for the first time, colleagues, for the first time in the history of Ukraine, fully meet the needs of wheelchairs, prosthetics, rehabilitation. This is the first time in the history of an independent Ukraine. For the first time, a disabled child will receive more than a thousand dollars a month, a mother with a disabled child, and other expenses. I only ask you, Mikola Ivanovich: would you personally support such a draft change to the State Budget?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u200	Thank you for asking. As in any faction, we have order, discipline. We will consider after the discussion has been concluded and take a decision. If the faction decides, it will be a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u201	John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u202	John Haretz, Ukrainian People's Party, faction “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense”. Dear Mikola Ivanovich, Ukraine has inherited from the former Soviet Union a resource saving and ecologically harmful economy and a degraded natural environment. In this situation, natural resources, or natural capital, have become a limiting factor in society’s development. And in such a situation, it would be wise to use this natural capital to invest large amounts of money in order to restore what can be restored. But this policy from government to government is not observed, and in this budget we see a certain deviation. The point is that earlier, those mining companies that had acquired, for example, iron ore underground, and used the technology to trap the manufacturing space with solid mixtures, they had certain benefits compared to those that picked ore and threw them into these dumps -- and they created huge environmental problems: karst failures, groundwater.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u203	And please finish the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u204	And they were disrupting major environmental problems. Earlier in the budgets, I'm telling you, there were these benefits, they disappeared for 2008. And now they're not there either. How do you feel about reinstating such benefits, such as, I would say, not the benefits, but the stimulating mechanisms that are marketable that match the ideologies of continuous development.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u205	Thank you, distinguished colleagues, for asking. This is indeed a matter of State importance. I know this problem in Krivbas. The Minister of Finance and I have already spoken on your matter. I think we're going to introduce such an article in the budget next year. We need to go back to the reasons why this is going to happen, i.e., specific calculations. But before that, they had a conversation for themselves. The protocol was recorded: return to this problem with calculations. Then I'll give you a clear answer. But this is really a matter of state importance that needs to be addressed.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u206	Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u207	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, Oleg Lazko is very much asking me to pass on the word Semerak. I can't say no to the light.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u208	I'm going to give you a word. So who's the word?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u209	Semeraku.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u210	Seven, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u211	Thank you. Thank you for the word. Semerak, Timoshenko Street. I would ask all my colleagues to support the draft budget introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers with the work done yesterday by the Committee on Budgets. And for the transcript, Arsenija Petrovich, I would like to make a note that in chapter 12 the committee prepared the draft ruling was wrong in paragraph 29. It's about the Internet for men, and actually it's for women and it needs to be fixed because it won't be used.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u212	I'm saying right under the stenogram, when we vote, we correct the technical error and immediately say that we change the internet. Anatoly Stepanovich Grizenko, last question.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u213	Dear colleague, I would like to make such a request, our committee unanimously accepted proposals for changes to the budget that were passed on yesterday, but for various reasons, I understand that in the light of the overloads were not considered. They apply to a total amount of 132 million for. You're the strong ones. We did not swing at billions, but only at the critical costs that we needed to take into account. In addition, the second item related to the funds allocated by the Ministry of Defense for the purchase of technology. Clearly, and this can be proved that the purchase of technology cannot be done, these costs are essential for repairs and repairs. I would like to take these changes into account and to know whether the committee supports the committee's proposal to the National Security and Defence Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u214	Dear colleagues, the question specific to him will not be answered immediately. I think with the Ministry of Defence, let's take a look at the Ministry of Finance before voting. As for 500 million, you know, there is. If this is to change within this amount, so to speak, what will be achieved is, I think, Victor Mihajlovich, I ask. Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenyk and Yuri Ivanovich Ehanurov, let's consider this. If it's real, it'll be my support. As for 132 million bracelets, if we agree to go beyond balance, but you know, we have a marginal budget deficit. We are. At first, there was a project, reduced to 1.95, but given all the issues, we stopped at 2.09. I believe that it is not safe to go further in this situation. Yes. That's my opinion, but not the committee. On the inside of this 500, let us consider, together with the Minister of Defence, the Minister of Finance before voting. Inside the program, Yuri Ivanovich. You're a specialist.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u215	Mikolo Ivanovich, if I may, I have one question. Here in chapter 10, we are changing the Ukrainian Customs Tariff Act, and we are introducing the corresponding rates at the Customs Tariff. I have a question for you and for Sergio Anatoliyovich Teryochin: do we not drag these bets from the exact rates adopted in the Ukrainian Customs Tariff Act and committed by the President? So that we don't have the President's veto on this issue again, because he already has a veto.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u216	Arsenius Petrovich, we have considered this issue. In my opinion, we're not dragging. The Ministry of Finance has this justification. And we can go back to that problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u217	Can I use Sergey Anatolyovich's microphone? Thank you, Mikola Ivanovich, please sit down.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u218	No, we're not dragging it out of that bill, Tyre One, which was committed by the President. But these bets, for everyone to know, do not match the agreed tariff proposal that was submitted to the ratified protocol.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u219	Dear colleagues, I'm about to have a discussion on this. You want to get a dedicated budget, you'll get a dedicated budget. Why do we go for things we know that are causing destruction and actually a commercial scandal? Well, we had the same law as the President. There are all the formal reasons. The President will take and take advantage of the right absolutely constitutionally and legally, transferring this veto that he had to the new law. It's not about the Head, sorry, sitting fleas catching in this law. Let's write it down from factions and national MPs. I'd like you to record a statement from the factions and then speak to the national MPs. Victor Mikhailovich, please, this is an important question. Comrades, they're making a budget. That's what I'm suggesting. Colleagues, there is such an offer, you can only be asked to sign up for the factions. People’s deputies had already asked questions. If any of the deputies insist on speaking, I'll give you my word. And so we only do factions. Is there no objection? Okay. The Communist faction Eugene Marmazov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u220	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, the Communist faction will insist on voting on an article, that is, as stated. Because, as of today, there have been various kinds of suggestions in the room, comments that say that we should get a certain position on each number. Therefore, the Communist faction requires the budget to be voted on in an article-by-article manner. This was a win-win relationship: 25 billion we got, 32 we got, we got everything, and it's all very good. I want to remind you of the numbers. Ukraine's gross domestic product is 959 billion, as indicated in the Explanatory Note. In the budget resolution, we talked to you about the need to redistribute 30% of gross domestic product through the budget. This means that about 300 billion should be redistributed, and today we're allocating 240, so 25 billion is a low figure of income that we're redistributing through the budget. This means that the Government is hiding the reserve it wants to use freely. And then, if there's enough time, I'll show you the specific budget lines where the money is hidden that don't show us and don't distribute. In considering the changes proposed by the Government of Timoshenko to the State budget for 2008, their reality must be assessed first. Conditionally, we must not allow the Government to build dark villages. Our compatriots will be paid for it. The unrealization of projected inflation, 15.9 per cent, is a very important factor. Today, you know, it's 15.5. I remind you that according to the National Bank of Ukraine, inflation will be more than 20 per cent by the end of the year. Should it be said that the 25 billion bracelets that the Government of Timoshenko is today offering us to redistribute through the budget are largely from inflation? There is no real growth in the economy, no real growth in production and goods. So, much of the tax revenue is received in advance, and we know that too. Moreover, the Government of Timoshenko is pursuing a policy of so-called open doors for import. It destroys our domestic production, deprives people of their jobs, destroys the village. Today, the Government is happy to report on good harvesting. What does it have to do with this crop? Foreigners rent much of the land today. They invest a lot of money, they introduce new technologies, they actually get a good crop, but they get a crop, and not our government gets a crop. Because we know that the government is so lending, gently speaking, agrarians that they're running like hell from these loans. You'll get a bracelet, and you'll get all the crops. In short, Communists are demanding.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u221	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u222	The Communist faction requires that the proposals that we have made to the Government be met so that the loans are provided by the Government in the form of guarantees to the high-tech industry so that the money is directly directed to support those enterprises. It's funny to say this, but it's about supporting these enterprises, and they're actually waving these billions in front of them, not really giving that help, but just speaking in support of credit. And for that, businesses will pay the bank interest and still have to pay the budget, read, pay the Government for the guarantees provided. Dear Julia Vladimirovna! Do not stifle these enterprises, and at least give up this income in the budget, is all the more incomprehensible as it will be. Don't take the interest, don't take the money from this company for the guarantees you promise to give them. Therefore, 14 million are planned for the construction of the cathedral's monuments. 70 million for the parade on Independence Day. We don't have tuberculosis? Do we have any hospital funding today? Do we have nothing to do with AIDS? Do we have all the necessary medical equipment purchased? We're spending 367 million bracelets on celebrations, on monuments to whom are these monuments? Monuments to a free government and monuments to a free president. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u223	Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u224	Oleg Lazko. From the “Julia Timoshenko Block ” on the draft budget, Julia Timoshenko herself said. And add, add to what Julia Volodymyrný said, I can only do this, all of us have received in the last few days dozens of references, from business leaders, organizations, intelligence, miners, ship builders, from managers of other industries, from agrarians who ask us to accept changes to the budget, what will enable us to develop the country and get it?????? billions of dollars. I think any responsible, political power, if it's responsible, has to vote in favour of this budget to enable the country to develop. Let's do the demagogy not in this room, let's do what the country and millions of people who want to have more pay, more pensions, more investment is going to do. Thank you for your attention. And I hope that most parliaments will vote in favour of the budget and will, with a clear conscience, go to rest either in Crimea or elsewhere.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u225	Comrade Turmanov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u226	Dear colleagues, there is a lot of beautiful words for miners in this room today. But I want to tell you today that we are talking about European wages. I visited Germany in April, became acquainted with the coal industry. And what I want to tell you is that there's a private company there, and the government is allocating a grant to the coal industry, which is going to be 21 million dollars in Germany, 2.9 billion euros. We are saying today that a large budget has been allocated, that it has never been allocated. I would like to address the Minister of Finance from this rostrum today. We talked about this in Rowenaki with the Prime Minister, where the meeting was held. Five months from now, Victor Mihajlovich, you're setting up the Prime Minister, you're giving me an answer as a people's deputy, that the industry is 100% funded, that it's not funded by 670 million, you're giving only from the general budget, and that the General Fund, which is now 50% charged to the coal industry, has never been implemented, and you know it. I've been reporting to the Parliament and miners today, and I want to report that in five months, we've worked 61 lava, and 30 have just introduced, thanks to your policy, the Prime Minister is writing to you: move funds urgently to introduce the lava, so that the industry will start working normally, in a sustainable manner and prepare for the winter, you know. You're totally ignoring it. I have already spoken from this rostrum, on 27 December we have adopted a budget to which today we are changing. And the budget committee, at that time on first reading, decided, given that there had been an accident on the West Mine. And today we have a very difficult situation on this issue. Four hundred million for security and safety. They signed the budget, Victor Mikhailovich, 105 million. Today you give 50 million dollars in this article. And we're all saying that today's tragedy, today in the coal industry, such accidents are allowed. What do you mean by that? And today we're talking about three billion. It must have been the first year to give them, and I am deeply convinced that we are not using them for one reason: political instability. And you know how banks handle matters. So, God forbid, Julia Vladimirovna told the Metropolitan to give one billion of this money, God forbid we should. The article is still unbalanced at a billion and ninety million today. And you know that every month, we're short of funds and we're not balanced. At a cost of 250 million. Here you only give 368 million.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u227	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u228	Paying current wages.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u229	Thank you, Paul Zebrowsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u230	Dear colleagues! Dear Arseny Petrovich! Dear Julia Volodymyrna! Members of the government! We have worked long enough on the Committee on Budgets and representatives of “Our Ukraine” to agree on amendments to the Budget Act. I would like to say that an additional impetus for many positions was introduced by the bill by the President of Ukraine. And actually, the proposals that today are in the government bill, and 500 million for affordable housing, and an additional 500 million dollars for the army, and 200 million dollars for supporting the animal industry, and enough other programs. And the return of the grant to Kiev, to perform the functions of the capital -- it was all in itself, including certainly in the discussions, certainly in the disputes, but there were some compromises and we found these compromises. Today, of course, it is essential to amend the budget law, since the social standards, first of all, should have been recalculated with you long ago. Because according to Ukrainian legislation, at one percent of inflation per month social standards should be counted. And they can only be listed by making changes to the budget law. That's what all of this really is. There is no doubt that we can discuss the cause and the lack of money allocated to one or the other programs. Obviously, we need to compromise on Dniestrovské GRES. We need to find compromises and Naftogazu, because in fact, Naftogaz has not been able to raise the price of gas for the population and the residential sphere, we are running in a deaf corner every year, and we are no longer able to find a solution to this issue. And how, in order not to detract from the Naftogaz of Ukraine, we have to work hard on this. I'm convinced that the proposals for actually attaching $179.5 per thousand cubic metres of gas this year are correct, because once again we will be able to support our thermocommunerge and this will be an additional impulse for us not to increase prices by essentially jumping, including hot water and utilities. I would like to point out, unfortunately, that in this bill and I would like to take this into account when voting for the second reading, with the decision of the Constitutional Court on our hands, we have brought together two different bills in fact in this bill again. One bill, which is the law on amending the budget and interfering with the Code of Masters, the Customs Code and so on and so forth. That's actually the offer from the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense."
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u231	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u232	was in agreement and interview with the minister of finance and we seemed to compromise, but it was somehow strangely stated in today's decree that we would pass these laws into a separate law, but when we adopt this law in general. So this is such an abracadabra. And I would ask that we now adopt changes to the budget law, and other laws have been prepared. These are not resource articles. In fact, if we count the income and the negative balance of the profits we get, we're going to go to zero, even minus. I am convinced that this would be the right position for Parliament as the Ukrainian Parliament, which respects and respects the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u233	Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u234	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues, there was much discussion about such a macroeconomic order, general things in the budget. I don't want to repeat myself, the more you've seen, the more you've seen, there's both propaganda for achievements, and there's a definition of flaws. I would like to formulate, or form my speech entirely out of concrete things and proposals, because I think that the parliamentary-government coalition, when it is corrected, will be much easier psychologically comfortable and more enthusiastically to vote for a bill that is being passed by the government, as it should be in any state where there is a parliamentary-government coalition, where the coalition is voting for a government bill. What I mean. Here, we can discuss what is added, or add little or more to what has happened before. And then, when they're removed, there's definitely some questions. I want to give you an example, including the one I put Julius Volodymyrna, she said there's no one there. There is. Because I worked really hard with the budget. I call even codes and articles. Disposal of housing expenses for rural budget workers 1 billion, code 2801840. Even if you want, 225 pages. Next. The total cost of both the subsidy and the construction of housing for budget workers who have entered into a 20 - year contract is eliminated. It's a gold fund, it's people who've been willing to work 20 years with hired budget workers. 690 million bracelets, code 2761110. Everyone is talking about the need to reform the judicial system. And that's right. Costs under code 050162000 "supporting judicial reform" are being eliminated. Why? Why is this being done? On the other hand, there are enough paradoxical articles, enough paradoxical codes. Many today have talked about the coal industry. And you know how much is added to the scientific and technical development in the coal sector, to the science that has to reduce cost, increase the safety of work and so on? 2300 dollars added to the budget. While to partially cover the cost of production costs, 368 million dollars. Obviously, science is just reducing the cost of production. And one more moment. I don't mean to say it's something that's fundamental, but it's about our spirituality and our culture. A source of funding has emerged. support for Ukraine. Very well, 5 million dollars, you have to think about the diaspora. But at the same time, funding at the museum is increasing by 36,000 dollars, to our native Ukrainian museums. I think my colleague will back me up. I propose to correct these things and, with great enthusiasm, to vote for the government bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u235	Yes, dear friends, the discussion is over, the speeches are over. Now we're off to make a decision. Dear colleagues, there are several issues that concern the procedure for adopting the bill. So the committee proposes to adopt the bill in the first and second readings. You and I have regulations and regulations to organize this issue. First, I put the bill to the vote in the first reading. Then I invite the minister of finance to the rostrum. We change the voting order for the second reading according to the 50th Rules. Under the transcript, the Minister of Finance formats questions raised by national deputies that are perceived by the Cabinet and are included in the text. And given the proposals made by the people's deputies, which are supported by the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine and the text of the ruling made by the Committee on Budgets, the bill will be put to a second reading vote. Is the procedure understood? Got it. Now. I propose now, colleagues, attention, everyone concentrates, comrades. Now we put the bill to the vote in the first reading, and then we'll move on to the second. Starting with the president’s, according to the Rules, dear friends. I'm telling you, what's the president's, the cabminian guy who's registered first, and you're already beating me up, Mikhail Vasilovich. Don't beat up the whole neighborhood. Then the president’s attitude is as required by the Rules. I put to the vote, attention, acceptance on first reading, you hear, in the first reading of the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2008 and some other legislative acts of Ukraine, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Attention, colleagues, 2713 votes in first reading. Please vote. [[18:17:30.]] For – 216 The bill in the first reading was not adopted. Then I propose the next option, colleagues. Send the bill to the committee for re-reading. I suggest you pay attention, colleagues. To draft this bill. On Friday evening, after not working for six months, you are so aggressive. Take it easy. But you're so regulators, I'm asking you, Adam Ivanovich. I propose now. Okay, are you insisting? Are you insisting? Okay. I'll get the president. Yes, it is. Okay. No problem. And then I'll go back to the first. I am betting on the vote to support the draft Act introduced by the President of Ukraine amending the State Budget Act. [[2713-1]] Dear colleagues, I vote. [[18:18:53]] For-58 Now, colleagues, I am putting to the vote the question of re-reading Bill No. 2713 on amending the State Budget Act, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Rereading the first reading. In fact, we'll only accept it in September if we don't have an extra session. Vote, colleagues. [[18:19:32]] For 214 The decision is not taken. Please show by factions. Colleagues, how do you feel about re-thinking voting on the bill in the first reading? Let's be serious. Now we're stalling the political debate and it's actually going to have an incredibly negative impact on the economy of the state as a whole, because it's about all the proposals made by all the factions in the committee head and prime minister's words being taken into account. If only it hadn't been counted! Still, they counted. So what's the motivation for not voting? Well, it's hard to predict. I suggest you do it this way. Comrades, let's do this. Let the Minister of Finance express his position now. Who has any additional proposals from the factions that are present, tell them specifically that the figure has not yet been counted. We're all going to count directly when we vote. Then you'll prove that we're taking advantage of the people's interests, not the narrow political stuff. Anything you need, let's talk to the finance minister right now. Victor Mikhailovich, to the rostrum. I'll give it to the factions. Victor Mikhailovich, stand by and demand factions. Which factions want to speak? “Our Ukraine”, BUT and Vladimir Litwin. Please, “Our Ukraine”, Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u236	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. Dear colleagues, obviously, should be talking about bringing the two bills as close to each other as possible, and taking into account the principles of the positions required by the President of Ukraine. We have now virtually rejected this topic as such. Of course, we thank our partners for not voting for the Presidential Bill. [[in quotes]] So there's nothing to listen to right now. We're going to announce a break, and we're going to find out the possibilities of compromise by putting two bills together. The president's amendments are completely objective, they're made. And let's make sure there's a bill that allows both factions and maybe other factions to join this vote. Then it will be a partnership work that will take into account the position of the two factions. And simply rejecting the position of the President of Ukraine means that we have not drawn conclusions from any of the crisis points that have already been in the work of the coalition of democratic forces. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u237	Ivan Kirilenko. Then Vladimir Litwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u238	Dear colleagues, we were hoping when we received the Presidential Bill, and before that, we were having discussions, knowing the President's proposals concerning the military's social housing. And today, Viacheslav Anatoliyovich and I agreed another four or five positions that were not counted and put the Prime Minister on the table, and we were assured that this was the case, and it was announced from the rostrum that more than 300 million, which are still proposed in the Presidential Bill, are counted. We thought this was all completely taken into account, and we didn't think that the government bill excluded the conceptual things that were in the presidential bill. We don't care. We weren't going to confront each other without voting for the president's proposal because we thought that the government was completely mirrored, or to a large extent. So we're going to propose that we go back and call the factions that remain. Dear colleagues, believe me, without these 30 billion, and with the inclusion of credit investment resources, it will be 60 billion economics, citizens, sectors, especially regions, which will be very difficult. Why store these funds in treasury accounts? Dear colleagues, this is the budget of Parliament, this is the budget of the state, this is not the budget of a separate political power. Well, what's the question?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u239	Vladimir Litwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u240	Dear colleagues, obviously, there are two draft changes to the budget, and we can conclude that there are two ways to report forces: push up and pull down. So first of all, we'd like to ask if there's going to be two bills or if there's going to be one bill, that's the first. And secondly, let's talk calmly now about how the bill needs to be worked out, taking into account the implementation of the Constitutional Court's decision, as well as the constitutional rules, in order to analyse what we asked and took into account what we asked for, in particular, the level of minimum wage. In particular, to be frank about social legislation, particularly with regard to one hundred social laws. Because they talked about everything right today, beautiful, but I'm sure people won't feel it. And we don't need to call each other to conscience, responsibility. Today, both conscience and responsibility were demonstrated. And I'm convinced that once one project is put together, when the coalition agrees on those points of discussion, there will be an additional session, whichever one will accept the bill. I would like to remind those who are so passionate about the Ukrainian people why, as required, no relevant legislation has been introduced since 1 March. I'd like to say again that today we're told what the inflation rate is going to be, how much it's going to be compensated for by social expenditure. Because clearly, taking into account the internal and external factors, it will be far greater. Let's have a serious conversation, a serious discussion. And we can't storm today. One storm was won. We need to calm down, think about what's actually going on in the country, in the coalition. And the honourable colleagues, I want to tell you, frankly, everyone, respects everyone and personally: you need to understand that you need to expand the basis of political responsibility. You are well aware that you should give in to the country’s name by your ambitions, that you have shared everything that is shared and everything that is moving, and you want to hire fortifications to support you. We made a responsible decision today. The right decision, but they wanted to make an equally responsible decision about the budget. For the Ukrainian budget to be for the Ukrainian people, not for another political campaign.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u241	Colleagues, there's another suggestion, I'd like to offer it again. First of all, we have two bills. We can merge these two bills into a single bill now, provided that all the President's proposals are taken into account, we're actually going to have only one bill. And there's only one bill to put to the vote for the second reading. The second is about the discussion on the individual subject matter of the State Budget Act itself: if something is not taken into account by the proposals of the factions present here, I now make the following proposal: let me meet you in my office, 30 minutes, Prime Minister, the heads of the faction, the Minister of Finance, the note, the pen, the calculator, and we will work substantively. Of course, the head of the Budget Committee. In fact, it's about this budget being developed for four months. He was introduced to the Supreme Council four months after the term set by the Supreme Council. There's nothing else they can think of, there's not gonna be any other numbers. All you can do is blow them up, draw them off the ceiling. Now there are real figures, and we can have a discussion about whose interests are not taken into account, and thus move away from the notion that this is a budget of some political power, and read the title of the Ukrainian State Budget Act. Not coalitions, not opposition, not East or West, but Ukraine. I'm asking the heads of factions. Victor Mikhailovich, you don't have to do this because you're about to fail the process. I ask the factions to come to my office for 30 minutes, and we will now make a decision with you. At 7 p.m., we continue the meeting.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u242	factions, let me tell you what decision we've come up with. It's not like we don't have decisions. It's a decision we make. Different ones are usually very good. Andrew Petrovich, will you take part in the vote? Because I can tell you, we're out of your voice. Honourable National Deputys of Ukraine, I report. We met with the heads of factions, the prime minister, the minister of finance, the head of the Committee on Budgets, the head of the Committee on National Security and Defence. A number of suggestions were made. The general position is as follows. The Communist Party of Ukraine has made its proposal block, which relates to both the reduction of the spending and its increase in individual positions. The Lithuanian Block made it clear that there was a need for more substantive discussion on the bill. And now there's another very important information. This “Our Ukraine – the People's Self-Defense” insists on taking all presidential proposals into account according to the bill tabled by the President of Ukraine as an alternative. In view of this, the next compromise decision is proposed, and you and I voted to adopt the bill in the first reading of the Cabinet and Presidential, and this proposal was not supported. Under the Rules, I have the right to restate my first reading. I propose to re-read the two bills -- both Presidential and Cabinian -- and to send them to the relevant budget committee under the conditions of effective voting. Rereading the first reading. Colleagues, half a minute, please, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u243	Dear colleagues! Dear Arseny Petrovich! When we discussed this problem at a meeting with the faction leaders at the government's side, we discussed it in the part that you are now proposing that we vote on the following, that we vote on sending two government and presidential bills to the committee and preparing for a re-reading, like this. And now you're putting it this way, about re-reading the first reading, so we're voting again like we're voting in the first reading, and we're, like, sending it to the committee. We ask the faction of Communists to be clearly put to the vote the question that the Supreme Council, by making a decision, sends to the committee two bills for the preparation of each other's first readings in the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u244	Peter Mikolaiovich, you know that there is no vote in Parliament and no act of chairman that does not meet the requirements of the Rules. So when I said that I was rereading the first reading, I took paragraph 109 of the third reading. 109 paragraph 3 provides, under any circumstances, for dispatch to the Main Committee, there is no other norm. So once again, I'm just explaining that if they adopt the re-reading of the two bills, they're automatically sent to the Budget Committee for processing. I'm explaining the legal position. That's right, dear fellows, isn't it? The due date, we can shorten the due date, we can figure out, everything here depends on the Budget Committee. And here's one more thing that the Committee on Budgets, hopefully next week, can work on it, if there's 150 signatures and 226 in the room, we're gathering at any time and we're voting at any given time. So we have the opportunity and the reality to accept it if we want to. Colleagues, may I put to the vote the question of re-reading Bill No. 2713 and Bill No. 2713-1 and referring it to the Main Committee. Objections are against formulation. No objection, Adam Ivanovich? I won't. Colleagues, attention is paid to the question of re-reading the Ukrainian Cabinet Bill and the bill tabled by the President of Ukraine and sending two bills to the Budget Committee. Please vote. [[19:29:12]] For the 250. Thank you. Dear colleagues, please show by factions, I think it was a compromise and a right decision. Colleagues, we now have sixty with a hook of election decrees for the term. What is the position on these decrees? We don't have the package, it's off, I've never voted with the package, and I'll never put the package to the vote. No, it's not. Packages are garbage, and voting is a very different thing. Well, then I'll be quick, then I beg you. Look, you guys, if you give me the right to just read the license plate, we're gonna take ten minutes, we're all set. If you insist on taking that question off, then I'll take it off. Vote? Okay. No votes? Look, if there aren't any votes of a colleague, let me put the vote on the line, if there are no votes, then we're closed. Taras Cranvill half a minute with motives, please, Crnowil, after Crnowol, Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u245	Arseny Petrovich! I know that there are at least one or several decisions that raise questions. I think in Kirovgrad, if it's going today, I don't know. If not, if there are warnings to be taken separately and the rest of them are driven in a hurry.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u246	Dear colleagues! Arseny Petrovich! I'm addressing all the people's deputies, I'm speaking on behalf of the committee, understand that today we have a lot of disorder in a population of places. There's no advice, no head. The Supreme Council is working, if it is unrhythmistically, and so there are a lot of questions. Arseny Petrovich, we can't but vote, I'm turning to the Communist faction. Understand that this question is not political. So let's vote for 10 minutes. There are no objections on the State Construction Committee to all factions represented. And that question raised no doubts. There's no kerosene. So let's vote because it's very important. There's no authority in place. People wait and don't understand why the Supreme Council doesn't make these decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u247	My colleague Upstairs. I'm going to need a top-top mike, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u248	Dear colleagues! I ask you very much to support the Head's proposal and to vote on these 68 decrees. The fact is that there is no legitimate head in some locations for more than a year now, the already performing duties are said to be called to the committees, please accept. All these orders for the September 28th election. Let's take it. Where there are conflicting ones, Kirovograd and others today are not being considered, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-07-11-m0.u249	Colleagues, let me put it this way, I'll put it to a 2313 vote, and then we'll figure it out. If there are no votes, then let's move on to the next one. Colleagues, a signal vote is announced under Bill 2313. [[19:33:09]] For 216 My dear friends, I feel that there is no effective vote. Now, if I put everybody in, I'm sorry, we're going to overturn all the decisions. In view of that, honourable national MPs, and so to this day, I'll tell you that we've done a lot of things that you won't say about the entire session of the Ukrainian Parliament. Dear colleagues, I think the situation is that I, as the Head of the Supreme Council, am not even at my fingertips right now, if you'll excuse me for speaking with the throne, there's nothing to speak with. Unfortunately, the Ukrainian Parliament has somehow fundamentally deteriorated, and this is our credit and no one else's. But strangely enough, we do find compromises and still raise questions of political responsibility. Everything bad about Parliament's work is known to all society, but we must say that we have done well. After all, in fourteen years, did our Parliament ratify? Our Parliament. After all, for the first time in the history of Ukraine, the Constitutional Court has submitted an application for the annulment of parliamentary immunity, which we have done. The budget was adopted, and today we live under this budget, accepted. They canceled the Chamber of Commerce, which could not be cancelled for long periods of time. I'm not talking about ratifying the simplified visa regime agreement, which has adopted a whole series of legislation. Yeah, that's not enough. Little is the fact that our political elites are not ready for severe economic and social reforms. But I hope that the next session will begin in a different way, and the next session I will start with exactly the report of the Head of the Supreme Council for this purpose, to express my own political position on what is happening in the country and in Parliament, and to put us on a completely different productive job. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! In view of this, I propose that we move on to the final stage. Dear National Deputies! I declare the second session of the Ukrainian Parliament closed. Here's the State Hymn. Heroic glory! Thank you all! Good-bye.
