ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u1	Dear colleagues, who remembers who took the microphones, can I bring them back? I beg of you, Your Honor. Dear National Deputies! I'm asking you to take your seats, please register. I'll re-register you. Stop the registration. We're running a new registration. Two minutes for everyone to take their seats. Please enable registration. I'd like all the national deputies to drop their cards. There are 312 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. I declare the evening plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear National Deputies! We held factions' heads and agreed to consider at this evening’s meeting the following issues of order. I would like first of all to point out that this particular schedule may be accepted and other issues, including those that I insisted on, for example, the Cabinet of Ministers Act, the imperative mandate and everything else, not yet included in the draft agenda. This is because we need to try to restore the trust that is, unfortunately, completely and completely lacking in this session room. So I would very carefully ask every national MP to hear what order of the day is proposed as the first step towards the possible restoration of the work of the Ukrainian Parliament. The first is a basic document called the calendar work plan of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. To let us know when we work in the Plenary Hall and when we work with our constituencies in the Districts. Such a bill under registration number 1349 will be reported by Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov. The second is the order of the day-to-day second session of the sixth vocation, and we have not agreed to accept it as a basis, but we have agreed that this is a document, as a project given to everyone and for us to take it as a basis, and in general, we are proposing for the next plenary meeting to introduce a harmonized bill, which consists of two chapters. And all the issues that are resonant, put into a separate chapter, and then we're going to vote as always, or we're going to include them, or we're not going to include them so that we don't create tension in the room again. So I'm giving the committee heads a commission to look at the final draft agenda and bring it in for adoption in the first, second, and in general. The third bill, which is proposed to be adopted by a reduced procedure, is a bill introduced by the President of Ukraine to amend article 5 of the Ukrainian Housing Minimum Act. [[Registration number 1314]] To enable us to raise people's social standards and to let people know how the minimum of living is shaped. The reporter is Slapak Alexander Vitaliyovich and Stoyan Alexander Mikolayovich. The fourth bill is a second reading, a draft law amending article 77 of the Ukrainian Health Law. [[Registration number 0933]] This is about setting up an additional vacation for family medicine professionals. This second reading will be reported by Tetjana Dmitrovna. The next bill is a draft of the Ukrainian law on amendments to the Ukrainian Economic and Procedural Code. [[0893]] This is the second reading, this bill will be reported by Pritika Dmitry Mikitovich. Next. After all, we agreed to start a review of the Ukrainian Law on Change in the Ukrainian Act on the Purchase of Goods and Services at State Costs. I would like to point out that there are 32 of these bills, on a similar subject. But according to 105 of the Rules, I suggest you consider this bill, number 1476. Which considered and approved Committee on Economic Policy is fundamental. Further, during the second reading, take into account all the proposals made by the legislators in order to finally remove the yoke in the form of government purchases. And the last bill is the Ukrainian Bill on the Number of Armed Forces for 2008. [[No. 1316]] The president of Ukraine introduced the bill, then he was called off, because the committee proposed to reduce the number of people to be reduced in 2008. The bill will be reported by the Chief of General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, General Kirichenko. The reporter is Anatoly Stepanovich Gricenko. Dear National Deputies! I ask you to vote in favour of this agenda. In general, we vote without it. Please vote. For 366. Decision taken. Please show by factions. Let's start with the first bill. Yes, Peter Mikolaiovich! That's absolutely right. Peter Mikolaiovich! I said it all, the agenda is not being considered, it's being passed on to the committee, we're accepting it in the first and second readings right now, we're not voting on the basis of the agenda. That was all said. 1349 is the draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine “On the calendar of the second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Sixth Call”. Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov, head of the committee Please, Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u2	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! According to part four of article 13 of the Ukrainian Act on Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a draft calendar plan for holding the second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on January 14, 2008 has already been considered. According to the requirements of part one of article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine and part one of article 10 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, the project is proposed to start plenary meetings of the Supreme Council, what we did, February 5, and the completion of the work is scheduled for July 18. During this time, eleven weeks of plenary work, seven weeks of committee and faction work, six weeks of electoral work, and eleven hours of government questions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. According to part of article 19 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, the draft calendar plan was designed to inform MPs in the Supreme Council. No comments were received from the MPs. In the draft calendar plan that we sent to the MPs, the week from 5 to 8 May was proposed to be held in plenary mode, the committee decided to work on committees and factions this week, and then two weeks from 12 to 16 and from 19 to 23 May to be held in plenary mode, which we did in the Supreme Council. On January 31, a draft decision on the calendar schedule for the second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine was introduced in exchange for the previous one, in view of the legal administration’s proposals, such as the proposed closure of the session to record the closing date of the session, since after the closing of the 11th of July, there is still a week to work with the electorate. We ask the Supreme Council of Ukraine to support us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u3	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Is there a question for Alexander Sergiyovich about the calendar plan? No questions? I propose that we vote without discussion. I am voting on the issue of the approval of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the calendar of the second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call. Please vote. For – 427 The factions, please. Decision taken. I once again comment on the order of the day's second session of the Sixth Council. All national deputies have materials compiled in accordance with article 22 of the Rules, first and second appendix. I ask the heads of factions and committee heads to submit to the Supreme Council a definitively harmonized list of all the bills to be considered during the current session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Let us put it to the discussion and immediately vote on it as a whole. Ladies and gentlemen, in the vote on the approval of the agenda, I have pointed out that the bill will be followed today by a reduced procedure, but for the sake of clarity of the experiment, I ask to vote that Bills Nos. 1314, 0933, 0893, 1376-d and 1316 will be followed by a reduced procedure. Please vote. For – 408 Voted. Dear colleagues, we have a report on the first question of Slapak Alexander Vitaliyovich, who will literally be in one minute, so I ask that we start with Bill 0933 -- this is a draft of the Ukrainian Law amending article 77 of the Basic Law on Health Protection of Ukraine and invite the head of the Committee on Health Care of the Baychev Tetjana Dmitrovna to report to the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u4	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues! On 17 April 2007, the first reading of the Ukrainian Act amending article 77 of the Basic Health Law on the establishment of additional leave for family medicine workers was adopted. Number 0933. The bill proposes that nurses be granted the right of additional paid annual leave of three calendar days in the general practice of family medicine, the head of family medicine units, to visiting brigades working for more than three years. Such categories of medical personnel as station doctors, including family doctors, as well as specialists in the ambulance and emergency services, sanitation and emergency counselling have already enjoyed the right to three-day additional leave. By the beginning of this year, there are more than 9,000 family nurses in Ukraine, including 6.5,000 working in rural areas. The additional need for family medical nurses to date is 11,000. It is also proposed that additional three-day leave be granted to family medicine managers who perform duties similar to those of the managing therapeutic and paediatric offices. The implementation of the Act would restore the existing supplementary leave rule, which was not provided for in the current Ukrainian legislation, to improve the social protection of health workers, especially those working in rural areas. In addition, the provision of additional low-wage leave to medical personnel contributes to the promotion of the prestige of medical professions. The introduction of the bill does not require additional budget funding, as family medicine workers in most regions are likened to therapeutic professionals and thus benefit from the same benefits, as already reflected in the cost of remuneration. The Ministry of Finance and the Budget Committee of the Supreme Council do not object to the adoption of the bill. The Chief Scientific and Export Authority of the Supreme Council also made no comments. It is proposed that the bill be adopted on second reading and generally as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u5	Thank you, Aunt Dmitry. I'm asking you to sign in two, two, against a reduced procedure. We've got it. That's the second one. Comrades, will we be motivated to speak on this matter? We won't. Thank you very much. I'll bet you a vote. We'll be motivated. Colleagues are asking to talk. I'm asking you to sign up for a five-minute vote. They're asking their colleagues to come forward. We have no right not to give. Kamchatten Valery Grigorovich “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko. ” Please, Valery Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u6	Kamchatny, “Blok Timoshenko”, Kharkushina. I suggest we not discuss this issue. Let's, as we agreed, move on to a reduced procedure. The country expects us to make concrete and quick decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u7	I support fully and fully, but I must do the will of the national deputies. Shershun Mikola Haritonovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u8	Mikola Shershun, “Block Lithuania”. I propose to pass this law and to adopt it immediately, because it is. They're waiting for him and he's needed today. “Block of Lithuania” will vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u9	Kravchenko Mikola Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u10	Please pass the word to Simonenko Petra Nikolaevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u11	Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u12	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, distinguished radios and TV sets! The Communist faction will certainly vote in favour of the draft law, on the basis that, indeed, today, those who provide health care for our citizens and provide assistance must be supported. But the fundamental question is, I think it's still different. As we consider the Ukrainian Health Protection Frameworks Act, we will have to think very seriously today about the country's field and obstetric points and create them with the establishment of outpatients in the countryside. It is hoped that the district hospitals will be given the greatest attention today because they are in a difficult situation. In fact, funding must be taken seriously, which should ensure that all health-care institutions are provided with technology that is modern and that assistance is provided at the current level. Therefore, the Communist faction supports this law and will continue to demand that financing be sound.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u13	Pedestrian Ivan Vasilovich, Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u14	Thank you. Please pass the word to Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u15	Herman Hanna Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u16	Dear colleagues, it's very positive that we've reached social laws today. All I ask is that you pay attention when it comes to the affairs of rural physicians in the decomposition of land in the Lviv district of Feldscher. The feldshers went around, and the nurses of the country went around. And they didn't get the land after working their whole life at the farm, for the colporteurs. I think we need to take this moment into account by further developing legislation on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u17	Katerinczuk Mikola Dmitrovic, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u18	Mikola Catherinechuk, European Party of Ukraine, faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. Please pass the word to Karpuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u19	Please pass the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u20	Vladimir Karpuk, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense”. Of course, the faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” supports Law 0933. It's just a small part of the debt that the Supreme Council should do for medicine in general and for primary health care and family medicine. At the same time, I point out that this law, the basis of health legislation, should be introduced in a new edition. Don't make any changes, today's one, tomorrow's the other, as predicted. And indeed, the Supreme Council needs to define these laws as the main priorities in the work plan for the second session. And in the final positions it states that this law takes effect from January 1, 2008, it needs to be amended that the law takes effect from the day it was published. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u21	School of Andriy Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u22	Thank you. I think there's no doubt that our faction will support this bill in the second reading. Only one thing that, of course, will be taken into account when we accept the budget amendments. It is a pity that the work of the Supreme Council has been so long unlocked, and I would like everyone to know who will vote for it, which is precisely because of the delay in the work of the Supreme Council, that this bill will start to be implemented immediately, but the budget for it will only be available once we vote on the amendments to the budget. So I call upon all the national MPs to begin the voting procedure right now so that we can at least cover the debts that we owe to all of our voters today because some people don't understand what they're protesting, protesting, blocking the Supreme Council's rostrum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u23	Cibenko Peter Stepanovich, Communist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u24	Thank you. The Communist faction, Zybenko. Dear colleagues, I think it's already formed, in fact, the opinion of the Hall on this bill. Of course, this problem must be solved, one of the many social problems that medical workers face in the country and including the problem of vacation. Clearly, then, this document needs to be supported. And as for some of the comments on the previous situation in the Supreme Council, I would like to ask my honourable colleagues not to ask questions of responsibility, because we will now start to clarify, and who blocked the work on the opening day of the session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So let's not do that, let's vote for the right social project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u25	Miroshenko Yuri Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u26	Dear voters, dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. Of course, the faction of the Party of the Regions will vote in favour of this bill because it has been proposed by our colleague, the representative of the Party of the Regions, Aunt Dmitry of Bahtieva, who has been working on health issues in Ukraine for many years. And of course, it's just the first step that we need to take right now, and in the further talk about the material security of medicine, to talk about the insurance medicine that now needs to be introduced in Ukraine. And all the problems that are in the area of health are being addressed, and I'm stressing that today the opposition, it's working, it's proposing bills, these bills are for the benefit of the people, and our opponents from the coalition, unfortunately, don't see it, they're just accusing the opposition.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u27	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the time for the performance is over. Unfortunately, the proposal made by the national deputy Karpuk cannot be taken into account because it was supposed to be in the table of variances and, more specifically, in the table of amendments to the draft law. In view of her absence, I cannot put her to the vote. In view of this, I put to the vote registration number 0933-d -- draft Ukrainian Law amending article 77 of the Basic Law on Health Care. People's deputies, please vote. Voting is a second reading in general. For 439 Ukrainian national deputies, the decision has been taken. Dear colleagues, I propose to go back to the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on Living Minimum. The reporter is on his way. So won't you deny that we'll start with our colleague -- the head of the Committee on Social Policy and the work of Stoyan Alexander Mikolaiovich? Is there a Slappa? And, Alexander Vitaliyovich, we invite you to the rostrum. The first deputy head of the Ukrainian Presidential Secretariat Slapak Alexander Vitaliyovich will report on the Law on Amendments to Article 5 of the Law on Living Minimum, introduced by the President of Ukraine. Please, Alexander Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u28	Your Honour, Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Your view is a simple and very important bill, because this important audience does not need to be convinced of the minimum of living for our economic and social policies. I am reminded of the fact that the minimum wage, social benefits, payments to black people, and more than ten very important social indicators are linked to the minimum of living. I would also like to remind you that the minimum subsistence minimum is established by the Budget Act on the basis of calculations carried out by the relevant ministries and departments according to the methodology approved by the Cabinet of Ministers. Yet, in life we have faced the following situation. The approved subsistence minimum in the budget often does not correspond to the real economic trends that have taken place in the life of our state. Especially in recent years, when we have accelerated inflation, people don't get adequate pensions payments, social aids that they have to rely on in accordance with the law. We had a situation in which the President of our State, neither the Cabinet of Ministers nor the relevant ministries or authorities, had responded to such calls or provided information as to what the minimum of living is today, not according to the State budget, but in fact according to the inflationary processes that are taking place. And so this is where the idea came from to ask Parliament to support changes to the law, according to which month after inflation rates become clear to the relevant ministries, the basic ministries publish the calculation of the subsistence minimum, and also direct them to the Supreme Council, the President, the Cabinet of Ministers, and social dialogue partners. [[This is the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy.]] In our view, this will make a much more transparent situation with a minimum of living, and it will help all of us to make responsible national decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u29	The questions are not for us, so, Alexander Vitaliyovich, we thank you. Head of the Committee on Social Policy and the work of Stoyan Alexander Mikolayovich. A report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u30	Dear colleagues, this is a unique case where I think all factions, without exception, support the initiative of the President of Ukraine. It is that the law provides for the amendment to article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on Living Minimum in order to publish monthly the results of living minimums on the Internet. I also want to remind you that the minimum of living is a state social standard. It has a minimum wage, a minimum pension, a family with children, and much more. It is also at the base of the power plant in the manufacturing sector and on the basis of the tariff grid. Unfortunately, this rule was removed in 2005 by the government of Timoshenko. And manual control. According to the Federation of Ukrainian Trade Unions, the minimum subsistence rates were understated by 15 to 20 percent, which means that they did not receive a minimum wage of 50 to 100 dollars, a minimum pension of 30 to 70 dollars. So the return to make this indicator public every month -- the calculated subsistence minimum -- and the calculation of the new pension, the new minimum wage, will be positive. What I'm saying is that the Chief Expert Office supports this project. They made notes to publish not only on the Internet, but also on the media. Such a proposal is supported by the Committee on Legal Policy: for wider publicity. This is also supported by our Committee on Social Policy and Work. The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy fully supports the President's proposal. That is why I am arguing with the committee that the committee is proposing not only to accept as a basis, but in general to amend the article of the Fifth Law on Living Minimum. I emphasize that this will be fair in terms of the definition of monthly “value of subsistence minimum” and adjustment.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u31	Please finish the dates.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u32	Other social benefits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u33	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign in: two in favour, two in favour. This is the first reading, and we will determine whether we vote in the first, the second, and in general, or only in the first. Alexandrovska Alla Alexandrovna, Communist Party
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u34	I would like to take the floor to Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u35	Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich. It's possible from the rostrum, Peter Mikolaiovich. For you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u36	Dear colleagues, our constituents! The Communist faction will vote in favour of this bill, but I would like to say the following. What if we read this bill carefully, it gives the answer in general to what the President thinks he's doing. And what I'm saying is that he doesn't think about the people of Ukraine at all if he makes such laws at all for consideration by the Supreme Council. He needs to do what he likes to do, which the press is good at. Dear voters, think about what the President is proposing: the calculation of the monthly actual minimum of living per person is published by the 20th of the next month by a special authority on his official website, as well as data on the actual size of living minimum per person, together with the corresponding calculations given each month to the President. Ladies and gentlemen, are these calculations that will boil our people? Perhaps something will appear on the table? Nothing will come up, just to say that he seems to care about social problems, about the standard of living. But there's no standard of living here. There's the poverty and irresponsibility of the President who doesn't understand at all what needs to be done to feed. If the President would have listened to our proposals, he would have to use the pricing law, the 5th and 9th articles, and make it clear that in the country, prices should be adjusted for products, for goods of first importance, for medicines and for tariffs. And according to this, let's say, perspectives, I'm offering exactly for those who are currently profiting from the people of Ukraine, we're going to pay taxes on profits. And those who are tearing blood from people today will be held liable for criminal acts. This should have been done by the President, and he's once again trying to fool people and so, practically, today shows that he never thought about the real economy, he doesn't know the real life, and therefore his proposals have no relation to the social standard of life at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u37	Konovaluk Valerius Illich. The only thing that was written here, Peter Mikolaiovich, is a plus, so you've been recorded as "for" the bill. What about the bill? Okay. Konovaluk Valerius Illich, faction of the Party of the Regions. Valérie Illich, will you be there?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u38	No, I'm asking you to pass the word to the National Deputy Harry.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u39	National MP Hara from the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u40	Dear colleagues, the faction of the Party of the Regions supports the President's initiative and hopes that this will be the first step towards restoring the status of a minimum of living, as stated. To this end, it is necessary, firstly, to commit the Cabinet of Ministers to approve the scientific and social council with the participation of the parties to the social partnership in 2005 with an expanded list of food, goods and services. According to the most modest calculations, the current and agreed living minimum of 200 bracelets is less than the objective one to be. And so the minimum wage is less, so the minimum pension is less, all the benefits are less than they are. Second. Return to the status of subsistence minimum as an independent and objective social norm, which should be adopted, as before, before 2005, by a separate law of the Supreme Council and before the start of work on the State budget. That is, we are adopting an objective budget, and the Government, therefore, must expect a minimum of living standards from the State budget. And third. To oblige the Cabinet of Ministers to propose a mechanism to revise the State budget parameters if, in the event of a de facto subsistence minimum, which will be published in accordance with this law, there is much more to the subsistence minimum that we have approved. If we take all three steps, after the first step taken by the President, we will have a living minimum of objective and social benefits much higher than today. Once again, the Party of the Regions supports the President's initiative and will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u41	Thank you. I ask that you sign up for five minutes. Stoyan Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u42	Since I have already made my stand, I give my word to my colleague Jaroslav Sukh.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u43	Jaroslav Suhi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u44	Jaroslav Suhi, Party of Regions, Zaporozhye Of course, this bill needs to be supported. And I would like to hope that this will be the first step that the President of Ukraine has taken in the area of legislative reform of social and labour relations. This bill is not profound, it is rather technical, and corrects the errors made by the government in 2005 when the publicity was lifted. But when things got even worse, the government offered, if you remember, a minimum worth of living minimum. So we kind of compared the minimum wage, minimum pensions and social pay to this low cost of living. For that to happen, we need publicity, and now we're going to have a real estimate of the minimum of living without political speculation, without demagogies, and without populism. A real assessment of this real assessment needs to be supported by this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u45	Thank you. Zarubinski Oleg Alexandrovich “Block of Lithuania”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u46	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, honourable colleagues, it seems to me that this bill has no counterversity, and I am convinced that "Litvina Block" is convinced that we will all vote for it, which is obviously going to win four hundred votes and more. But it's different. I'd like to ask you a question, dear colleagues, how many more years do we have to account for the minimum of living? The beggar category is a category based on poverty, because we understand very well that the subsistence minimum does not include a whole range of positions on social consumption. Unfortunately, I haven't been able to ask a question to the reporter, but I think I want to express this position of the "Lithuania Block" that we need to move on to a social standard of consumption that includes both food and utilities, and the ability of people to education, to health care, and so on. We're going to vote, but I'm asking you to move on to today's categories. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u47	Thank you. Stojko Ivan Mihajlovich, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u48	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, please pass on the word to Vladimir Viezowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u49	Please give me your word. I didn't even hear who.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u50	Viennese.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u51	Viennese. Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u52	Vladimir Vizevski, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. As we discussed the bill, we unanimously came to an understanding on the Committee on Social Policy and Work. And I understand that it is because of the positions expressed by colleagues in this room that we will unanimously, almost all of us will adopt this law. I'd like to express my position specifically with regard to individual speakers from the rostrum. Perhaps they have forgotten a little about what law we are talking about today, if they are so in pain for the working people, it would probably be necessary not to stand with stupid slogans at the rostrum, but to work on laws that would improve the lives of the working people. Then we achieved greater efficiency in our work. So I would like to listen and immediately accept this law in the first. It's already in the end.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u53	Tomenko Mikola Volodymyrovich, Yulia Timoshenko Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u54	Dear colleagues! The faction of Yulia Timoshenko supports the President's bill. And we want to point out that, of course, with all the technology of the bill, a strategic bill is important to allow us in the session room not to repeat the mistakes of the previous parliament when we repeatedly called on the Yanukovic government to review the standards of social support of our people. And then we heard the famous words “Let’s go. ” I would like to see, once the results of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and the government have been published, a government that would not have responded to the opposition quite adequately and spoke, now we need to adjust the budget. And wages and pensions should be adjusted with inflation rates. That's why we support this, and the BIT will vote unanimously.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u55	Thank you, Mikola Volodymyrovich. Najonov Andry Mihajlovich, Communist Party
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u56	I ask you to pass the word, Ally Alexandrowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u57	Alexandrovska Alla Alexandrovna
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u58	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. I understand that the opponents in the orange cluster who have just spoken have just fulfilled the wish they have made. Otherwise, it is not possible to explain why the President of Ukraine introduces such a serious issue, which regulates the level of income of the population and in fact ensures that the population is destitute, imposes such an empty, completely uncontained law. I'm asking a question to those sitting here in this room and those listening to us. Please tell me, if we adopt this law, will there be a real assessment of the minimum of living? The real standard of living will allow people to eat properly, to dress normally, to live normally? Of course not. That's not what the law says. And we, the Communists, will only support it for one simple reason, we need to refine it, we need to introduce certain categories into this bill, certain levels, certain criteria.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u59	Miroshenko Yuri Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u60	Dear voters! Dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. Of course, the Party of Regions will vote in favour of this bill because it is obvious that the inflation that is today, unfortunately, in our country, eats up all the payments that are being made and the cost of living that is being calculated. But at the same time, I would like to draw the attention of all colleagues that we need to bring into line with European standards and to list those goods that are being calculated in determining the subsistence minimum. As for the allegations that have been addressed today's opposition, it seems to me that there is evidence that we are set up to solve people's social problems is the fact that we are now working and that we are adopting this law. So I'd like us not to push each other to blame for political issues, but to vote for this much-needed country, the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u61	Dear colleagues! Alexander Vitaliovich Schlapak, will you take the replica or not? You won't. Thank you. Allow me to ask Mr. Stoyan Alexander Mikolaiovich. In your report, you said that the committee was proposing first, second reading as a whole. I've seen the project. Mr. Haru can be invited. Please turn on Harry's microphone, so we can understand that we're putting first, second reading as a whole, or just as a basis. Please, National Deputy Hara.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u62	Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to say that the criticisms expressed by the people's deputies have taken place, but they are not part of the bill. We are literally next week, the Committee has already considered four more bills relating to subsistence minimums. All the comments you make and the list, the expansion of the list, and the enhancement of social standards are related to other bills. Therefore, our committee has been asked to adopt the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u63	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I would like to support the committee's proposal to vote first, second reading as a whole. Because first, in fact, in the history of Ukraine, every citizen can learn what the real level of living is. This was the problem that arose when each State Budget Act was passed, when each government drew its own subsistence minimum. That is why I ask to put to the vote in the first, second reading and in general Bill No. 1314 on amending article 5 of the Ukrainian Housing Minimum Act. Please vote. For the 442 national deputies of Ukraine. Decision taken. The factions, please. Dear National Deputies! Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. This is Bill 0893. Ukraine's draft Act “To amend the Ukrainian Economic and Procedural Code” is the second reading. A member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Justice, Pritica Dmitry Mikitovich, reports. Please, Dmitri Mikitovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u64	Dear Arseny Petrovich! Dear National Deputies! For your consideration of the second reading, Bill No. 0893 aims at improving the existing system of case-filement of decisions of the courts and at harmonizing this order with the relevant rules of civil and administrative jurisdiction. I would like to remind you that in February 2007, in favour of this bill in the first reading, the national MPs supported almost unanimously -- about 400 votes he won. The proposed amendments to the Code of Economic Procedure will help to eliminate the significant differences in the legal regulation of the procedure for the cassation of court decisions of the courts and their prosecution to the Supreme Court of Ukraine in relation to exceptional circumstances following the examination of the decisions in question. At this time, only the Code of Economic Procedure contains a rule according to which the decision of the local court of commerce can be charged in a cassation order without being reviewed in the Court of Appeal, or a exclamation. This code alone provides five reasons for examining the decisions of the Supreme Court of the Master Court in the Supreme Court. For other courts, there are only two reasons, and only from exceptional circumstances, not re-appealing, as is provided for the household courts. Today, virtually all decisions of the Supreme Court, including approvals, are reviewed by the Supreme Court in a reoccupation order that has a very negative impact on the activities of the owners. The master’s procedural code is very old, but in the new edition it is not known when it is adopted, so these changes are essential. Court decisions must be stable and predictable. The final court rulings rendered by the court of a court of cassation, which is the Supreme Court of the Master of Ukraine, should not be reviewed except in cases of new facts, or a review of court decisions under new circumstances. That is what the President, former European Court of Wild Haber, drew attention to when he met with the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. Experts from the Council of Europe, leading scientists, and legal scientists in Ukraine have repeatedly called attention to this. The proposed bill is aimed at resolving this problem and clearly distinguishes between the cassation powers of the Supreme Court of the Master Court and the authorization of the Supreme Court of Ukraine to review decisions under exceptional circumstances. It also improves the procedure for allowing for cassation and opening procedures under exceptional circumstances. In preparing the bill for the second reading of the proposal and amendments to the legislative initiative that are included in the comparative table, the committee is either fully counted, or partially counted, or editorially except for individual proposals made by Smythech, Lyszko, and Carmazin. The national deputy Smith and Lazko are proposing to leave the old order of cassation of court decisions, that is, without a mandatory appeal review of the local courts ’ decisions, which will have a negative effect on the quality and effectiveness of justice today. At the same time, such a rule gives the courts the right to challenge the decision of the local court to appeal and cassation. This does not mean that the Court of Appeal examines the decisions of the local court by fact and by law. I mean, he's reviewing the decision both in appeal and in cassation, which is what I'd say, a good thing for the defendant who's suing the decision, an appellate body, because it's completely reviewing the decision. In full, both in fact and in the light of the rules of law. The sequence proposed by the bill of cassation has justified itself in civil and administrative courts, so it must also be introduced in domestic law. The proposal for such an order of cassation is supported by Parliament's previous call, mostly by the majority of the people's deputies. Deputies Smitius, Lazko and Karmazin also propose that article 111 be supplemented with an additional basis 15 that gives the right to appeal against the Supreme Court’s decision in connection with the unequal application by the court of a cassation institution of the same rule of law and their inadequacy with the decisions of the Supreme Court or the Supreme Court of Commerce. I'm going to end with yesterday's committee review of this bill. Against his editorials and his acceptance in the second reading, he voted only on three national MPs. Therefore, the committee’s request to accept the proposed bill in second reading and generally as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u65	Thank you, Dmitri Mikitovich. Dear colleagues, according to the Rules, we should go as follows, this is a complicated option, and I must make every amendment that is counted and that is not counted. The option that always applies is that I put to the vote the amendments that are rejected by the committee. So let's do it this way.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u66	Sit down, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u67	Please sit down. We'll get to that. Thank you. Sit down, please. Come on, fellows, I'd like to leave with your permission next time. National MP Smythuch, edited. Agreed by the People's MP of the 114th, changes to article 91? I'll give you my word. National MP, Smithukh. Changes to 91 articles Your offer is fully accounted for or not? Because this is supposed to be “edited”. What does it mean to “consider it editorially”? Please turn on the Trash. You insist, don't you?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u68	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, this amendment is included in part. It works for me.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u69	Thank you. People's deputy Lazko. Article 107. Your amendment has been rejected. Are you insisting or insisting? Please include the People's Deputies of Laishka.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u70	Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. What do the drafters propose? They propose to amend Article 107 of the Code of Conduct and to provide that the right to file a complaint of appeal can only be provided that the court has examined the decision in an appeal. In fact, if a person has not, for some reason or another, brought an appeal against the court’s decision, he is deprived of his right to appeal in a cassational order. But that's not right. Because there is a 129th article of the Constitution, which provides for the right of citizens to complain about court decisions, both in appeal and in cassation. And there's no interdependence that if you haven't filed an appeal, you don't have a right to be in a cassation. So this is actually a narrowing down of the constitutional rights of Ukrainian citizens to challenge court decisions. And our parliament, where there is a democratic majority, cannot in any way vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u71	Thank you. In view of this, please, Dmitry Mikitovich, everything needs to be equally put to the vote on account of the amendment of the Láška deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u72	Ladies and gentlemen, the point is that we've already talked about the fact that we're going to unify the procedure for reviewing decisions according to the CASU and the Civil Procedure Code. And we've voted with you already, by accepting the CASU and the Civil Procedure Code, just for this order. That is, for an appeal, and then for a cassation. This includes all the standards and, so to speak, Western countries. They're Asian, really. That's the first one.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u73	Dmitri Vicentiovich, thank you. I think we'll do it this way. I would like to vote on the amendment of the Light to Article 107. Please vote. For 204. Your amendment is off-limits. The next amendment, which was rejected by the committee, is the amendment of the People's Deputy Carmazin to articles 111-11: 3, 4, 5. National Deputy Carmazin. Please turn on the microphone for National Deputy Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u74	National Deputy Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! This law removes the possibility of acquittal. It's just a matter of making a decision. I would like to pay attention to the distinguished reporter, Dmitri Mikitovich, that this is not a harmonization and an approach to a court decision. This is about procedurally naming a document. And it's about narrowing down documents that can then be sued in the cassation order. So we're actually getting out of a cassational complaint about the decisions that the Supreme Court will take. Whatever he wrote there, it'll be the truth in the last instance. Even so, the Supreme Court will not be able to deal with this. I think it's wrong, and I would ask you to take that into account and say that you didn't have to.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u75	Dmitri Mikitovich, please. I'm asking you for 30 seconds to give us a brief answer so we can keep moving.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u76	Ladies and gentlemen, yes, Yuri Anatoliyevich may not be very careful, although he reads all the drafts, he read the whole bill. Here we have generalized the word “advance, decision, decision” with the same title of “court decisions”. As this has been done, dear friends, as has already been done in the Civil Procedure Code and in others. Review of court decisions. That's what it's called. But this is where they go in, and the decisions, and the decisions. So why? I'm telling you again. It is a general word for the convenience of editing the article and so forth. In general, the article is foreordained.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u77	Dear National Deputies! I put to the vote the amendment of People’s Deputy Karmazin to article 111-1, which was rejected by the committee. Please vote. For – 203 The decision is not taken. Thus, the amendment of Deputy Carmazin is not taken into account. Amendment to article 111-14 by the national MP Smithuh. Deputy Smitsch, are you insisting on your amendment? Please turn on the MP's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u78	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, article 111-14 of the bill. I propose after saying: “As a result of the review of the Court of Appeal. - to complete with the words - as well as the approval of the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine on the return of the cassation complaint.” I insist on my amendment and ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u79	Dmitri Mikitovich, there's an offer not to discuss it, because you're already on the committee. Please put to the vote the amendment of the national MP Smithuch. Please vote. For – 53 The decision is not taken. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to interrupt the consideration of this document in order to determine the organization of the future work of the Supreme Council. We have two minutes before the end of the evening plenary. The head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has the right to continue for only 15 minutes. So I propose that we continue this evening's meeting until we consider all issues of the agenda. God forbid, we might consider the Kabmin Act, the imperative mandate, the parliamentary immunity. Dear colleagues, I ask you to vote in favour of the continuation of the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine until the day-to-day issues are considered. Ad-hok, 51st. For – 406 Decision taken. Sorry to interrupt the meeting. Yes, next amendment, National MP Smithukh, 115-15. Please turn on the microphone to the National MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u80	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, I draw my colleagues' attention to article 111-15, which conflicts with article 125, part two, of the Constitution of Ukraine, because in fact it completely removes the Supreme Court of Ukraine from matters of economic jurisdiction and thus makes it impossible to apply the same rules of substantive and procedural law. The task of the Supreme Court of Ukraine is to ensure the same application of laws and to ensure the protection of constitutional rights and freedoms through the direct application of the rules of the Constitution of Ukraine. In connection with this proposal, article 111-15 should be presented in the form that I am proposing. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u81	I ask you to put to the vote the amendment of the national MP Smith. Please vote. For – 23 No correction of support was found, “for ” – 23. The next amendment is the People's Deputy Laska, 115-15 articles. Please turn on the People's Deputy Light microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u82	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. The Civil Procedure Code and the Code of Administrative Judiciality are one of the reasons for the conduct of exceptional circumstances and provide for the unequal application by the courts of the same law. It would be surprising, therefore, if the Code of Conduct did not provide for that reason. That is why it is suggested that article 111-15 should be added to the third paragraph in order to provide a basis for the review of the decision, namely the unequal application by the courts of the machining institution of the same rule of law. So please support me. In general, I would like to say that these changes are aimed at turning the Supreme Court into such a sacred, untouchable cow that no one will ever be able to charge, that is, who paid more, got a decision, and that is forever. For this we have foretold these changes to the law that we are considering today.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u83	Please put to the vote the 22nd amendment of the People's Deputy Laska. For – 205 The decision is not taken. One day we have a specific vote. National Deputy Carmazin with Amendment 23. 115-15. Carmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u84	Honorable national MPs, we leave only two circumstances under which we can appeal in connection with exceptional circumstances. It's an international court institution, if it recognizes it, and it's an unconstitutional decision. All of it. But we have the Supreme Administrative Court, we have the Supreme Court, and I hope that there will be higher civilian and higher criminal courts. And that's when they're inadequacy with their decisions, some decision will be taken by the Supreme Economic Court, then there will be an opportunity to file a complaint. Therefore, I propose that paragraph 3 be supplemented by the following wording: “Inadequateness of their decisions by the Supreme Court of Ukraine or by a higher court of other specialization on the application of the rules of material law”. Believe that this is a very narrow circle of issues, but then you can really say that the only legislation can watch how the Supreme Court of Ukraine is being implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u85	I ask you to put to the vote the appropriate amendment of the People's Deputy Karmazin. Vote, comrades. For – 215 No decision taken, no correction counted. Next amendment, which is partially counted. National MP Lazko, 27th Amendment. 111-17. Please, Miniphone Baby.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u86	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear Arsenius Petrovich, I propose not to consider any further amendments to mine, for the faction and coalition have decided not to vote in favour of this law at all. I would like to stress once again that this law is aimed at restricting the rights of ordinary citizens of Ukraine and the establishment of a single court institution where corporate interests often take precedence over common sense and the rule of law. So I take my amendments off and I will not vote in favour of this law. And I urge everyone in this room not to support him.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u87	Thank you. Thus, the amendments of the people’s delegate, Smitzhuh, are removed from the vote. The next amendment, which is included in part, is a national MP. Excuse me, People's Deputies. The next amendment is the national MP, Smittuh. That's 30 revisions. Please, Smith's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u88	Thank you, Arseny Petrovich. I agree with the committee's decision. My amendment is partially taken into account, and I agree with that decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u89	Thank you. We don't put a vote on it. The next amendment is yours, 111-18. That's 33 revisions. Do you agree, too?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u90	I also agree with this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u91	Thank you. The next 35 amendment, which is rejected as a whole. National MP Smithukh. And 36 if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u92	I agree with the committee's decision on these amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u93	Thank you. Declined, so. Your amendment, which is partially counted, number 38, is also accepted?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u94	Correction number 38 is partially counted. I agree with the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u95	Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor. Thus, the People's Deputy Klukkowski. Please, he wants to make adjustments. Turn on the microphone for the People's Deputy of Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u96	Thank you. Yuri Klukkowski, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. Mr. Arsenija Petrovich, I would like to remind you that, in accordance with the Rules of Second Reading, every national MP has the right to object to any amendment taken into account by the Committee, and then this amendment is put to a vote in the Hall for confirmation. In this regard, I have such claims to three amendments. And I will ask you to put them to the vote for their confirmation. This is the amendment of the first national delegate, Smittuch, who excludes the legitimate interests of the court on the basis of an appeal. In this regard, I would like to remind you of the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, which explained what “legal interests” are and how they are protected. In this regard, I am. I'm going to talk to you for two more, and I'm going to ask you to put a first amendment to this bill to support the room.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u97	I ask you to put to the vote Amendment No. 1 tabled by the national MP Smithukh for her support. Please vote. By -1 Thus, the amendment of the people’s delegate Smith is not taken into account. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to listen carefully to what the chairman has to say: for support. Next. Please, Yuri Bogdanovich. You had two other amendments that you deny.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u98	Now I'd like to, because it's only been given a table here today and it's hard to find everything, and I'm now asking you to put the amendments to the vote. I deny them and ask them not to support them. But I ask you to put to the vote Amendments 40 and 41. Because these amendments oblige the Supreme Court to stop even in cases where conduct is already open. This has not been the norm in court at all when the law forbids the court to conclude a case that has begun. I ask you to put this amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u99	Dmitri Mikitovich wants to say a phrase. Please. Turn the microphone on in the stands.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u100	Honorable national MPs, and vice versa, when an entity applies for annulment under exceptional circumstances, are granted the Supreme Court the right to suspend the execution of a decision by taking a case. Well, it's for a period of deliberation. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u101	I request that two appropriate amendments be put to the vote, which are taken into account by the Committee and which are expressed by the People's Deputy Klukkowski. Please vote. For – 2 So these two amendments are rejected, comrades. So two amendments are rejected. Those considered by the committee are rejected. My colleagues, I see it so well that in principle the desire is no longer for anyone to express themselves. Please two in favour, two in favor, and we are going to the vote. You will not be two in favour? For reasons of vote. Comrades, be quiet. You won't be motivated? You won't. The committee proposes to put the bill in second reading and in general. Please vote. Comrades, I say a committee proposal. Then I'll put it to a vote if there's no other proposal. Please vote. For – 224 Colleagues, I ask you to put this bill on third reading. Please show by factions. Comrades, on third reading. Come on, that'll be right. Let's send him out, we've read the second one, and we'll work on the third one. I ask you to vote on the third reading of it. For – 223 Colleagues, this is the third time we've re-readed the bill. Second read. I ask you to vote for the second one again. We'll work on the committee, we'll discuss it again. Please vote. Second reading, comrades. For -230 Decision taken. On the second rereading, a bill was sent. It's a normal decision. Let's move on, comrades. Please show by factions. The next bill is very complicated, colleagues, is the Law on State Procurement. I would like to point out once again what our decision was when the agenda was approved. When the agenda is approved, we have decided, in accordance with the 105th Rules, to support the Economic Policy Committee's decision to adopt this bill as a basic bill, and then the 32 bills that are there, we will be working on the second reading. I'm requesting a reporter, National Deputy Zvaricz Roman Mikhailovich, to the rostrum. What about Kozemykina? Mr. Kozemyakin. Please, National Deputy Kožemyakin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u102	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! In your view, it is proposed to amend the Ukrainian Law on the purchase of goods, jobs and services at public expense. The bill was drafted for the implementation of paragraph 7 of Protocol No. 5 of the Council and Coalition of the factions “Our Ukraine” - People's Self-Defense” and “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko” in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call. With the participation of representatives of the government, the Secretary of the President of Ukraine, the Associations of Cities and Communities of Ukraine, the heads of local governments, the public, and the use of proposals made by the working group to prepare proposals to improve legislation in the field of public procurement. So this bill is the result of a joint work that provides consensus between the country's political elites and takes the utmost account of local self-government proposals for the facilitation of the process, public procurement procedures and locations. Bill No. 1476d on the implementation of the regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine received a positive conclusion from the Professional Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Economic Policy and had a positive conclusion from the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. In addition, a bill approved by the Secretary of the President of Ukraine, the government, was supported and implemented by representatives of the local self-government and associations of Ukrainian cities and communities. I'd like to draw your attention to the basics of the bill. Thus, the bill is designed to increase the minimum cost of purchasing items for public procurement. Free publication and publication of purchase notices The introduction of restrictions on the membership of the solicitation committees of rural, rural, urban, district, district, Kyiv district and Sevastopol city councils. Implementation of procedures for public procurement in the gardens of inter-ministerial coordination at the expense of local budgets. The minimum number of students is decreasing.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u103	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u104	Once again, I would like to stress the urgency and seriousness of the question that is being considered and I ask you to support the bill in the first reading and to vote on the relevant draft decision of the committee. All the proposals made by draft law No. 2010-1 made by the people's deputies Shpak, Vaschuk and Derkac will be taken into account in preparing for the second reading. What's more, if something doesn't work out for our colleagues, I'm making a promise. That this bill will not be introduced into the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u105	Thank you. The correspondent is Osika Sergey Grigorovich, the first deputy head of the Committee on Economic Policy. Please, Sergey Grigorovitch, your report.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, with a view to saving your time and taking into account what the previous speaker has said, I can say that the committee has considered this bill and, firstly, that it has been initiated and worked by representatives of the City Association, local self-government associations, the Government and the Secretariat of the President, and given the complexity of this issue and the presence of a large number of other bills, we have recommended that the bill be based on the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u107	Thank you, Sergey Grigorovitch. I ask you to register, two for, two against. Introducing from the rostrum. Gudima Alexander Mikolaiovich, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u108	Hand over Kravczuk to Vasil Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u109	The word is given to Kravczuk Vasil Petrovich. Please, from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u110	Dear colleagues, this bill has practically spoken so much that we have no right not to vote for it now. Therefore, the “Julia Tymoshenko Block” will vote in favour of the law in the first reading in order to give our people the opportunity to work in place, in order to be able to do so, there is protection of health, so that there is a culture for education, and then people will see that you are really afraid of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u111	Thank you. “Block of Lithuania”, Litwin Yuri Aleksijovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u112	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, I ask you to pass the word to Catherine Timofievni Vashchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u113	Catherine Timofievna from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u114	Dear voters, honourable national deputies, you remember how the Supreme Council began its work last week, and it was the condition of the People's Block of Lithuania that the law on tender purchases should be voted on. You all know that there is no worse racket than the state's, when public procurement is conducted today. It makes all the government institutions that make these purchases groan, and people don't understand us. Because of the extent to which the positions of our law will be taken into account, our vote will depend. The speaker said that they would be taken into account, but between these two laws -- ours and those put to the vote -- are the following principles of difference. And we want to hear from the committee and from a report on how fully they're going to be accounted for. We suggest that the Tender Chamber and the Inter-ministerial Procurement Commission be eliminated at the expense of government funds in general to increase. [[Applause]] We're proposing that there be increased opportunities to buy in places without restrictions, nevertheless, honourable colleagues, what is 100,000 bracelets today buying at a hospital, at school, or nothing. We're offering at least 100. In your law, all of this is limited by a much smaller number. The job is 300,000.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u115	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u116	Which is 300,000 and so on. And, dear colleagues, if only one railway last year counted more than 67 million state funds to the Tender Chamber, what are we doing in Ukraine? So now that we're adopting this law and we're in agreement with the President and with the Cabinet, we want to hear that it's changing radically, and we're actually going to meet people, which means our electorate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u117	Thank you. Jerbravski Pavel Ivanovich, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u118	This law was not merely spoken of by a lazy man because he was shameful to the entire system of things. I am convinced that the existence of the regime that exists does not lead to the normal work of everyone, from the village council, ending up in a state enterprise. Today we realize that it's better than worse bills. However, there is such a concept as a tendering chamber in this bill. I don't understand how a structure that's being implemented can control, control, control trade. I don't understand how a public organization can actually manage huge costs, government costs. And in fact, "Our Ukraine" made a clear decision, we will not vote in favour of this bill. However, they are ready to send for the first readout to eliminate both the tender room and the entire supply system. We are not blocking this issue, but we will not support such a corrupt system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u119	Thank you, Paul Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, so for your consideration, there is a draft law amending the law on the purchase of goods, jobs and services at the expense of the state. In fact, it's about the adoption of this bill in the first reading, and we have a few options for behavior. First, accept in the first reading, the second, do not accept in the first reading. Or we'll put this "car" anywhere, because if we don't accept anything, the old law will continue to work and there will be the same old song, the old government purchases, the solicitation room with incredible powers, and we'll never come to any agreement in part that this bill will ever begin to move. So either we put it on the first reading, in the second reading, we raise the boundaries that are done without the corresponding tenders and without the purchase. And we're going to refute the proper authorization of the Tender Chamber, but we have to start the process, because if we don't vote, there's nothing at all. Please, on the basis of the five - minute vote. Let's sign up. Zinovy Vasilovich "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u120	The faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear colleagues! Why "Our Ukraine" said that this law should not be voted on in the first reading. Because we think that a public organization today cannot control and function in such a way that it organizes purchases at a public expense. We think it should be a return to either the Ministry of Economics or another government body. So we have a proposal to re-vote this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u121	Thank you. Serbian Yuri Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u122	Dear colleagues! I support what the Head of the Supreme Council says must finally remove this burden from our path. Nevertheless, I urge that he be voted for in the first reading, and that is incorrect, and that imperfect law can still be corrected in the second reading. Therefore, our faction will vote in favour of this law, for long ago all the host subjects have been waiting for a positive solution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u123	Thank you. Landik Vladimir Ivanovich Regional Party
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u124	Party of regions. You know, I'm very upset with the approach we've taken. The whole country is saying that this law is corrupt, everyone is standing by it, and the same people who control it are the audit commission from. This Chamber of Tenders is once again offered by the same Chamber of Tenders. Therefore, I also support the proposal of the Lithuanian Block to remove the Chamber of Tenders, which is what to remove.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u125	Litwin Yuri Alexiyovich, Block of Lithuania.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u126	Arsenius Petrovich, please pass the word to Catherine Timofievni Vashtuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u127	Catherine Timofievna Vashchuk
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u128	Dear Chief, you will make your proposal clear to the reporter. If two basic positions are included that the solicitation chamber and the commission of the interlocutors in this law are not foreseen, the hall will be cancelled to support this law, because that is the basis. If we accept as the basis that they exist, what we will not do, what we will not do in the second reading of the regulations, everything will continue exactly as it is today. So two fundamental points, these two organs have to be destroyed as a class.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u129	Thank you, Catherine Timothy. Katerinczuk Mikola Dmitrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u130	Mikola Catherinechuk, European Party of Ukraine, faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. Dear radio listeners, dear colleagues, I think that everyone in the country who is using the budget now thinks what position the Supreme Council will take in the area of money laundering precisely because of these opaque schemes that are used and enshrined in this law. So I urge you, if you are responsible politicians, not to adopt this law. We need to repeal the law that is now in existence and bring about a system of government money. You can't do that. You have to have a conscience to make money on that. There are no authoritative politicians in the country today who would consider what is going on. Let us not support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u131	Tomenko Mikola Volodymyrovich, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u132	Dear colleagues, I am convinced that this is a matter that we are considering today must be resolved immediately and quickly. I see two ways. The first path the national deputy Catherinechuk spoke of, if there is a willingness, to return to the previous standards of tendering when there were no public or other corruption structures. There's another way. If we want to do this very quickly, we need to make the next decision today. We vote in favour of the bill in the first reading only on the condition that in the second reading, and in general, the Tender Chamber will be eliminated as an institution that takes care of these purchases. If this isn't bugged by the Chief of the Supreme Council, then I understand that we don't change anything in tender purchases.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u133	Thank you. Burlakov Pavel Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u134	I'd like to give you the word of God.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u135	Theological Inna Hermanovna. People's deputies have noticed about time. Yellow means there's 50 seconds left, and red means time's up.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u136	Dear Speaker, please don't count me these seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u137	We won't count, Inna Hermanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u138	Dear colleagues, we have no right to support, professionally or morally, that corrupt scheme that is now in place in the Ukrainian Chamber of Commerce. We know that in this room there are two people in the BUT faction who have a direct bearing on these schemes, this is Mr. Yatzenko and Mr. Osik. We know that the whole country knows this and knows its heroes in the face. So I call on all those who have morals and have skills, in no way to vote in favour of a law that continues to operate a system of hidden, secret, black schemes for the organization of tendering.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u139	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, if you'll excuse me, please allow us to finish Inna Hermanovna. Excuse me. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u140	Today, neither the state, the state budget, nor our citizens, nor all state institutions will forgive us if we don't cover up this black scheme and that's the only one, one of the conditions under which we agreed to unlock the activities of the Supreme Council. We have to eliminate the current pattern of tender purchases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u141	Replica, Osika Sergey Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u142	Dear Inna Hermanovna, we have heard this scream for three months of electoral campaign both on television and on radio. Those are words, those are emotions. For your information, 11 operational teams, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and so on, and so on, were working in July, August and September. We haven't found anything. That's a fact. First. Then there's the second one. You've already lost a few ships, you'll lose another one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u143	Thank you. Dear colleagues, for our reasons, you ended up, Inna Hermanovna, not saying your name, not saying. He said: “Inna Hermanovna.” And by the book, it's just a last name. Ladies and gentlemen, I am obliged to put to the vote a draft decision of the Supreme Council on the adoption on the basis of the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the purchase of goods, jobs and services at State expense. Please vote in favour of this bill. For – 282 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, in the first reading, the adopted draft of the Ukrainian Law on State Procurement. I'm asking you to show by factions. “Party of Regions” – 120, BUT – 135, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” – 0, Communist – 27, “Block of Lithuania” – 0. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the next issue of the agenda. This is a draft of the Ukrainian Armed Forces Act 2008. I would like to ask the rapporteur, Head of the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine Kirichenko Sergey Alexanderovich. Mr. Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces, no, you're not the Commander-in-Chief, we have the President. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u144	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! I'm presenting the Ukrainian Armed Forces Bill 2008 This project was supported by the National Security and Defence Committee. The draft law provides for the establishment of a military force in Ukraine at the end of 2008 of 191 thousand, including 148 thousand military personnel. Thus, the reduction in the strength of the Armed Forces in 2008 will be 9,000, including one thousand military personnel and eight thousand personnel of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. These numbers are different from those of the National Development Programme of the Ukrainian Armed Forces for 2006-2011. The need to cancel the pace of the reduction of the military force is largely due to the underfunding of the government’s actions during the first two years of its implementation and underfunding of 5 billion dollars. This did not allow the disposal of 101,000 tons of missiles and ammunition, the decommissioning of 14 arsenals of bases and warehouses, the deployment of an automated weapons control system, the release of the Armed Forces from the non-proper security functions, the defences and the transfer of those functions to civilian structures. The reasons mentioned above limit the possibilities for entering the numbers defined by the State Program, requiring that the Armed Forces have a significant number of personnel. Reducing the pace of reduction in 2008 will allow the necessary preparations for the deployment of warehouse arsenals?????? which are not foreseen in the Armed Forces of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u145	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u146	Infrastructural facilities, etc. During the 2009-2010 period, an increase in the pace of reduction and exit is planned. The cuts in 2008 will be made at the expense of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. The shortening will not touch the military force’s battle force, on the contrary, the projected partial increase in the number of individual battle parts and the formation of a combat jet artillery regiment in the combined rapid response force in the sums. Thus, in 2008, it is planned to reduce the staffing of 14 bases, replacement of residential and operational personnel of the Ukrainian Armed Forces for services from the residential and operational services of military town funds by operators, replacement of the units of the armed guards for the services of the State Security Service, optimisation of the structure and size of the command of the ground forces, air forces, support forces and military commissions. The reform of the Armed Forces in 2008 is planned to be carried out at the expense of the State budget. According to our calculations, 718 million dollars is required to make improvements in the number. The approved State budget does not fully ensure that these measures are implemented and that this needs are fully met, we predict, will take place after the 2008 review of the State Budget. I ask you to uphold this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u147	Thank the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, Kirichenko Sergey Alexanderovich, not the Supreme. I beg you, Anatoly Stepanovich Grizzenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u148	Dear Mr. Head, Honourable People's Deputies, this bill, which is now proposed for approval, is, in our view, a good example of cooperation between the President as the Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces of Ukraine and the Supreme Council. You've obviously noticed that at first there was a bill that predicted a reduction of 17,000. But after a very careful, very careful, general discussion on the committee, it was recommended to limit the pace of reduction and reduce the army by just nine thousand this year, of which only a thousand were members of the military. The president accepted this proposal and introduced another bill, which is now under consideration. This is the first and most important. The other one. The president agreed to work on a bill for the next few years that would confirm the number parameters for the ninth, 10th, 11th years, a corresponding reduction of 12 to 17,000. [[19]] On a committee of 15 people, 14 voted in favour, one opposed, a deputy who opposed argued that the State guarantees of social protection of those soldiers who were being released should be restored. It's very sad, but when the government made changes to the budget, the Supreme Council approved the difference between these guarantees. But attending the meeting, a representative of Minfin promised that when preparing the budget changes, these guarantees would be restored. Since the MPs have doubts, the committee has drafted the relevant bill on its own initiative, prepared by a colleague of Velizhanski, and we will bring it in. And these guarantees will apply according to Genstab's data about 250 to 300 military personnel. It's about providing them with housing. Ask him to support this bill and accept it as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u149	Thank you, Anatoly Stepanovich. The committee's proposal is to accept the foundation as a whole. Thank you. Colleagues, such as this first reading – two in favour, two in favour, two in favour, a reduced procedure and we will vote. Kosov Mikhailo Vasilovich, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u150	Kosov Mikhailo Vasilovich, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. This bill certainly needs to be supported. The other thing that we have very large debts about the army in general, because we don't fully finance the needs of the army every fiscal year, and that's why our bloc's proposal that we gradually move to the military under the contractual system remains valid. Unfortunately, this year we will only be able to transfer certain types of troops to the contractual system, but these are the main units in military formations. The following year, we will obviously be almost finished. And this bill certainly needs to be supported as well as these changes to the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u151	Thank you. Kulikov Kirilo Borisovich, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u152	I'm sorry, my system's not working well, so I say no, I support the bill, but I refuse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u153	Thank you. Marmazov Eugene Vasilovich, Communist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u154	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u155	Same choice. The word Alexandrovsky Alli Alexandrovni is rendered.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u156	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u157	Alla Alexandrovna, we can ask you from the rostrum because there's obviously something wrong with the system. I'm sure the cards got mixed up.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u158	The Communist faction, Alexandrovsky, the city of Harkov. The Communist faction will not support the bill. And I remind you that, in due course, including at the initiative of the Communists, a bill was passed that said that gave social guarantees to those soldiers who had resigned in connection with the reduction of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. There are no guarantees like that today. Today, the Government of Yulia Timoshenko has stopped the law by its Budget Act. Here we have heard surprising suggestions that the Committee's Minister of Finance has promised to return those guarantees, provide funding and amend the budget. We're here with you, in this room, we agreed that we would make adjustments to the Budget Act after three months or in the first quarter. I propose first to make the necessary funding to ensure the social security of the military and then to consider the reduction of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. This is a normal position, we do not trust the Government of Timoshenko today, we know that there is much populism and very little willingness and skill to work. Therefore, to trust the promises of the Minister of Finance, the more they are expressed only on the committee, I believe that this is not serious, insolvent to Parliament. Therefore, we must not accept the adoption of this law without providing social guarantees to the soldiers who will be thrown onto the street without adequate material security.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u159	Pedestrian Ivan Vasilovich, Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u160	Thank you. The sand, the factions of the Party of the Regions. Fellow dignitaries, the government has repeatedly spoken of the need to create jobs. Here we are asked to reduce them. At the same time, the State Budget 2008 Act does not provide the funds for the employment of those people who are now proposed to be reduced. This is the first moment. One second. The Declaration of State Sovereignty of Ukraine provides that Ukraine is a non-block state. What is now being done is done to ensure that Ukraine is not a non-block state, and therefore the Party of Regions cannot vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u161	Thank you. Colleagues, why do we vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u162	We're not signing up. I am voting on the committee's proposal, namely the adoption in the first reading and in the entire draft of the Ukrainian Act on the Number of Armed Forces 2008, 1316. Please vote. For – 243 Decision taken. Please show by factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u163	Please, for the reasons of the vote, "Timoshenko's Yulia Block" 152 is "yes", "Our Ukraine" 71. Turn on my microfo. "Our Ukraine" - 71, Communists - 0, "Block of Lithuania" - 20, Party of Regions - 0. Please, whoever wanted to do it with a motive, we write for three minutes. Kenzior Jaroslav Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u164	Jaroslav Kenzior, National Movement of Ukraine, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear Head, dear colleagues, you know, we have a very interesting practice of assessing whether or not there is a project. When the representative of the “Regions” has just said that we have adopted a declaration of state sovereignty and there is a provision on the non-block status of the state, and this law that we have adopted does not provide for non-blocking. It's, you know, like we say in Galicín, in town is a mouth, and in Kiev it's an uncle. They don't have a relationship with each other. And I suggest that when there's nothing to say about the MP, it's either to pass the voice on, or just not to go out on the stand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u165	Kamchatny Valeri Grigorovich, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u166	Thank you, Arsenia Petrovich. Kamchatny, Kharkivščina, “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko”. Today’s day is over, and the hall has demonstrated its readiness, its ability to work constructively. It's very important. This is another consequence of our coalition’s activities. But I'd like to ask our opponents, if we're already set up for constructive work, let's keep moving. I'm talking about these first-rate balls that today in the hall have nothing to do with the subjects that are put into the order of the day, which show something there, to something. In the same way you can write "down prostitution" on balls, something else. We are persecuting many shameful things in this life. But let's move away from this, let's work culturally in the session room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u167	I'd like to ask the People's Deputies for reasons of voting solely on the bill. Herman Hanna Mikolayevna. Anna Mikolayevno, your cell phone is ringing. Turn off your cell phone, and then the microphone will work. Thank you. Now. From the rostrum, please. Someone's got a cell phone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u168	Dear colleagues, it was not easy for us to make a deal with you. We went to a difficult time and had a difficult negotiation. I urge you to forget about the narrow party interest. Forget about the images. Forget about any words that could ruin our constructive work. We agreed to work on those bills today, those things that would make life easier for the people. Let us not turn the Supreme Council back into a body that places a narrow party interest in the interests of the people. I urge everyone to be considerate, to be solid, and to work constructively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u169	Thank you, Anna Mikolayevna. Dear colleagues, would you like me to ask you to hear and vote now? We haven't discussed a few very important bills that didn't even go into the agenda, but I would ask all the factions to hear me and support these things. In order for us to include several bills in the next schedule, among others, which we will agree on at the Conciliation Council: The Ukrainian Act on the Cabinet of Ministers, amendments to the Constitution in part of the inviolability. And today we voted with you to amend the Code of Economic Procedure. If we dump him again for six months, there will be no explanation. Let us put it to the vote in the second reading; let us put it in the same order as necessary. So I ask you to vote on such a decision that we will definitely consider three things. Then we'll finish at the Conciliation Council. The first is that of Kabmin, the second is that of intactness, and the third is that of Ukraine's law on making changes to the Law on the Code of Economic Procedure. I ask you to put it to a vote. In the next plenary session, we'll announce when, stop voting to vote again, in the next plenary, and we'll decide at the Conciliation Board meeting when. Please put the matter to the vote. For – 173 You don't want to vote for these bills - you don't have to. Please show by factions. I don't know what this has to do with anything. Dear National Deputies! It's a day's work. From the procedure? Please write it down, it's already from a motive, write down three minutes of talk with a motive. Konovaluk Valerius Illich, please, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u170	Thank you, Arsenia Petrovich. Ladies and gentlemen, I am confident that it is important for us today to find out the order of the day for tomorrow and to identify some of the issues that can really affect the more constructive work of the Supreme Council today. Indeed, certain members of the factions of the region failed to vote in favour of the bill in the second reading reported by the distinguished deputy Pritika. There are other issues that are in the order of the day in society today, and we need to understand that. So we urge you to determine this and find out how we will work tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u171	Deputy Laszko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u172	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear Arsenija Petrovich, I think there are much more relevant issues in the country before the Supreme Council is considered than the draft amendments to the Code of Master Procedures, which limits the rights of citizens. I mean this removal of the MP's immunity, the elimination of the benefits, the personnel issues that will allow our coalition to implement the government's programme. These are bills for the creation of investigation committees for Kharkiv and Kiev. I mean, let's do a Ukrainian government program that's still pending. Let's look at these issues at the next plenary meeting, which will allow us to raise the social standards of life that will lead to the standard of living of MPs in line with how voters live. And we're not lobbying for the interests of certain groups that are sitting in the Supreme Economic Court. That doesn't look like the head of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u173	Poor Mikhailo Dmitrovic, Block Lithuania.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u174	Dear Head! Dear colleagues! We've been bored in the hall all day, and today, after six o'clock, we've started active work, and we want to work on the bills like the Cabinet of Ministers. We've seen the agreed position in the Tender Chamber of the Yulia Timoshenko and the Party of the Regions. And we've seen a concerted activity on the Cabinet of Ministers when last time it was the Party of Regions and the Yulia Timoshenko Bill that voted. It's too serious a bill to be considered under these conditions right now. So let's close today's session and, if there's a wish tomorrow at 10 o'clock, as stipulated by the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, continue to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u175	Supported. Kilincarov Spiridon Pavlovich
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u176	Thank you. Respectable radio listeners, respected by Arsenius Petrovich. This is the next time the NS-NS factions and the BUT have demonstrated their inconsistencies in the issues they have raised. An election campaign. The question of parliamentary integrity is put to the vote, as amended by the Cabinet of Ministers Act, and the two factions do not vote. This demonstrates once again, thereby demonstrating its unwillingness to get rid of the inviolability. Therefore, all of these discussions from BUT and NNU-NS regarding the integrity of the people's deputies, only the populism they use during the election campaign. I am very sorry that these political parties today are not prepared to address these issues in the Supreme Council Hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u177	Thank you. Prince Ruslan Petrovich and we excel.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u178	Please pass the word to Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u179	Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u180	Viacheslav Kirilenko, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear Arsenija Petrovich, honourable colleagues, we would now like to introduce to the agenda tomorrow all the presidential bills that are defined as urgent and to vote tomorrow a whole series of these bills, which have already been passed by the committees. In addition, we would like you to be instructed by the Committee on Legal Policy, which has been holding back for a month to consider amending the Constitution with a view to repealing the 80th article on the abolition of parliamentary immunity. Let the committee consider this matter tomorrow morning and after voting on the Presidential Bills, or perhaps before that, the deputies should start amending the Constitution with the aim of lifting the parliamentary integrity. After that, we ask that all coalition laws be put to the vote under the coalition agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u181	Thank you, distinguished national MPs. Here's the situation. We need to find out how we are going to work tomorrow and when we work, that is an important question and in what format. Because today, surprisingly, we have come to a temporary compromise. But the system's decision on the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is still not made. I mean, it's a good thing we came into the hall, it's a good thing we started working. There are bills that are of interest to one side or another. Therefore, when it comes to the inclusion of draft laws in the order of the day, it is objectively necessary to place them in the order of the day and others. Because there's a left side of the hall. Excuse me, but there are 223 national deputies. And in view of that, it doesn't take that into account, sorry, well, it raises questions in general on our political consciousness. So once again, when there's an accusation that you're including regional or non-regional, they're represented today by 35 percent of the Ukrainian population. [[Applause]] Therefore, there is no need for criticism. So I suggest the next order for tomorrow's meeting. I'm going back to the offer. Now they're back on the question of the Code of Economic Procedure. I don't want there to be an accusation right now that we're not putting him to a vote, a vote and so on. One of the deputies' cards didn't work. It will be correct if we decide tomorrow, and we put this bill to the vote. Next. The laws passed by the President of Ukraine, which are part of the bill provided for by the coalition agreement, starting with Kabmin and ending with an imperative mandate and everything else. And then there's the question of human beings. In view of this, I propose the following, colleagues. Tomorrow. First of all, are we going tomorrow? One minute from each faction. Please. One minute from each faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u182	Dear colleagues, we'll work tomorrow. The “Julia Tymoshenko Block” comes to the hall and necessarily supports the proposal of our colleagues from “Our Ukraine”, ten presidential bills, including an imperative mandate, parliamentary benefits, personnel issues, the Government's Action Programme and your proposal for a second reading again. Let's go into the hall!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u183	Please, next faction. Who wants to make a statement? Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u184	Dear colleagues, respectable Arsenius Petrovich! First, today, when we agreed on the Conciliation Council, we agreed that we would vote on all the bills that we have tabled today. I will allow myself to recall that one bill you did not vote on than you broke the agreements that were. This is one moment. Second moment. We have come to all our commitments honestly, and we have fulfilled them. Second moment. Our police force, the Party of the Regions, has been and remains in positions that we have an unresolved issue about NATO. If we do not move forward on this issue, we will be deadlocked again. The question that we have been asking, which has not yet been resolved by the political person of the authorities today, is in the hands of Minister Lucenk. That's the second question we've asked. Therefore, we ask you convincingly, we are ready to work constructively, but to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u185	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u186	But in order to organize it constructively in the Hall, we need to move forward on these two key issues, which were initially provoked by your party to sign a NATO statement on three. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u187	“Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense.”
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u188	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. Honorable Colleagues and Honorable Voters! We already thought that there would be a peaceful work in the plenary room, but once again the position looks like it always does: you vote for the changes to the Master's Procedural Code, and then tomorrow we'll lock you up for that rostrum because of NATO. We believe that this position is unproductive. If your question has not been answered today, then it will be later if there is a social need. We just adopted the calendar plan and voted in 427 votes, I remind everyone. And he predicts that this week is plenary. And if this week is plenary, then the Chief of the Supreme Council will convene plenary meetings on Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday without question in the Party of the Regions. With the order of the day, which we also know. We're talking about coalition issues and presidential bills as urgent. But the opposition we also want to include in the order of the day. Let's figure out what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u189	Thank you. “Julia Tymoshenko’s Block”. ‘Block of Lithuania’.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u190	Dear Arseny Petrovich! Dear colleagues! "Litvina Block" gave 20 votes to work today and tomorrow after tomorrow. We voted in favour of the approval of the calendar plan. Moreover, Arseni Petrovich, today we were ready to vote, well, with some amendments, this is a normal phenomenon, for the order of the day session, so that the national MPs can work seriously, prepare, make their proposals and so on. So there's no questions for us here, we're ready, we're not just ready, we're working tomorrow. But what we want to say is this: we don't need, Your Honor, to speculate on the content of some of the bills, including the abolition of parliamentary immunity, including the imperative mandate. We are well aware of the things that were part of the electoral program. I have a very nice recipe. And what I'd like to say is that there's a comparative table of how much has gone up for the various institutions of power in 2008 compared to 2007. Supreme Council -- 18 percent, state administration -- 58 percent, presidential service. [[DESCRIPTION]]
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u191	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u192	Let me tell you. Maintenance of the President's activities, the President's Secretariat -- 78 per cent, fixed medical care of the Nardeps and senior officials -- by 51 per cent, Secretariat of the Cabinet of Ministers, expenditure on the central apparatus -- by 39 per cent. You don't have to break the files, you have to pass a very simple law on the budget, and you have to reimburse all of these institutions of power in 2008 to the level that was in 2007 that's respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u193	Wisely, we need to work to make changes to the Ukrainian State Budget Act, wisely. Communist Party, Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u194	Dear colleagues, I think we should be very careful about the processes that accompany our work and why the Supreme Council has become a stumbling block and a blocked activity. Without practical prognosis, without socio-economic calculations, and also the consequences, those who will have industry, specifically our citizens, the village as regards the entrance to the WTO, is now one of the reasons behind our unstable activity. Next. Once again, state sovereignty is at stake, as the “three” is trying to remove parts of sovereignty today by giving up the NATO military and political bloc. Third. The situation is getting worse today in the energy field. First of all, our nation's energy security is not secure, and negotiations with Russia today just show that today's authorities don't even think about the future or use our capabilities to protect our national interests. So the faction of Communists will, in principle, insist on issues that today will primarily do the will of our citizens. When it comes to the fact that Yushchenko wants to involve Ukraine in NATO on the counter, we will insist that Yushchenko be held accountable for failing to comply with the law and not declaring a referendum on the national initiative, because over 4 million signatures have been collected. So the faction of communists will support the principle of a position -- no way can we move forward until we define the issue of NATO. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u195	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am in a difficult situation with regard to the Law on Change in the Code of Masters and Procedures. [[B in m in s a l in]] Half a second, okay? The MPs were told the card didn't work. So there are two options for events. Option one. Take half a step to meet and ask the question to return to the vote. Dial it up, dial it up. He doesn't dial, he doesn't dial. Option two. Not to meet and thus not to compromise at all. Comrades, I'd like to ask you to discuss this, let's go. So, the Party of Regions is stressing that they didn't have a card, they're asking to go back to the vote. We have the same situation on the right side of the hall. Voting or not voting? Please give me three minutes to vote. Konovaluk, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u196	Please pass the word to Makeyenko, deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u197	Deputy McKayenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u198	Dear Arseny Petrovich! Dear colleagues! I really didn't have a card in this technical voting. And I would like to re-vote the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u199	Thank you. Samolikka Katerina Seminovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u200	Dear colleagues! Dear Chief! Arsenius Petrovich, we have faced these situations on numerous occasions and have resolved them in the hall. We voted in favour of returning to the consideration of the matter, and if we obtained the appropriate number of votes needed to make the decision, we went back and voted on the matter. I think the more we have written statements to your address and therefore, I think it would be absolutely right for us to put to the vote now on the return to this issue and the result of the vote will resolve all our disputes. Please put the vote back on the matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u201	Sergey Vladislavovich was involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u202	Sergey Sobolev, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear Arsenija Petrovich, everyone understands that there is now an attempt to exchange such a fundamental question for communists, regionals like NATO, into the Code of Masters and Procedures. So what's the question? And I'll tell you what the question is. Because these changes not only take away the rights of our citizens to accuse illegal decisions, but also if two decisions are deliberately taken by one agency, there is no further institution to charge them. So I'm asking you, I've decided to re-read the second reading. The committee will consider this and then, once such decisions have been made, will be determined. In addition, we had such precedents, in fact, even when voting “in favour” of the Prime Minister. After that, the hall voted with its hands. If colleagues from the Party of Regions have this desire to demonstrate this very much, because there were no people in the room who voted in favour and you can see it and delete their cards. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u203	Thank you. Igor Petrovich's staff.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u204	Klukkowski's word.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u205	Klukkowski Yuri Bogdanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u206	Yuri Klukkowski "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Arseny Petrovich! Let's just look at it processically. In general, 224 were voted in favour of the bill. For the third reading, 223, one card does not solve the question in both cases. In both cases, there is no solution, even if one vote is added. However, the most important positive decision on this issue has been taken. So you have to put the question to the vote first about cancelling the positive decision you made, and we're willing to support it. And then, please, if it doesn't come at all, the bill will be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u207	Wise. Herman Hanna Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u208	Dear colleagues, I urge you once again to work constructively and to fulfill your obligations during the Conciliation Council. Remember that the interests of the people for whom we are going to work here have unlocked the Supreme Council, more important than the narrow party interest of each one of you. So let us be wise, let us be eloquent, let us be people who are bound to live up to their obligations. Otherwise, we will never be able to make a deal with anyone again, neither we are with you nor you are with us. And that way we can't get anywhere. I call you to design.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-02-12-m0.u209	Colleagues, I'm asking you to support the decision I'm about to make. So that we don't violate the procedure and create some tension in the room on the way back to the vote, because we have a decision to consider this bill in the second reading, so we can cancel this decision and we can't make a new decision yet. But to compromise, let's just move on to each other. I'm not asking you to vote for the bill. I ask that the first question that we have considered in our plenary session is this bill, tomorrow, that we start this bill with. So we can start working on this bill. This evening, the committee is working on it, and we'll start early. My colleagues, listen carefully. I'm asking you again, it's going to be right and it's going to be right for the Party of Regions. We have 24 hours to finalize this bill. I ask to put to the vote the issue of the first debate tomorrow at the plenary session of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Code of Economic Procedure. I'll bet you a vote. For – 7 Well, I don't understand, and the "regions" don't vote. You don't vote, you don't vote. I declare the evening session closed. All of it.
