ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u1	Good morning, everyone. Please register. [[10:02:00]] There are 438 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The morning plenary session is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of Vladimir Leonidovich Sovkovich, let's welcome. I prepared a present for him and other companions today. Dear colleagues, let's sign up for the performance. Before the speeches, I'll inform you, after the national deputies of Ukraine speak, we'll meet with the faction leaders in my office, finally agree on the agenda. I think that today we will be able to look at the first issue of the Ukrainian Road Traffic Act. Now we're going to have a discussion with the faction leaders and we're going to make the final decision. Akima's Irina Mikhailovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, political struggles continue and a public presentation of the 2009 draft budget was made yesterday, and I would like to draw particular attention to this fact. The budget that has been presented for public debate does not withstand any criticism, and that will be the continuation and development of problems, economic problems, in our country. First, this budget is totally not realistic. We can call it unrealistic fiction, because it is based on completely exaggerated and strange macroeconomic indicators. The Government continues to place a 9.5 per cent consumer inflation rate, although all international organizations warn that less than 15 per cent of inflation will not drop. I don't know where the real GDP growth rate came from. Our conclusion is that the unrealistic indicators of the budget will make it impossible for the country to develop normally. We therefore insist that before considering the 2009 budget, we consider the additions and changes to the 2008 budget and hear the report of the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Economy on how Ukraine is developing in 2008. Secondly, it is worth noting that the 2009 budget, the draft budget, looks even more inflationary than the 2008 budget. In this regard, he is not social; he is antisocial. The budget has a formal deficit of 1.4 per cent, but if we add a level of government guarantees, we will receive 3.4 per cent of the budget deficit. The Ukrainian economy will not be able to withstand such a shortage of burdens, which will provide an even greater source of inflation. Another figure deserves attention: nominal wage growth is set at the planned level three times higher than GDP growth. Under such conditions, our people are Ukrainians, pensioners who work, except for the money they get nothing, they can't buy anything on them, they can't afford a budget with this level of deficit. And another fact. The anti-sociality of the budget is continuing and, in terms of its performance as a budgeted diet, anything that has not been eaten this year is being eaten in the following. The consumption cost plus the payment of Naftogaza debts is 80 per cent. Let us consider before considering how Ukraine will live in the future, let us hear a report on the development of Ukraine in 2008 and.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u3	Oleg Lazko. Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, our Fatherland is once again facing the dramatic choice of the tremendous trials that may be ahead. I want to start with a little quote from our President in May of this year. I quote. It's about Julia Timoshenko's relationship with him. “I don’t care where I’ll be in three years. I'm a self-sufficient person. But I would like to say that the Ukrainian definition of democracy is that this country respects more than anything the public, transparency, democracy, new politicians.” And the last. “When I see a man on my way who at least helps me build an everlasting Ukraine, it’s half-god to me.” Let me say on behalf of the common Ukrainian people, not of half gods. Today, I want voters to hear it. Ukraine has a unique chance of avoiding shocks, avoiding early elections that will turn Ukraine back into a major market, where politicians will sell long-standing, long-standing, dependent political goods. I would like to remind you once again that as a result of the situation, there was a previous situation, I would like to stress, the previous negotiations. And the faction of Vladimir Lithuania, we're grateful for it, we've found the opportunity to have a new coalition. After that, no one will prove that this coalition has any or no anti-state moods, in fact we don't need to compromise anything. The Ukrainian statehood, the integrity of the Ukrainian borders, the European choice, the nationality of the Ukrainian language, everything is in place. We're just asking and we're talking to the President again. I deliberately quoted him as saying that someone who wants to do something for Ukraine has the highest value for him. There's a chance for Ukraine, once again, to avoid these shocks and form a coalition of the three patriotic factions that are here today. We're talking to the President. All responsibility, if you don't take this chance, lies with you, Mr. President. That's why I'm saying there's a chance. We're not saying that this coalition has already been formed. But please, our colleagues, with the "NU-NS," once again, there is such a chance to have a stable normal majority in the Ukrainian Parliament, save Ukraine from shocks and go forward, go forward, go forward. Please, we give you another hand and we urge you to form such a coalition. Thank you. I believe it will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u5	Andrew Parubius.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u6	Andriy Parubay, faction "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense". Ladies and gentlemen, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" is also firmly in place for the preservation and possible expansion of the democratic coalition. Unfortunately, our partners yesterday, without using methods, repeatedly staged their speeches to discredit “Our Ukraine”. In particular, yesterday from this rostrum, the head of the “Fatherland” faction John Kirilenko allowed himself to read a document all over Ukraine, which does not exist and which was actually invented by the polytechnologists of the “Timoshenko Yulia Block” about a circular that came to light about what “Our Ukraine” was saying today is not about creating a democratic coalition, but about preparing for the next election. I would like to officially deny the existence of such a document and call for further "The Yulia Tymoshenko Block" to refrain from spreading false information about "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense". On the contrary, I would urge our partners yesterday and perhaps tomorrow’s partners to identify the key issues that are very important to Ukraine today. In particular, consider the attitude toward Russian aggression in Georgia. We believe that those events in Georgia have a direct bearing on the Ukrainian state. And we are convinced that today the Ukrainian Parliament, like the President of Ukraine, must clearly and unequivocally condemn Russia's aggression in Georgia. Condemned by recognition of South Ossetia and Abkhazia, as well as by reviewing the conditions of the Black Sea fleet of Russia in Ukraine. After all, Russia’s Black Sea fleet’s participation in Russian aggression in Georgia has put Ukraine on the brink of war. And today only by joint efforts must all the forces that consider themselves democratic do their utmost to review the conditions of the Black Sea fleet of Russia in Ukraine. We have to repay the government debt that we have before Russia and set up a market rent for the use of Ukrainian land, using Ukrainian territory as a Black Sea fleet. And do everything we can to start asking questions from now on and get to the official level about the gradual withdrawal of the Black Sea fleet from Ukraine. For “Our Ukraine”, Ukrainian values, national idea, national defence and national security are not empty sounds. This is the foundation that shaped us as political power, these are the promises we made to the electorate and choked Parliament. So we call on all the forces that consider themselves democratic, to join in defending Ukrainian values and to implement them together in the Ukrainian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u7	Eugene Volintz.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u8	Respectable voters, respected colleagues, regrettably, this scourge, which has spread around the collapse of the coalition, has exposed many of the problems that we will unfortunately have to solve. But there's also one positive side to this medal, which is that we've begun to enact laws that are needed by the majority. On 2 September, the Mining Work Authority Act was passed in the hall walls, and many good, good words, respect, thanks to miners who risked their health and lives to our State. But a week later, on 8 September, a large group of regressor miners arrived in Kiev, many of whom arrived on bicycles, with churches, moved with difficulty, arrived for the fourth time in 2008 alone, and with the same requirement to restore justice in the recalculation of monthly insurance payments, as well as to achieve a legitimate recovery of the debt that had accumulated due to the miscalculation of insurance factors during the period 2002 to 2008. But no one went out to see them for four days, and they wanted very much to meet with the Prime Minister because she had personally promised them to solve their problem. The excruciating event took place on 10 September when the Regressor miners tried to cross the street of Grushewski. They tried because they literally took their feet on the crossing, because, you know, people on wheels, on churches, they can't run very fast, unfortunately. And they were bombarded with lightning and five minutes later by the young men in the fold. Law enforcement defenders, who, in fact, did not violate anyone, worked so hard to clear the street of regressor miners, from cripples, damaged many regressor miners, but six of them were unfortunately hospitalized. The most amazing thing is that the law is not just a side of miners, but it has no effect on this issue. They won the courts in all courts, they received clarification, confirmation of their right in the State Committee on Statistics and the Institute of State and Law. In the end, the Social Insurance Fund itself formally recognized this May. in production. The Ministry of Social Policy also recognized these relations and signed a protocol with representatives of the public organization of miners and persons with disabilities, which clearly recorded the recalculations of monthly insurance payments between 2002 and 2008, at the correct rate, and decided to develop a step-by-step recalculation mechanism. But as early as July 2, 2008, the Fund's management decided not to support the recalculation of monthly insurance payments to increase the minimum wage because the amount was too high. The debt owed to disabled miners is 1.8 billion dollars. The total debt of the fund to all Ukrainian regressors is more than three billion. The management of the Social Insurance Fund for an accident at work is now in line only with the application of the correct factor since 2009.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u9	Valerius Beales.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u10	Zybenko's word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u11	Peter Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u12	Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! Frankly, he wasn't planning to take the word during the so-called "breakup" today, but he had to come to this important rostrum in order to support my colleague's speech on the Communist faction of Eugene Valeriovich Wolinz and to support, in fact, the action that is being carried out under the walls of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine: miners with disabilities, the regressors. He, Deputy Wolintz, has the right to raise this problem. First, what he is is a miner; second, because he works very closely with this category of our citizens. I'd like to ask myself and all of us who are in this session room. When we were honest and when we were real, was it when 10 days ago, at 400 with only one vote, we adopted changes to the current legislation on the promotion of the prestige of mining work and we had a competition, who prefers miners better and more, or today, when we see more than a week under the walls of the government's house, a protest by disabled miners — regressors for a fair recounting of the size of regression payments? And we, to be precise, those of us who formed a coalition and formed a government make it appear that nothing is happening. There are dozens of people near the Cabinet of Ministers, including some in wheelchairs. So in these 10 days, none of the officials took the slightest step towards solving the problem that led to the wheelchairs under the government walls and, in fact, the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And there is a problem, because some officials felt that the total size of the monthly regression and pension of the wheelchair should not exceed the average wage. Some official thought it was too much mining. I'm absolutely sure that's not true. I am convinced that trying to make a single wallet with a regressive salary and pension is wrong. This is an attempt, as it were called, to combine food with a serpent. After all, the nature of these funds is quite different. The thing is, regressive payout is compensation to a coal mine for losing health, and that's why this problem needs to be solved.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u13	Rudchenko. Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! Against the background of this turmoil and the conspiracies that have been discussed in the Supreme Council today, the Lithuanian Block once again testifies, our position is clear, our position is national and our position is national. And that's why we're not interested in any conspiracies, no dirty accusations that have already been made here today, because it reminds us of a situation where people themselves want to buy them a ticket to Titanic. And so I'm going to talk about absolutely specific things that interest people, that interest in the economy, that interest in the economics. As early as 1990, 192 sugar factories were operating in Ukraine. In the Winnitz region alone, every six kilograms [6 kg] of sugar was produced throughout the Soviet Union. Only in one area. Experts estimate that at the present time there will be a maximum of two in the war against cheap foreign sugar. Twenty domestic factories. The closing wave of sugar factories has gained signs not only of the sugar industry in Ukraine, but also of the socio-economic situation in areas that specialize in sugar production. So from a food-producing country, we're turning into a consumer country, and in those areas that are historically characteristic of the domestic economy, which are exclusive Ukrainian industries. Today, it is fashionable to associate sugar and sugar industry only with the world’s conjuncture, especially with the introduction to WTO. But it's just part of the truth, it's just a superficial view. The search for reasons justifies inactivity. The closing down of factories has also taken place before the WTO entry, and the galloping increase in sugar prices two years ago has shown that another problem is the absence of an active state strategy for the development of the sector, which has about one and a half million citizens working around it. The industry’s decline is estimated to be short - lived. The world's increase in food prices indicates that after 10-15 years on sweet sand, you can earn a few times more, but the lack of systems of government policy in Ukraine will result in the sugar industry not being able to meet its own needs at that time. What should we do? Admitting that the problem exists and its root cause is not external conjuncture but own calculations, lobbying importers, lobbying foreign producers, and braking, and destroying their sugar production. It seems to us that the Block of Lithuania seems to be such a specific problem among the specific problems that both the Supreme Council and the government have to solve. The end of disorder, the end of accusations, must be put in place once and for all! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u15	Hajdajal.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u16	Please give the floor to the National Deputy of Samoylik.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u17	Please, Catherine Samuel.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u18	Thank you. The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine is concerned about the state of affairs in the educational sector. Problems remain acute despite the bravado, which very often comes from the media screens. A particularly critical situation in rural schools. Under the slogan of optimisation, 500 schools in the rural area were closed just before this school year. The point is, in each region, there's going to be 3-4 left in a few years, so-called high schools. Where, then, are those leading the educational field heading us today? In what century are we led that the village will not be that without a secondary school, but soon even without a primary school? I would like to point out that in rural areas, in rural schools, almost 65 percent of pensioners work, and therefore, in our faction, the urgent issue is that it is a worthy pension for education. That's what everyone's talking about. Today we're going to be discussing this issue on the committee. The Ukrainian Communist Party is initiating that the teacher's pension is 80 percent of the salary and plus 1 percent of the salary per year. We're hoping for support, once again, but the lazy one wasn't talking about material support for teachers. The next question is external testing. There is no legislative solution to this important issue, and under the Constitution of Ukraine alone, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has the right to determine educational policy in our country. Unfortunately, everything is done with a candace, according to the whims of the head of state, who himself violates the Constitution of Ukraine and is followed by those who should stand on the letter of the law of Ukraine. The Ukrainian Company's faction for education reform, but not for those who destroy better acquisitions and destroy our school. And today, Douzy training, distance learning, the ignored constitutional right to higher education for those who have not benefited from it, as well as for those who are now serving in the Armed Forces of Ukraine. And it was always with respect that the protectors of the country were surrounded. I would like to see an offensive in Russian schools and in Russian. The Communist Party of Ukraine demands that the invasion of Ukrainian citizens' rights be stopped immediately and that all those, well, disadvantages should not be settled legislatively, but the main directions for reforming education on.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u19	Mikola Shershun. Mikolo Haritonovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u20	Mikola Shershun, Block of Lithuania, Equality. Our faction has never been concerned with political divisions; we have always raised the problems that people are most concerned about today. Today we are paying attention to an extremely acute problem, namely the illegal import and presence of harmful substances and waste in the territory of the State. For more than three years, the government of Ukraine has been developing a hazardous waste management program and when it is unknown. Only during this period has toxic waste increased by more than 8,000 tons. Even after allotment of waste disposal funds, the latter did not decrease, but instead increased by 80 tons in Zacarpathian and 100 tons in Hmelnicka areas, indicating the lack of any state control and supervision in waste management. Let's face it, taking waste to the country is a very, very profitable business. A recent meeting of the Committee on Ecology took place. The conclusions are frightening. The country is being turned into a dump. There are 17,000 tons of oil waste imported from EU countries in the Lviv region of the New Split region. Hudrons are located in the sky, and polluted water enters the lake. In all, there are about 20,000 tons of cucurbits of different origins in the territory of Lviv. About one and a half thousand tons of dangerous mix “Premix” has been imported into the Zakarpatsk region, causing serious social tension in the region. In close proximity to the critical situation that resulted from the wastes of the uranium production of the former production association “The Transnistrian Chemical Plant. ” In Crimea, especially in Eupatoria and Sakach, unique beaches disappear. Cleanhouses have long to be restored. The resorts suffer from garbage and require the immediate construction of a factory after it is processed. The inaction of public authorities, especially on the ground, is fuelled by progressive environmental problems. If we do not take concrete steps to overcome these phenomena, if we are not responsible for solving environmental problems in general, we are at risk of disasters more terrible than Chernobyl. As a warning to floods in the six areas of our nation. Therefore, I am asking the Prime Minister for an urgent submission of relevant government bills to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to address these global problems and to ensure the most severe monitoring of the implementation of existing laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u21	Oleg Lukashuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u22	The Honorable Presidium! Dear National Deputies! I want to talk to our colleagues from our Ukraine today: don't take any hasty steps. I want to remind you that the history of the world has such examples that conflicts between the leadership of a loving country are playing down both the standard of living in the state and the economic state. I want to remind you that today we have good news that the Lithuanian Block is ready to create a new coalition. I would also like to draw your attention to the accusations that are constantly echoing in the media that we have passed anti-constitutional laws. We're ready to change them if the Constitutional Court finds any of them unconstitutional. I also want to drop the charges about the situation in Georgia. Let me remind you that foreign policy is still the prerogative of our President. And to remind you that our statement is absolutely in line with the Council of Europe's statements -- absolutely. And we acknowledge Georgia's integrity -- we have opposed and condemned Russia, which has recognized two republics of Ossetia and Abkhazia that have left the fold. So once again, we're ready to cooperate. I think that your statement of exit has no substantiation -- it's just a whim, and we can't act as freely as politicians about Parliament and our state. The people are expecting something else from us. They're waiting for productive work. And I want to remind you that Ukraine is lagging if. I repeat, the early elections are going to throw us back, they're playing to worsen the investment climate. And I would like to remind you once again that Kazakhstan, which had 5 times as much GDP as Ukraine, at the beginning of the collapse of the Soviet Union, is ahead of us today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u23	Valentin Matviev.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u24	Please give the floor to the colleague of Victoria Alexandrovni Demyanchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u25	Demyanchuk, the Communist faction. Respectable voters, respectable colleagues! Soon the Ossetian people will be able to move away from aggression by Georgia, and we already have American experts in Ukraine on 10 September 2008 at the secret site, the 62nd GRAO arsenal of the village of Bogdanovka, the Znamensky region, the Kirovograd region, along with the representatives of Ukrespecexport, arrived for inspection, technical inspection, assembly and storage on the “Malutka” and “Fagot” arsenal. The weapons are radio-controlled rockets to destroy armoured and other military equipment, important objects. The American side intends to acquire this weapon for delivery to Georgia. In March/May this year, 3.5 thousand RPG-7 shells were sold from this warehouse, which was already in Ossetia. Previously, from that arsenal, these shells were sent to Georgia. The American side was represented by: Havel Edward Thomas, a specialist in the transport of dangerous materials, Richard Matthew Wayne, a specialist in the transport of dangerous materials, Colonel José Luis Mendez, Deputy Chief of the Department for the Procurement of Foreign Military Equipment, Sylvester Zugra, president of the firm. ” Internešinal-trading corporation» It is known that the earlier explosions and fires at the arsenals in Artemovsk, Novo Bogdanovka and Lozov were not accidental. Since the collapse of the Soviet Union, the vast number of unaccounted for missile-missile weapons in the Ukrainian arsenals has enabled the senior military leadership of the Ministry of Defence and its trading organizations to commit fraud with its sale to various countries. Sometimes, explosions sound like explosions to cover the scale of the fraud and the sale of these weapons on arsenals. The sixty-second arsenal of the village of Bogdanovka is no exception. The Military Prosecutor's Office has recently instituted criminal proceedings against the former commander of this arsenal, who is charged with the theft of military property. The population of the Kirovograd region is concerned about the nearness of the district centre and the large railway hub of a dangerous arsenal, where more than nine thousand vehicles of deadly weapons are stored and where the arms are sold as well as the arsenals that have flown into the air. These regional sites must be closely monitored by the public. My statement is to be considered as a member of the Ministry of Defence requesting an audit, a detailed account of the weapons on the arsenals of Ukraine, as well as the materials to be transferred to the Temporary Investigation Commission, which was established for the sale of arms in Georgia, and supplies to Georgia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, the time for the national MPs has come to an end. I'd like to talk a few more things about a coalition that isn't there anymore. Dear colleagues, today the government courier has officially reported the cessation of the coalition of democratic forces. It could be said that this procedure is legally completed, but it is not politically completed. I would like to say a few words about myself. I came solely under democratic values and under democratic ideals. In authority we must enter into dignity and get out of it also with dignity. That's why I'm announcing my resignation as Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. As far as Parliament's work is concerned. I'm sending the statement to the Regulatory Committee. In accordance with the requirements of the Temporary Rules until this issue is addressed, I will continue to govern Parliament, so let's be honest with ourselves and with the people who chose us. I invite the faction leaders to me to agree on the order of the day.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u27	We take our seats, we work productively for the Ukrainian state. It means that we made a deal, dear colleagues. First question of the agenda. The Dangerous Road Traffic Act. Let's put it in and look at it. Here's the deal. We look at it in the first reading and ask the committee to prepare proposals immediately by Friday and on Friday on the second reading and to vote in general to send the president to sign. For a long time, it was just that we had been looking at it for the last session. Thus, a number of provisions need to be updated. And there are some lobbying things that apply to insurance companies that need to be thrown out. The other one. As far as the stockholders' cluster is concerned. We are now proposing to consider Law 1109 -- this is to amend the Ukrainian Code of Commerce and Procedure to stop the wayward, where in fact one of the branches of government is making its own decisions about any shareholding society. Next. This is the second reading of Law 0952 — the draft Act on Shareholder Associations. Next. To consider two bills is a bill of 1468 amending some Ukrainian laws on radioactive waste management, and 2182 is about a state-wide targeted environmental programme on radioactive waste management. That's all you're going to want to look at right now. I don't think we have enough time for today, but if today isn't enough, we'll have some of the bills tomorrow. Would you like to say something? Please log in for 3 minutes on the agenda. Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u28	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear Arsenija Petrovich, distinguished colleagues, first remark. The Road Traffic Act is not to be considered in the first reading, because we haven't considered it in the second reading, and it's actually a re-examination of the format of the second reading, not the first reading. I think I'm right about that. And second moment. I think that all the national MPs who work in the session room, who are preparing for the analysis, are going to analyze some of the bills, and they're already in shock. You know, I don't know what the Supreme Council is going to be looking at tomorrow, I don't know what kind of bill. Bills have to be worked, seriously worked, because the task of MPs is lawmaking. And that's how often we print bills. The MPs are coming, and they're about to find out what they're going to be looking at today. What kind of legislative work is this? It seems to me that these political things, the arrangement between the heads of the factions, should be stopped because there are 450 deputies, not five.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u29	Schmellow.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u30	Simonenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u31	Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u32	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Ladies and gentlemen, I have now proposed on the Conciliation Council: in view of the situation that we have in real terms both in the Supreme Council and in the State, we have to urgently consider draft laws on the principles of domestic and foreign policy in order to put a stop to who today has the right to determine the direction of foreign policy. Secondly, consider an urgent draft law to determine Ukraine's future fate, participation or non-participation in military units, the draft law on the declaration of Ukraine's permanent neutral and non-lock status. Next. It is also important to consider Kitchen’s information that the media are constantly talking about the possibility of a powerful solution to the usurpation of Keichenka, the commander of the internal forces. I believe it is necessary to offer to listen to Yehanurov as the minister of defense, who said that he would have enough money to feed the soldiers until November 1st. After.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u33	Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u34	Dear colleagues, I understand that we have agreed to vote in the first reading on the basis of the President's bill. Right, Arseny Petrovich? The President's bill will now be voted on. Then I suggest: first of all, we put it in a reduced procedure, because we've already adopted it on the first reading, so the comments, I don't think there's going to be a lot of MPs that we can go through today. And secondly, really, Mr. Zarubinsky is right: we have to go around the procedure somehow, because the second reading didn't go through the bills that we voted on at the time. And we also have alternative bills. Then we need either the authors to take them off, or we need to close our eyes on them today and adopt the Presidential Bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u35	Thank you. Colleagues, first of all, about the work of the Supreme Council. The second week of the work of the Supreme Council resembles a situational arrangement between the leaders of individual factions. It's not that the absence of a system is a lack of respect for the whole of the Ukrainian Parliament. There are 450 deputies here, not 3, not 5, not 10. The explanation that there is no coalition is little good for me. But there is a Parliament. The absence of a coalition does not currently affect the legitimacy of the Ukrainian Parliament. So once again, I go to the faction leaders, and I say, we have every opportunity to plan at least a week. I understand that we are trying to force such bills to mimic Parliament's work at some point. But there is nothing to imitate: We have a mass of bills that will unite the entire room and not have any color. I ask that tomorrow be a decisive day for the creation of the agenda for the week, because a proposal has been made for the plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the next plenary week and a change in the calendar plan. If we change the calendar plan, we have to change it in sync, with the bills that will be considered by Parliament next plenary week. Second: regarding the Road Traffic Act. I remind you, colleagues, as it were. We looked at it in the first reading, and in the second reading -- you remember when we argued that there was a coalition or no coalition -- we were successful. If we've knocked him down, he's considered to be the one who's been rejected as a whole. So we'd better go through the first reading procedure right now, vote for inclusion and consideration only 1061-5, Presidential, so that we don't have a long-term discussion, that's to say that there's a decision of the Supreme Council that we're rejecting the rules of the Provisional Rules -- we're only looking at 1061-5. If you want to do a reduced procedure, let's do a shorter procedure. Is this approach supported? Supported. Comrades, then. Yes, please, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u36	Thank you. A mortal, a faction of Communists. Dear Arseny Petrovich! We don't need to do ad hoc and move away from the Rules, because, as far as I know, none of the drafters of the bill that was rejected last session have proposed this bill for this session. Since there is a president's bill, we can, as you say, include it in the first reading. Other bills, since bills have not been introduced by the legislators for this session, are not considered, and this is the case.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u37	Adam Ivanovich, in general, I support, but I don't want there to be a discussion that we've broken the rule of law where no alternative bills have been considered.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u38	I heard. Here you go. Pisarenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u39	Dear colleagues, Adam Ivanovich! In fact, the authors have redrafted the bill, so we need to follow this procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u40	So let's get back to my offer, fellows, let's not invent bikes. So first of all, I'm putting the vote on today's agenda. Secondly, I'm going to set procedural points on how the bill is being considered. I dictated to you under the transcript. Do we need to redraft the bill? You don't? Thank you. We vote in favour of the schedule that was published by me. [[11:39:25]] For 342 Decision taken. We are now voting on a special procedure for the amendment of some Ukrainian legislation. [[on improving the regulation of road safety relations]] I underline, first reading. The special procedure is that: (a) the bill tabled by the President of Ukraine No. 1061-5, and (b) the bill in the first reading is considered for a reduced procedure. We vote by one vote. Please vote. [[11:40:13]] For 353 Please, Volodymyr Romanovich, please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u41	Dear Chairman, dear fellow national MPs! The situation from the point of view of the Rules is strange to me, yes. The Law has been in the Supreme Council for almost a year. Since May 17, this year, the President has addressed a letter. Dear colleagues, let us pass the law: thousands of people die on Ukraine's roads. From June 17, this year, when I reported the law and when it was not approved, 2,000 people died again to this day and more than 15,000 were injured. Dear Arsenija Petrovich and colleagues! The biggest controversy was the two positions of the United Presidential Law. The first was about civil liability insurance, and the second was about advertising. Let's delete those two standards and give the president the law to sign. I have nothing to report. Because there are six bills besides the Presidential Bill. Let's do this. We're going to remove the civil liability insurance, the placement of advertising agents, and we're going to adopt the law as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u42	Vladimir Romanovich, as I understand it, colleagues, listen carefully to what Vladimir Romanovich said. That's what I started with. We have two rules of dispute in the Road Traffic Bill. The first standard of insurance. With all due respect to the insurance companies, this is not the subject of legal regulation of this law. And the second norm that applies to advertising. Same story. Where money starts, lobbyism begins. We're in favour of road traffic, are we in favour of people doing well in certain areas of the Ukrainian economy? Two choices. At the meeting of the Conciliating Council, we offered in our first reading. I don't want to move away from the suggestions that were made at the board meeting. But I'd like to ask the faction leaders now to think about this: we remove insurance and advertising standards and we accept first, second reading and in general, and we solve road safety issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u43	That's absolutely right. Vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u44	Let's write it down, fellows. Let's keep answering questions. Oh, we voted in favour of the cut-off procedure. Let's write it down for the vote. Come on, five minutes. Volodymyr Ivanovich, do not flee from the rostrum if possible. Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u45	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, the law is indeed very serious. It needs to be adopted, but, at the same time, once again, it's a clean cut when it's reported from the rostrum, I don't think it'll be very reasonable. So it was absolutely right for you to accept it on first reading. As soon as possible, literally a week from now, prepare and then accept the final on second reading. But it's wise, again, no nonsense, to adjust the law to exclude lobbying for insurance companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u46	The committee supports, Mikhail Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u47	Mikola Catherinechuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u48	Mikola Catherinechuk faction “Our Ukraine”, the European Party of Ukraine. Volodymyr Ivanovich, you have cited statistics on the death of our citizens on the road, please tell us what the law changes about road traffic, which will ensure more safe travel along Ukraine's roads. That's the first one. And the second. The faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” supports this law for removing the issue of insurance initiatives as well as advertising. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u49	Dear Mikolo Dmitrovich, I reported all six laws when they obeyed in the first reading. There is a set of measures to change up to 12 Ukrainian laws, such as the preparation of drivers, the issuance of licenses, the installation of highways and roads, the promotion of fines for traffic violations, the introduction of new types of penalties that affect the offender directly, administrative arrests, public works and so forth. If there was Parliament's will, I'd ask you once again, Your Honor, we're throwing the lobbying parts away, and let's vote on the law. Change and supply will be no end or end.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u50	Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u51	Oleg Zarubinsky, Block of Lithuania. Dear colleagues, the Block of Lithuania believes that this bill should be adopted at least for that reason, I think you remember very well that it was not adopted again at the same time because of political controversy and internal hostility in Parliament. This should not be the reason why laws should not be adopted. As far as the insurance policy is concerned, I would like to point out that it is not only the lobbyist segment of the bill, but it means that it is the simple people who are going to ride the Iguarantees and the Tuurius who are going to stand on the sidelines. Because this rule will apply first of all to these people, who may and may not be able to pay as much as they require legislation in this case, or to insurance companies. And one more moment. It seems that when we talk about road traffic, I raised that question yesterday, there should be increased responsibility not only for drivers, but for those who regulate traffic. Because they, in fact, have simply been removed from their responsibilities in Kiev in the last few days. They come when they don't have to come, and they don't have to come in at the hour of rush.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u52	Dear colleagues, here I am in this folder holding the address of the Hmelnick district council, Ternopilsky, Cherkaskie. Even during this time, there is a decision by Judge Kharkiv of the Court, where there was a case of the death of six persons in a traffic accident. And the judge refers to us as adopting a law on the permanent deprivation of the will of drivers who are driving in the fifth form and who commit such crimes. Society is waiting for this law, let's go to a meeting, your honors.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u53	Vladimir Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u54	Dear Mr. Volodymyr, the House of Julius Timoshenko will give all his votes available in the hall for this bill. We are convinced that it should only be taken on the first reading, because in addition to these two positions that are being discussed, there is still a very clear view of these fines, not all of which we like there and so forth. And I'm pretty sure you can't just put insurance companies in here, and that's just going to be harmful, because frankly, given that opportunity, I'd like to say that these insurance companies are making these today. Money is what they collect properly, but after that, in order to obtain compensation, what terrible myths must survive. Especially our "Oranta", which. I'm going to give a specific example where, let's say, there's a broken wing or something -- they're going to have to pay for a new wing, not what they set. To be honest, we parliamentarians need to review all these positions at all. And the bill is good, the first reading is accepted, the second reading is amended and the law is amended.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u55	Valentine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u56	Dear Arseny Petrovich, my fellow citizens, you see, we are slowly moving from civil liability insurance to parking, which is to say, we are creating a new law. Therefore, all six laws must be reexamined in the first reading. Two weeks as provided by the Rules. And I repeat, there will be no end of the land, dear fellows, make your proposals, let us put order on the roads.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u57	Valentina Matthew, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u58	I ask you to pass the word to Mikola Kravchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u59	Mikola Kravchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u60	Cowchenko, the Communist faction. Still, there is such a proposal. There are a number of issues that have not been addressed in this law. We scrambling at him in the first reading. Let's just get him out of here and solve the problem in two weeks. Driver training is not here, there's no change in the police function, there's absolutely nothing to say about roads, there's absolutely nothing to say about the evacuations today. That is to say, today, let us not only resolve the problem with a scepter, but we will legislate and walk away from the law that will solve all aspects of road safety. We don't mind adopting the law. But let us not make him stumble, but let us take him on the first reading, and on the second reading we shall finish him.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u61	Alexander Volodymyrovich Lavrinovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u62	Dear colleagues, yesterday we proposed to withdraw this bill from the agenda and we got this pear right away because there's one party against order on the roads. Today's discussion, I think, shows everyone clearly that the desire to adopt immediately in general and all, would also contribute to the order of the roads as well as to the absence of this law, because the main reasons for insistence are not approved, are very far from establishing an order on the roads. And of course we want there to be laws that will help actively work on the road to MPs and encourage discipline for drivers and pedestrians. But we do not want road signs to be replaced by commercials and for those today who do not have the ability to pay large amounts to contribute to insurance companies to find themselves in situations where they are not able to drive on Ukrainian roads at all. So the proposals that we have made today, we are adopting in the first reading one law, introduced by the President of Ukraine, and prepared for a second reading, so that it is clear that this law is not for advertising campaigns, that this law is not for insurers, and that this law is not for the IMF, but for drivers, for all Ukrainian citizens who will be able to get safer travel on Ukrainian roads. So please, as we had an agreement, we are voting on the first reading today and we are preparing carefully but quickly for the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u63	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have a word with you? Well, then, the noble heads of the factions, you didn't agree on anything, did you? There was no need for this law to be placed in the order of the day. Because presidential law no longer exists, it doesn't exist, it's a committee-worked law of the President, which has six parts of other laws, so don't make a mockery of the committee or of that law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u64	Colleagues, I'm asking that we don't have any misunderstandings here right now, Vladimir Romanovich. Do we have a "saws" or a "go"? If “saws” is one story as “to go” – let us now vote in favour of the first reading, put the second reading on Friday, just “popolate” again so that there is no discussion. The committee has already considered it, please reconsider. Some suggestions are now made, on Friday the second reading, and in general. And by conversation. Dear colleagues! The question is, is there a wish of two, of two, against? You won't? I won't. Then I propose the following, we do it wisely, we now vote in favour of the first reading and we ask the committee this evening to re-form the table and submit to us a second reading a bill that would include two paragraphs: removal of insurers and removal of advertising. We vote for the first reading. Comrades, don't control everyone. Because if you do, it's going to be a colossal, and it's going to go bankrupt. So we are voting in favour of Bill 1061-5, tabled by the President of Ukraine to amend some of the Ukrainian laws on improving the regulation of road safety in the first reading, please vote. [[11:53:36]] For 410 I can put on a second reading, but listen to me carefully, there won't be any votes, colleague. I mean, there won't be any votes now. You want us to break the bill? You don't have to. We're looking at the second reading on Friday, okay? Okay. The next bill is announced. 1109. Draft Law on Amendments to Ukraine’s Economic Procedural Code Dmitri Mikitovich, please. Colleagues, are we considering the full procedure, or is there a shortcut? How's that, Alexander Vadimovich? [[Volodymyrovich]] Before the bill is announced, I propose a reduced procedure of 1109. [[11:54:35]] For 351 Here's the thing. Short-term procedure is in place. Dmitri Mikitovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u65	Ladies and gentlemen, the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Code of Procedure is being submitted to your consideration. [[concerning the provision of a lawsuit]] Registration number 1109. The purpose of the bill is to limit the measures taken to ensure that a lawsuit is established by the approval of the courts, which leads to unlawful seizure of the management of enterprises. I want to remind you that about a year ago, we adopted changes to corporate legislation regarding the subordination or jurisdiction of matters related to corporate rights. And I want to tell you that this has given some positive results, and this bill is going to be a continuation of the work we started. The project proposes to amend article 67 of the Ukrainian Code of Commerce and Procedure, which provides for action to secure a lawsuit and prohibit the court from deciding on decisions from a specific range of issues relating to the internal and commercial activities of enterprises, namely: the establishment of prohibitions on the holding and decision-making of shareholders' meetings; and the provision of a watchdog by the registrar. a register of shareholders’ names and information to hold shareholders’ meetings; the participation of shareholders in shareholders’ congregations; and the determination of the legitimacy of the general shareholders’ congregations. Well, you realize that at the beginning, at the stage of the case, these insurance measures are usually aggressive if the judge, without thinking about it, goes to the plaintiff. Therefore, we suggest making such changes to article 67. The main scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine believes that the draft law can be adopted by taking into account the comments made, the comments are only about editorial rights. For example, we suggested making changes before.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u66	Let me finish. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u67	They proposed amendments to the Economic and Procedural Code, the Scientific and Experimental Authority says, should be clarified to article 67. That's right. And on this virtually the observations and proposals of it, so to speak, are over. The Committee on Justice therefore requests the Supreme Council to adopt, as a basis, the draft law of Ukraine on changes and in general. Please be supportive. The bill is clear, concrete and very important for our businesses, small and large.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u68	Thank you, Dmitri Mikitovich, please sit down. Andry Volodymyrovich, will you be there? Turn on the port microphone at a separate price.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u69	Andrew Portnow, Timoshenko Street. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine, Honourable Chairman! We are the authors of this bill and Dmitr Mikitovich Pritika, and we have done this in order to put an end to the trials that are taking place today in court concerning decisions to ban shareholders from holding meetings, to make decisions, to provide infrastructure to the subjects of the market for valuable information, registers, information about members of the general assemblies, and the competence of such congregations. It is about making decisions directly without the influence of third parties who, as is the case in recent times, sometimes use extra - procedural means of influence in the courts. So we ask you to support this bill, our political power will vote for it. And we think from this point on, we're going to see less, less abuse in the courts and in the process of reshaping property in stock companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u70	Thank you, comrades. Two-for-two-again. We're signing up. Julia Novikova.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u71	I ask you to vote in favour of this bill. He was on our committee. And this bill is really called upon to stop the abuse of court decisions in raid schemes. That's why it's for, and it's for, and it's for, and it's for, and it's for, and Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u72	Chicken.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u73	Dear colleagues, I fully support both the reporters and the colleague who is now in favour. In this case, this bill should set some civilized framework in our corporate relationship in Ukraine. That's why we're going to vote in favour, of course.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u74	Comrades, the discussion is over. So, then, colleagues, the committee offered him a second reading. Attention! What do we vote for? Be careful if you just hear it. It's only about securing a lawsuit. This is not about making a decision in the process. The scheme, which, in fact, has been followed by constant raids as collateral, has been going on for the last 5 to 7 years. I mean, we're cleaning up a non-proprietary function when there's not yet a competitive process due to a variety of things, there's the approval of any almost district court that provides a lawsuit because of a certain ban on the conduct of assemblies, or the transfer of a register, or the recognition of a competent or unlawful assembly that was still the subject of a court hearing. That is why it is critical. Colleagues, I propose to put first reading, and then, if there are no objections, on the second reading and in general. Okay. Yuri Miroshnichenko asks for the floor. No objections? He's motivated. Just one. Turn on the mic. The sitting is continuing.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u75	Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear colleagues, I am now addressing all the national MPs. If we represent the people here, first of all, maybe someone doesn't know how stock companies work, maybe someone doesn't know the legal subtleties, but we all have to be guided by the fact that human rights and freedom and citizens in Ukraine must be guaranteed. And very often our courts violate these rights. In particular, the right to participate in the congregations, and so forth. The second question. In this way, we will protect judges from corrupt temptations. And third, respectable colleagues. We will save a great deal of money on the activities of economic operators because their activities will not stop, nor will their raiders, in fact, destroy them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u76	Colleagues, I ask to vote in favour of a law that will significantly strengthen property rights in Ukraine, and very significantly, will have a positive impact on certain things that are not transparent in the judicial system. Colleagues, I'm voting on the adoption of Bill 1109 in the first reading of the amendment to the Ukrainian Code of Commerce. Vote. [[12:02:50]] For 347 That's the thing. Colleagues, in order to vote on the second reading, is there at least one Ukrainian national MP who has proposals for the law? I won't. I am voting on the adoption of this bill in second reading and in general. Vote. [[12:03:21]] For 349 Decision taken. With the motives of Zwaritz Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u77	Dear colleagues, our faction did not support this bill, although it was essentially worthy of support. But I want to explain our position. We've just heard very loud statements from representatives of the prokrem majority that by adopting this bill, which consists of one line, we're going to stop all of the raiding in Ukraine. They realize that the greatest raiders are in their factions and one line trying to cover up the activity of these raiders in their factions. Such hypocrisy will not be supported by our faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u78	Comrades, this optimistic note announces a break until 12.34.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u79	The Act on Shareholders. Yuri Mikolaiovich Voropeyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u80	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Good afternoon, Arsenija Petrovich. Draft Law 0952 was considered by the Committee of the Supreme Council for Economic Policy. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that on first reading it was considered by the other deputies of the previous assembly, and for a long time we all had the opportunity to amend it. This opportunity has been taken by many people, not only by the people's deputies, but also by the public organizations involved in the drafting of the bill. The draft was submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to the previous one and has been finalized with the participation of the current Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Working groups, scientists and judges also participated in the finalization. The main provisions of the bill. First, the bill takes into account the wishes of the public, the wishes of the owners with regard to the introduction of rules on anti-residering protection of shareholders. In particular, there is some voting procedure that excludes the participation of raiders, namely, all public societies, all shareholders, including the closed type, in which more than one hundred shareholders or one hundred persons are involved. They shall, by a vote, be held on ballot papers, which shall be signed individually by each shareholder. Next moment. There is a special procedure for the disposal of shares. The predominant right to secession of shares, which currently exists in closed equity societies, is excluded in only two cases: that is the case where shares are obtained by inheritance or where shares are obtained by legal persons. That is, the scheme that the raiders are currently working on, which they receive as a gift from a private shareholding society, and then enter into society itself, is also excluded here. In addition, to protect societies from raiders. A rule is introduced whereby the meeting is held only at the place where the shareholder society is located. Thus, it is excluded that individual raiders held eight meetings each weekend at their place of residence. A number of other rules have been introduced, including the protection of the rights of minority shareholders: mandatory redemption of shares is introduced either by society itself or by majority shareholders. The corporate rights management process is being simplified, and so on and so forth.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u81	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u82	I am ready to discuss amendments to this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u83	Yuri Mikolaiovich, I appreciate your report very much, but if possible, it is such an important bill that it is possible to explain once again the differences between the current Ukrainian Associations Act and the new Ukrainian Act on Shareholder Associations. That's 10 points of distinction in order for the Ukrainian people's deputies to re-establish information about what's actually going to happen after the adoption of the new law.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u84	I note that the law is not brought into force immediately: it is in force six months after its adoption and publication. What's more, he's coming right in. Well, six months from now, only for those who are being created, and for those who are now existing shareholders, they have a transitional period of 5 years to move to the new law and bring their statutes into line. That there's a new one coming in. A new, first, voting procedure is mandatory only through ballot papers. In public societies and in closed societies, private societies where shareholders are over 100. Second. This is limited to the right, usually the right to purchase shares, and only two specific cases are introduced where this usually does not work. does not work: it is when shares are obtained by inheritance or when shares are obtained by law. Third, a rule is introduced whereby the shareholders are held in a community centre. There is no practice where raiders held alternative meetings in other settlements, in the same days, by the way. Fourth, it is mandatory to purchase a substantial 10 per cent package of shares, prior to purchase, public notice of the same society, the Gocomisisia on securities and authorized printing bodies, well, these are the bodies of the Supreme Council, the Cabmin and the Gocomisisia on securities. Fifth, a mandatory buy-in is made for majority shareholders of minority shareholders if the majority shareholder has bought more than 50 per cent of the shares. A special procedure is described as being done. And all mandatory redemptions, whether by society, whether by major shareholders, are only held at market price, are determined by the article as it is. The price is determined. Furthermore, if the majority shareholder has bought 50 per cent or more of the shares, he must, he must, he must make an irrevocable offer to all other minority shareholders, and they have the right to sell, but they have no obligation to do so. Well, it can go on forever, there's a lot.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u85	Got it. Yuri Nikolaevich, one question.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u86	Can I have two more words?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u87	Yeah, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u88	Here are, literally, two little things. Right now, for example, by law, there should be at least three persons in each society. What if there's only one shareholder or two shareholders in this society? Other persons and shareholders should also be on the monitoring board. So this law says that if you have up to 100 shareholders in society, up to 100 people, please make only one auditor. If there are over 100 people, it's time for the audit boards. Any composition you're interested in.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u89	One question, if you'll excuse me. I would then ask Sergey Burjak, a member of the State Commission on Securities and Stock Market to inform him of his position under the bill. Yuri Mikolaiovich, we have a de facto suspension of the entry into force of this law for five years. Do you have any question that we have such a significant break in the application of the new law that can cause serious problems in active stockholder societies? Should we not speed up the effectiveness of the law?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u90	My personal position is that it would be right. And do no more than two years for that. Because the procedure itself: amendment, constitutional documents or transformation of society - it takes up to nine months, up to one year. But for certain societies with large numbers of citizens, older shareholders and so on, it will be difficult for them to go into, say, undocumented form of these actions. They need a period where people will have to explain all of this. Therefore, it would have been better for two years, of course. But that's how the hall will handle it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u91	Thank you for your position. Because five years is either a silk or a mule. So if we look at this bill, I'm going to make a proposal to cut the deadline to two or one years, so let's figure out how. Thank you. Please sit down. Colleagues, there is no objection to Sergey Alexiyovich. Now as amended, you stay here, don't sit down if you can. I'd like to ask Sergey Alexiyovich out of place, if I may. Turn on Birukka microphone. Turn on the microphone, please. Talk to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u92	Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, the honourable presiding officer! The bill is very important. Because you and I know one problem: the only country that hasn't adopted such a bill in the Soviet Union is us. And what do we have to do with that term? We have constant conflicts between shareholders. The bill has been drafted primarily by national deputies and people who work directly with businesses. And we support all the changes that have been made here. But what is most important? Most importantly, this bill has a balance between the interests of small shareholders, large shareholders, corporate leadership, because sometimes in these corporate conflicts we lose Ukrainian normal businesses, because the director doesn't know where to run between shareholders and their wars. This must be done to protect everyone, and this law will stimulate unity of interests. Moreover, this law clearly lays down in its standards the authorization of the shareholders’ society, the authority of the supervisory board, which was previously not prescribed, the authority of government, and the authority of the head. And one more thing. We all know that many interests can be lost and people can be deceived if procedures are not prescribed. The bill clearly prescribes procedures for who should provide information, how the procedure should go, and people will know in advance, shareholders, what they should be given. The bill imposes strict rules on the non-disclosure of information and the fraud of shareholders by management. But confidential information cannot be given to anyone who can be used by competitors. Everything about shareholders' rights must be protected. At the same time, the government is introducing a bill that has already been considered on committees that envisages raising requirements for non-compliance with this law, protecting shareholders' rights from the point of view of the Criminal Code and the Administrative Code. And one more thing. The bill in question introduces rules, postpones, but when a shareholder company decides to change to statutory capital and decides that it would want to work under this law, it will already work under this law, at the present time. And one last thing. I would like to say that unfortunately, our shareholders still refer to their shareholders as soon as, in Soviet times, what they were given and should be taken out of it. Making profits, taking out property, taking out everything in order to become rich. This bill is designed to get us to these stocks, these stockholder societies, as well as to be the basis not only for our own acquisitions, but also for future generations. And one more thing. We would like this bill to be a prerequisite for consolidating a civilized relationship in Ukraine that would not allow large financial groups, simply shareholders, to provoke not only economic relations, because the economy is also political, but economic opposition. And that's why we would very much like to support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u93	Sergei Alexiyovich, two questions. The first question is regarding the competence of the general congregation of shareholders. We don't even regulate one of the key problems of stockholder societies in this law -- that's 60 percent of the call for out-of-orders, and the gathering of shareholders. What is your position on this? This is paragraph one. Item two. I don't quite understand from which, I'm sorry, the State Commission on Securities and Stock Markets should agree with the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine on the activities of shareholders based on international accounting standards? You're a completely independent body. Who is it the Ministry of Finance for you? That's two questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u94	First question, 60 percent, I'm sorry, but what happened happened. The bill that Haydar wrote from the Chinese bill when he studied at 89 envisions a relationship with management. In Japan, where the Chinese copied 12 of the top 20 industrial and financial groups. There's no capital. There's only the Tokyo Stock Exchange for foreign investors and we formed it in us the same way. And these relationships have already been formed. Perhaps after the adoption of such a law, significant changes can be made. And the Property Fund was selling shares according to American legislation, where 50 percent and less, that's why it happened. The Fund sold 40 percent, 49 percent, and the legislation is 60, and we have about 300 large corporate enterprises coming out of it. When we move it now, it's going to be a failure of the law again. Parliament has not adopted for life 11 bills, which only violated 60 percent by 50, 11. And once there was the President's veto, 12 times, not once has this problem been solved. And second. As for the Ministry of Finance, the government is introducing, we were a developer, a joint bill, we were the proposals of the Ministry of Finance. As you know, according to the Rules, we can't but count them, because the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economics, are the leaders of economic financial policy, we counted them, and the people's deputies didn't deny them. We are in the world. But in this case, we're going out, we're going to have an accounting relationship in our country. In the United States, stockholders’ accounts refer solely to the jurisdiction of a public commission. But we live in Ukraine with our realities, so we made this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u95	Sergei Alexiyovich, if you'll excuse me, I'm going to comment on this. It's not about this particular technical case, it's about the status of any independent body. Are you an independent body? Independent. What does the government have to do with you? You don't agree with the government, do you? You don't agree. So we're violating key principles. In fact, they will hold you in one place and tell you how to live. We're violating general ideology. Yeah, that's right, and Nazbanku there was a government agreement and the Attorney General's office -- that's wrong, that's why it's wrong.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u96	In the Law on Accounting, the accounting standards approved by Parliament are maintained by the Ministry of Finance in accordance with our legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u97	And this isn't about standards.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u98	MSBO.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u99	That's right. But this is not about the standard itself. Let them confirm the standard, and the form of public reporting will be established on the basis of their standards. So when I vote, I'm going to ask this question separately. Colleagues, I'm asking for an amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u100	No, he answered the question. So, colleagues, in order to adopt this law, we leave the old norm. Only we move the issue of congregation authority, this law will succeed, and we will put the cross back on 11 years of work. Please, Yuri Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u101	Today, the Committee of the Supreme Council is considering another new law on the reduction of the quorum. It'll be endless. Let us leave behind the rules of the quorum that now exist and are being worked on by the whole country.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u102	Yes, colleagues, so I have one question. First. Are there Ukrainian national deputies who insist on voting on amendments that are not included in the Ukrainian Supreme Council’s profile committee? If there are such deputies, please raise your hand. Under the stenogram: there is no MP. The other one. A suggestion has been made to shorten the transition times. The amendment relates to, it is under No. 538, a colleague, and it states, sorry, that the statutes and other internal positions of open shareholders formed before the law takes effect are subject to the application of the law no later than five years after its entry into force. Two options: the first one is two years, the second one is one year. What do you think, two? Compromising two? Sergei Alexiyovich, two years normal? Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote the amendment just announced, which is the term of two years in the 537th amendment. Please vote. [[12:51:52]] For 349 Decision taken. Colleagues, now the amendment concerning 535, “reporting”. I propose, as provided for in the classical standards of any independent body, that the words “according to the Ukrainian Ministry of Finance” be deleted in the first part of article 40 in paragraph 1. It's an independent body, we, by the way, as a parliament, have a full impact on it and let the Ministry of Finance deal with its issues. Please vote for this amendment. [[12:52:37]] For 337 Copy that. Will we no longer be “breathing ” in the law? Yuri Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u103	Following the Committee's consideration of the bill, comments were received from the Chief Expert Office. I'd like to give them to you, those comments, and I think they're appropriate. I would ask you to take these comments into account. Two words literally, listen, you'll realize that's very understandable.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u104	Colleagues, let's hear if there's anything else we need to change in the law, let's hear it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u105	We're in agreement.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u106	I already found a standard in the Rules, and we voted yesterday. Oleg, calm down, it's okay. Don't worry. It'll be fine. Now. Please, Yuri Mikolaiovich, let Yuri Mikolaiovich. Yuri Mikolaiovich, half a second. Before you speak now, the word of Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u107	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, dear reporter, if you're saying that this is an observation from the Science and Experimental Authority, then we don't need it, because the Science and Experimental Authority has something to do with the bills that we're adopting in the first reading. To our second reading, the main word for us is the Legal Authority. If there are no observations in the Legal Office, then the scientific expertise is left with the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u108	You're absolutely right, Adam Ivanovich. I mean, you don't know the point yet. Listen.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u109	Adam Ivanovich, let me take a look at this.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u110	It's what everyone needs, and everyone will understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u111	Yuri Nikolaevich, you speak, please, in fact.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u112	What is it? According to the Final Regulations, we have five years from now all private shareholders, two years from now, if you will excuse me, they will have to change their statutes and will not be subject to the provisions of the Act of Economic Society of the present. And we have written in the Final Orders that for closed equity societies, private societies, there will be no change in the provisions of the Community Act, they will continue to act. And it's going to be the result that we have open public stock companies living by one law and privates living by another law in two years, which is completely wrong. Therefore, it invites the Chief Expert Office to bring the private, public, public and closed societies into line and to live by one law in two years. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u113	Yuri Mikolaiovich, it's all very well said, except I didn't understand anything. I've just read the conclusion, first of all, not science and expertise, but the Law Department, it's not science and expertise, it's first. Second, what is the specific offer? What changes are needed in the law in order to synchronize these acts? Specifically.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u114	If you look at End-of-life item 2, it says that two years from the date of entry into force of the Act, article 1-49 of the Act on Economic Communities in the part concerning open stock companies is not valid. Let’s put the word “discovered, clean up, this will concern all the shareholders. ” That's the first one. It's exactly the same.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u115	Sergey Alexiyovich, please listen carefully.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u116	The same right should be made in paragraph 5, and it should be extended to all shareholders and not only to open societies.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u117	So, page number, give a specific page number of the compare table, the amendment number.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u118	205.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u119	Page two hundred and five.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u120	Yeah. Page two hundred and five, this is paragraph two of the “Final Positions”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u121	End-of-life item: five years from now And here, unfortunately, I don't have a very bad copy of the last phrase. Oh! Can I read yours? Sergey Alexiyovich, please look at your position. So, paragraph two, we take the words “in the relevant part”, there were “open shareholders associations”, we leave the words “share societies” irrespective of the legal form.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u122	And it's the same thing at 5 p.m.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u123	And the same thing at 5 points. Roger, Sergey Alexiyovich's position. Turn on Sergey Alexiovich's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u124	In our view, this can be acceptable if there are no objections to national MPs and to Parliament as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u125	I heard. Colleagues! Alexander Volodymyrovich, your position?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u126	From my point of view, that's absolutely right, we can't keep different ways of regulating the activities of shareholders.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u127	Dear colleagues, the vote is amended by Yuri Mikolaiovich, removing the words that are open. So we leave only "share societies" regardless of the legal form, two amendments, that's 205 pages. Did you hear that?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u128	There's a third.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u129	Third which, under the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u130	Accept the amendment, our colleague of God's, I think, 529, if I'm not mistaken.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u131	I don't think we should look. Then let's do that, let's vote on two amendments first. Please vote. And there's theological 527th or 529th. Please vote, colleagues, for removing the words “discovered”. [[12:58:21]] For 336 Decision taken. And let's make the last amendment you want to put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u132	It concerns the same issue. To eliminate any, well, application under different laws of different types of shareholders. This amendment is 539th. She was rejected. If we accept it, this amendment, the 539th Lady of the Divine, thus removing the last mention in this law, the excellent application of the law to various shareholders. Please, look. It's a page.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u133	539th Amendment, open up, this is the last page, 218th. Look, please, it's rejected by the committee. So, Inna Hermanovna suggested that part of the sixth of the Final Orders be ruled out altogether. That's absolutely logical. I sit there, I read it, it's nothing to do with it, it's a norm. Fellows, read it again. Is there a denial? Sergei Alexiyovich, please look at her.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u134	We support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u135	We're backing it up. Colleagues are asked to vote on the question of support for amendment No. 539 by the People’s Deputy of God’s Word. Please vote. [[12:59:43]] For 330. Corrections accepted. Dear colleagues, I am voting on adoption in the second reading and in general, taking into account the amendments that have just been voted on by the Ukrainian Parliament. Bill No. 0952, on stock companies, please vote. [[13:00:14]] For 358 Dear friends, for decades this law has been tried. We're finally in. Hooray! The next bill, the next bill, 1468, second reading, and 2182. Please, Skoubenko Volodymyr Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u136	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, distinguished national deputies. For your second reading, there is a draft of the Ukrainian Act amending some of the Ukrainian laws on radioactive waste management introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers. The second reading of the bill included comments, proposals by national deputies, members of the Committee on Environmental Policy. A total of 17 proposals were made, which are fully included. A number of additions are proposed. Especially. Advanced terminology of existing legislation in the field of radioactive waste management. Ukraine's Environmental Protection Act has been published in a new edition. Part of the first article 44 of the Convention for the Pollution of the Environment is established on the basis of the actual volume of emissions, limits, wastes of pollutants into the environment and the location of wastes from radioactive waste is calculated proportionally by the volume and activity of radioactive waste, as well as for the operating organization of nuclear facilities, nuclear power plants are calculated on the basis of the electricity production indicators over a period of time. For other entities in the field of nuclear power use, the list, which is determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, is calculated in proportion to the activity of radioactive materials and is charged simultaneously with these acquisitions, and the temporary storage of radioactive wastes by manufacturers is calculated proportionally by the term of storage of radioactive waste over the established period, taking into account their volume and activity. Part four of article 46 of the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of the Environment. Costs from the congregation for pollution of the environment, except for those managed for the creation and temporary storage of radioactive wastes by manufacturers, are distributed between local and State Environmental Protection Funds in a ratio of 20, 50 and 30 percent respectively. [[It's a technical paper.]] And between Kyiv and Sevastopol City and the State Environmental Protection Fund, 70 percent and 30 percent. The distribution of funds and a collection for pollution of the environment, which is managed for the formation of radioactive wastes, including already accumulated, and the temporary storage of radioactive waste by their manufacturers, is determined by the Ukrainian Act on the Treatment of Radioactive Wastes. Part two of article 44 after the words “pollutants” is supplemented by the words “except for the formation of radioactive wastes, including those already accumulated”. There have also been changes to article 47, paragraph “a”. Amendments to the Ukrainian Act “On the Treatment of Radioactive Wastes” have been introduced in a new edition. The second paragraph of Article 4: “The Fund is an integral part of the State budget of Ukraine and is formed on the basis of the funds that come from the congregation for pollution of the environment, which is managed for the formation of radioactive wastes” and the addition: “and other sources not prohibited by legislation”. Paragraph 3 of Article 4.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u137	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u138	Paragraph 4 of Article 4: “Costs from the congregation for environmental pollution management of radioactive wastes, including those already accumulated, are directed to the State Fund for the Management of Radioactive Wastes, which is part of the National Budget of Ukraine.” And the last. The Committee of the Supreme Council on Environmental Policy has adopted this law as a whole and proposes that it be accepted by the Supreme Council. The adoption of the bill and changes will create the necessary conditions to improve the safety of existing and future generations from harmful influences. radiation, stress reduction. In addition, the formation of the fund will create conditions for Ukraine to fulfil its international obligations under the United Convention on the Safety of Spent Fuel Management and on the Safety of Radioactive Waste Management — article 22, which requires the availability of sufficient financial resources to deal with radioactive waste. I would like to remind our deputies that in due course we have all voted in favour of this law on first reading. And I would like us to adopt it on second reading and as a whole in order to take it into account already in the 2009 budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u139	My colleagues, I remind you, during the last session, we voted in favour of the first reading of these two bills. So I would ask that there be no report in the format of the first reading. Are there Ukrainian national MPs who insist on any amendments made by the people's deputies and either accounted for or unaccounted for? You don't? None. I am voting on the second reading and the whole of Bill 1468 on amendments to certain Ukrainian laws on the treatment of radioactive waste. Vote. [[13:06:01]] For 340. Decision taken. The last bill is 2182. Please, Vladimir Petrovich, briefly. Second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u140	It's a bill on a state-wide targeted environmental waste management program. We have also considered this at the last session. This is just a supplement to the Law that we passed. It implies the establishment of a programme that will enable us to effectively combat all radioactive wastes that have accumulated in Ukraine. It's a very good law. Without this mechanism, the previous law will not work because, you know, the amount of radioactive waste that has been stockpiled in each area is large enough and there is no mechanism to dispose of these wastes. It's starting with Crimea and ending with Kiev. This does not apply only to the Chernobyl power plant, but it applies to every area, every health centre, every enterprise. That's why I'm asking him to come. All amendments made are taken into account. Please accept on second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-17-m0.u141	Dear colleagues, are there Ukrainian national deputies who insist on the amendments to Bill 2182 that have been taken into account? None. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the second reading and the whole draft Law on the Universal Environmental Programme for the Management of Radioactive Wastes. Please vote. [[13:07:41]] For 359 Decision taken. There is a proposal to consider the draft State Budget Act. Ready? Not ready? Okay. Then let's move it. On the basis and in general. Then we'll move on to the next plenary day. Well, it's also just a question of who. Jaroslav, who? Dear colleagues, the order of the day is exhausted. It is proposed to announce the conclusion of today’s plenary session. See you tomorrow. I'm calling it closed.
