ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-09-m0.u1	To all of you, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine, I ask you to register. [[10:01:29]] There were 438 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is public. Dear colleagues, I would like to make a serious report that will now affect the work of the Ukrainian Parliament. This is about the fact that yesterday the faction of the Party of the Regions proposed a project to create a temporary special commission for the drafting and adoption of a new edition of the Constitution of Ukraine. The bill was introduced yesterday, so far I have no decision by the regulatory committee on this subject. Moreover, as Head of the Supreme Council, I have not yet seen this bill in my eyes and signed an appropriate commission. But these are formal things. I'd like to stop at the legal stuff and the approaches that are being proposed. First and foremost. Under no circumstances will the Ukrainian Constitution be adopted without the Ukrainian Parliament. And under such circumstances, the text or texts of the Ukrainian Constitution that will be proposed will necessarily be considered in this sessional room. But the insistence that we start looking at things right now, to throw everything away and to look exclusively at the question of the constitutional commission, seems to be not entirely thoughtful. So this is what's proposed. Two factions have now asked for another 30-minute break so that we can clearly explain how we're going to work the plenary week. I propose to work for the plenary week only as already envisaged by the schedule approved by the Conciliation Council, and on the following Monday to consider the relevant draft decision, to include it in the agenda and to continue to move on this issue. Because the rush to adopt the Constitution is hardly good service for the Constitution, for the state as a whole. Someone wanted to go to one place to quickly accept the Constitution, or let's work on these bills, go through the proper agenda, and so we'll work normally in Parliament's walls. So, dear colleagues, I'm waiting for a written statement from two factions. Alexander Sergiyovich, are you? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-09-m0.u2	Thank you, Arseny Petrovich. Dear colleagues! In response to what Arsenija Petrovich has said now about the establishment of a temporary special commission on the Constitution, the following can be said that we have not initiated the topic, and you know it. But given that it is being initiated today and that it is now actively working not only in society but also a special group on this issue, and that Parliament has no right to stand aside under the law and the Constitution, I think our colleagues have done the right thing by initiating the establishment of a temporary special commission. That's the first one. Now with regard to the consideration of this matter. Arsenius Petrovich, we would still ask that the documents be signed on time. With regard to the Committee's consideration of this issue, including the regulatory one, we have dealt with this issue from a legal point of view, and it will take us 10 minutes for you to take a decision on this matter. And it will be accepted. And yet we would insist that this issue be put on the agenda today so that the MPs can be identified, and this will not be the view of individual MPs, this will be the view of our Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-09-m0.u3	Once again, I would like to point out that I fully and fully support the standards of the Ukrainian Constitution, which require one thing: the mandatory passage of changes to the Constitution only in the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament. The only thing that scares me personally is why does this question arise in five minutes and try to solve it in five minutes? We're both going to accept it, and so we're going to accept it, and so this committee is going to work, but there's not even a draft of the Constitution that we're going to work on on on a special committee. A special commission is formed to work on projects. There's two. He said two factions. I'd like you to meet me in the faction head office for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-09-m0.u4	working on changes to the Constitution of Ukraine. Once again, I want to point out that it will necessarily be created, but it is created according to the law and the Rules. Now two factions of the coalition have once again asked for their break for a coalition. So I'm going to announce another recess, and I'm going to inform the respective two factions of the coalition that they're about to hold a coalition meeting on this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-09-m0.u5	We're continuing the meeting. And if I could ask Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov for two words, I just don't see him in the hall right now, so that I can finally agree on the point of purpose or the lack of purpose of his statement. Alexander Sergiyovich, maybe you'll come because I'm something. Deputies, it is not appropriate to start hearing ministers in three minutes. All faction leaders have announced a position on a regular break. At 12.30 p.m., we continue the meeting of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-09-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, I ask you to take your seats. We continue the morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Three minutes before the deputies arrive and take their seats. The country’s distinguished national deputies, both factions and factions, concluded their meetings. And I would like to report on the decision that was taken after the faction leaders met. On the one hand, it's a complicated decision, and on the other hand, Parliament is still able to seek compromises. The question of making changes to the Constitution should not be divided depending on the color and other political parties. Changes to the Constitution are a process of national integration. And this document, as the main document of the state, should really be an example of a document of national unity. In view of this, Parliament cannot be removed as the only legislative body in Ukraine and will under no circumstances be removed from the constitutional process. But there must be a consolidation of the political forces in the Ukrainian Parliament regarding the drafting of changes to the Ukrainian Constitution. For this reason, it is perfectly right for those who have submitted the relevant bill to Parliament on the establishment of a temporary special commission to amend the Constitution, on the drafting of the bill, on the basis of its appeal and on the introduction of a new bill that would be acceptable to all factions. This is an important political signal for society that there will be no disunity in our only legislative body. So we're looking forward to a new draft of this bill, on Monday at the Conciliation Council, we're going to look at this issue and we're going to go straight to the question in accordance with the Conciliation Council decision. I thank all of you and ask you to consider the issues of daytime order. We now have 30 minutes of announcements and proposals from the National MPs, I ask you to sign up. Valerius Bondik, Party of Regions. Please turn on Bondik's microphone so I can hear who's speaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-09-m0.u7	Dear Arseny Petrovich! Please, Paula Gnatovich Sulkovsky, pass on the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-09-m0.u8	Please, colleague Sulkovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-09-m0.u9	Dear Arseny Petrovich! Dear National Deputies! Paul Sulkowski, faction of the Party of the Regions, Ravenshkin. Ukraine's Party of Regions is addressed with numerous appeals by Ukrainian peasants who are very upset about the difficult situation in the agricultural sector of Ukraine. The role of a farmer as a Ukrainian breadwinner, an equal and strategic partner in the development of the Ukrainian economy is virtually negligent. The lack of a transparent, unsuspecting work of today's government in the development of agro-industrials, the lack of a systematic, programmatic approach to solving rural life, a significant increase in prices for all, without exception, of material and technical resources, the lack of assistance in curbing inflation, has led to a catastrophic financial situation for agricultural enterprises, farmers and single-parents. This is particularly acute at a time when full-time spring-field work, the late funding of the APC programme in the current year is actually destroying all of the seedlings of the previous government of Yanukovic, which allowed for smooth and efficient development. To a greater extent, farmers now sow practically without mineral fertilizers. It makes it extremely difficult for farmers to fail to pay their taxes on the added value of the country’s state budget, which we consider to be a denial and neglect of existing legislation. Practically destroyed were all the benefits of the previous government, which were allocated to the village. In March of this year, compared to the corresponding period of 2007, prices for fuel-oil materials increased by 60 percent, the price of ammonia saltpetre increased by almost 70, today the price of diesel is higher than the price of gasoline. This history of Ukraine, respected colleagues, is not memorable. The price situation for material and technical resources shows that the government of Yulia Timoshenko, both in 2006 and today, has proved virtually unprepared for effective work on the executive board and is unable to effectively maintain economic stability in Ukraine. And here's an example of this: the deficit in spending on complex spring-field jobs is almost 2 billion dollars. The deficit can be covered by the approximation of the budget deadlines, the government has only 11.9 percent in the first quarter, and given the needs of the producers, at least 60 percent of the budget expenditure in the first quarter of this year is required for the village.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-09-m0.u10	Two seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-09-m0.u11	Yesterday, practically the villagers with anxiety and bell, Arsenija Petrovich, with tractors and cattle, practically all the regions of Ukraine came to the capital and were prevented from joining the government. Honourable President of Ukraine and Prime Minister
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-09-m0.u12	Turn it off, please. He's a knucklehead. You're taking your time at your colleague's, so tell me that you are, for the last time.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-09-m0.u13	Mr. President of Ukraine and the Prime Minister, we urge you to stop immediately the populist conflicts that have never brought Ukraine peace or good, and to start dealing with the economy and stability of our country at a serious level. We're talking to representatives.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-09-m0.u14	Turn off the microphone. You have absolutely no respect for your fellow parliamentarians, Your Honorable colleague Sulkovski. The Party of the Regions, the Tooth, in the Party of the Regions, will take 30 seconds to perform. Here you go, buddy Toothpick. Andrew Derkach.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-09-m0.u15	Aware of the need to ensure the development of Ukraine's nuclear energy complex, the government of Yanuković made a number of decisions in 2006-07 on Ukraine's energy strategy by 2030. The result of this activity has been the most effective in 2007 of the work of the NAEC “Energot” nuclear industry. In 2007, according to the government’s decisions, a nuclear fuel and nuclear material reserve began to be created. One of the measures envisaged in the government action plan in 2007 was the signing of a contract for the supply of a nuclear fuel research party “.”, a modernized design in 2009, provided a number of issues were resolved that would ensure that security was justified in accordance with Ukraine's normative acts. Such a balanced approach was due to the sad experience of the exploitation of nuclear fuel production “. ” to Russian reactors “. ” Czech Republic, “. ” Finland, which led to numerous reactor accidents, a breach of the conditions of safe operation. As a result, as a result of the international tender conducted in 2006 for the supply of nuclear fuel to the Czech AES “.” and the Finnish AES “.” won by the Russian company TWEL under the ratio criteria: security, price, quality. Unfortunately, on March 30, 2008, a conversion contract was signed. “Energot” with the company “.” on the supply of nuclear fuel to the three energy clouds of the South Ukrainian AES does not meet the above criteria: safety, price, quality and economic justification. The reference of lobbyists of the company “.” in the person of Minpalevenergo Ukraine to the inadequacy of the exploitation of American fuel to the Czech AES,” is not possible in relation to its substantive work, since this is not confirmed by any computational and experimental security analysis or by studies of thermohydraulic characteristics during the period of exploitation. companies, availability. and so on. With this contract signed, there is an increase in the risk of price rises for nuclear fuel delivered to Ukraine by the Russian company Tvel in 2009. For non-professional work, the organization of efficient production and nuclear security, the Minpalevenergo leadership, ignoring the interests of Ukrainian citizens, is playing a sub-dancing role, creating a necessary fund for a state visit by the President of the United States, and destroying the nuclear sector and pushing forward the underlying financial and legally unwarranted project, such as a nuclear fuel company and the privatisation of Turboatoma, creates conditions for corruption schemes and the destruction of the state, and undermines the implementation of a security and further exploitation programme in 2008. A party of regions opposes the betrayal of the economic interests of the state by an active government for a political purpose, which is covered by parasiticism in the word of association. and “national security” without filling these terms with real meaning and specific matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-09-m0.u16	Roman Zvaric. Tarasjuk Boris Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-09-m0.u17	Boris Tarasyuk, National Movement of Ukraine, faction "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense". I have the honour to read on behalf of the faction "our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" a statement on anti-Ukrainian statements by the Russian leadership. "For days a number of media outlets distributed statements by the President of the Russian Federation Putin at a closed session of the Council of Russia-NATO, referring to a source in a delegation of one of the NATO countries, commenting on the possibility of Ukraine joining NATO. The tonality of Putin’s statement is no longer mere tactless, as it has become practical for Russian highlanders. I quote: “It is not even a state, it is part of its territory, it is Eastern Europe, it is part and much, it is given us”, and it is the end of the quote. It can clearly be viewed as a violation of fundamental norms of international law and an infringement of the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Ukrainian State. Similar claims have been made not only to bilateral treaties between Ukraine and Russia, such as friendship, cooperation and partnership, but also to the fundamental principles and norms of international law, as well as to the decisions of the United Nations. I would like to remind you that, in accordance with the memorandum of security, the Russian Federation, the United States and the United Kingdom have undertaken to respect the independence, sovereignty and existing borders of Ukraine in connection with Ukraine’s accession to the non-proliferation treaty of December 5, 94. The U.S. and Britain are following this memorandum, which is not to say about our neighbor and our strategic partner, our paws, our partner. To mention at least Tuzla Island or Russia’s annual gas blackmails, which, by the way, also grossly violate the memorandum, since Russia was under an obligation not to exert economic pressure on Ukraine. Of course, we would not want to believe that Vladimir Putin, who completes his presidency, has actually expressed himself about Ukraine in a similar way. At the same time, the faction "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" requires the leadership of the Russian Federation to confirm or refute statements that have appeared in the media and may be viewed as an attack on Ukraine's territorial integrity. We call on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine to check through diplomatic channels or to actually answer these messages and inform the Ukrainian people about the results of such a check. The Ukrainian authorities have no right to ignore and react to any provocation that aggravates the atmosphere of Ukrainian-Russian relations and can harm Ukraine's national interests. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-09-m0.u18	Vazivsky Vladimir Mihajlovich, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-09-m0.u19	Dear Ukrainians! The development of local self-governance in Ukraine is one of the main painful problems facing Ukraine in the development of a democratic, legal and social state. A strong place, a strong local self-government, is a major factor in the democratisation of society, which leads to an increase in the well-being of Ukrainian citizens. And the strong local self - government is when it is carried out by the whole community. Therefore, applying innovative methods involving the community to address local self - government and local problems is vital to the development of self - government in places. The reform of local self-government is only possible to the fullest extent after the completion of constitutional reform, which will open the way for administrative and territorial reform. There is still no clear distinction between government authorities and local authorities. The problem is that there is a lack of material and technical support for the local government. Any reform envisions a change in the system of power. The mechanical liquidation of the administrative and territorial reform of the regime, as the basic link of state authority on the ground, can significantly balance the system of power in Ukraine. Today, district government administrations play an important policy of consolidation in the process of building a democratic unitary state. Ukraine should be very careful about giving wide authority to local authorities. Because we understand that by forming power in places, especially in areas, and in areas where we formed it on party lists, very many rural councils and districts do not have their own representatives in the district or district council. Thus, the way to solve this problem can be a gradual development of full political and municipal elites, and the catalyst in this process is the creation of an optimal electoral system for the development of electoral communities. What we need to work on will be consolidated so that the system that we can adopt in this room is adequately perceived by our citizens, as in the east, as in the west, as in the south and as in the north of our country. The “Our People's Self-Defense” faction believes that Ukraine's further progressive development is only possible by reforming the local self-government system towards decentralization of state power and delegation of more powers, and by providing financial support to local self-government authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-09-m0.u20	Pavlenko Sergei Grigorovich “Block of Lithuania”. Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-09-m0.u21	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, honourable colleagues, honourable voters, the “Litwina Block” in its statement of 7 February 2008 on non-targetity, so-called independent external testing, has already focused on the inadvertentness and inefficiency of this innovation, which limits access to higher education under the criteria of social origin, place of residence and education, and contains a significant threat of a lack of education system for Ukraine from today's world needs. Despite the social resonance of the issue, however, public institutions continue to ignore public opinion. The executive did not take real steps to reduce the negative effects of external testing. Given the lack of an adequate response to the demands of society, I would now like to state that the principles of the rule of law have been violated during the implementation of this reform, its anti-constitutionality and illegality. First. According to the Constitution of Ukraine, the principles of education are defined solely by the laws of Ukraine, but no changes to the laws concerning the introduction of the system of independent external testing by Kabmin have been proposed. Moreover, the whole reform is based on legislation, which is essentially a disregard for the Basic Law of Ukraine. It's different. According to the Ukrainian Higher Education Act, the specificities of admission to higher education are defined by the highest educational institution, and the overall assessment of pupils' knowledge under the Ukrainian General Secondary Education Act is carried out by a general educational institution. The test, which is essentially preliminary examinations, is conducted without the involvement of such institutions and their representatives, which not only limits their independence but also directly violates the laws of Ukraine. Third. The Constitution of Ukraine stipulates that all legal acts do not have a reverse effect in time. Yet, the independent evaluation is extended to the graduates of the schools who completed it by 2008. That is, compared to the conditions of the past years, external testing limits their right to higher education. And we understand that the examination of the appeal, more specifically the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, of the illegality of this reform, can be deliberately prolonged at a time when for hundreds of thousands of people it is a question of further fate. We believe that it is necessary to bring immediately into line with the Constitution of Ukraine, the laws of Ukraine, the rules governing this so-called reform, if any, if Ukraine needs it at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-09-m0.u22	Thank you. Valentina Matviev, Communist Party of Ukraine Alexandrovska Alla.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-09-m0.u23	Respectable colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! I cannot even respond to those letters and communications from citizens whose flow has increased significantly recently. First, voters are asked to answer the question: When will the bullying of those who are trying to get money from deposits stop? People are justly outraged by the artificial barriers created by the Government of Timoshenko, which some of the citizens who wish to receive their legitimate money can overcome, unfortunately, even the cost of their own lives. The cynical deception of the Government of Timoshenko is becoming increasingly evident. It was understood at first that the fraud was the transformation of the promise of the election block of Yulia Timoshenko to return its contributions in two years, the transformation of that promise into payment of only a thousand bracelets, especially since everyone understood the level of inflation expected this year. The next lie was that the amount allocated by the Government of Timoshenko for these purposes in the 2008 budget was not enough to pay even this miserable amount and even those far from the truth. It is known that more than 22 million investors in Ukraine are said to be 22-24 and that only 6 billion bracelets are planned in the budget. So a thousand bracelets can only get one in three, one in four. Here's your next lie, and people already see it, and they already know it. Next. How much did you pay today? This Monday, I took a tour of the rural areas of Kharkiv region, for example. Well, there's queues in the dumpsters. On my question, who receives the money and when these people were registered, I get a completely formal response from the employees, including: “The payments on Monday were to the people who registered, i.e. confirmed their right on 7 February”. Because the money they receive is not enough. You know that the deception was that many investors received reduced amounts. Sberbank is motivated by what the Government allegedly gave them, not in national currency, but in dollars. The following question arises with you to the Government of Timoshenko, what money is the Government counting on our citizens? The amount of money that has been earned by the budget, which means that it has to be cash or money that has been withdrawn from the reserves or taken in the form of loans that will be repaid again from the budget, i.e. by the citizens themselves. The issue of inflation — the painful question, the serious question, which makes our people even poorer, and I am sure that the Government of Timoshenko is interested in this madman. inflation, because their liabilities to investors are being depreciated. People actually get not a thousand bracelets today, they're already getting 600 in purchasing power, even 500. And the Timoshenko government can't.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-09-m0.u24	Shershun Mikola Haritanovic, "Block Lithuania".
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-09-m0.u25	Mikola Shershun, “Block Lithuania”. Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! The situation that led me to speak was the healing of people who had suffered as a result of the Chernobyl disaster. So it's like in the government, or there's absolutely no qualified analysts who, when they analyze the problem, offer a solution, or vice versa, they are, but their job is to work to make things worse. I give an example of the recovery of people in Rivenščina, which shows that the current system of money managers does not work for people. Over the course of two years, more than 63,000 people have been healed to buy travel through the area, and only 36,000 have been purchased through central services in three years. And that difference is far from good for people. Next. The Fifth Callers passed a decree of number 654, which states that the 2008 recovery costs in the State Budget are to be provided for in the local budget for inter-budgetary transfers. As for the 2008 State Budget Act, Minpraci has been redefined as the chief budget manager. Although life has proved that places are more visible than where people need them, how much they need them, and where they need them. What is happening today? A person who needs to be treated with a heart may be offered a trip to a hospital where the stomach is treated. To date, the Cabinet of Ministers has not determined the average cost of travel to compensate those who have not used it. For the last three years, compensation has not been paid at all; it is a matter of priority for giving directions to those in need. Severely ill people will not be able to walk through bureaucratic facilities and break out travel. They reach those who have enough health to tear them off for themselves. All of this is the result of centralization. Only at the cost of transporting people last year could an additional thousand patients be healed in the area. In the Plains alone, more than 70 percent of the power of a sanatorium base, a beautiful base, remained inactive. Today, the Lithuanian bloc's faction demands that the government provide an official explanation of why the 2008 State Budget has been ignored by the Supreme Council's Order on the Healing of the Injured by Number 654, who is specifically responsible for such actions. And most importantly, the government should ensure that this decision is implemented when making changes to the Budget for 2008 as well as in the preparation of the Budget Project for the following year. I want to believe that common sense will prevail and the government will work for people who have suffered as a result of the Chernobyl disaster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-09-m0.u26	Grenevetsky Sergey Rafailovich, “Block of Lithuania”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-09-m0.u27	Dear colleagues, honourable voters, I would like to announce the statement made by the Lithuanian Parliamentary faction on the Supreme Council. The Lithuanian Parliamentary “Block of Lithuania” in the Supreme Council, at the political level of the People’s Party, is outraged by the pressure on the parties by a number of heads of state authorities and local self-government. The geography of such facts, from Carpathians to Luhansk, from Chernigovishte to Crimea, gives reason to claim to be unique and to be systematic, purposeful pursuits of political preferences. There has been a practice of mass liberation of people who have considerable professional and managerial experience but do not belong to the dominant political forces. This is the motive behind the dismissal of a member of the People’s Party, the head of the Republican Forestry and Hunting Committee of the Autonomous Republic of Kowalski, a well - known authority and professional with thirty years of experience in the field. A similar fate met the editor of the circuit newspaper “resurrection” of the head of the Brussels Regional Organization of the People’s Party — Philonenko in Žitomirščina. He did not like the political opponents in the Odessa region and the director of the bread base number 77, the head of the John’s District Organization of the People’s Party, and the deputy of the Paradise, Bondar. It seems that in our country, political loyalty has already become a stronger argument in the selection of personnel than professionalism, honesty, and integrity. The immeasurable desire to stretch out and support one’s own in some cases is absurd and limited to the commission of a crime. For more than two months, the implementing authorities and the Zacarpathian law enforcement agencies have been discrediting and persecuting the city’s head, Uzhgrad, the head of the Zacarpathian People’s Party’s Regional Organization, Ratushnaka, with mere ingenuity and insinuation. Individuals of our one party suffer from unscrupulous attempts with an open political subtext to deprive them of their right to work. Thus, in the Ripkin region of Montenegro, the former head of the Rjadminstration of Korz has been unable to get to work for more than three years because of the plight of local leaders. The Lithuanian Parliamentary faction considers any methods of political pressure and blackmail unacceptable and requires an adequate assessment of the actions of officials involved in the persecution of citizens for their beliefs. State officials who abuse their authority and commit such shameful acts deserve public condemnation. The same assessment must be given to their political leaders. We leave behind the right to continue the practice of political persecution to resort to more decisive forms of public protest. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-09-m0.u28	Teeth, Timoshenko Street. Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-09-m0.u29	Dear colleagues, on behalf of our faction, I would like to reassure the radio audience and our voters. I was in the village on the weekends, and no matter what you're here in the Supreme Council, you heard the people in the village work, the field work is done, the government pays the promised pensions and wages. If Parliament were to help the government, not just talk about problems, it would be good at all. But I want to prove our faction's position on the constitutional issue, because today we've debated for several hours outside this session hall, and I want everyone to understand clearly how the BUT faction works in the constitutional process. Our faction actively responded to the initiative of President Viktor Yushchenk of Ukraine to dedicate the Constitution this year. And as we were developing the President's initiative, we said that if we wanted to change the Constitution, we should act as stated in the Constitution. And the Constitution clearly states that all constitutional changes, the whole discussion is public, democratic, within the Ukrainian Parliament. We took the time-out today to demonstrate once again that we are interested in not only declaring all factions that the law is one for all, not just that they love the Constitution, but that here, in the sessional room, they demonstrate this love for the Constitution during our discussions. So we are convinced that the promises made today will lead to Tuesday's creation of the Provisional Commission on Constitutional Affairs, and our citizens will know that someone is not writing, and here we have a serious democratic debate on what changes to the Constitution should be made. By the way, I will inform you that when we signed a coalition agreement, our associates from “Our Ukraine ” and we agreed on the principles of change in the Constitution regarding local self - government, where it is clearly stated that in the event of changes before the Constitution we are counting out district government administrations, we are transferring the authority of district administrations to control functions, we are making local self - government strong and powerful. That's why we stand here and do the spirit and the letter of the coalition agreement and we support the President in that constitutional changes should be democratic. And finally. I want to commend Parliament because everyone is critical of it. To praise in that regard what we did right, to create an investigation commission for Kiev. Since I want to inform you, as chairman of the commission of inquiry today, what did the fact that we paid attention to Kiev lead to? The court stopped its decision of 1,900 acres [1,900 ha] on October 1. We saved the land. Today, the government has lifted two resonant walls thanks to us. Today, a serious discussion begins that Kiev’s master plan must be adopted. Also, it was by drawing attention to this. In 2007, 96 illegal changes were the master plan. Therefore, honourable colleagues, Parliament must control power, and then everything will be fine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-09-m0.u30	Hanna Herman. Sulkowski passed on the word to Hanni Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-09-m0.u31	Dear colleagues, let me draw your attention to the fact that there are a lot of people on the street right now in front of the Supreme Council. They're retired soldiers, their wives, they're children of war. They tried to reach the Cabinet of Ministers and Julia Volodymyrna. But they weren't even allowed in front of the Cabinet of Ministers and exhibited, and two layers of the police didn't even let them near. And they wanted to return Julia Volodymyr to her letter, which she wrote to each of them in November 2006. Where she says she will support their efforts to pay them back. They write: “Julie Volodymyrically, we believe, here is a letter that they wanted Julia Volodymyrical Dates that Julia Volodymyrna did not accept. They write, Julia Volodymyrna! You took advantage of what you cheated on us, you said, go to the Constitutional Court, stand up for your benefits, and we'll come to power and we'll pay you back those benefits. People believed her, officers, pensioners, military officials, their wives and children of war standing on the street today, they believed in it and voted for Julia Volodymyrna and their block. But they've been fooled, and today these people call this government anti-national, it's written here in their letter. And they're asking us MPs from the Party of Regions, deputies from other opposition factions to help them, when we take the budget amendments, somehow to make those benefits for war veterans, for war children, for officers who have retired and who are unfairly injured to have those benefits returned. These people say that as early as last year, when they fought for their rights and the government of Yanukovich was in power, their problems were not so relevant. But today, after three and a little months of government administration by Timoshenko, when prices rose many times when their savings were consumed by inflation, they were simply brought to an end. And they ask us very much to help them in their efforts, to survive in this world somehow. I'm addressing you, Your Honor, and let's address Julius Volodymyrna together again. Julia Volodymyrna! Now, finally to Parliament, the budget amendments, let's protect those people who cheated on Timoshenko, because people are not guilty because politicians don't keep their word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-09-m0.u32	Dear colleagues! The time for statements by the Ukrainian National Deputies has been completed, and the Conciliation Council has decided to consider two issues: information from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the signing of contracts for the deployment of the Ukrainian contingent to Afghanistan. This information is from the Ministry of Fuel and Energy of Ukraine regarding contracts for the purchase of fuel for nuclear power plants. In accordance with the rules, I am obliged to vote, this is decision 150, the procedural decision for making a statement for these persons, they are invited by Parliament. I ask you to vote on the appropriate procedural decision regarding the speech and the Ministry of Fuel and Energy. Please vote. For – 318 I invite you to the rostrum of Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, Alexander Mihajlovich. I would like to inform Parliament that both the Minister of Fuel and Energy and the Minister of Foreign Affairs are absent from the country, they are part of a delegation of state visits to Libya and Egypt. That's why there'll be deputy ministers on Parliament's rostrum right now. But this practice will surely be overcome; we will not listen to the intercessors at all. I beg your pardon, Alexander Mikhailovich Kupchishin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-09-m0.u33	Thank you. Dear Arsenija Petrovich, honourable national deputies, would like to begin by informing the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the signing of the agreement on the deployment of Ukrainian peacekeeping personnel to Afghanistan, not to the Ukrainian contingent. There is no Ukrainian contingent in Afghanistan and no treaty has been signed on this issue. A basic decision on the deployment of Ukrainian personnel to Afghanistan for participation in an international peacekeeping operation led by NATO was taken in December 2006. On 15 December 2006, a proposal for deployment of Ukrainian peacekeeping personnel to participate in an international security promotion operation led by NATO in Afghanistan was considered and supported by Ukraine. The Ukrainian RNB decision was implemented by Presidential Decree 47-2007 of 26 January 2007, which provides for the deployment of peacekeeping personnel from the military and the Ukrainian Armed Forces, with a total of up to 10 personnel. To implement this decree since May 2007, Ukraine has been involved in a practical operation by the international forces in Afghanistan. Today, three members of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, two military medics and one staff officer are carrying out a peacekeeping mission in Afghanistan. The deployment of Ukrainian peacekeeping personnel under the Ukrainian Act on Ukraine’s participation in international peacekeeping operations since April 23, 99, does not require the consent of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The approval of the Supreme Council is only necessary for the deployment of the contingent. The mission is in line with the mandate of the UN Security Council as set out in resolution 1386 of December 20, 2001. The decision on deployment of Ukrainian peacekeeping personnel was taken in the light of this and subsequent UN Security Council Resolutions, in which UN member States called for the deployment of personnel, equipment and other resources to the international security forces. At the same time, Ukraine's participation in the operation until March of this year has not been formalized internationally. Hence, the NATO de jure did not recognize Ukraine as a contributor of the operation. During July 2007, March 2008 there was a process of inter-ministerial agreement between Ukraine and NATO on our country's participation in the operation. In March of this year, the draft agreements and the draft order of the President of Ukraine to authorize the head of the mission of Ukraine to NATO were agreed upon without notice by the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Economy of Ukraine. On March 26, this year, at its meeting, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine approved a draft order by the President of Ukraine to authorize the head of the mission of Ukraine to NATO to sign the agreement. On March 28th, the President of Ukraine signed a mandate to sign contracts published on the website of the President and the Supreme Council of Ukraine. On the same day, on 28 March at NATO headquarters in Brussels, an agreement was signed in the form of an exchange of letters between Ukraine and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization on Ukraine's participation in an international security promotion operation in Afghanistan and in a financial agreement, also in the form of an exchange of letters between Ukraine and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, related to Ukraine's participation in an international security promotion operation in Afghanistan. In order to implement the said arrangement on behalf of Ukraine, the said agreements were signed by the head of the mission of Ukraine to NATO, on behalf of NATO, signed by the Secretary-General of NATO. The signing of the treaties took place in full compliance with the requirements of the current Ukrainian legislation, in particular the laws of Ukraine on Ukraine's international treaties and the Act on Ukraine's Participation in International Peacekeeping Operations. The signing of the said agreements made it possible for Ukraine to be officially recognized as a supporter of an international security force operation in Afghanistan. Having signed the agreement, Ukraine now has direct access to information and discussions on current issues of the transaction, which is crucial to ensuring the safety of Ukrainian personnel. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-09-m0.u34	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to sign up for a question-answer for seven minutes. Najonov Andry Mihajlovich, Communist Party
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-09-m0.u35	Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-09-m0.u36	Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-09-m0.u37	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear Arseny Petrovich! Dear colleagues! I am very grateful that the Conciliation Council has made a proposal to a faction of Communists who, after learning about the tasks that were on behalf of the President, or, more specifically, the President's data to our representative in NATO and we have heard information today from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. But once again, I'd like you to emphasize. In these new agreements that we've signed, it's only about the staff that are now in the number of three people in Afghanistan or in these agreements, the exchange of letters, it's about something else and the increase in the number of staff? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-09-m0.u38	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich for asking. I said at the beginning that we have a general, borderline number of up to 10 people, up to 10 by decree of the President. The NATO agreement has been confirmed. So there are now three, but in principle, maybe not more than 10.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-09-m0.u39	Gordon, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-09-m0.u40	Please pass the word to Zybenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-09-m0.u41	Zybenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-09-m0.u42	Thank you. The Communist faction, Zybenko. Please tell me, will we ever learn to draw conclusions from our own mistakes? Even without being part of the alliance, they sent their military personnel to Iraq. We got 18 graves from there. What conclusions did we draw? Second question. Yesterday, Ukrainian journalists took care of the United States Embassy because it had been five years since Taras Proczek, a Ukrainian citizen, was killed. You won't tell me when President Bush was in Ukraine a few days ago, the President of Ukraine said a word to remind him of this tragedy, and who will answer for it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-09-m0.u43	Thank you for asking. Well, as to who is sending this peacekeeping personnel, I can give you these numbers for the national MPs. So the United Kingdom has 7,000 700 people of peacekeeping personnel in Afghanistan. Germany is 3,000 500. Italy is 2,000 300. The Netherlands is a thousand and seven hundred and seventy. France is a thousand and a half. But you're going to say these are NATO countries. That's right. There's other information. Sweden has 350 people, a neutral country, a hundred times more than Ukraine. Finland is 86 people. Austria has 2 people. I mean, neutral countries also send, yes. Well, about what you're saying, there were casualties. I can't figure it out here. I know, I know.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-09-m0.u44	Hanna Herman, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-09-m0.u45	Please give Popescu my word, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-09-m0.u46	The word Popescu. On, On.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-09-m0.u47	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear Alexander Alexander, you said the number three, it's insignificant, and it'll only be ten. But it really does matter, not the number, but the participation of Ukraine itself. So a faction of regions wanted to ask questions and get a clearer answer. Under the auspices and command of whom are Ukrainian peacekeepers in Afghanistan, and how is this reflected in Ukraine's non-block status? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-09-m0.u48	Thank you for asking. So I've already said that the three people who are today are two: medics and one is a staff officer. I mean, it's in the hands of a group, the Lithuanian group from the reconstruction of the Afghan province of Gor. [[I'll tell you now.]] Well, that's an official name. So ours are at the disposal of this group. If that adds information to the essentials.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-09-m0.u49	Andrew Schlell.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-09-m0.u50	Thank you. I'd like, well, first of all, to point out that this is about doctors, not about any other contingent. And I think that the humanitarian mission that Ukraine is carrying out is doing our country the honor of doing the most -- helping the disadvantaged and the injured. And I'd like them to pass on the word to Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-09-m0.u51	Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-09-m0.u52	Dear Alexander Mikhailovich, I want to say that, of course, our political power did not vote in favour of sending to Iraq, and if, God forbid, such a story happens, we will be the first to act against the deployment of the contingent to Afghanistan. By the way, I want to remind my colleagues that I was sent to Afghanistan by the Politburo Central Committee of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union, and I wasn't asked. So I would like you to make clear whether there is a principle of volunteering even these doctors, whether there is professional training for these people, and whether there is a clear mission of these people, so that we can be sure that they will not be involved in military action in any way.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-09-m0.u53	Because I can only say it's guaranteed. This is guaranteed because, first of all, their qualifications do not allow them to perform any military functions. Yes. A staff officer finds international security forces in Kabul in the headquarters.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-09-m0.u54	Nestor Schuffrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-09-m0.u55	Thank you. Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, unfortunately we have a very bitter experience when the Soviet Union began sending political advisers to Afghanistan. And it ended with tragedy and thousands of deaths. I have a question to ask you, "Can you guarantee that those who are now in Afghanistan on behalf of Ukraine and Ukrainian citizens will not die and that their health and safety are in no danger?" They are now in the zone of combat, I understand, except for a staff officer. And what guarantee is there that they'll come home, and we won't feel sorry for the families of those who died in Afghanistan again? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-09-m0.u56	First of all, two medics, I told you, they're dealing with the reconstruction of the Afghan province, but they're doing reconstruction and they're providing medical care. [[I'm afraid I don't know if they're in there right now, right now, in this place, fighting.]] I think it's guaranteed by the Peace Corps Agreement itself that it's promoting security, not participating in combat.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-09-m0.u57	Alexander Mikhailovich, thank you. I have one question for you. I visited Afghanistan last year. Please tell me is the opening of the Ukrainian Embassy office in Kabul completed to protect Ukrainian citizens in Afghanistan? This decision was made whether it was implemented.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-09-m0.u58	Arsenius Petrovich, ready to report that the issue is at its final stage. Unfortunately, I am not in the process of opening new diplomatic representations because of my functions at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but the issue is almost over, and the diplomatic representation will soon be in office.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-09-m0.u59	I would ask you to submit a personal request to complete the decision taken to protect Ukrainian citizens in Afghanistan and to open the embassy office. Thank you. Please, have a seat. Dear colleagues, we have time to discuss. Are we going to discuss the questions, the recording of the discussion? We won't? Thank you. Next information from the Ministry of Fuel and Energy of Ukraine on the conclusion of an agreement on the purchase of fuel for nuclear power plants. Reported by Deputy Minister of Fuel and Energy of Ukraine Nedaškowski Yuri Aleksandrovich. Please, Yuri Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-09-m0.u60	Thank you. Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! Domestic nuclear energy, which is now working safely and reliably to produce about half of the electricity consumed in Ukraine, needs, in turn, a guaranteed supply of fresh nuclear fuel. Today, nuclear fuel is supplied exclusively by the Russian company Tvelv on the basis of a long-term contract concluded in 1997, which ends on 31 December 2010, with the exception of fuel contracts for the two newly introduced energy cells of the second and the fourth quarter, which will be operational until the end of the period of operation of these two energy cells. [[Contracts]] Therefore, in order to define and reconcile the conditions for the supply of nuclear fuel after 2010, in the framework of a subcommittee on nuclear energy and nuclear materials, which I have the honour to lead on the Ukrainian side, and which, in turn, is part of the Committee on Economic Cooperation of the Ukrainian-Russian Interstate Commission, was set up and started its work in mid-2007 by a special joint Russian-Ukrainian working group, consisting of Russian heads and experts from the Russian side, “Rosatoma”, VAT “Twel” and VAT “Texnobesport”, and from the Ukrainian side of Minpolienergo, NK “Energoat” and ZAT SP “UkratTVZ”. The official supply offers under different options, including mainly fuel supply volumes of 12 or less, are listed from 15 Ukrainian AES, or minus three that will be discussed further after the previous lengthy discussion were developed and submitted by the Russian side to Minpolivenergo on 24 March this year. Today, they are working in conjunction with Energoatoma and the UKSR for further discussion in a joint Russian-Ukrainian working group. Now essentially the issue of today’s order of the day. Dear national MPs, I probably won't open a big secret if I say that the dependence on one monopolistic fuel supplier has elements of national energy security. Not because Russian nuclear fuel suppliers are an unreliable or problematic partner. Not at all. At a corporate level, this is a reliable, predictable and very comfortable partner for Ukrainian atoms, with which we have many long-term cooperation programs. This is about other risks. First of all, political, technological, and natural. The world has not invented yet other recipes for overcoming them or minimizing them, rather than diversifying supply sources. Over the past 10 years, more than 2 dozen legal acts have also been adopted in Ukraine, including the Supreme Council's decrees of various appeals, acts by Ukrainian presidents and virtually all governments on providing sources. Diversification of nuclear fuel sources in Ukraine. I'm not going to count them in short time, they're printed on four pages here. But the first real step towards diversifying nuclear fuel sources for the EU has been the implementation of the implementing agreement between the Governments of Ukraine and the United States of America since 5 June 2000 of a joint Ukrainian-American nuclear fuel qualification project for Ukraine. The successful completion of this project allows for a strategically important task – the qualification of Wistingaus as the second alternative nuclear fuel supplier for Ukrainian AES. Dear National Deputies, you have been provided with detailed information on the state of implementation of this project for today, so I will not take up your time by repeating it, just to say that the project, which is being implemented in two stages, is: First. This is the transfer from the United States of America of technologies for the design of nuclear fuel for active reactor zones, security analysis, licensing and the use of nuclear fuel. Next. Design, manufacture and supply to Ukraine of alternative nuclear fuel for power grids with IWD-1000 reactors. An organization in Ukraine that would have the right and the necessary scientific and technical base to design nuclear installations in terms of nuclear fuel design and the active reactor zone. Teaching Ukrainian experts how to design nuclear fuel for active reactor zones, safety analysis methodology and licensing. The first phase of the project resulted in the loading in August 2005 of 6 thermal production collections of Westinhouse to the active zone of the third energy cloud of the South Ukrainian AES. Their research operation will continue until 2009. The second phase, which began in 2005, planned the delivery of 42 thermal storage units to the third power plant of the South Ukrainian AES in 2009. All the preparations from this stage have been successfully completed today. All of this has allowed to address the issue of the integration with Wistingaus, not the grant contract, but the commercial supply contract, starting in 2011, of nuclear fuel at least for the three AES-Ukrainian power grids with the VVR-1000 reactors. What does that do? For Wistingaus, it is a guarantee that, by guaranteeing a minimum sufficient supply, the competitiveness of its fuel will be ensured both by price parameters and by technical characteristics. [[scale factor works]] [[feedback factor from exploitation experience]] For Ukraine, this is a transition from experimental research to, at last, actual acquisition of an alternative supplier and real diversification of nuclear fuel sources. To deal with the terms of the commercial contract between Energoatoma and Wistingaus, a joint working group was established in July last year, with representatives from Minpalivenergo, RNBO, Holding Regulation and NAEC Energoat from the Ukrainian side. The working group took into account that alternative fuels at this time are at the stage of the research operation, and so all possible economic, technical and licensing risks were analysed for the future, already commercial, contract. The preparation, review and harmonization of the draft supply contract for Ukraine's nuclear fuel production company Wistingaus, which lasted in the middle of last year, was successfully completed by signing a fuel collection contract for Ukrainian AES with the VVR-1000 reactors starting in 2011. Minpalevenergo and NAEC Energoatom consider the conclusion of this contract as a logical conclusion of the Ukrainian nuclear fuel qualification project, which began in 2000, and the practical implementation of the State policy on diversification of energy sources, including nuclear fuel, into Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-09-m0.u61	Thank you. Seven minutes: questions-answers. Gordijenko, Communist faction, Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-09-m0.u62	Please pass the word to Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-09-m0.u63	Valentina Matthew, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-09-m0.u64	Thank you. Dear reporter, please tell us, as far as we know, when nuclear fuel was supplied from Russia for a decade, for the last ten years, it has been known that nuclear power plants were sent to Russia for processing and burial in its territory. Now when you supply, as you said, alternative nuclear fuel from the United States of America, how will this problem be solved? Will the United States take back nuclear fuel, or will they be buried in Ukraine? And is this possible in Ukraine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-09-m0.u65	Thank you for your attention and for your question. So it's about the burial, as you said in Ukraine, in the Russian Federation of wastes from the processing of processed nuclear fuel from the Ukrainian AES. Just as waste is not flooded there, Russian legislation prohibits it. There is no such thing anywhere in the world. Waste, high-activity waste from nuclear fuel processing, which is delivered to Ukraine as fresh as possible and shipped to Russia for combinations, means they should be returned to Ukraine after 2013, and this is a huge problem for us, and we still have to find where to hide. We are now in the process of adopting a strategy for dealing with decommissioned nuclear fuel, the so-called delayed decision strategy. For Zaporozhye AES, we have already built a nuclear fuel depot that provides storage, temporary storage of nuclear fuel on the site of the Zaporozhye AES. For three other stations: A project for the construction of a centralized shelter is currently being developed in Hmielna, Ravenska and South Ukraine, and a bill will be submitted, scheduled to be submitted to the Supreme Council for approval by the end of this year. That's what it's about.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-09-m0.u66	Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-09-m0.u67	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear Yuri Alexanderovich, two questions. The first time we started talking about the conclusion of this contract, and if this question was raised by the Conciliation Council with a view to hearing the Ministry's information, there were a lot of serious claims about the fact that those fuel parameters, those things that are produced by the United States, more specifically, the firm that made the contract, don't match the design of our reactors. Is that really true? Just so they don't sell us what we don't need. That's the first one. And second of all, as far as I know, there's everything in Ukraine to create things on our own, in our territory. As far as I know, the previous Minister's Office has made the appropriate decision to create the necessary structures for this production. As far as I know, today's Cabinet of Ministers has eliminated the ruling of the previous Cabinet. Does this have to do with American supplies? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-09-m0.u68	Thank you. As far as the parameters of nuclear fuel are concerned, it has now been fully cleared for exploration. I said, these are six experimental fuel collections loaded into the active zone of the third energy cloud of the South Ukrainian AES. They worked successfully for two years, which means, first in the least tense parts of the active zone, then in the more tense ones. Now they've been placed in a sufficiently tense part of the active zone and they've been fitted with rod control and protection. And after work, after the speed of operation, he cut the controls and the protection, well, the experts know the same thing. On average, 1.8 seconds at standard 4 is a beautiful indicator. While we've only just started this work with Westingaus. The Russians had been at it for 25 years. That's the first one. Indeed, they had problems with the fuel “Vestingauza” at the “Temelin” AES, which has already been discussed here by one of the speakers, but in the Ukrainian AES the fuel has been loaded. And what's more, the contract that was signed is signed for an even more perfect modification of nuclear fuel, but with that warning that it might not be needed for the results of the research operation. This is about parameters.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-09-m0.u69	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-09-m0.u70	As far as the factory is concerned, the President's decree and the number of legal acts read, the President's decree provides for diversification at the expense of three sources. I've already called two of them: the supply of Russia, we're working with it after the 11th year, the supply of Westinhouse, already signed. It will take effect after all licensing procedures, there is such a warning, and the third is the construction of a factory in Ukraine. So tech-economic justification is now being developed. By the end of the year, it is planned to be developed and approved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-09-m0.u71	Vladimir Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-09-m0.u72	Vladimir Yavorowski, Kirovograd, who stands on nuclear mines Three questions. First. There's information on the Internet that the things that come to us from Russia have been found in a number of ways by peats that are diseased and that sort of thing. Second question. Please tell us, what is the difference between our dependence on Russia, such as gas, oil, and the supply of twelves from Russia? Is there any difference in this addiction? Where is it bigger, where is it smaller? And one last question. Is there a closed cycle in the ministry and in our government today? We have unique deposits of uranium ore, and of course God and nature have given us the command to have a complete cycle. And not just buying tweeds in Russia, but producing them here, producing them at a high technological level and selling them, by the way, not buying them in America, but selling them to America. Thank you for the short answer and the bridge.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-09-m0.u73	Thank you. As far as foreign objects are concerned. Indeed, this was discovered in 2004 in the production of the fuel weight, the modification of the weight, the supply of the Russian Federation. Now, at two Russian factories that produce this fuel, they're doing something that excludes the presence of such foreign objects. But in 2005 it was. We caught her finally. I'm sorry, in 2004, that was, in 2005, we finally caught them, and it coincided with the balance, actually, with the imbalance in the factories. As far as addiction is concerned. I've already told you in my report today, 100 percent of us depend on Russia to supply nuclear fuel. If I can't see the risks at the corporate level, because Twel is 17 percent of the world's production, Westingaus, by the way, 24 percent. It is Ukraine that brings “Twelu” 50 percent of the currency. He's interested in working with us. As far as political risks are concerned, as a politician, you probably know better than I do. And as for the full cycle. I'd like to say that the full cycle involves two technologies of the so-called dual purpose: isotopic enrichment and radiochemical processing. Ukraine as a non-nuclear state.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-09-m0.u74	Chaplain, final question, Vladimir Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-09-m0.u75	Dear colleagues! Vladimir Kaplienko, “Julia Timoshenko” Block. I would like to point out that, of course, the development of the nuclear industry is a top priority, and you said that today, but two questions. First question. You've made an excellent point today about what are two companies in Russia's Twel and the American Westenhouse that are doing, producing and installing heat-spectrums on our nuclear power plants. But you didn't say in any way how the price for these products is produced. As far as I know, there is some imbalance in Western Europe in the production of Twel and it differs, by the way, in Bulgaria, either in Hungary or in Ukraine. That's the first question. And the second question. I'm going to repeat a little bit with my colleagues today who asked me why there's no question, an active question, about the long-term development of this area in.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-09-m0.u76	Let me finish, I'd like to ask you a question under the Rules. Turn the microphone on for the question itself.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-09-m0.u77	Thank you. From the point of view of the mining, the enrichment and production of its own special twelves and the TVS at nuclear power stations. So I'm asking you to answer what year we're starting this production at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-09-m0.u78	Thank you. In terms of price, the price of nuclear fuel is made up of four components, a uranium raw material, about six percent of the price. This is a conversion of about two, three percent, isotopic enrichment to 30 percent, and the factory is less than 10 percent. If we're talking about the price with Westenhouse and the price with Tvel after 2010, it's only going to be about the price of the factory, that's the one that's in this component, the total price composition is less than 10 percent. Now we've got, "Energot" got commercial offers both from Westingaus and Tvella, and I can't tell because it's a commercial secret, you can ask them with a question and see that this ratio is pleasant to you. Now here's the next one. By 2010, as a major nuclear supplier on the basis of and the winning tender in 1996, Twill had supplied and supplied, by 2010, fully components with all four components and, indeed, there are very substantial benefits. And today we're buying 30 percent cheaper than in the world market, it's been a tender since 1996.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-09-m0.u79	Thank you. Please, have a seat. Yuri Alexanderovich, release the rostrum of Parliament. Thank you. Please sit down. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm moving on to the agenda. I would like to point out that, at the request of the faction of the Party of the Regions and at the decision of all the factions, the faction of the Party of the Regions is asking for a day-to-day review of the application for dismissal of the Constitutional Court of Stannik. But now it's handing out, half-second, colleagues. So let's start with the question, let's put it in the hall. I've got 15 minutes, we'll be able to vote on that question, just like we agreed. Alexander Vitaliyovich Schlapak, I ask, Bill 1364, was voted yesterday to review the bill in short motion. I think that's how we're gonna go. Please, Alexander Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-09-m0.u80	Thank you. Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished national deputies, I am pleased to be able to continue in this high hall to discuss the development of an enterprise in our country. Yesterday we were talking about the permit system, the certification system, the standardization system. The bill, which I propose to you today on behalf of the President of the country, concerns the licensing of certain types of economic activity. The President proposes to amend this law. The project proposes to shorten the list of activities that require licenses. I would like to remind you that Ukrainian legislation requires that licensing be objectively attributed to licensing, only those activities that have special conditions for carrying out a particular business that poses a potential danger to society. We've analyzed the list of activities that are licensed in Ukraine today, 69 of them, a lot more, three times more than the licenses that are being made in the European state. We've gathered all the market participants, and through constant consultations, we've identified activities that we don't think should be licensed. It's eleven types of activity that I'm proposing to cancel, and I'm counting them down, considering that time isn't much. It's manufacturing and trading precious metal products, precious stones, it's manufacturing, metallurgical metallurgy of metal and black metals, it's doing topographical geodetics, cartographic work, it's sending mail, shipping, registered mail, postcards, banners, shipments of up to 30 kilograms of mass, it's tourism, it's wholesale seed trade, it's business, it's about the production of cars, buses, the distribution of domestic animals, and so on. We believe that there will be no change in the markets where these types of activities work, if there is no such license, there will be less trouble, less problems, and less corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-09-m0.u81	Thank you, Alexander Vitaliovich. I'd like to invite Co-rapporteur Kseniya Mikhailovna to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-09-m0.u82	Thank you, Your Honor. The Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship considered the bill. Of course, it contains many useful recommendations, but the committee has raised great concerns about the cancellation of licenses, the collection and handling of metal scraps, and several other items from which licensing is withdrawn. So the position of the committee, I'm going to report to her, is to send this bill for further work. Nevertheless, I would like to point out that there is a need to shorten the type of license. The low species that are proposed really do not fit the principle of ensuring the safety of citizens' lives, but some positions are really controversial, so this is the decision of the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-09-m0.u83	Thank you. Two for, two against, please. Mikhailo Papiev, “Party of the Regions” faction “for” written by Mikailo Mikolaiovich. That's good.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-09-m0.u84	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that such a bill that would actually facilitate entrepreneurial activity is essential to our people, because many political forces tell us how to form a middle class today, how it is necessary today to contribute to improving the lives of the Ukrainian people in general, and we could agree to this bill and, in principle, we can agree with it. But if you remove the bill from this, it's the difference between licensing companies that deal with scrap metal, because that's the danger that can be expected of us. And if everyone was able to collect metals, it would begin to cut the cable, as was the case, we were already going through this stage in 1990, when colored metals were removed from the monuments, fenced in cemeteries and many, many other things. So, in favour of this bill, precisely because of the principle that we need to make it easier for the enterprise and its activities today, I would like to stress and draw your attention to the fact that we support this bill to be designed for further development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-09-m0.u85	Mikhailo Tomenko, Mikola Tomenko, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-09-m0.u86	Ladies and gentlemen, in this case, I would like to address the entire position of our committee, which considered paragraphs 6, 7, which deals with the problems of tourism, physical health and sports activities of sporting events. My fellow Members, I am concerned that when laws are passed in principle on behalf of the President, no one listens to the position of the ministries that care about this, because we have a committee of the Ministry of Culture that deals with tourism for mandates and young people, and sport, which has clearly opposed paragraphs 6 and 7 of the bill. In this case, we support the position of ministries of appropriate youth and sport, and culture, and we draw your attention to the following. What's happening today in our tourism system is, imagine, tomorrow there's no licensing for tour operators. So who's going to take our citizens to rest abroad and what we're going to tell people if we're now going to return from islands all over the world from tour operators who are now going to start registering as private entrepreneurs? Well, are we ready to abandon the state control procedure in the tourism field today? Are we ready today for anyone to organize a competition without consent and without medicine, without insurance and so on and so forth? Now we're going to have the Eastern Universities every day of the competition, so. And we won't know what to do. You know, we have cases that not only in Eastern Universities competitions, but even in tennis, people break their legs. And you want this to happen without a license. So I am convinced that in part of sports, health and tourism, this bill cannot be supported because it will destroy the state control system in the areas of tourism, sport and recovery.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-09-m0.u87	Thank you. Is there anyone out there who wants to do it? Deputy Pecklesenko, please, with a motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-09-m0.u88	The faction of the Regions, Hell-bent. I want to get back to yesterday's conversation. I'm sure there's not one person indifferent to this problem, to these issues. Because at least 40 per cent of the population is employed in this sector. And this is not a single committee. This is a matter of all the Supreme Council. Yesterday, in a dialogue with Alexander Vitalievich, he said that the law should be as simple as a door. But first, the law, in my opinion, should not be simple, it should be functional and, God forbid, the door is similar. Because the doors in Ukraine are opened with one key: a currency sign. I therefore believe that, in the current situation, we must plan parliamentary hearings on small and medium-sized businesses, understanding the importance and responsibility of this issue. As a result, we must make a decision. And this law must be harmonious, including all resources from local councils, entrepreneurs, cabmines and, of course, the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-09-m0.u89	Thank you, colleagues. The time for consideration of this question has been completed. The profile committee proposes to send the bill to the author for further processing. The draft decision was adopted by 1364 p.m. So I'm betting on the vote, and, Alexander Vitaliyovich, do you want it? You don't have the right under the rules, unfortunately. But if you insist very much, if it's very, very much, Alexander Vitaliyovich, please have two words. Alexander Vitaliyovich, will you? [[We're going to vote now, Anna Mikolayevna.]] .
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-09-m0.u90	Thank you very much, distinguished national MPs for being able to say the last word on this bill. I'd like to support a proposal from Pecklusenko for parliamentary hearings. It is important that entrepreneurs present themselves in this room and livelyly, perhaps not from the official, to explain the situation in which they are located. And they explained to you that a bill like this would be passed through the Cabinet of Ministers, listening to all the ministries and revenge, we would never be able to do that. On the contrary, if we give them the will right now, everything will be licensed in our country, from domestic animals to metallurgy and so forth. Mikolo Volodymyrovich, read the law carefully. We suggest that we withdraw the license only from tourism mediation. The tour operators will be working. So don't confuse, please, or don't cross the lines that we're going to report from the rostrum. And the last. Yes, there is a claim to a number of activities. Here's the deal. To adopt this law in the first reading, thus showing that Parliament is ready to do so, for this discussion. Invite a committee, perhaps some associations, to listen to them. It is possible to complete this list of three, four, no problems to remove from the list. But simply rejecting the problem that two years in Ukrainian society with too many licenses will be unfair, will not be an authority for such an authority as our Ukrainian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-09-m0.u91	Thank you, Alexander Vitaliovich. That sounds very convincing. Colleagues, I'd like you to listen carefully. The committee offers to accept it, to send it for processing. If we don't vote for it, I'll put it to the vote in the first reading. [[Just a minute.]] What can't be done? What can you do? Everyone knows you can't! There is the Rules, there is a decree made by the 1364 Committee. In accordance with the Rules, the Supreme Council is only entitled to vote on the ruling. If this ruling does not pass, then I will put in other elements provided for in article 109 of the Supreme Council Rules. Therefore, there is no need to be taught. 1364. I'm voting 1364. If it does not pass, colleagues, then we will vote in the first reading on the proposal of the head of the Secretariat. So I ask you to support the proposal of the first deputy head of the secretariat. I'm betting on Bill 1364 to send the author a bill to the vote. Please vote. [[13:56:16]] For -203 The decision is not taken. I'm voting for adoption in the first reading of Bill No. 1364. It's a wise decision, come on. Only you don't want to vote. [[13:56:42]] For-73 Then I'll put the 109th paragraph, the second paragraph is the committee on re-reading. Should we put or should we not vote? You won't. Let's re-read the committee. Please vote. It's within our parliament. [[13:57:17]] To 214. Decision taken. If we adopt laws like that, I think we'll go a long way. Dear colleagues, we must now fulfill the arrangements we have made. There is a decision of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, there is a bill registered 2340 (to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the President of Ukraine on the Presidential Decree on the release of Susana Stanik from office of judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. I would like to point out right now that there's a whole series of things in the text that we're going to remove. Right, Alexander Sergiyovich? That's right. So far, questions have been asked about the inclusion in the agenda. I'll put it to a vote. They're going to hand it over. [[13:58:23]] For – 232 Decision taken. [[Applause]] Please show by factions: Party of regions “for” – 173, “Block of July Timoshenko” “for” – 13, “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense” – 0, Communists – 26, “Block of Lithuania” – 20. Let the Supreme Council’s apparatus reproduce and give the appropriate address. We have 17 minutes left. Will we read it from the rostrum? We've got 17 minutes, we're going to look at it. Let's ask the next question of order of the day 1365, and we'll pass in just two minutes. Alexander Vitaliyovich, we're on our way. Alexander Vitaliyovich, well, we'll take this up. 1365 to the next. Please! Reports according to the committee’s decision, reports Lavrinovich. Thank you, Alexander Vitaliovich. We're moving on to a question that we've included in the agenda. Alexander Lavrinovich. Alexander Volodymyrovich, please report. There are important things on the other side that just need to be removed. But to give such things to Parliament, and more than that, we and your faction had a conversation about this.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-09-m0.u92	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Yesterday we were already paying attention to this event that took place. You know, on the third of April this year, the President issued a decree repealing the Ukrainian President's decree of 25 March 2004, which effectively freed Susana Stanick from the post of judge of the Constitutional Court, although the decree was named "Cancellation Order," which is the know-how that was established in the modern office of the Ukrainian President. It is proposed that the Supreme Council of Ukraine evaluate this decree and propose that the Head of State cancel it as one that does not conform to the Ukrainian Constitution, in particular as regards the limits of the powers of the Head of State in article 106 of the Constitution, as well as the Law on the Constitutional Court, not to mention the formal and legal logic of such approaches in general and the issuance of similar decrees, which cancel the decrees by which people are appointed to posts and then work for years, and then all the legal relations that they have been born with in these posts are deleted. If it's about some text processing, that's without conclusion, I think everyone already has a text on their hands, or I can read it. [[B in m in s a l in]] Read it? “Reference by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the President of Ukraine for an order by the President of Ukraine to release Susana Stanik from office as judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. On April 3, 2008, the President of Ukraine issued a decree repealing the Ukrainian Presidential Decree of March 25, 2004, which was appointed to serve as the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, Suzanne Stanik. This was preceded by the Ukrainian Presidential Decree of May 1, 2007, “On the release of Susana Stanik from office as judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine for violating the judge’s oath”. By a decision of the College of Judges of the Court of Justice in administrative matters of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the decision of the Shevchenkov District Court of Kiev of 18 July 2007 “Conclusion of the release of Susanna Stanik unlawfully and its renewal as a judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine” remained in force. On April 2, 2008, the President of Ukraine issued a decree re-establishing her as a judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, but the above decree of April 3, 2008, the President of Ukraine, in fact, dismissed Susana Stanik for a second time in connection with a violation of the procedure for the admission of a judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. A comprehensive list of the grounds for the dismissal of the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine as provided for in part five of article 126 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which does not contain any specified grounds — a violation of the procedure for admission to office — nor of the manner of dismissal by way of cancelling the act of appointment. According to part two of article 19 of the Constitution of Ukraine, government authorities and local authorities are obliged to act solely on the basis, within the limits of authority, and in the manner provided for in the Constitution and in the laws of Ukraine. According to part three of article 106, the President of Ukraine, on the basis of and enforcement of the Constitution and laws of Ukraine, issues decrees and regulations that are required to be enforced in Ukraine. It'll take another minute. The practice of dismissal introduced by the President of Ukraine by the abolition of the act of appointment is wrong, as it undermines the legal logic of the existence of an exhaustive list of grounds for release, levelled by the Constitution and laws of Ukraine, guarantees the independence of judges and protection against illegal release. Any reference to a violation of the admission procedure should be seen as a political explanation, not a proper legal argument. So the Presidential Decree of Ukraine of 3 April 2008 repealing the Presidential Decree of 25 March 2004 contravenes part two of article 19, part two of article 102, part one and part three of article 106, article 126th of article 149 of the Constitution of Ukraine. Since the Constitutional Court of Ukraine is the only body of constitutional jurisdiction, it is mandated to answer complex legal questions of constitutionality, laws and regulations, the continuity and effectiveness of its functioning is an objective condition for the existence and development of the rule of law in Ukraine. The ban on obstructing the activities of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine extends to all persons, including the President of Ukraine. So it would be a faithful decision to repeal the Ukrainian Resident Order of 3 April 2008 repealing the Ukrainian Presidential Decree of 25 March 2004. In view of the above, bearing in mind the repeated failure of Susana to be released from office by way of abolishing the act of appointment, recalling the absence of any legal basis for the removal of Susana from her post as a judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, recalling the role of the President of Ukraine as a guarantor of compliance with the Constitution, and thus the independence of the judges of Ukraine, stressing the need for the development of the rule of law, one of the non-alienable elements of which is the separation of the state authority from the legislative, execution and court, and with the effective application of the restraint system and the objections of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, proposes that the President of Ukraine repeal the decree of 3 April 2008 on the repeal of the Presidential Decree of Ukraine of 25 March 2004 No. 368.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-09-m0.u93	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich, please sit down. Ladies and gentlemen, let's discuss this. Would you like to discuss the bill? Yes, I raised my hand as a national deputy. Please sign up for the discussion. It's been 15 minutes, I know, Mikola Komar, Party of Regions. Colleagues, we have exactly nine minutes left. We need to discuss this in nine minutes. If we don't make it, we just won't be able to vote. Please. There's no Komar Mikoli? So, Knyazevich. Who? Please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-09-m0.u94	Thank you. Pass the word to Lavrinovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-09-m0.u95	Alexander Lavrinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-09-m0.u96	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues! We've just heard the full text of the address. I would like to emphasize once again that this practice, which has already been applied in Ukraine several times, we already have about a dozen such decrees, which distort Ukrainian law in general, when, instead of an order for a person to be released, there is an order to cancel its appointment. So there are huge problems not only of a legal nature but also of problems related to the functioning of the entire governing body. I would like this time, without waiting for long court hearings, whether this refers to the possibility of a hearing before the Constitutional Court, because the Basic Law is in breach, of course, and the laws of Ukraine are illegal, and the proceedings before the Administrative Court of Ukraine can also be completed. So that we do not wait for a year to restore justice so that common sense will take root. And so that in this case we get a decision from the Head of State on the restoration of Ukrainian law and the renewal of the position of an illegally dismissed judge and expect that this way the Ukrainian Constitutional Court will also work, focusing solely on the rules of the Constitution, and will ensure the rule of law in our country. Thank you. Please support the appeal.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-09-m0.u97	Ruslan Knazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-09-m0.u98	Dear Mr. Head, honourable colleagues, frankly, our faction is very surprised to ask the question, since it accurately depicts the same situation yesterday when, without five eighteen to consider the Parliament of a similar type of decree, it was proposed. And yet I thank the speaker, on behalf of the faction, for his clear adherence, firstly, to the requirements of the Rules, and secondly, to our certain agreements within the Conciliation Council, that in order to bring this kind of issue to the sessional room, it needs to be discussed in detail on the conciliatory council. On the other hand, I do not understand why Alexander Volodymyrovich reported this question because he is not a subject of the legislative initiative. The decree was made by the national MP, Tolstoy. Alexander Volodymyrovich presented only the opinion of the committee, and he should not, in principle, go beyond the decision taken by the committee. But that's another question. On the other hand, frankly, I do not understand the purpose of such acts as are proposed for consideration by Parliament. What did the anti-constitutional president do now? Did he act outside the limits of the powers defined by the Constitution? No, I didn't. Does he have the right by his decree to revoke any presidential decree? Yes, it does. Should he even order the release of a judge of the Constitutional Court? Yeah, he's got a point. Another point is that if you believe that this decree, which among other things is universally binding for the execution of all organs in the territory, does not correspond to the Constitution, what is the Supreme Council here for? The Supreme Council is not the subject in accordance with the Constitution, which has the right to exercise constitutional justice, to properly verify a legal or regulatory act in accordance with the Constitution and. Inadequateness of the Constitution of Ukraine. That's why we created the Constitutional Court as the only body of constitutional jurisdiction that has to give its legal and professional assessment. And until the Constitutional Court leads the other way, it will not say otherwise, the President's decree issued within the limits of authority, and it corresponds to the Constitution of Ukraine. In view of this, I would ask you, your honorary colleagues, not to support this bill as one that goes beyond the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-09-m0.u99	Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-09-m0.u100	Dear colleagues! We're concerned about the invalidity of many fragments of this address, and I'd like the faction manager Ivan Grigorovitch Kirilenko to clarify our position right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-09-m0.u101	Ivan Grigorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-09-m0.u102	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Indeed, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine is the only body of constitutional jurisdiction empowered to answer complex legal questions, the constitutionality of laws and regulations, the continuity and effectiveness of this function is an objective condition for the existence and development of the rule of law in Ukraine. These are the right words that are written here, we're completely dividing them, but, really, Mikola Tomenko said that we're worried about the processes that are taking place in the Constitutional Court, and here we're saying that there's very little force in this reference. We give a hard estimate, even a rough estimate, that practice is wrong, that conclusions are wrong, and so on. We share anxiety, but we don't share that hard text.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-09-m0.u103	Thank you, Ivan Grigorovitch! Dear colleagues! I'm ready to support the position that's been said about the text. And once again, I would like to point out that, in particular, in the last four paragraphs, there are formulations that the Supreme Council can hardly accept in this form. Because the Supreme Council is a legislative body, not a judicial body, and this raises questions about legal assessments. Legal evaluations, these acts are given exclusively in one place, this is a court of law. And the Ukrainian Parliament, if it's preparing a speech, it should be a correct statement as we want all branches of power to address us properly, and we should address all other branches of government correctly. So there is the next proposal, now to adopt this bill as a basis and to work out, or immediately, the text has asked for further work, to remove a whole series of paragraphs from this reference. And if we do not agree, then we will consider according to the Rules as a whole after the final agreement of the text. So I'm voting on this bill on the basis of number 2340. Please vote. [[14:13:21]] To 233. Decision taken. I'm asking you to show by factions. Region Party – 173, BUT – 14, “Our Ukraine” – 0, Communists – 26, “Block of Lithuania” – 20. Dear colleagues, there is another proposal that I have previously discussed with the drafters. I read the paragraphs. The fifth paragraph reads: “The practice of dismissal by the President of Ukraine by cancelling the act of appointment is wrong, because it undermines the legal logic, the existence of an exhaustive list of grounds for dismissal”, point. Then we don't go for the text. The next paragraph of the sixth is deleted. The seventh one is deleted. & Edit eighth paragraph: “In view of the above, please consider the President of Ukraine for an account in part two, article 19, part two of article 102, part one and third, article 106, and article 149 of the President’s decree. from April 3, 2008, number 297, tire, 2 000 8.’ That's how it's proposed. We're removing all the rhetoric that's wrong, what's wrong with Parliament. Roger that. I can put it to a vote. If we don't vote, colleagues, half a second, don't yell, please, we have a minute. If it's not accepted, we've taken it as a basis, then we'll work on the committee tomorrow, the day after tomorrow or the day after tomorrow we'll vote. So with these rights, I put it in general. [[14:15:09]] For 232. Decision taken. Honorable Fellows, 14.15 — The Supreme Council has been completed. Thank you. See you tomorrow.
