ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u1	Dear colleagues and citizens, please register. [[Applause]] Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much, dear colleagues. Please register. [[10:02:46]] There were 445 Ukrainian national deputies, virtually a constitutional composition. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear friends, today is our colleague's birthday. Roman Volodymyrovich, welcome. [[Applause]] Dear people's deputies, me. From the procedure? Please turn on the microphone. Roman Zvarich?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u2	Irina Heratchenko. Turn on Irina Heratchenko's microphone. Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the distinguished speaker of our Parliament Arsenius Petrovich Yatsenuk and we sincerely welcome Arsenius Petrovich from the entire Parliament with this remarkable date. We wish you creative success and happiness in your personal life. Welcome!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u4	Thank you. Thank you. [[Applause]] There was an offer, of course, of colleagues, to announce today as a day off, but it was not supported. Dear friends, I'd like to adjust to work, with your permission, because. I would like to adjust to work because today is expected, frankly, to be a very difficult day. The agenda that you have been offered for today is one that was determined by the agreeing council on Monday. I'll be right there, Alexander Sergiyovich, and I'll tell you everything. Formally we had to continue to consider Wednesday's issues if there was no other decision of the Conciliation Council. I would like to remind you that at the decision of the Conciliation Council and at the request of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, we have asked the first two questions today about the amendment to Ukrainian legislation, namely, the division of Ukraine's State Budget Act into two parts, and the Minister of Finance will report on this situation. And the second is about the customs tariff. The customs tariff that you and I accepted on the first reading prepared by the committee for the second reading. There's an incredible number of axles, and that's how you have to look at it. The third question is, I'm going to be very open about the political bloc. On the one hand, these are economic issues relating to privatization, on the other hand, this is a personnel issue that has gained political status, which is the release of the head of the National Property Fund of Ukraine Semenyuk-Samsonenko. In view of this, this is the order of the day suggested for your consideration. Please, three minutes out of the procedure, please log in. Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u5	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues! I do not think that it is up to the Supreme Council that we have been in grave violation of the Constitution, the Rules and the laws of Ukraine for several months now, and thus demonstrate the denial of constitutional rights at the highest level. How can we then request regional authorities from every Ukrainian citizen to comply with the law and to respect the Constitution? I am speaking of the fact that for several months we require and do not question the formation of the powers of the executive heads who, in a harsh manner, violate the Constitution, sit in two chairs, and in the seat of the deputy of the Supreme Council and in the chair of the executive branch, yes. The Party of the Regions therefore demands that today the composition of the parliamentary powers of the people working in the executive structures be placed on the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u6	Alla Alexandrovska.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u7	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Andrei Petrovich, I point out that the Supreme Council itself actually contributes to the violation of the laws and the Constitution. What do I mean? Today, Bill 2481 is on the agenda to amend some laws of Ukraine. But this is actually linked to the 2008 Budget Act. However, the Supreme Council's decree and the Budget Act were not being implemented, with which the Government had already had to amend the Budget Act, because we had made many critical comments. Inflation has reached unbearable limits. The bracelet is depreciated. The price of basic foods is that people can't buy anything anymore. The price of bread is rising, there is a threat to the food crisis in Ukraine as a result, so to speak, this year's harvest. And we don't ask that question. I believe that we must implement our own decision as a matter of urgency. And we gave the Government a mandate. Why is this not being done?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u8	Mikhailo Orota.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u9	Dear Arsenia Petrovich, distinguished national deputies! Yesterday we had 23 questions in order. Four questions were considered, and 19 were thus left out of the picture. Today we were given an order of 91 questions. Clearly, we will consider three, four, five again. Please tell me, what is the logic of this order of the day when it is not even theoretically possible to carry it out? Can't we make a real day order? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u10	Ivan Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u11	Thank you, Arsenia Petrovich. Dear colleagues, look at the order of the day that is composed today. He was voted together by all factions and factions of last Monday on the Conciliation Council. And today, no matter what we say, questions are the most relevant to the state today. Look, the issue of amending some of the legislation is the budget issue. Without the adoption of this law, it is not possible to make changes to the budget which is urged by the Chamber. So I would ask that when we consider this issue, we realize that the Constitutional Court's decision can block the budget's 150 billion dollars, and that's what everyone knows. The second question. You see, the customs tariff, as we agreed, we should consider it today, and the country should work in civilized conditions. Next is the Privatization Program and so on. Dear colleagues, this is an extremely responsible day, and we ask you, this is agreed yesterday on the council of the coalition, the coalition has set this order for today, and I ask you all to support and respond with understanding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u12	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u13	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I think the questions are right today. It's only desirable that we don't really politicize them today because we forget that the changes already made to the Constitution and to the position, let's say, the Heads of the State Property Fund are now being proposed by the Prime Minister, and not the President, there is such a slight difference. In this regard, I have a question. And other layoffs, on other personnel issues: The Antimonopoly Committee, the Television and Radio Committee -- why aren't they in order today? I can't see, there's only one holding fund. If all the questions, including the questions that are asked by the deputies, are resolved, then the MPs also need to think about it, somewhere at the end of the week, so that we can't, so it didn't happen that we won't be able to vote. So I, Arsenija Petrovich, also have a question here that maybe after 1332 we should ask these other questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u14	Alexander Efraemov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u15	Thank you, Arseny Petrovich. The Party of the Regions also joins in congratulating you on your birthday. We wish you the best of your lives. And whatever the case, our work continues, and I hope that it will continue. But I would like to recall that on Monday on the Conciliation Council, we agreed that on Thursday we would ask the question of the withdrawal of parliamentary powers, so I would like to draw attention again to what Mikhail Vasilevich Chechtev said. At the same time, we do not understand the inclusion of a cluster of privatization bills. We would like to explain whether Bill 2233 is included in this bloc. If, for some reason, it has been forgotten to include it again, we recall that it has been introduced before other bills, and our faction insists that it be considered today in the sessional room. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u16	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I'd like to ask you to follow up with a request, if you now ask about the termination of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputies, then we will have a coalition that is not likely to be effective in voting on a number of bills. Under any circumstances it will be placed in the agenda and I would like to remind you that a few weeks ago, there was already an attempt by my personally to deprive the Ukrainian national deputies of their respective powers, but unfortunately, neither on the left nor on the right side of the hall did she then find support. Second question about the budget. Yesterday we had a meeting with the Prime Minister of Ukraine. I would like to remind you that there was an official letter from the Prime Minister of Ukraine indicating that the State budget would be submitted by 9 May. Unfortunately, that didn't happen, but as much as I understood the arrangements yesterday, I would like to inform you that if we start the process of amending legislation today, which regulates budgetary relations, the Cabinet of Ministers will literally review the State Budget Act at the next meeting of the government and bring it here immediately for consideration by the committee. Although I cannot help but point out that when the State Budget Act was adopted last year, we had a clear, direct rule of law: the introduction of the law within two months in a new edition after adoption. We've already spent more than three months. I don't want to give any political assessments right now, so I'll give only economics if the government has a warning about the adoption of the budget in the new edition, let's do one more good and today we'll consider Bill 2481 proposed by the government. As for the customs tariff, here all parts of the hall are interested in having us consider this bill on the customs tariff in the second reading. The third is about layoffs. There's an all-day release, God willing to let us go to any one liberation. And the fourth is about the privatization bill. I asked you once before not to put 2233 -- this is the law on the moratorium on privatization, so I have a proposal like this -- let's now consider the first two bills. The first law introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers is the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. The second is the second reading of the Customs Tariff. The third is the judge. And then we'll be working on how we work. Because if we start now with the suspensions of the powers of the people's deputies, we're not going to consider anything at all. So I ask you to accept the order of the day. Let's start, let's work, and then there's, "you'll know, you'll hear." Colleagues, I beg you to agree. Believe me, we're going to have a lot of possibilities right now after lunch to fight, mass. You want out of the procedure? All right, turn on Peter Mikolaiovich Simonnka's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u17	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues! I want to ask you first of all to understand that this is how we establish the illegal activity of the Supreme Council at all. We make decisions, and if we go to the same Constitutional Court, because they have no right under the Constitution at all to be national deputies, and if we vote, all these decisions that we make, they should be called into question, first. Secondly, we don't really understand that today this irresponsible attitude towards the Constitution, disregarding the Constitution -- it is a disgrace, let's say, to the Supreme Council, because the Supreme Council only has the right to make changes to the Constitution. Today, national MPs who are part of the coalition are not yet authorized. I want to point out that the coalition today is blocking the work of the Supreme Council, it's destroying the legitimacy of the work of the Supreme Council, it's doing everything to question the decisions that we make. The Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u18	Dear Peter Mikolaiovich, I would like once again to repeat what was said at the Conciliation Council meeting on Monday, when we discussed the question of the composition of the powers of the people's deputies, under my personal guarantee. My personal guarantee is this question will be considered, period. Because we will not continue to violate the Constitution. Dear colleagues, I announce a review of Bill 2481. In order for us to consider Bill 2481, we need to include it in the agenda and we will continue to have an appropriate procedure for its consideration. Comrades, so pay attention! I put to the vote the question of the inclusion in the agenda and the adoption of the decision of the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers. Attention! I'm announcing the vote for inclusion in the agenda. Vote. [[10:17:36]] For 226 Decision taken. The bill is included in the agenda. I invite you to the rostrum of Ukraine's Finance Minister Pinzenic Viktor Mikhailovich. Please, Victor Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u19	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, honourable national deputies, proposed by your opinion, the bill foresees the removal of tax, customs, separate budgetary and other legislation from the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2008 and the amendment of certain legislations in Ukraine, and the transfer of these rules to special laws. As a result of such a need. This relates to the proposals made by the 101 people’s deputies to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine regarding the unconstitutionality of article 167 and the separate provisions of section 2 of the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2008 and amendments to some Ukrainian legislation. The uniqueness of this presentation is that of the following. For the first time in the history of Ukraine, constitutional contributions relate to the income of government and local budgets, pension and social funds. The application affects the standards governing the sources of budget funding. The presentation touches on the social initiatives that are being implemented through the budget. In particular, it is proposed to recognize the unconstitutional provision of assistance in the birth of a child. Similarly, fate is prepared by a new coefficient, an increase in the number of working hours when a pension is accrued. It is proposed to cancel, declare unconstitutional, the tax-added tax regime in the agricultural sector. So the bill prepared by the government is a response to this unique and extraordinary submission. The adoption of the bill will allow you to ensure that the proceeds of the state and local budgets and social funds amount to 151 billion dollars per year in 2008 are preserved, as well as to address issues related to the implementation of the budget. The proposed bill does not provide for new standards of legislative change, except for those suspended by article 67 of section 1 or provided for in section 2 of the Ukrainian Law on State Budget 2008 and amending the Ukrainian legislative acts. I want to mark the two main blocks of this bill. First block. Section 2 of the Ukrainian Law on State Budget for Ukraine 2008 and Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts proposes to be transposed into the prescribed bill of 33 laws, such as the changes in tax legislation, the Law on Land Payment, the introduction of a marginal amount of land assessment for the calculation of the amount, the amount of land tax, the Law on Land Rental, the Law on Taxation of Alcoholic Drinks and Tobacco Products on the establishment of excise duty rates on alcohol, vodka and liquor products, tobacco products, the Law on Taxation of the Group of Natural Enterprises, the Law on Taxation of the Income of Other Enterprises, the separate Code of Land and the Law on Privatisation of State Property; and, in particular, the consolidation of powers in respect of the sale of natural resources, the Law on Taxation of Natural Resources, the Law on Taxation of Natural Resources, the Law on Taxation of Natural Resources, the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the [[on land tax rates for lands whose monetary valuation has not been established]] [[on the differentiation of the minimum amount of rent paid for land held in public or municipal property]] [[Applause]] [[on the payment of income tax for 11 months]] In addition, the project provides for the deepening of the existing standards for the use of mine detection, special water use, and geo-investigative work at the expense of the State budget, which are approved by Appendices 1 and 2 to the bill, as well as rent payments. The draft law provides for the preservation of changes in social legislation in the setting of the size of the congregations to pension and other social funds and the definition of a basic fund to pay for the payments of these funds. This saves revenue for about 116 billion dollars. The size of congregations to state pension insurance, the size of public social insurance for industrial accidents, the establishment at the legislative level of additional congregations to pay pensions, the legislative arrangement for the payment of public pension insurance to members of the military, the military, and the primary composition of the establishment of a basic fund for the payment of salaries to social funds at the level of 15 per cent of the subsistence minimum for working persons. Another series of rules of this law refers to changes to certain provisions of the Ukrainian Budget Code. In part, the financing of children’s homes of family type and foster families by granting subsidies from the state budget. The fact is, in the constitutional record, it is proposed that the payment of family homes be declared unconstitutional at the expense of the state budget. This will lead to paralysis in the financing of family homes. Because the State Budget Act provides for a subsidy from the state budget, and local budgets do not have an assignment to do so. The same is true of financing the professional and technical institutions of Lviv, Kharkiv and Kiev. The ban on financing these expenses from the States........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The State budget does not have the appropriate targets for this. The rules of individual laws of Ukraine are applied in accordance with the requirements of the Budget Code. In particular, we have different sources of funding for education in two laws on financing general secondary education. In one law it's the local budget, in another law it's the state budget. The current education funding budget provides for local budgets. The second block of law provides for the exclusion of 17 items from 19 that were suspended by article 67 of the State Budget 2008 Act. In 13 of them, it is proposed to amend basic legislation, including the sale of special permits for the use of nadrama, including gas, exclusively at auctions; the appointment by the Office of the Ministers of Ukraine of the rules of the congregations for geological exploration work carried out at the expense of the well-established budget and their management; the calculation of the special account costs in the treasury as a financial reserve for decommissioning nuclear blocks; the cancellation of a separate target allowance for an active electricity tariff in part of the cost of co-financing the development of non-traditional sources of electricity. Excluded norm for suspending the privatization of bankruptcy firms. Before the adoption of the Tax Code, two paragraphs were suspended in the final positions of the bill. The two paragraphs remain in Article 67 in the mode of suspending execution, in particular with regard to the deferral of payments to the National Bank of Ukraine, since article four of the State Budget Act stipulates that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is to settle part of the debt amounting to at least 255 million in 2008. That's right. Without such changes, additional budget expenditure may amount to nearly one billion dollars. My fellow Members, I would like to point out once again that this law essentially provides for the transposition of the laws adopted today in the 2008 Act on the State Budget of Ukraine and for amendments to certain laws of Ukraine to the special legislation. The government supports the conclusions made by the Committee on Budgets and is willing to take into account the proposals proposed by the Committee on Budgets and proposes that the law be adopted on a general basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u20	Are you finished, Victor Mikhailovich? Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like you to sign up for a question-answer. Mikhail Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u21	Thank you. Dear Victor Mikhailovich, you know, in fact today we have admitted that the government has defiantly violated the laws of Ukraine. And the reason for today's introduction of the law is the submission of 101 Ukrainian people's deputies to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Moreover, today there are 22 numbers. Do you know that today the actual size of the living minimum exceeds what you put in the budget for a hundred dollars? Will you pay for January, February, March, April of this year to retirees, veterans, disabled persons, budget workers for underpaid wages and pensions resulting from a conscious underestimation of the subsistence minimum? And what size of living minimum are you going to offer in the 2008 State Budget?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u22	Mr. Michael, thank you for asking. I would like to emphasize, and I would like to ask you carefully to read the statement made by most of the members of your faction, because this petition suggests that you cancel the child's birth, this petition suggests that you cancel the coefficient, that you increase the work-age factor. Your application suggests cancelling savings for citizens and many other social initiatives. I ask you to read more carefully the documents submitted to the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u23	Alla Alexandrovska.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u24	Please pass the word to Kilinkar Spiridon.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u25	Spiridon Kilincarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u26	Viktor Mihajlovich, today under the Cabinet of Ministers, are miners - veterans, regressors, disabled - who have come a thousand kilometres to uphold their social rights and guarantees. Question one: Does the Government intend to comply with the Constitutional Court's decision on social benefits and guarantees? Question two. I have a document in my hands signed by Julia Vladimirovny Timoshenko, who also requires you: “In accordance with competence, together with the Social Insurance Fund for Industrial Accidents and Occupational Diseases, immediately consider and take appropriate steps to address the issues raised and to inform the applicant and the Cabinet of Ministers.” Regressors are involved: miners. Tell me, for your Government, "now" is how much time do you need? It's just been a month. What has been done in this regard with regard to the implementation of social benefits.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u27	I don't think people know that this bill that we're considering is aimed at protecting people with disabilities and people who have suffered from manufacturing. Why? Because, unfortunately, the constitution of the 101 people’s deputies provides for the abolition of the source of the foundation: the Industrial Accident Insurance Fund. Therefore, the adoption of this law is intended to preserve those who have suffered from accidents at work, from the submission of deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u28	Catherine Timofievna Vashchuk
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u29	Katerina Vashuk, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear Victor Mikhailovich! I've got an analysis of our scientific and scientific management right in front of me. The Law on Added Cost Tax states: Article 8 indent 1 of the VAT Act provides for a special tax regime in rural forestry, which essentially cancels benefits for farmers, is to be restored from January 2009. At the same time, the documents submitted to the draft contain no explanation for possible State support. Second, the law on the order of payment of taxes on budgetary and public trust funds. You're canceling the tax debt of legal or natural persons arising out of a situation of irresistible force, force majeure.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u30	Let me finish, please, Catherine Timothy.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u31	Victor Mikhailovich, that means that if a crop or hail fell, or a downpour, some element in the village, the rural enterprise would not have the right to tax exemption. Please explain these two things.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u32	As for the first question. The constitutional reference provides for a non-constitutional norm that continued the tax treatment of VAT until January 1, 2009. What does that mean? In the event that such a decision is taken in the agricultural sector, there will be an immediate general tax regime, which regulates the issue of the VAT tax scheme. In the event of its adoption, we are insured against changing this regime in the agricultural sector. As for other standards, in the regime in which they were in the current Law on Budget and Amendments to certain other laws of Ukraine, they have been transposed into a special law. From one place to another.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u33	Litwinov Leonid Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u34	Please pass the word to the Deputy Chechtov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u35	Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u36	Why is the Government in grave violation of the law, the decisions of the Supreme Council? Indeed, when the budget was adopted and, according to the President's assessment, the budget for this year was the worst budget in Ukraine's history, it was decided that, by the first March, changes in the budget would have been made to the Supreme Council, where financial flows would probably have been redirected, not to the financing of the Government's populist decisions, but rather to the deployment of the mahovo of the economy, but from the growth of the economy, then the growth of the economy would have been converted into an increase in social standards. And if, by the first March, the budget changes had probably been made to the Supreme Council, the people of Ukraine would not have suffered that price shock, and people would not have been caught in the heart by entering shops and the market when they saw the value, above all, of food. When will the Government eventually implement the Supreme Council decision and the law and change the budget to the Supreme Council? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u37	Dear Mikhail Vasilovich, it's hard to agree with your opinion that when it comes to the incomes of the poorest groups of the population -- pensioners -- when the salaries of doctors, teachers are raised, these things are populism. Because the direct purpose of the budget is to respond to the needs of these citizens. That's what the budget is for. As for the second part. I'd like to emphasize again. For the first time in Ukraine’s history, the budget’s income was threatened, including the Pension Fund. I called that number 151 billion dollars. With the cap, with the mine on which the detonator is drawn, it is not possible to talk about making changes to the budget. Not a single government, not a single minister of finance without resolving this problem, to talk about budget changes. The adoption of this law opens the way for us to introduce to the Supreme Council the Act amending the 2008 Act on the State Budget of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u38	Vasil Georgievich Hara.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u39	Dear Viktor Mihajlovich, you have not responded to Mikhail Nikolaevich Papiev's question at the minimum of living, Mikhail Vasilevich Chechov's budget, so I ask you not to ask questions, nor to lie as you do today from the rostrum. First question. Why does the Cabinet of Ministers ignore the Supreme Council, and so far, with a delay of three months, does it not change the 2008 budget? This means that we are incurring the people of Ukraine. Second question. Why does the Cabinet of Ministers not approve an objective subsistence minimum for a new, expanded list of products, goods and services under the Housing Minimum Act? And you know that living minimum should be one and a half times higher today. You surround the entire people of Ukraine because the subsistence minimum depends on the minimum wage, i.e. wages by all means. a single tariff network. Minimum pensions, all social benefits. Why are you robbing the people of Ukraine?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u40	Vassil Georgiyovich, I'm sorry I'm a minister, not a deputy, because I would have reacted a little differently to your question. Vassil Georgiyovich, I'd like you to take a closer look at the submission you made on behalf of the faction. I don't know if your signature is there. And I would like to inform the public that 101 members of your faction have essentially proposed that the Pension Fund of Ukraine be abolished. That is to say, this proposal provides for 13 million citizens of Ukraine to be deprived of funding sources. I am responsible for what I say, and what is provided for in your constitutional statement applies not only to the Pension Fund but also to all social funds.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u41	Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u42	Viktor Mikhajlovich, an adventurous amendment to the Ukraine Budget Act to others, including social bills that eliminated the benefits of your government, was reflected in the Constitutional Court's decisions. I want to remind you that you have done the same. And we have the same decision of the Constitutional Court. I want to make a note of you, you know, a lie at a rally, a lie in a controversy or inaccuracies -- you can still understand, but when a minister of finance from the Supreme Council of Ukraine's rostrum. Please quote me and the general public, as you said, where is the decision of the Constitutional Court, which annuls the material assistance of children at birth, where the Pension Fund is abolished. Your Honor! What are you doing here? Instead of filling the state budget with new jobs, economic activity, investment, innovation, you still patch holes. How much will tax pressure increase as a result of your new adventures?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u43	First of all, Your Honor Jaroslav Mikhailovich, I wasn't talking about the decision, I was talking about submission. Secondly, Sir Jaroslav Mikhajlovich, I would like to remind you that the previous government you represent has forgotten that on January 1, 2008, taxes were stopped completely. So the country was out of income, and we had to settle the issues literally a few days before the new year.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u44	Miroshenko Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u45	Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear Victor Mikhailovich! Of course, with respect for you as Minister of Finance, realizing that you are in a difficult situation right now, I would still like to invite you not to distort the facts, especially with regard to the submission of members of the Supreme Council to the Constitutional Court. I myself have participated in this process, and I can assure you that the only thing that we have motivated the government to do, and we have appealed to the Constitutional Court, is to repeat it -- I stress -- not to cancel it, but to renew the social standards that are today guaranteed by both the Constitution and Ukrainian legislation. I have two very specific questions about your work. First. What is your forecast of inflation by the end of the year, as you propose to correct in this context the minimum of living, and when you predict it will be submitted to the Supreme Council of the Ukrainian Law on Budget, which we are expecting all here in the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u46	Dear Mr. Yuri, I don't deny what you've done about social standards. But for the first time, this is the second chapter. And the second chapter, to your knowledge, concerns taxes, pension funds, other social funds. The second section relates to the increase in the number of pensions. Chapter two, I'm sorry, chapter two, I'm sorry, and in the budget, the standards that apply, help children, pay savings. Unfortunately, there are these standards in this project. As for budget changes, once again, I would like to emphasise that the adoption of this law, which essentially sets out the standards that are in the current legislation, opens the way for amending the budget, and in these changes we will foresee a correction of the minimum of living and corresponding social standards to which the budget is to respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u47	Vladimir Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u48	Dear Victor Mikhailovich, I have carefully reviewed the draft budget of Ukraine, which was submitted by the previous government. In the same way, in the text of that document, these laws, which should serve to fill the budget, were found. Obviously you are correcting the faults of the predecessors today because you only had a few days to process the budget. Is that so or not? That those laws that would serve to fill the budget were also in the body of the budget. Today you want to put them outside the budget text so that they exist as a separate legislative act. Is that it or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u49	I would like to remind you once again that a few days before the new year, thanks to the coalition's efforts and some other deputies, we have managed not to allow ourselves to enter the new year of the country, not only without the budget, but without the tax. Because, unfortunately, when we came to the government, we forgot that the tax law was only in force until December 31 and that the country had every chance to find itself in a deep financial crisis due to the fact that the draft Tax Law had not even been submitted to the Supreme Council. Unfortunately, we have had to respond to many other norms that we have made by adopting the State Budget Act, and we have settled the financial situation in the country, we have adopted a balanced budget that is now being implemented with a surplus. Today, in five months, the country did not have a budget deficit.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u50	Colleagues, we have six questions left. Actually, there are eighteen, but time is running out. So, Mikhailo Kosov, Stoyan, Final, Cibenko, Gordijenko. Please, Kosov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u51	Mikhailo Kosov, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, “Reforms and Orders”. Dear Victor Mikhailovich, the introduction of such a law is undoubtedly necessary, and it can finally be said that it has been introduced, because the regulation of those tax laws that you have reported to us in the State Budget Act of Ukraine is simply ineligible for this basic financial instrument. But tell me, in your report, you mentioned that these laws, or actually the law you introduced, might exist before the Code of Taxation was passed. Undoubtedly, I remember that in the Supreme Council we had adopted, in the first instance, the Tax Code of the authorship of our colleague, Sergey Thierochina, in what state is now the work on this document that would decide all of these.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u52	Dear Mikhail Vasilovich, a very small circle of norms is stalled to acceptance, that's four norms before the adoption of the Tax Code. The absolute majority of the standards are included in the body of basic laws. So only a little bit is stopping. As far as working on the Tax Code is concerned, it goes. The formed working group discussed some of the ideological issues on which MPs are invited because there are a large number of national MPs. And we are pleased to accept any reasonable suggestions that come from different circles, including the national deputies of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u53	Alexander Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u54	Mr. Pinzenik, you know, I've known you for a long time, and I knew that you would lie about how you lied for many years while you were serving as ministers. Well, since you're lying to the people of Ukraine today, I'm ashamed. I am one of those who signed that petition to the Constitutional Court, and I well remember that in this reference we asked for a reinstatement of all social benefits. And now there are two specific questions. Three months ago, at the President’s request, we passed a law that obliges us to print a monthly minimum of living and make adjustments accordingly. Why, until now, your government has not printed the minimum amount of living and has not reviewed it. By the way, when you went to the MPs, you called the living minimum 800 dollars, and today it's 500! How can you do that? And the second question. Mr. Pinzenik, please tell me that today 3 million have been saved by one thousand. Whether you will pay at least 50 percent of your savings to Ukraine’s citizens, or at least one thousand for all. Why haven't you said anything about this before, or do you have these resources? Please have a concrete and honest answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u55	Dear Mr. Stoyan, obviously it's not in your rules to sometimes get to the truth, you've started a phrase with the standard that I signed. I think our listeners have the opportunity to appreciate how you know how to speak the truth, because until you know Victor Pinzenic was not a member of the last vocation and he was unable to submit and sign a similar kind of document. As far as our obligations are concerned. First. Your information on the payment of deposits does not match the reality either, since today more than 5 million people are accounted for by thousands of dollars, and we keep our commitments during the election campaign.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u56	Vladimir The Final and Final Question of Peter Cibenko
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u57	It's too late. Bevanko, I give you my word, my friend.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u58	Bevanko's word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u59	Bevenko, Party of Regions. Dear Mr. Pinzenik, the author of the bill under the cover of budgetary security, is proposing to push for land legislation standards that will contribute to corruption in terms of land use. More than 15 changes have been made to land legislation that promotes bribery and corruption in public authorities. The authorities of local self-government have taken the last thing they have is a fee for land that local governments can sell. Why is all of this being done? Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u60	Dear friends, first of all, there are no new standards in the law. What are we talking about? It's all about one thing. We did that on December 27, when the law was being voted on, we repeated that rule. Our government is committed to stopping any manipulation of land donation. Note that the law provides solely for the sale of land by auction. And these costs from land should come for the benefit of the territorial communities, for the benefit of Ukrainian citizens, not for the benefit of individual businesses. I don't think it's news to you that the earth is today. By this time, the earth had fallen to pieces. The law closes this slip because the only way to sell land is by auction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u61	Last question, Peter Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u62	Thank you. The Communist faction, Zybenko. Dear Mr. Pinzenik, you have learned very well to answer questions you have not been asked or to answer questions you have been asked. So I'm going to ask you at eighteen: why is there no change in the Ukrainian State Budget in the complex, I mean, and when will they be submitted? That's the first question. And the second. Arsenius Petrovich, including this question to you. The regulation stipulates that when the Supreme Council of Ukraine is considering a problem, a bill of some kind, it is also addressing the issues involved. This is me before we're elected: Simonenko, Cibenko and Alexandrovska have passed a bill on changes to the state budget of Ukraine. His number 2388. He's been registered for a long time. So why doesn't this document deal with our document of Ukrainian national MPs from the same, I emphasize, problems are problems.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u63	First of all, we're not considering the Budget Act, we're looking at changes to Ukraine's laws. And secondly, I am convinced that everyone in this room, including you, including the citizens, understands very well what this is about. What changes to the budget can be considered if an axe is placed over the budget’s income? In addition to government budgets, local budgets, and all social funds. The norm, in the case of which budgets, both state and local, and social funds, are going to run out of funding. So the solution to this problem, which we have made from the government today, allows the government to go out and draft the Budget Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u64	Victor Mikhailovich, thank you. The only thing I'd like to point out is now publicly that I'm drawing your attention to the need to introduce Ukraine's draft State Budget Act to the Supreme Council. We've been meeting you for the fourth month, and I think the limit is over. If the draft State Budget Act is not introduced, there will be no other way out, as in fact, not to consider other bills of the Cabinet of Ministers until the State Budget Act is passed, because we are violating the law, and the violation of the law provokes legal nihilism. We're going to meet the government on all issues, but understand correctly, we can't disrespect national MPs. And yesterday we made a deal with you and the Prime Minister, please bring it in. The committee will consider the procedure and this will be constructive cooperation. With regard to Bill 2388, according to the rules of the Budget Code, the right to amend the State Budget Act is the only one in the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. That is the reason why this bill is not being considered. This is simply a direct violation of the rules of the Code of Budgets of Ukraine. Mikola Ivanovich Derkac, please to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u65	Dear Arseny Petrovich! Dear national deputies, invited! The Committee on Budget Issues, at its meeting on 29 May 2008, reviewed the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers at number 2481. The bill provides for the transposition of the Law on the State Budget 2008 and the amendment of certain legislative acts of Ukraine into a separate law of most of the rules of section 1 of article 67 and the provisions of section 2 of the Tax and Other Legislation on the Income of the State Budget and Local Budgets and State Social Funds, as well as on the settlement of the allocation of powers for the implementation of expenditure from all levels of the budget. Thus, the bill does not contain rules on state aid, benefits, and guarantees to citizens. The adoption of the bill will allow for a long-term solution to the relevant provisions of legislation that form the income base of the budget and the social funds, as well as individual issues of inter-budget relations, i.e. without the need for them to be provided in the State Budget Laws for the coming years and, above all, in the formulation of the State Budget for 2009. This will ensure that the State Budget laws are consistent with the Tax System Act and the Budget Code, which has not been complied with in recent years. Thus, negative adjustment practices will be overcome, along with the adoption of the Law on the State Budget of Tax Laws. The proposed bill does not require changes in the state and local budgets for the current year. The adoption of the bill will allow further steps to be taken to accelerate the preparation of complex changes to the State Budget Act 2008. The Legislative Committee on Law Enforcement and Tax and Customs Policy has reached its conclusion on the overall bill’s support. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council has also reached its conclusion. The main scientific and expert office believes that the bill can be adopted on the basis of comments made and suggestions made. The committee has worked out and, if possible, takes into account the proposals outlined in the Board’s conclusion. The committee's consideration and discussion of draft laws revealed a number of technical omissions compared to the drafting of the current State Budget Act, which is proposed to be settled. Taking into account the above, the Committee on Budget Issues decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of a bill amending certain legislative acts under the heading 2481 on the basis and as a whole. The law takes into account such changes. First. Item one. To complement this point: in the preamble, the words “in the direction of using the funds that came from paying for the land” should be deleted. The other one. In paragraph 2, paragraph 8, paragraph 2, the words and digits “subparagraph 7.4. 2” replace the words and digits “paragraph 1 of 7.4.2”. Third. In paragraph 14, paragraph 23, paragraph 5 (a), delete; in paragraph 9 (c), the words “before the adoption of the law” shall be replaced by the words “before the entry into force of the law of Ukraine”. Four. Paragraph 24, paragraph 8, should be supplemented by the following sub-paragraph: paragraph 13 of Part Two, in the following wording: “further use of land according to the requirements of the Ukrainian Code of Land”. Fifth. The section “Final Positions” should be supplemented by paragraphs which reflect the standards of paragraphs 6 and 7 of section 19 of section 2 of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for 2008 and “On amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine” and by the following points: “This law takes effect from the date of its publication”. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, on a monthly basis, submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law on the definition of basic standards of payment for the use of mining gears at the level of 2007 according to the decision of the committee that you are given. Six. With regard to some of Ukraine's legislative amendments to this bill, the provision of paragraph 45 of the draft law should be moved to the section “The End of Positions”. A submission with a decision by the Committee on Budgetary Questions is given to you. Thus, the Committee on Budget Affairs proposes to adopt the bill under registration number 2481 as a basis and as a whole as a law with the changes noted and to entrust the General Legal Authority.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u66	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u67	and the relevant departments of the Supreme Council's apparatus to make editorial and technical clarifications to the text of the bill for the submission of the law to the Supreme Council. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u68	Let's sign up, colleagues, for a question to the committee head. Alexander Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u69	Dear co-reporter, I'd like to hear from you what I haven't heard from Pinzenic, who hasn't said a word at all about the social cluster. Will the adoption of these changes in the laws be reviewed, reviewed, and reviewed, a minimum of living that has not been reviewed from the past government? Will the minimum wage be reviewed? Will the minimum pension be reviewed? And next, is it foreseen in the changes to this budget that Ukrainian citizens will not get a “Yulkin thousand” but will get their 100 percent savings over the course of two years, as promised by this government? Are these changes, or will the overall situation improve? And the next is, will these changes replace the need for budgeting, or will they still change to a budget that foresees a change towards improving the social protection of Ukrainian citizens? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u70	Thank you for asking. Similarly, on the Committee, we also asked the Government representatives that a draft amending the 2008 budget should be submitted shortly, which we approved in December of this year. We were told that soon after the amendments to the bills proposed today were adopted, they would soon be submitted. The current macro-indicators situation will also be taken into account and budget clarifications will be developed on this basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u71	Mikhail Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u72	Thank you. Dear Mikola Ivanovich, you know, there have been many questions today that the Minister of Finance has not provided any answers to regarding the minimum of living so that the Ukrainian citizens can understand why we are asking so scrupulously: what is the minimum size of living to let everyone know that this is a basic social standard. Tax benefits are calculated, depending on subsidies and benefits, indexations depending on prices, wages, and pensions. So this is an indicator that, if he's hiding the government today, he's actually robbing Ukrainian citizens. Today, every pensioner is underpaid as a result of price increases and, as a result of the unaltered subsistence minimum, about 110 dollars each budget worker is under 350 dollars. And the government keeps that fact quiet. Whether the budget committee will require the government to pay a new minimum of living for those months.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u73	Dear colleague, thank you for asking. We will certainly ask the question without it. We all understand that today those macro indicators on which the budget was being developed, which we adopted in December, are completely different today. And, of course, according to all methodologies, this will bring the next step of change to the subsistence minimum. What size it will be will show the calculations made by the specialist. But we will also support your position.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u74	Mikhailo Kosov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u75	Mikhailo Kossov, "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko", party "Reforms and Orders". Dear Mikolo Ivanovich, you have given a fairly high assessment of this bill, and, to me, a fair assessment of this bill. You also said that this would finally be resolved, this inadequacy between the legal legislation that existed until now. But as your colleague and neighbor, do you personally, as Ukraine's national deputy, as head of the State Budget Committee, want to vote in favour of this law, or will you not personally vote in favour of this law? Because there is an element and moral responsibility in this, please agree.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u76	Thank you, very ethical question. At the faction we'll be discussing, literally, in a few minutes. And the faction's solution, both you and I, is mandatory for all of the faction's members.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u77	Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u78	Dear Mikolo Ivanovich, unlike some here speaking in this room, you understand perfectly and you know from your experience that the income part of the budget is, first of all, a small, ungrateful, unpredictable pyaritic work of the government to create conditions for productive activities of the domestic producer, after the growth of the gross domestic product. What your committee has approved and sanctified means that by tax pressure on the manufacturer, picking up three skins, the government, as in 2005, will again be under false slogans to submerge the fat of the oligarch, try to solve the patching holes, and lead to stagnation. That was in 2005. Please state your point of view as a professional. As a professional. How much do national economic interests correspond to this miracle that was brought to our hall today?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u79	Thank you. Statistics say otherwise. Growth in industrial production, you know, eight percent. This gives rise to the fact that the tax base is today sufficiently liberal and allows businesses to develop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u80	Sergey Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u81	The Timoshenko Block, Reform and Order Party. Please tell the Honourable Report, does it mean that this law is not actually adopted if the revenue part of the budget, which directly affects social payments, payments directly related to the implementation of the budget, is stopped if the Constitutional Court terminates the relevant articles of the law that are included in the budget?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u82	If such a decision by the Constitutional Court would certainly undermine the implementation of the income part of the budget. To what extent? It's complicated. That's what the calculations will show.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u83	Valérie Konovaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u84	Thank you. Dear Mikolo Ivanovich, well, in general, it is strange for Ukraine that only the Ministry of Finance and the Cabinet of the Ministers of Ukraine respond promptly to the Constitutional Court. I am convinced that this situation concerning the committee's proposals, by the way, yesterday the Chief of the Supreme Council said that the committee had no right to legislative initiative. Please tell me how these changes to legislation today deal with the coefficients of etonite clay, limestone for the sugar industry, and so on. This seems very questionable. That's the first one. And please tell me, why aren't the 102 laws that apply to social benefits being considered today, and the balanced decisions are not approved to support the social protection of people guaranteed by the Constitution and the Ukrainian State? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u85	Thank you for asking. You listened very carefully, I said that the Cabinet of Ministers had been tasked with passing a bill on the coefficients. It's a warrant. We don't make the law. Make the coefficients. You will read carefully. As far as social norms are concerned, we are talking today about clarifying only those, more precisely, taking them out of the body, you know, so as not to create a precedent for the suspension of payments. There's nothing technical about this anymore.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u86	Two last questions: Paul Zebravsky and Perestenko, a faction of Communists. Please, Paul Zebrowsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u87	Dear Mikolo Ivanovich, there is indeed a problem with the fact that, unfortunately, the second chapter of the Budget Act is not being fully reproduced, as we were told. But there is an urgent need to accept such changes as soon as possible, for at the time of the decision of the Constitutional Court. Are you ready to convene a budget committee today about 16-17 hours for the purpose of redrafting this bill and bringing it to the second reading room tomorrow?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u88	It depends primarily on the members of the Committee. The question of declaring a committee is, you know, no difficulty. First of all, we have a plenary meeting at 4 p.m., on time, at 3 p.m. We can gather and discuss this matter. But I can't guarantee it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u89	Marina Perestenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u90	Presumptuous, the Communist faction. That's my question. Did Nikolai Ivanovich, and did these changes bring about this government return, imply a return of the right to benefits to the population who had been deprived of the right during the first review of the Act?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u91	Nope. You know the government's decision is made. Since first May, they have been removed by the Cabinet of Ministers. But when we consider budget clarifications, I believe that we must resolve this by law.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u92	Mikola Ivanovich, thank you. Please sit down. Sergey Teryohin, head of the committee, please. Three minutes, Sergey Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u93	Thank you, Arseny Petrovich! Dear National Deputies! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Tax and Mitigation Policy yesterday reviewed and drafted the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts, submitted by the Cabinet on 15 May 2008. I would like to remind you more when you consider the draft Law on the State Budget of Ukraine for 2008 and the amendment of certain legislative acts of Ukraine, the Committee on Tax and Mitigation drew attention to the need for a separate law to change tax and customs legislation. In addition, with a view to preparing balanced changes to the Ukraine Act on State Budget 2008 the Committee of 6 February 2008 asked the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to issue the tax rules established by this law into a separate bill which would allow it to be worked out in a professional manner. But as the proposals of the committee are known, the government does not take into account. I would, Your Honor Arsenius Petrovich! I'd like to ask you personally and the Regulatory Committee to prepare, as far as I know, such amendments have been prepared, changes to the Provisional Rules, where to ban the annual adoption of the budget for the next year from amending the tax legislation with this budget. That's why today we have this paradoxical situation. Given that the changes made to the above-mentioned law are resource-related to the income part of the state and local budgets, the committee supported the bill in the area of the elimination of the tax rules established by the 2008 Act on the State Budget without any change to them and their transfer to the tax system. The Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as part of the tax rules, adopt the bill as a whole. And the last. Once again, I would like to point out that this is a good lesson for this government and future governments, which is that tax legislation cannot be amended by the relevant provisions of the State Budget Act of Ukraine. And the end of the risk. If, indeed, we don't do this today, we won't adopt this law, if tomorrow's decision of the Constitutional Court on the unconstitutionality of the entire second chapter of the State Budget for 2008, we get, even if after that next day we adopt this law, we get a paradoxical situation where in five months we have to pay back all the excise duties, all the congregations to the Pension Fund and so on and balance out the entire budget. Therefore, it is suggested that this law be passed in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u94	Please, have a seat. Dear colleagues, frankly, we have created this problem on our own, which we are now successfully trying or failing to solve. I've taken up a transcript of the adoption of the Ukrainian State Budget Act. And then it was suggested to me personally: let's divide these two acts into the first part of amending the legislation -- let's vote. If voted, then we will vote on the State Budget Act. They have done as always, and have now become dependent on the decision of the Constitutional Court, which, if and when rendered unconstitutional, will meet the requirements of the Constitution and the previous decision. So, of course, today the question needs to be considered. And with regard to making changes to the Rules, this will not help, Sergey Anatolyevich. Since we are expressly prohibited by the Budget Code, this is expressly prohibited by a decision of the Constitutional Court. We're sorry, we've spitted on everything and we're still on this road for not the first year. Let's, colleagues, sign up for the factions and the national MPs. Now we're signing up for a speech from the National Deputies. May I have a statement from the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich. Peter Mikolaiovich, from the rostrum? From the rostrum. Please turn on the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u95	Dear colleagues, Simonenko, the Communist faction. I think that the issue that concerns all of us today from the point of view of the basic financial law is, of course, the organization of the real sector of the economy and what consequences we will have in terms of filling the budget. I believe that there is also a very serious need today to discuss the policy of the orange team in the country in relation to the rate of the bracelet. The closure of the economy is almost inevitable in the near future because negotiable funds are being diverted from enterprises. I think that's understandable to everyone who works in the real economy. Under the motto of the strengthening of the bracelet, the monetaryization of the economy is declining, and it is also a very serious blow that is being inflicted by the orange team today. First of all, exporters will be affected, and this is once again our budget, because exporters are the main suppliers of the budget today. First of all, the doors are opened and the importer wins, they start to flourish, and everything is done to ensure that all importers, so to speak, secure the market and thus kill the domestic producer. The products and products of the dollar zone are becoming more competitive than other currencies, and this will also be a huge blow to the economy, and this will be the implementation of the American order for those who today implement this policy. The dollar's economy wins. The Americans are almost the same at the expense of Ukraine, and Ukraine will work for the WTO area, where, of course, the dollar is the main host. Combating inflation kills its own economy. It's becoming obvious. As a result of the revaluations, the rates on gross assets in the inter-bank credit market have risen to 30 per cent or more of the annual amount. This is a very serious blow today to our real producer as well. The National Bank is urged, including the National Bank, to end the loan in a bracelet, the mortgage loan is completely suspended, and this is a virtually construction complex, not bought raw materials and necessary, so to speak, materials for the operation of the complex. Energy prices only stick because small opt has money washed away and cannot buy what is needed today. But they're going to explode in the near future, and that's obvious to everyone. The short-term goals that the orange team is trying to keep practically in power will lead to unpredictable consequences, and we, the Communists, warn you, respectable colleagues, that such a decision that is being taken today will not solve the underlying problem of budgeting, they are temporarily addressing the problem of a struggle that exists in the orange team today and will undermine the national economy very seriously. The Communist faction will not support this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u96	Paul Zebrovsky, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense. ” It's a faction performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u97	Pavlov Zebrovsky, “Our Ukraine”, faction NU-NS. In fact, before the changes, changes to the Budget Act were initiated by our faction a working group that was to agree on enough issues. First of all, our faction insisted that there should be a political issue, because Parliament loved the Ukrainian people so much that it adopted social laws, which required three budgets to implement all these social laws. This would result in political agreement. Regrettably, the discussion went a little differently, and such political agreement was not reached. Now, however, the law that is being passed certainly needs to be adopted and, clearly, it opens the doors for us to make changes to the Budget Act, which will have to be adjusted. And actually, I don't quite understand, in the Law on Budgeting, monetary corridor 5.25-4.95. Nazbank announces course 4.85. I mean, we went beyond the Budget Act. Why, and on what basis? But if we don't pass today's law, then we're never going to make any changes to the budget. We proposed to Minfina for the purpose of not opening Pandora's box, so that the second chapter of the Law on Budget and amending certain legislative acts would be completely reprinted, and then it would be voted in the first reading, and in general this bill would actually reproduce what we have already voted on. Unfortunately, today, after receiving this bill, we see quite a difference between what was written in the Budget Act and making changes to certain legislative acts. We, the NH-NS faction, are ready to vote this bill on the first reading today. We propose to the budget committee, more faithfully, to make a decision by the session hall so that a second reading can be done at an accelerated rate, because next week we have a non-sessional and after that we agree on the amendments that national MPs have to make so that tomorrow this bill can be passed for adoption and second reading and in general. I'll just name some suggestions that are here. So today, it's being offered to any investor who's going to give a higher price, whether this land is in a lease or not, to sell this land immediately. For example, Kyivmishkbud rents land. A billionaire comes in and buys these land plots, and the lease doesn't end, in fact, we're going for a serious breach. Because of this, we have to clean up such stains. The NH-NS faction is ready to support the government and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u98	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u99	But it's only because it's necessary and we're not going to vote for anything. We are only willing to vote for a well - thought - out law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u100	Thank you. Please make a statement from the faction of the Party of Regions. Kruglov Mikola Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u101	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that today, our government, which is partly in this room, is proposing another trick: without meeting Parliament's requirement that we make changes to the budget, we are offered a cunning – a simple law to make changes to the Budget Act, deciding only the income part, without affecting the main part – of the expenditure, where the social benefits are. And all of this comes under pressure that as if the Supreme Court, the Constitutional Court will make such a decision -- it will take away all of us, we will have no money, and so on. You don't have to lie to people, you don't have to lie to MPs. We need to do what we do. Let's follow the Budget Code. You just have to make a decision -- make changes to the Budget Act, remove all the tax rules from there, make changes to the spending, renew the benefits and then approve the budget. That is what our Rules say, and so says the Law on Budgets. And the second. When we're told that we don't have any laws at all, I'd like to say, why are we taking money from the local councils, money from the realization of the land, on the grounds that it's going to go to "2012" for football purposes? If you'll excuse me without solving the social benefits, our government was worried about the budget law. We need to read carefully what they want us to give. What is in store for today is deception by both humans and deputies. And the last. Given that there will be a vote today, the faction of the Regions says and declares that it will solve the issue and will force Parliament today to resolve the question of fellow MPs. Thank you. The faction of the Regions, last but not least, will not vote for such a bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u102	Oleg Lazko, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko”, a performance by the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u103	The Yulia Timoshenko faction will generally vote in favour of the bill proposed by the government, because the adoption of this bill will create the conditions for securing the revenues approved by the Supreme Council in the 2008 State Budget of indicators and corresponding revenue for social funds. As for the changes to the expenditure portion of the budget, just when we're dealing with the income part, we're going to guarantee that this income part is going to be, then we can also solve the changes to the expenditure part of the budget and how much the government is willing to make these changes. But to risk the State budget today, with the submission of the National Deputies, having the position of the Constitutional Court, which is going to be declared unconstitutional throughout the Second Chapter of the Budget Act, means that the entire country's budget will collapse in general, and the citizens of Ukraine, the few protected ranks of the population, veterans, pensioners, the disabled should know who they are. [[No one's a secret anymore.]] Many families need to know who to thank for the fact that tomorrow they will cease to be paid more than budgeted. So it is absolutely irresponsible to make policies for millions of Ukrainian citizens on their incomes. Therefore, we urge Parliament to vote on amendments to a number of legislative acts in general, without delaying the resolution of these issues for tomorrow or the day after, because it is really about lobbying one or the other. Let's move to tomorrow, take into account changes in the national MPs: who's got the chicken, who's got the thighs, who's got anything else, then we'll vote. Let us not put the interests of the vast majority of Ukrainian citizens on the side of some of the national MPs who want to stretch out, lobby their own interests. We therefore urge everyone to vote in favour of this bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u104	Mikhailo Chechetov. Potapov passed it on to Chechtov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u105	Dear Arsenius Petrovich! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! We have never heard a clear reply from Viktor Mihajlovich Pinzenik, Minister of Finance, representative of the Government of Yulia Timoshenko, why legislation has been grossly violated for several months, the decision of the Supreme Council, which, once adopted, I repeat, in the opinion of President Viktor Andreevich Yushchenko, the worst budget in Ukraine's history, in order to minimize the negative impact on the economy, on the people, was decided by 1 March to make changes to the budget, and to address those problems, including ensuring high rates of economic growth and subsequent conversion to higher social standards, which was not foreseen in the new budget, in the adopted budget. Regrettably, this issue has not been resolved and, unfortunately, the Government is in the process of making changes to the budget for the Supreme Council. You know, there are two reasons why the government doesn't budget, changes to the budget. I call it the first: have you ever heard that the Government has put the issue of amending the budget as quickly as possible and giving it to the Supreme Council to vote on the Supreme Council? No! No! There's one main question: the elections in Kharkiv, the elections in Kiev. Look, there are no government members in Kabmin! They run at meetings, they unstick the leaflets, they do God knows what to do, but not what to do! There'll never be a budget like that. And now the second reason why there is no budget. You know, there were two governments: the Yanukovich Government and the Timoshenko Government. What is the distinctive feature of the Janukovic Government? The distinctive feature of the Janukovic Government is that it was able to make money for the State. What is the distinguishing mark of the Government of Timoshenko? It is wasted, and it is wasted: 24 billion were left in treasury accounts in December, scattered the money, did not accept the budget, no money, inflation exploded. People come to the market, despite the prices, the fan swallows, in the dark, yes. That's why I think trying to introduce today's bill is eyewashing, yes. Once again, the demands of the Party of the Regions: to amend the bill immediately. It's a matter of the state's life, you're gonna have to get rid of the flyers, run the rally, yeah, deal with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u106	Mikhail Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u107	Thank you. Dear Arsenija Petrovich, the distinguished Ukrainian national deputies, let us still explain calmly and carefully to the Ukrainian citizens what is happening today in the upper room of Ukraine and why so much emotion has caused this question. First of all, when a draft Ukrainian Law on State Budget 2008 was voted on December 28th, the Party of Regions did not fully support this law, precisely because 102 laws of Ukraine were suspended. And what the government is trying to do now and saying that it's doing something that's good for the people of Ukraine, I'll explain: it's just doing what the Party of Regions is going to do in December 2007. That is, it restores the effect of those laws that have been suspended. And another, the most basic social parameter is the minimum of living. I would like to take this opportunity to publish the actual size of the subsistence minimum for April 2008, which is calculated by the experts of the Party of the Regions. The average budget size is 605 dollars. The actual figure is today, based on the prices that exist, and based on the methodology that calculated the base rate, 706 dollars. So it's more than 101 bracelets. This says, however, that when the budget was adopted in December, the actual cost of living was deliberately underestimated. And the government now knows its size does not publish any month, in February, in March, in April, or in May, the actual size is not published because, if it were already known to the people of Ukraine, they would know that the minimum pension should not be 481 bracelets, as set out in the budget, but 563 bracelets. And that all the help that citizens of Ukraine receive today must be counted. Besides, you know how much they say now for price increases and what the government actually doesn't have and can't have a professional impact on this situation. In our time, we adopted the People's Money Income Index Act. Thus, the requirement of this law is that wages, pensions, social assistance should rise within the minimum of living. I mean, when we don't. Underprivileged living minimum, all Ukrainian citizens, all 46 million Ukrainian citizens, lack pensions, wages, scholarships, social assistance. And one more thing, it was May 9th. You know that war veterans, war veterans, war invalids have not received about 600 million dollars of single aid. We will not vote in favour of this law. And so do we.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u108	Basil Hara.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u109	Dear colleagues! It is a shame to observe the further charlatan actions of our Cabinet of Ministers. The Cabinet of Ministers has been ignoring the Supreme Council decision for four months and has not changed the 2008 budget. This is the first time in the history of all the Cabinets of Ministers taken together. This means that today people are deprived of opportunities to raise salaries, pensions, scholarships and other benefits. This, with the permission to say, aims to increase the income part of the budget. Not in the budget itself, but in a separate law, in violation of the Constitution and other legislation. They spent 24 billion grevens transferred by the Yanukovic Government, brought the economy to the pen, and now they don't know where to get the money and how to fix the 2008 budget. The Cabinet of Ministers does not approve an objective subsistence minimum. I would like to recall that, under the law, at least once every five years, they should revise the list of food, goods and services. On this basis, an objective subsistence minimum is established. They don't do that. And we are operating today in accordance with the 2000 standards. If they review, as stated, the agreed and approved scientific and expert public council, as established by law, the living minimum will be 100 to 200 bracelets higher. And that's what people are supposed to believe is stealing from their legitimate incomes. Because the minimum wage depends on the minimum wage. The minimum wage on a single tariff network depends on the rest of the salary. Pension depends on the subsistence minimum, social benefits depend on it and so on. This is a direct theft of the income of our people. The Cabinet of Ministers does not resolve the issue of return of deposits. Today, Viktor Mikhailovich said that we had given five million people a thousand. But first, they promised to give it all away in two years -- they're giving it away in thousands. And we have 25 million investors. What about 20 million people? Who didn't get a penny? Question. Concerning the submission to the Constitutional Court. Well, this must be so inconceivable of what has been done by the Party of the Regions. By the draft budget for 2008, the current Government suspended 102 laws. They have reduced the benefits of budgeters, children of war, Chernobyl, Afghans, veterans of war. We have opposed it, and they are now making us feel guilty. Dear colleagues, this bill cannot be voted on in any way. And the Supreme Council must show its character in the end. We need to force the Cabinet of Ministers to do what we have to do by law and to present the 2008 budget in the near future, which will enable the well-being of our people to be improved and at least prevent price increases.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u110	Sergey Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u111	Dear colleagues, let's find out what we're looking at today. An increase in the revenue portion in the budget, which was actually adopted today in accordance with the previous Budget Act, which was introduced by the government of Yanukovic directly into a hall that was complemented by the government of Timoshenko, taking into account the key issues that needed to be addressed urgently. That is, stopping smuggling through free economic zones of meat products and other groups of taxable goods, stopping a series of shadow schemes, which was immediately made by an absolute majority of the national deputies who voted in favour of the budget text. We are now facing a specific solution. If the Constitutional Court decides to stop the second part of the Budget Act, which is the list of 101 legislative acts that regulate the income and expenditure portions of the budget, the Parliament will, in fact, be in a situation where the budget needs to be reviewed again as a matter of urgency. That's why the government made absolutely sense. How you can make changes and add to the budget to the spending, without having a clear position on what you have in the profitable, income-generating part of the budget. That is why the bill that we are considering today is a bill that includes almost four dozen legislative acts that this House voted for. Yes, the factions of the opposition did not vote for him. They did not vote in favour of halting the smuggling; they did not vote in favour of stopping the shadow schemes that were foreseen in the previous draft budget. But it's in our project. It is no wonder, then, that today there is the same position as those factions that did not vote for the previous budget. Now essentially. How do we urgently address this issue? In fact, in the list of legislative acts, we have almost 90 percent of those acts that are still in force, but in the project and in the body of the budget. I want to remind the previous speaker, but that's why you signed a petition to the Constitutional Court to put it into a separate law. That's exactly what the government's after. Then the next, absolutely logical step is to make changes and additions to the spending part of the budget, because it will be clear how the budget is being filled. That's why the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko advocates that this bill be adopted in the first reading and in general. This will allow you to form changes and additions to the budget in part of the expenditure. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u112	Alexander Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u113	Alexander Stoyan, faction of the Party of the Regions. I want to ask my fellow countrymen to understand what they're talking about. This is about the fact that no social obligation declared by the Party of the Fatherland and “Our Ukraine” has been fulfilled. No social commitments or guarantees are made to the 2008 budget. And today, in order to reintroduce the responsibility of the Party of Regions to the opposition, these camouflaged laws are passed on to citizens of Ukraine. And what I'm saying is, dear colleagues, this is just an example of those people who promised one and especially Mr. Pinzenik said 800 bracelets would be a living minimum, savings in two years. 500 bucks a scholarship to students, loans and everything. We don't see or hear anything about the minimum of living. I want to remind again, not those present in the hall, but our fellow countrymen, the minimum living wage, on which is the minimum wage. It has a minimum pension, which involves paying families with children and helping them. Now, look, I'm calling for everyone, what is the minimum of living, and what are the social parameters of the government today? The subsistence minimum on working, attention, first January 633 bracelets, first April 647 bracelets, and the first July subsistence minimum is 649 bracelets, for two bracelets, taking into account the terrible inflation, the price rise, they add a living minimum. The minimum wage was 515 for the government and 525 for the first of April, 29 for the government. At the same time, I recall that the government of Yanukovic pledged in 2009 to place the minimum wage at the minimum wage. If we look at the ratio of the minimum wage to the minimum wage for living, Timoshenko's government is 110 dollars less, or 81 percent less, 10 percent less than that offered by the Yanukovich government is your social security. Now, dear pensioners, listen to what they're offering you: a minimum of living for a disabled person, and a minimum of living for a disabled person is your pension. What Janukovic did in 2004 was a minimum pension of 100 percent of the living minimum. So here's the minimum cost of living: January 1st is 470 dollars, and this is your minimum pension, April 1st is 481 grubles, and this is your pension. Now, pay attention! April 1st is 481, and July 1st is the minimum subsistence minimum and pension is 482 bracelets. You're going to be added. One bracelet government that promised you to make a middle-income pension. So where is your position? Where Is Your Responsibility? Where's your conscience? I'm not talking about savings anymore. You promised to return 100 percent, and you're giving Yulkin a thousand, from which you still took some unknown taxes. You've given 3 million dollars, and now another 18 million are waiting for these pensions. Give an answer as to whether you will pay this year.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u114	Valérie Konovaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u115	Thank you. Dear national MPs, distinguished voters! I want to tell you responsiblely that this is the first time in all of our years of independence that we've had such a shameful situation around the State Budget. The state of affairs today, I can also tell you that today the government does not finance more than 300 budget programmes. Funding, energy consumption by budget institutions at 42 percent. I want to tell you that the requirements of Ukraine's legislation that provide for today's citizens' monetary income index are not being met at all, because, in total, we have a level of inflation last year. I want to ask you, you know, not to politicize this question, but still to urge you, the orange coalition, that the question of the State Budget is not just, you know, personal matters of seeing the coalition, it's a national issue, it's a national question. Therefore, we will demand that you take responsibility for this. The appeal to the Constitutional Court of the Party of the Regions did not apply only to this part and I want to inform our citizens that this is a certain political evil. It was primarily about protecting social, suspended laws that you're actually avoiding and delaying today. It is not necessary to mislead society that you know how the manna of the heavens will solve any further problems. We will insist that before the changes to the State Budget are made, there be either an appropriate report from the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Finance, on the implementation of the budget for the first quarter of the current year. Because we are not in a position to have enough negative consequences today by the policy of active power that is now being demonstrated in our country. Here comes the moment of truth, dear colleagues. And I've talked about this over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over again, the question of responsibility and the question of the ability to ensure the country's viability is the main one, and this budget proves to you that there are so many questions and problems that you're trying to actually know today, hide and destroy. I am convinced that our position today will have a greater impact on you actually telling the Ukrainian people, society, the truth. And at the end of the day, I would like to point out to you that the draft rulings of the Committee of Budgets and yesterday it broke out in the Hall, by the way, from the head of the Supreme Council, that the committee is not, you know, and let's say, a legislative initiative. We must recognize today that there is no basis for the Cabinet of Ministers' advice on payment for the use of nadrama and mining of useful fossils at the level of 2007. I'm not sure that this ruling can be voted on in general today, so we insist once again that.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u116	Vadim Petrenko. You'll be out of town, won't you? Oleg Lazko from the place.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u117	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear colleagues from the opposition have just stood up and broken up, trying hard to prove to the whole country that the Timoshenko government can't work, that, you see, the Yanukovich government was collecting money, and the Timoshenko government is just spending. I want to give you figures on who and how to raise money so the whole country knows. Today, 63.3 billion dollars have been raised to the state budget. Compared to the same period last year, it's 16.5 billion more, and last year it's 46. Eight billion. Overcoming the budget compared to last year, an increase of 46 percent is ahead of the 5 billion dollar recovery plan this year. Here is information from the State Tax Administration for January-April of this year to the consolidated budget: 50 billion 201 million dollars were collected or 12 billion more coming from the corresponding period last year, in particular in full budgeted income tax, an additional 2 billion 100 million dollars were received, more than 3 billion in rent payments, nadra, water use payments and so on, and so on and so on. So Timoshenko's government has raised 16 billion more money in a few months this year than Januković's government last year, which shows that today is less theft and more budget collection thanks to the second chapter of the budget that we are now proposing to adopt as a separate law. And in the event of its rejection, it means that there will be no budget revenue, which is what opposition wants to put down the budget so that social obligations cannot be fulfilled, that is, in principle, the worse for the country, the better for them. The point is that in the struggle for power, all means are acceptable to them, including the share of millions of people. which depend on this budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u118	Alla Alexandrovska, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u119	Dear colleagues! Respectable voters! We have just heard the fiery speech of one of the supporters and supporters of our Ukrainian serenade, and the figure of 16 billion has been added by the Government. Then the question is, why don't you want to put it in the economy, in people, in investment? Why are you sitting on these apartments if you've collected something from billions? It's because it's bad! No 16 billion, unfortunately! I will begin with the statement made by the Communists in this room repeatedly: “The Government is obliged to implement the decisions taken here in Parliament, including with the support of the majority”. Introducing Bill 2481 and not amending the 2008 Budget Act, the Government pretends that the situation in Ukraine's economy was the same as it was in December last year. And I can see why. The Government of Timoshenko is trying to escape its responsibility for the dramatic decline in the standard of living of the people of Ukraine. What's really going on? According to official data, inflation reached 13 per cent in Ukraine in four months. I remind you, the plan for the year is 9 percent, 9.6 percent. Public analysts, and such documents are available in the budget committee, note that producers' prices in almost all industries rise to 12.5 per cent in 4 months; 32 per cent is planned for a year; metal and food products are the largest increase of 18.9 per cent respectively. How do people's incomes grow? We know they don't grow. The State Tax Administration shall inform. The Gosbudget General Fund received an additional €254 million in 4 months this year. Where's the money? What are the needs of the Government? It does not wish to talk about this and does not make any changes to the Budget Act. What does the government do? It's almost nothing! It introduces a draft law in which it eliminates violations of the Ukrainian law itself. Why is the Government not finalizing the Budget Act? Why would it not increase the consumption of articles in the light of inflation? For what purposes will the Government send this additional billion? Inflation is known to increase income in the budget. So we have to increase the cost. And the government won't do it or do it. What is being done to curb inflation? The answer is well known. Investment, financing of investments, economic expansion, creation of additional jobs, thereby increasing productivity, increasing the income of the population and social benefits. But in fact, the Government does not and does not intend to do so. Today we are invited to adopt laws, most of which have already been introduced into the legal field by the Budget Act. Just think what we're doing, what a stupid thing we're doing from a legal point of view! The Budget Act has already amended all these laws, and today we are considering the draft law, to which the same amendments are being re-examined.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u120	I'm taking out Trophimenko. Come on, let's finish it, let's finish it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u121	Such an absurd situation cannot be supported in any way. We demand urgent amendments to the Budget Act, and we will support these amendments, and the Communist faction will support them.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u122	The last performance from the “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko” – colleague of Trofimenko Vadim Vysvoldovic. Yes, then, Victor Mikhailovich, you and me. Is the trophimen going to perform? I can't see. Baby? Oleg Lazko. Comrades, is Trophimenco or not? Raise your hand, I can't see. No Trophimen? The show's off. All right, colleagues, we're done here. Now a reporter and a co-reporter. Victor Mikhailovich, please to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u123	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished national deputies! If you could confuse someone with a conversation in the hall, I think it was successful, in any case our audience, although the problem is unique, simple. I want to emphasize it again. There is no norm in this bill, for example, that Alexander Stoyan spoke of. Why? Because the standards that apply to the minimum wage, the minimum wage, are regulated by the State Budget Act of Ukraine, not by the law that we are currently considering. Second, it's a simple decision. Here, the comparative table of this law contains: the left column is the valid rules of the law, the right column is the same as the left column. It's just that from one law we're transferring norms to another law, a law that has already been voted by Parliament. And the last. Why I want to stress that. Because for the first time, unfortunately, the appeals made by the MPs relate not to budget expenditure, but to budget revenues, and there is a serious threat of depriving Ukrainian citizens of sources of social pay. For this purpose, the government, in order not to allow such a situation to occur, proposes to remove the provisions of the Budget Act to amend certain other laws and to transpose the same rules into other laws, because honourable colleagues understand very well that the budget is a balance. You can't split expenses if you don't have any income. Therefore, by addressing this problem, which enables us to get back on our feet, we have reason to make changes to the budget. And the latest information. The government is running the budget, and we're way over it today. By last year, we have 17 billion dollars of revenue, plus by the end of the month we're going to have 20. To your knowledge, customs have increased their income by almost twofold. On what account? By shutting down the smuggling that flourished in previous governments. I'm asking my fellow Members a simple, technical question to support, because we haven't changed any of the rules of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u124	Thank you, Victor Mikhailovich. Mikola Ivanovich Derkach. Out of the way. Mikola Ivanovich, aren't you going out of your seat? Sergey Anatolyovich Teryohin. Out of the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u125	Ladies and gentlemen, let me remind you once again of the decision of the Committee on Tax Customs Policy. We recommend the adoption of this law in the first reading and in general because it does not change in any place, in any coma the applicable tax and customs laws. He just carries them where they're supposed to be from the very beginning. So the offer is sound. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u126	Thank you. Alexander Stoyan. The replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u127	I thank Victor Mikhailovich for giving me the opportunity to say a line. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I want everyone to know that the government has submitted a draft budget in due course of its time, in violation of the Budget Code, in violation of the Constitution, of all the rules of the Constitution. And that's why filing our faction is a return to the constitutional field. That's the first one. The other one. Victor Mikhailovich, can you lie to me when you say one digit that our party eliminates all social standards, especially one standard: when a child is born, I'll remind you of that. We were the initiators to have 12,000 at the birth of the child, and the second child was 25,000 and 50. And maybe it's personal. Victor Mikhailovich, if I were to sign this application, where moms are supposed to give birth to a baby, I don't know what my daughter would say to me, who will give birth to my grandson in a month. How can you tell young mothers who are waiting for this money today? The Party of Regions couldn't do that, and, more than that, we were initiating an increase in that money. So stop lying, making changes to the budget, passing it here, to the Supreme Council -- we're going to vote, and there's not going to be any more laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u128	Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. Comrades, may I have your attention? We discussed the bill in full procedure. There are a number of questions, but the committee proposes to adopt the bill as a whole. We are faced with the same dilemma that we saw yesterday: when the committee proposes to put their own rights to the vote in accordance with the relevant law. I now propose to put this bill on the basis of the Rules, and we will now discuss the possibility of adopting this bill as a whole. Comrades, I request your attention. The vote is on adoption as a basis in the first reading of Bill No. 2481, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, on amendments to certain legislative acts of Ukraine. Please vote. [[11:58:13]] For 221 The decision is not taken. Dear friends. Wait half a second. Do you want to go or do you want to go? Dear friends, let's do it again. I ask all the people to hear the offer. Once I ask this question, and I understand it's not going to happen again in the second reading, then I'm going to address those national deputies from different factions who didn't support this bill, let's support the government in the first reading, put the first reading, and I'm going to give you a guarantee that I'm not putting the second one. [[Let's go back to the review procedure.]] But we're shortening the deadlines after the second reading so that if he was ready, let's say, even tomorrow, we'd hear him first thing tomorrow morning. Is that a compromise, comrades? Well, listen carefully, no, that's very good, very, believe me. Listen to me. So we vote, we vote for the first reading, we cut the terms twice, and we'll know. Mikola Ivanovich Derkach, I'm addressing you. So you asked me to vote "yes" in the first and second ballots, but I'm asking you to vote first. Is that accepted? Comrades, a return to the issue of the adoption of the bill in the first reading. Please vote. [[11:59:47]] For 224 Okay. Then the third, show by factions. The rule provides for another rule – re-reading the first reading. This is the last rule that I can put to the vote, and I am no longer able to read from the Rules. Well, please. Colleagues, 12 hours. I will continue until the issue is resolved. Please, Paul Ivanovich Zebrovsky. It's me, I'll give you my word, colleagues, everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u129	Since he does not vote in the first reading and in large numbers, there are enough comments to make it possible to re-read with the creation of a working group from different committees to finalize the law in order to make the optimal decision that will allow for the adoption of the law in the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u130	Okay. Please, Valery Konovaluk. After Konovaluk Chechetov, after Chechov Cibenko, after Zibenk Stoyan and we finish. I'm sorry, Oleg. I saw it, and Easy is a must.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u131	Thank you, Arseny Petrovich. I think that it is precisely the results of the vote that confirm that members of the people have learned about the wickedness. And the reasons, you know, are delayed with the changes to the State budget. I believe that a number of factions will vote in favour of these changes if they include all those requirements relating to the referral of members of the people to the Constitutional Court. This is primarily the removal of restrictions on the 102 social laws that the Government of Timoshenko has made. And I would like to say, Victor Mihajlovich, if you're so actively fighting smuggling, you're getting extra income, you're wasting it, please finance budget programmes. In fact, you're not financing them today. And today we see the consequences of the economic policy that your Government is pursuing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u132	Please, Mikhailo Chechetov, Peter Cibenko. I'll give it to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u133	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished members of the people! The figure 221 and the figure 224 on the ballot board indicate that not everything is lost in the coalition, there are people with a conscience who still put the interests of the State above corporate and party interests. Well, don't humiliate these people. What are you doing? They stand in the position of the Power, and you try to get in favour of corporate party interests through their conscience and honour, they voted in favour of the law that the country absolutely does not need. Let's take a break, and this is the procedure for consideration of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u134	Peter Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u135	Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues! In our room, I don’t know, today John Stepanovich Plush is present or absent, he has such a very classic expression: “What is his clothes if it doesn’t climb?” Well, we see that people don't vote. So I want to propose the following, Arsenius Petrovich: we need to solve two problems with one solution. I mean, today was the problem of change to the state budget. Let's not torture each other, make quick changes to the state budget and vote in this room, and everything will be fine. Nobody's gonna have to twist their hands. At the same time, we will solve the problem of changes to the state budget of Ukraine. I think it's the most compromising and effective way out of this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u136	We'll get through, Peter Stepanovich. Alexander Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u137	Dear colleagues, such a negative vote in favour of this bill, which was not voted on by a part of the coalition, was provoked by the minister of finance. Which didn't report to us, let's say, the argument was first. Second, whether intentionally or professionally, he didn't answer any questions from the MPs, but he turned to the charges. Third moment. He blamed these sins that the Party of the Regions doesn't have. And once again, our submission is an adjustment to the budget. That's why I'm making an offer. Leave the bill behind Pinzenic. Let him process it, always introduce a bill that does not suit the interests of Ukrainian citizens. Now let's make a decision: commit the government to this number to submit changes to the draft budget and ask the government and Pinzenik, which is responsible for all issues, including the social bloc. Because this law does not guarantee people. Rather, he demeans the situation. So I ask you to postpone this law and not return to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u138	Peter Cibenko. I'm sorry, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u139	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. It is obvious that the non - adoption of this bill will cause and may lead to a balanced budgetary system in a country that affects the interests of millions of people. But since the ability of the Rules, as the chairman rightly said, is not boundless, it is perfectly appropriate to propose to support this bill, to send it back for re-reading, to work on, and to consider tomorrow in the morning in the first order.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u140	My dear friends, I am again addressing the national MPs. We voted on several options. The last option foreseen by the Provisional Rules is a rereading of the first reading. Fellows, re-reading the first reading is actually a new consideration of the bill from the very beginning. If you give up your votes for this, it will allow you to rework it. This is no longer a matter of second reading. It's about keeping him out of the daytime. I ask you to express a very small loan of confidence in this issue and to vote in favour of re-reading the first reading. Let's try it, comrades. I would like to vote again on the first reading of Bill 2481 on amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts. Please vote with the shortening of the deadlines for re-reading. Comrades, we vote! [[12:06:22]] To 226. Thank God, 226! Colleagues, so let's do it again first with a shorter term. Please show by factions. Please. Victor Mikhailovich, please, if I may, I understand that the political situation is difficult, but we are depoliticizing the issue. Please gather a committee and a lot of questions that have arisen among the national deputies, take off. And one of the key questions is, if you make an extra change to the State Budget Act, believe me, it's going to make a radical change in the situation in the room. It's heartwarming. On the side of government support. Colleagues, I'm calling it a break. At 12.36, we begin with the appointment of judges. We've got 300 judges.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u141	Dear colleagues, we continue our morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Now we have an important question: the election and the release of judges. We owe it to the judicial corps, so I'm asking you to come to the rostrum, Yuri Anatolyovich Booth. Please follow the established procedure. I remind you, colleagues, procedure. A draft decision of the Supreme Council is being read out. In that case, if there's a denial of any court that's set out in the draft Supreme Council ruling, I'm going to remove it from the project. Then we vote on the basis of the project and we take decisions on the judges who have been removed. Whether we vote separately in each court or not, until the relevant decision of the committee is made by the person concerned. Please. Yuri Anatolyevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u142	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear National Deputies! Ladies and gentlemen! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Justice at its meetings on 9, 15 and 16 April considered the submission of the Supreme Court of Ukraine’s Supreme Court’s Supreme Court to elect judges on an open-ended basis, as outlined in the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine ruling on 2386 of 17 April 2008. Dear National Deputies! By procedure, I'll read my name, my name, my father's judge. The judge rises from the scene. And if there is a warning to him, the national MPs report it from the scene. Such a judge is temporarily removed from the draft ruling and returned to its consideration after voting on another. The judges are in the guest bed and on the balcony. In accordance with article 85, part one, part one, paragraph 27, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Committee on Justice recommends that judges be appointed on an indefinite basis: the Court of Appeal of Vavska Valeri Stanislavovich; the Court of Appeal of the Donetsk Region of Levandovich Alexander Alexandrovich; the Court of Appeal of the Žitomir district of Lásuk Volodymira Volodymyrovic; the Court of Appeal of the Zakarpat district of Kožuh Olen Anatoliyevna; the Court of Appeal of the Luhansk district of Avalyan Natalia Mikhailnovna; the Court of Appeal of the Luhansk Region of Savich Yuri Mikolaiovich; the Court of Appeal of the Odessa Region of Dragomerec Mikolaiovich; the Court of Appeal of the Poltava District of Kostenko Volodymyr Grigorovitch; The Court of Appeal of the Kharkiv District of Philippchuk Natalia Petrovna; the Court of Appeal of Kharkiv District of Sweden, Larissa Anatoliyevna; the Court of Appeal of the Czernovets region of Markczak Vitalia Jaroslavovich; the Court of Appeal of the Czerniewec Region of Mitznei Vladimir Fedorovich; the Court of Appeal of Kyiv Kadjetov Olen Venyaminovna; the Court of Appeal of Kiev Stelik Svetlana Pavlovna; the local Bahchisarai District Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Atamánuk Hermanovich; the local Eupatoria City Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Kulikovsky Olga Mikolayevna; the local Lower Góra District Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Brindha Marin Anatoliyevna; the local Winnick district court of Wojtek Yuri Borisovich; the local Mogilov-Podil Regional Court of the Winnitsk district of Sougir Dmitr Ivanovich; the local Hmielnicke District Court of Wynnicke Region, Bill Ludmila Mikhailnovna; the local Volodymyr Wallin City Court of Volin County of Láshenka Alexander Valentinović; The local Rostice District Court of the Volin district of Matviychuk Ludmila Volodymyrna; The local Babushkin district court of Dnipropetrovska Karjagina Natalija Alexandrovna; The local Audio City Court of the Donetsk Region of Melshek Olen Victorovna; The local Kramator City Court of the Donetsk Region of Picalov Natalija Mikhailnovna; the local Red Army District Court of the Donetsk Region of Stoylov Tamil Vasilovna; the local Marin district court of the Donetsk district of Linnik Oleg Petrovich; the local Slovenian Regional Court of the Donetsk Region of Minayev Igor Mikolaiovich; the local Slovenian Regional Court of the Donetsk Region of Miroshnichenko Love Eugene; The local Torez Municipal Court of the Donetsk Region of Chaplanov Olena Mikolayevna; the local Hartz city court of the Donetsk district of Truhanov Ludmila Mikolayovna; the local Kalinin district court of Donetsk Karpusov Olen Vitaliyevna; the local Kirov district court of Donetsk Sidorova Eugenia Ivanovich; the local Mining District Court of Makiyevka Donetsk Region of Jurko Irina Volodymyrna; the local Kirov district court of Makiyevka Donetsk district of Chulak Ludmila Vasilovna; the local Soviet District Court of Makiyevka Donetsk Region of Kurov Olen Ivanovna; the local Berdichov District Court of the Žitomir Region, Shevchuk Alla Mikolayevna; the local Voddarsko-Volinsky District Court of the Zitomir district of Melnik Mikol Leonović; the local Chernyachiv District Court of the Zitomir District of Slobodanuk Natalya Eugene; the local Vynogradiv district court of Zakarpatsk district of Klavkovič Vasil Juriovich; the local Vinogradiv district court of the Zakarpat district of Nadota Anatolia Anatoliyovich; the local Wesseliv district court of the district of Nagorny Anatolia Alexandrovich; the local Barishiv district court of the Kyiv district of Kovalenka Kostin Viktorovic; the local Barishiv district court of the Kyiv district of Jeremenko Volodymyr Maksimovic; the local Boguslav District Court of the Kyiv district of Yakutuk Volodymyr Stanislavovic; the local Vishgrad District Court of Kyiv District of Svetlana Konstantinovna; the local Regional Court of Kyiv district of Tkachenka Aleksandr Vasilovich; the local Ivankovsky District Court of Kyiv district of Gavrilenko Volodymira Grigorovitch; the local Preyaslav-Hmelnicki District Court of Kiev, Ovidienko Catherine Mikolayevna; the local Preyaslav-Hmelnicki District Court of Kiev, Rev. Alexander Ivanovich; the local District Court of Kyiv district of Maruschak Nina Mikolayevna; The local Alchev City Court of Luhansk, Olen Valerievna; the local Brinkow City Court of Luhansk, Rudaków Igor Pavlovich; the local Kirov City Court of the Luhansk district of Maksut Irina Alexandrovna; the local Kremin district court of the Lugansk district of Akulov Evgen Mikolaiovich; the local Lutugini District Court of the Lugansk Region, Jan Volodymirovich; the local Stahanov City Court of the Luhansk district of Evtifiyev Vjacheslav Mikolaiovich; the local Artemov district court of Lugansk Orlova Igor Volodymirovich; the local Domanov district court of the Mikolai district of Yegorov Natalija Ivanovna; the local Yellow District Court of the Mikolai district of Samachina Nina Vasilovna; The local Regional Court of the Mikolai district of Marjina Valeriyivna; the local Snogurov district court of the Mikolai district of Yavorska Natalija Ivanovna; The local Archesian District Court of the Odessa Region of Tanasoglo Tetjana Mikhailnovna; the local Bilgorod-Dnistrov Regional Court of Odessa, Stupakov Inna Gabrielna; the local Ishmael Regional Court of Odessa District of Pathatic Alexander Ilić; The local District Court of Odessa, Terenchuk Jean Victorovna; the local Shiriya District Court of the Odessa District of Parinuk Sergija Ivanovich; the local Kyiv District Court of Odessa, Neporadou Mikola Petrovich; the local Kyiv District Court of Odessa Ogrenic Irina Vasilovna; the local Primorski District Court of Odessa Zilmak Constantine Petrovich; The local Okjabran District Court of Poltava Timoshenko Natalija Volodymyrna; the local Goshan District Court of Rozhina Jurija Mikolaiovich; the local Dublin District Court of the Raltz Ruslan Vasilovich District; the local Kuznetsov City Court of Ravenna District, Horeview of Oksana Ivanovna; the local Ostrozhsk District Court of the Vengerchuk Allo Alexandrovna District Court; the local Radivilovsky District Court of the Biruk Volodymyr Alexandrovich District; The local Grandpisar district court of the Suman district of Vünik Natalija Grigorovna; the local Nedrigail district court of the district of Zaharchenk Alexandr Petrovich; the local Romanian District Court of the Suman district of Solon Nadia Mikhailnov; the local Kovpak District Court of Suma Opimah Larissa Mikolayevna; the local Borsztev district court of Ternopil district of Zushman Hanna Ivanovna; The local Butchik District Court of Ternopil, Fedoronczuk Volodymyr Bogdanović; the local Çartkow district court of Ternopil district of Zaporeząc Laris Mikolayevna; the local Bogoduhovsky District Court of Harkov district of Harchenk Stanislav Mikolaiovich; the local Borovsky District Court of Kharkiv District, Green Nadia Grigorovna; the local Izumi District Court of Kharkiv District Lyubčič Love Vasilovna; The local Kupyan Regional Court of Kharkiv district of Shikhovtsov, Anna Alexandrovna; the local Kharkiv District Court of Makarenko, Jan Mikolayevna; the local Lenin district court of Kharkiv Schramko Ludmila Leontiyevna; the local Berislav District Court of the Hersson district of Radchenk, Sergija Vijacheslavovich; The local Grand Alexander District Court of the Galtsov Alla Fedorovna District; the local Kakhov Regional Court of the Hersonian Region of Tereshchenko Oleg Evgenovich; the local Lower Syrian District Court of the Herson district of Basil Ludmila Volodymyrna; the local Jashkov District Court of the Cherkas region of Pervak Mikhail Alexiyyovich; the local Corsun-Shevchenkow district court of the Cerkas region of Savranski Oleg Anatoliyovich; the local Czernobai district court of the Czerka district of Cibru Nel Valentinovna; the local Pridniprovsky District Court of Cherkasa Dranik Nina Petrovna; the local Sadgir District Court of Chernovici Bajzar Ludmila Valentinovna; the local Bahmach district court of the Chernigiv district of Kovaluch Vasil Mikolaiovich; the local Bobrovicki District Court of Czernigiv district of Kuzuru Valentina Alexandrovna; the local district court of the Chernigiv district of Semenchenka Alexija Mikolayovich; the local right-wing district court of Kyiv Ivanchenka Mikolaajovic; the local Obolonian District Court of Kiev, Zuk Olga Volodymyrna; the military local court of the Ravenna garrison of Antonjuk Oleg Volodymyrovich; and the court-martial of the Kharkiv garrison of Copenek Jaroslav Viktorovich. Ladies and gentlemen, please support the judges recommended by the Supreme Council Committee on Justice to be elected on an open-ended basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u143	Dear colleagues, the read draft of Decree 2386, I will put it in two blocks of voting: first, on the basis of the second, in general. In preparing the draft decree and reading the corresponding names, there was no objection to any Ukrainian national deputy on the basis of persons who were proposed to be elected to the office of judge without delay. Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of judges as a basis. [[Registration number 2386]] [[12:56:01]] For 399 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u144	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u145	In the morning, dear friends, give it up. We'll have to take it in general. So I'm now voting on the draft Supreme Council Regulation 2386 as a whole, if there's no objection. No objections? I'll bet the vote on the corresponding draft as a whole. [[12:56:33]] For 407 Now, let's give it a round of applause. “For” – 407, decision taken. Hello. I warmly welcome our judicial corps. Let us now consider draft Decree 2387.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u146	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, distinguished national MPs, your opinion is suggested by the following draft decree: No. 2387 of April 17, 2008. This draft ruling concerns judges who have already been elected by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on an indefinite basis and are transferred from one court to another by a higher court by election. I will note that in accordance with part two of article 15 of the Ukrainian Law, “On the election and dismissal of a professional judge of the Supreme Council of Ukraine”, the transfer of the judge by election takes place at a plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine without discussion. In accordance with article 85, paragraph 27, of the first part of article 128 of the Constitution of Ukraine, part three of article 62 of the Ukrainian Law “On the judiciary of Ukraine”, article 15 of the Ukrainian Law “On the order of election and discharge of a professional judge by the Supreme Council of Ukraine”, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine recommends the selection of judges previously elected on an indefinite basis as judges: The Court of Appeal of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Ponomarenko Allu Victorovna; The Court of Appeal of the Volin district of Antonjuk Katerina Ivanovna, Milichuka Sergey Leonidovich; The Court of Appeal of the Dnipropetrovsk Region of Volosin Mikol Petrovich, Cat Natalija Alexiyevna, Samodic Valerija Alexiovich, Turik Valentina Porfirovna; the Court of Appeal of the Žitomir Region of Andruskević, Sergey Zinoviovich, Old Gregory Stepanovich; the Court of Appeal of the Zakarpat district of Mishinchuk Natalija Stepanovna; the Court of Appeal of the Kyiv Region of Lithuania, Eugene Volodymyrovich; the Court of Appeal of the Kyiv district of Malorod Alexandr Ivanovich; the Court of Appeal of the Kyiv district of Panasuk Stepan Petrovich; the Court of Appeal of the Mikolai District of Irina Stanislavna; the Court of Appeal of the Mikolai district of Shamanska Natala Alexandrovna; the Court of Appeal of the Odessa District of Cononenko Natalia Arkadyevna; the Court of Appeal of the Odessa Region of Pogorjelov Svetlana Olegovna; the Court of Appeal of the Poltava District of Gontar Alla Anatoliyevna; The Court of Appeal of the Poltava District of Philipchuk Lydia Ivanovna; The Court of Appeal of the Plain District of Musicichuk Nina Yuhimovna Stop, there's a warning.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u147	Labunska, turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u148	I am asking for the removal of the music of Nina Yuhimovna, because the committee came after consideration of this candidature, the decision of the Žitomierski Qualify was reached. Commission of Judges. It's not just a complaint, it's already a fact.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u149	We're removing Nina Yuchemovna. Then we'll go to Nina Yuchemina after the vote in general. Please, Oleg Lazko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u150	Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. We'd ask the reporter, if you could, to report the question a little bit more quickly, because we see that there are dozens of people on the balcony, and if we have at least 30 seconds to announce everyone, that's until tonight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u151	Please continue. So we're removing Nina Yuhimivna Muzichuk. Kharkiv district, Podubni Roman Mikolaiovich, moved on.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u152	The Court of Appeal of Kharkiv District of Sub-Divine Roman Mikolaiovich; the Court of Appeal of the Czernieweck district of Saucuk Maria Volodymyrna; the Court of Appeal of the Chernigiv district of Demchenko Ludmila Mikolayevna; the Court of Appeal of Kyiv Polyvac Love Dmitrovna; the Court of Appeal of Kiev Chernenko Viru Anatoliyevna; Donetsk’s Administrative Court of Appeal, Gorbenko, Catherine Panasovna Ladies and gentlemen, please support the proposal of recommended candidates by the committee for these positions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u153	Comrades, 2387 is being removed from the Supreme Council's draft decree. No, it's not. Nothing yet. I vote on the basis, and after the second reading of the vote, we delete the music of Nina Yuhimovna. And so, I'm voting for Project 2387. Let's put it to a vote, colleagues. [[13:02:29]] For 391 Decision taken. Now after Nina Yuhimovni Muzichuk. Labunski's microphone again, so I can hear what's going on, what's the verdict, what's the trial?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u154	This is the decision of a qualified commission of judges of the General Courts of the Githomir Court of Appeal, under whose knowledge the Plain Court falls. Here are the facts that have been drawn to disciplinary responsibility, and such facts in criminal matters have been revealed, not what to appoint, but what to consider in general: cases after a year and a half are criminally obeyed, the fact that a person is found to be human. The case was discontinued by criminal proceedings, a search warrant was issued, and the judge at the Ministry of Internal Affairs did not pass these rulings. This is Case 1.3, 1.63, 1.35, 1.74. This is five such cases, not a citizen's complaint, it's a decision of the relevant body. And this Nina Yuhimovna on the committee's review, she hid that fact. He was not known to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u155	Can you please tell me when the date decision is?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u156	The decision is dated September 29, 2005, but is not against the High Council of Justice and the judiciary.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u157	I see. Please, Nina. Before Matthew, someone pulled his hand, and I couldn't see. Nobody else? Anatoly Sergiyovich, please, Matviyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u158	The Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, the “Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense” Block. Arsenija Petrovich, a distinguished reporter, would like to draw attention to the fact that we have very often recently had the facts when the committee is officially considering the matter. And these references are not always true. I'm not questioning exactly what my colleague is saying right now, but, I think taking a picture would be wrong. Therefore, consideration of this candidature should be postponed. Arsenija Petrovich, it would be helpful to postpone consideration of this candidature if the committee confirms the need for its consideration. If the committee considers this complaint and agrees with these arguments, we will simply no longer submit to the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u159	Comrades, there's an offer. Comrade Sulkovsky, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u160	Thank you. Arsenija Petrovich, I support the previous speaker, Anatoly Matvienka. What we have to do now is not for someone's ambition to miss a judge, but for the first time, this world's qualifying commission. We have a lot of cases when she's running things, everything's fine. The same man passed this commission of the world’s qualified. And now, once again, someone has asked that this judge should not be missed through the deputies, and there is already a question at the time of the parliamentary session. So I think if there were any questions about this judge, or if we still have to stop this shameful practice. And that's why today, Arsenija Petrovich, I'm making an offer. When all of this is over, it's over, putting this candidate to a vote now. And I urge the deputies to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u161	Colleagues, if that decision were to appear yesterday, 100 percent would have been ordered. Here, you see, it's a complicated thing. And so it goes on for three years, and it's been going on for, they say, hidden. Well, that wasn't under the table. Something like that is so incomprehensible, frankly. Let's make that decision. Comrades, look, we can now put, break the situation, transfer it to the committee. If the woman doesn't make it, we'll have to take her down. That's not gonna be right. Let's do it humanly, put it on the committee. We're not going to delete it, we're going to pass on the question. The committee will report to us separately, and we'll include this issue again in two weeks so that we don't overwhelm the judge. Let's give Sulkovsky another word.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u162	Arsenius Petrovich, I support your offer by a hundred percent. But I'm asking you as Head of the Supreme Council to investigate, to conduct a service investigation, and from this issue, to have the committee consider it, and I'm convinced that this world-wide qualifying commission will be defeated because there will be no basis for it. But after that, the commission will have to be made clear so that it no longer disgraces the judges of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u163	Colleagues, do you want to talk or do you want to make appointments? We still have 250 judges. Well, please sign in then. You want to talk, let's sign up for a speech. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll give the judge my word after the national MPs have been captured. Please sign in. Vasil Gretzak.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u164	Basil Gretzak, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear Arsenia Petrovich, I think it would be very appropriate to listen to the judge. And this question was considered by the committee, and there were no comments. I fully support my colleague Sulkovsky. I know this judge from Ravenna County, and I think we should vote today, of course, by listening to the judge's argument. If there is any comment, the question could be taken up, but that would not be fair if we did not consider the matter today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u165	Roman Zvaric, Katerina Samolik, and we're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u166	Arsenija Petrovich, in order to prove how honest the representatives of the Party of the Regions who spoke of the need for presence in the session hall during the consideration of the matter, I pass on the word to Vasil Kiselov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u167	And Basil Kiselov is gone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u168	So.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u169	Katerina Samuelk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u170	Thank you. Arsenius Petrovich, firstly, the faction of Communists is proposing to support your proposal, that is, let the committee really consider an additional issue, and we will certainly, if there is absolutely no comment, we will all vote and it will be to the honor of both the Supreme Council, and the judge will feel more confident. But at the same time, I want to say, really, it smells like an order. Indeed, since 2005, this decision has been in place and has come to light on the day of the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And we really don't see it for the first time. Someone was approached, someone was wrongly opened or closed. And so let's do the same thing as the people of the state. And in order for everything to be fair and clear, let us support the proposal made by the Head of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u171	Comrade Kruglov, please speak. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u172	Dear colleagues, I'd like to say that let's not ignore the hall, what's more important to us? Who makes the final decision? Hall or commission? The committee considered that the committee did not have these facts, if it were not for the commission, this person would have come and given this letter to the committee's head to begin with, it didn't happen, it's just a collapse. I suggest that our room today can solve any question and I ask you to put the question to the vote, by giving the word of judges, we give the judge the opportunity to take the last word, what are we doing?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u173	Emotions are a little lower and everything will be fine. Please, Labunska.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u174	Arseny Petrovich! Dear National Deputies! I want you not to see me as a member of a coalition or a politician, and I'm here to report to some judges as Secretary of the Justice Committee. The point is that this document is now being considered by judges who were on the committee a month or maybe a half ago. That the relevant documents had been sent to the committee by both the chairman of the committee, and he knew what the question would be, and that was agreed upon. And Yuri Anatoliyovich, as the reporter, also knew that these documents had not arrived today, not in five minutes, and they had come a month and a half back to the committee. And so I'm asking you, this decision was a unanimous committee, so I'm reporting here, I'm saying, not as a member of the coalition, but as just the secretary of the committee. There is that it is very late for us to hand out documents, and it is Tuesday that the judges go to the committee on Wednesday. Therefore, the documents are not always timely before the judges. So this is not about someone stepping on a brain.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u175	Can I ask you a question? I'm sorry to interrupt, but it's a simple question. Is there a decision by the committee to support Nina Yuhimovna’s candidacy for judicial election? Turn on the Labunski microphone. Simple answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u176	Yes, but not considering these documents.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u177	The answer is “Odeski”. Please, Oleg Lazko and Anatoly Matvienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u178	Oleg Lazko, Yulia Block Timoshenko. I think listening to a judge is the first thing I need to do. The other one. I want Nina Jujimovna Muzichuk, who is so worried about the representatives here, our opponents, to know, what the Chief of the Supreme Council has offered is better. Take the questions to the committee, not to overturn your candidacy here in the hall. I mean, you're offered a "ear tower service," they're trying to show you how worried they are about you, and they're actually "rolling." That's two. And the third. I don't think the question of the judges' candidatures should be limited to the committee. As a colleague put it, the hall decides. And if the facts become known as soon as the committee meets, every national MP has the right to publish these facts in the hall. So let's support the Head, and that's it. Why, indeed, spoil a person’s biography.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u179	Anatoly Matvienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u180	Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you to keep your emotions down a little bit and still return to the right of a national MP in the hall to make his warning. Apparently it does. He may be approached on the day of the meeting, and he may not be deprived of his warning. But is that just a reason to ask the MP to remove the person without confirming it? Obviously not. The Supreme Council is not about listening to a judge right now. Obviously, with such a conflict, we need to look to the committee as a commission to consider which of the interested deputies can take part in the committee meeting and then listen to the matter further in the light of these circumstances. And if these circumstances are premeditated or falsified, we need to know the author, the deputy who ruined the meeting regarding the appointment of a judge. And then he will be given a political evaluation. So we need to support Arsenija Petrovich, your proposal that comes with the rest and mine, to be sent independently.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u181	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u182	No matter what we may vote today, we cannot ignore such facts. We need to respect the information announced by the national MP. So we don't take it off, but we're taking it to the judge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u183	Once again, colleagues, I remind you, we have the practice and requirements of the provisional Rules, and two laws on the subject of judiciality and the procedure for the election and appointment of professional posts. In that case, if there's a denial by a national deputy, even without a decision by a qualified commission, we're always taking down questions, transferring them to the committee so as not to overwhelm a person. This practice has been in the walls of this Parliament for seventeen years. If we want to do Nina Yuhimovna's bear service, now I'm going to put her to the vote, she's going to get 220 votes, and she's never going to be elected to the judge without time. So I'm going to put it on the vote as a whole. I don't remember. Did we vote for him? Vote. I will now put to the vote in general without Nina Juhimovna, and Nina Yuhimovna will be transferred to the committee. The committee will look at it and we'll put it in general order. Okay? Okay. What do you want me to say to Nina Juhimovna? I'm telling you right now, if we do this, every judge will be given a word and 300 judges will be missed in three weeks of plenary because we've never done this in the plenary. If you want to give Nina a word, I will certainly give her my word. We don't give a word under the Rules. Nina Yuhimovna, are you insisting? If he insists, we'll have a very specific room. So come on, please, Nina Yuhimovna is being transferred to the committee, we are voting as a whole on a motion for a ruling excluding the Court of Appeal of the Plain Region of Music of Nani Yuhimovni. The Committee's protocol commission is to review and put the matter under review in an orderly manner. Please vote. [[13:17:06]] For 411 Decision taken. Next project, 2525. Dear colleagues, I welcome you. Don’t worry, someone who has not been chosen will be chosen if there are legitimate grounds. 2525.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u184	Ladies and gentlemen, your opinion is proposed for the next draft of Decree No. 2525. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Justice considered, at its meeting on 14 May 2008, the submission of the head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the head of the Supreme Administrative Court and in accordance with paragraph 27 of the first part of article 85, part one of article 128 of the Ukrainian Constitution, the Committee recommends that the judges be elected on an indefinite basis: the Court of Appeal of the Zakarpat district of Fazikos Hanna Vasilovna; The Court of Appeal of the Luhansk Region of Topoluque Eugenia Volodymyrna; the Court of Appeal of the Plains District of Sheremet Angelique Mikolayevna; the Court of Appeal of the Czernig Region of Zinchenko Svetlana Pavlovna; the Court of Appeal of Kiev, Shebuyev, Victoria Andriyevna; the Military Court of Appeal of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, Omelchenka Anatolia Fedorovic; Sevastopol’s Administrative Court of Appeal Sanakoy Mayo Anzorovna; the local Novovolin City Court of the Volin district of Ferens Piquoque Orisu Romanovna; the local Staroviživ District Court of the district of Samruk Fedor Vasilovich; the local Artemian Regional Court of the Donetsk Region of Radchenko Larissa Anatoliyevna; The local Melitopol District Court of Zaporozhye district of Urup Irina Volodymyrna; the local Ulyanov district court of the Kyrovograd district of Zaporochek Alona Volodymyrovna; the local Preval District Court of the Lugansk region of Hismatulin Olga Petrovna; the local Swatov district court of the Luhansk district of Hashinsk Olen Anatoliyevna; the local North London City Court of the Luhansk Region of Horbatenko Oleg Volodymirovich; the local Dikana District Court of Poltava District of Stabelski Irina Volodymyrna; the local Kostopil district court of the district of Rivennik Petar Volodymirovich; the local Mliny district court of the district of Feskov Petra Vasilovich; The local County Court of Suma Sobin Olga Ivanovna; The local congregational district court of Ternopil district of Black Valentine Gnatovna; the local Regional Court of Velikolepeti of Solovov Viktor Valentinović; the local Dniprovsky District Court of Herson Ivanishchuk Andrija Anatoliyovich; the local Suvorov District Court of Herson Stroilov Sergey Alexanderovich; the local Zolitani District Court of the Cherka district of Wednesday Ludmila Vasilovna; the local Herzeivsky District Court of the Czernovetsk Region, Stanislav Mikolaiovich; the local Sokiryan district court of the Czernovetsk district of Stasiv Igor Stepanović; the local Darnitsky District Court of Kiev, Yaschuk Tetjana Ivanovna; The local Obolonian District Court of Kiev, Mahlai Ludmila Dmitrovna. Ladies and gentlemen, please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u185	Comrades, are there any objections to 2525? I'm voting on the basis of a draft Supreme Council decree on the election of judges. [[Registration number 2525]] Please vote. [[13:21:40]] For 386 Decision taken. I now put to the vote a total of 2525. Is there no objection? None. I'm betting on the vote on this project as a whole. [[13:22:04]] For 400. Decision taken. [[Applause]] Congratulations, Your Honor. 2526.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u186	Dear colleagues, your opinion is proposed for the next draft of Decree 2526. At its meeting on 14 May 2008, the High Administrative Court of Ukraine considered the appointment of previously elected judges as judges of the Sevastopol Court of Appeal: Goroško Natalija Petrovna, Dugarenko Olga Volodymyrovna, Iluchin Hana Pawlevna, Ludov Tetjana Romanovna, Szczepanski Olga Anatoliyovna. Ladies and gentlemen, please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u187	Again, look, there was Goroško, Dugarenko, Iluchina, Ice, Szczepanyska. Did you read all the last names?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u188	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u189	Colleagues, I'm building on this draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine 2526 on the election of judges. Please vote. [[13:23:23]] For 386 Decision taken. I'm betting on the vote on this draft regulation as a whole. Is there no objection? None. We're voting in general. [[13:23:44]] For 397 Decision taken. Welcome. [[Applause]] The draft Decree No. 2527 on the election of judges is announced for consideration, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u190	Ladies and gentlemen, your attention is on the next draft of the Order.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u191	You just have to read a little faster if you can.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u192	2527. On 21 May, the Supreme Council Committee discussed the submission of the Supreme Court’s election head on an uninterrupted basis and recommended, in accordance with 128 of the Constitution, that judges be elected on an uninterrupted basis: the Court of Appeal of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Sokol Viktor Stepanovich; The Court of Appeal of the Dnipropetrov Region of Beautiful Tetjana Petrovna, Maksut Jana Ivanovna, Pištěd Mikolayaiovich; The Court of Appeal of the Donetsk Region of Papiane Victoria Victoria, Halo Jan Valerievna; the Court of Appeal of the Kyiv district of Volochov Leonid Anatoliyovich; the Court of Appeal of the Mikolai District of Livinsky Igor Volodymyrovich; Dnipropetrov's Administrative Court of Appeal, Barannik Natalija Petrovna; The Donetsk Administrative Court of Appeal, Nikolain Aleksandra Anatoliyovich; Odessa’s Administrative Court of Appeal, Potapchuk Viacheslav Aleksandrovitch
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u193	Stop.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u194	There's a note.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u195	Carmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u196	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, 166 judges were discussed at the committee meeting yesterday, and questions may arise. The question arose that there was a complaint against the judge, on a reasonable basis, that wasn't checked on the committee, and I'm asking the question that we should postpone. The principle was to list one of us — no judge on the list had any complaints, no more checks. That's with us not bringing anyone in. We didn't let the Supreme Council down. So I'm asking you to delete and forward these materials for further examination of this judge by. He's on the committee. Then we'll let you know.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u197	What's the name of the judge under the transcript? Yuri Anatolyevich, the name of the judge under the transcript. Name the judge under the transcript!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u198	Potatchuka Viacheslav Aleksandrovich, judge of the Malinov District Court of Odessa, claims to serve as judge of the Odessa Court of Appeal.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u199	I see. Please, Yuri Anatoliyovich, your comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u200	Dear colleagues, yesterday's committee meeting ended at 20 o'clock. There was no complaint regarding this candidate. He was elected unanimously, recommended for election to the office of the Odessa Court of Appeal. So it's up to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u201	Dear colleagues, Your Honor Yuri Anatolyovich! I don't want to go into the process of filing appropriate acts by your committee for the consideration of the Supreme Council, but, you know, I don't live with rumors, but rumors go very, very differently. So again, I'm surprised by the subjective approach, something comes up, someone doesn't make a deal, someone doesn't reach out to someone, or someone doesn't call. Some complaints, personal claims against judges, appear. So there is no one holy, only one Jesus Christ. What each judge and each one of us have is an objective question, but the higher authority will correct it. There was no proper complaint on the committee. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u202	Arsenius Petrovich, I highlighted 166 complaints. First. The other one. 20 numbers to my address. 166 applications and 166 people. You realize that with that kind of shaft, you can read it all. It's official. [[I don't want to read this complaint.]]
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u203	The 20th of what month is this?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u204	May 20th.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u205	All right, let's get this straight.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u206	But I have to report. So of course it couldn't have been yesterday, because we were on the council of the coalition. By the time they got here, that was the question. At the same time, we can't keep up. That's why I just reported it. And let's not change the principle, Arsenius Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u207	As Labunska will say, so will we. Turn on the Labunski microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u208	Arsenius Petrovich, I support that if we have a position, it should be one for all. And if we've shot 12 judges in the last session, and now we've looked at them all over again on the committee, and we're preparing for the hall again, and it's not a big deal. Let's take one approach that is, we'll stick to it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u209	Well, of course. Here you're right: I can't change my mind. But I just imagine he's going to be on this judge right now, and he's going to start twisting his hands. Do you know how the complaint came about? Tell him to swear allegiance. It is understandable how this ends after we have objectively considered these questions. Let's move on. Kharkiv Court of Appeal
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u210	Continue: Kharkiv's Administrative Court of Appeal, Minayev Olga Mikhaylovna; The local Kerchen City Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Kuzmin Olen Mikolayevna; the local Simferopol District Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Safonova Vladimir Vasilovich; the local Kalinov District Court of the Viennese Region of the Yanks of Tetjan Petrovna; the local Pistachio District Court of the Zarican district of Vitali Grigorovich; the local Cemetery District Court of the Viennese Region of Marchenko Ludmila Volodymyrna; the local Volodymyr Wallin City Court of the Sénica Roman Petrovich district; the local Lutsky District Court of the Volin district of Savitsk Nadija Volodymyrna; the local Pavlovrad Regional Court of the Dnipropetrov Region of Sterbín Alexander Alexander; the local First-Traven City Court of Dnipropetrov district of Krivoša Svetlana Stanislavna; the local Pochrovsky District Court of the Dnipropetrov district of Pustóvo Oksana Savivan; the local Petehata District Court of the Dnipropetrov region of Bortsov Alla Anatoliyevna; the local Royal District Court of the Dnipropetrov region of Goodim Olga Mikhailnovna; the local Amur-Loweredniprova District Court of Dnipropetrovska Varenko Olen Pavlovna; the local Yellow District Court of Dnipropetrovska Majmur Felix Fedorović; the local Krasnogvardy District Court of Dnipropetrovsk Samson's Victoria Vasilovna; the local Provincial District Court of the Horn of Creature of the Dnipropetrov district of Kostenko Victoria Valerievna; the local Ingulatsky District Court of the Horn of Kreeb Dnipropetrov district of Solovov Ludmila Yakovna; the local Dobropil District Court of the Donetsk Region of Maurodi Roman Fedorovich; The friendly city court of the Donetsk district of Gontar Aleutin Leonidivna; the local Jenakiyev city court of the Donetsk district of Husjevo Viktor Volodymirovich; the local Kramator City Court of the Donetsk Region of Marchenko Love Mikolayevna; The Snow White City Court of the Korekian district of Korekyan, Natalia Raviliyovna; The Hartz city court of the Donetsk district of Demidou Vera Constantine; The Yasinauthian Regional Court of the Donetsk Region of Gubsk Ludmila Viktorovna; The Mikitov District Court of Gorlovka Donetsk Region of Dobinczak Olga Petrovna; The district court of Donetska Shisov Oleg Alexiyovich; The Kyiv District Court of Donetsk Zeltobruh Irina Leontiyevna; The proletarian district court of Donetsk Ageyeva Alexander Volodymyrovich; The mining district court of Makiyevka Donecka District of Suprun Marina Jurijivna; The Emylchin district court of the Gitomir district of Darmogry Ivan Ivanovich; The Popljenian District Court of the district of Žitomir, Shahray Mikola Igorovich; Cernjakhiv District Court of the Zitomir district of Vasilchuk Sergey Fedorovich; Zidomir District Court of Bondarchuk Igor Fedorovich; The Royal District Court of Zitomir Bondarchuk Viacheslav Volodimirovich; Martyr Ivan Stepanovich, District Court of Zacarpathia; The Bolykhiv city court of Ivano-Frankiv district of Glashenko Olga Stepanovna; The Sanitary District Court of Ivano-Frankiv district of Potatnik Yuri Romanović; The Brovar Regional Court of Kyiv district of Serdinski Volodymyr Stepanović; The Supreme District Court of Kyiv, Vojnarenko Ludmila Fedorovna; Makarov District Court of Kyiv District Ustimchuk Marianne Yuriyovna The Mironov District Court of the Kyiv district of Sementsov Jurija Vadimovich; The Fastev Regional Court of Kyiv district of Buymov Love Petrovna; Aleksandriv District Court of Kirovograd Otyan Olga Volodymyrna; Petrovsky District Court of Kirovograd District of Zushman Oleg Mikolaiovich; Kirov district court of Kirovgrad Kuzenka Alexander Volodymirovic; The Kirov district court of Kirovgrad, Chernenko Inessa Viktorovna; Biloukurakina District Court of the Lugansk Region of Trelak Aleksandr Grigorovitch; Brankov City Court of Lugansk, Migunov Larissa Sergiyevna; Brankow City Court of Luhansk, Chernov Natal Ivanovna; The Krasnodon City Court of Luhansk District of Okolot Hennady Mikolaiovich; The First-Major City Court of Lugansk district of Borzanic Sergey Volodymyrovich and Pashchenko Larissa Viktorovna; Kamanobridsky District Court of Lugansk Rodionova Sergia Alexandrovich; The Donetsk City Court of the Mikolai District of Miron Oksana Volodymyrna; The Vradiov district court of the Mikolai district of Tikhajal Ivanovich; The New York District Court of the Mikolai district of Hajo Oleg Petrovich; The Central District Court of Mikolayeva Chebanov-Gubarev Natal Valentinovna; The Barezov District Court of the Odessa District of Detkova Alexander Yakimovitch; Bilgorod-Dnistrov County Court of Odessa County; The Saratsk District Court of the Odessa District of Butchik Alla Ivanovna; The Kyiv District Court of Odessa Garaszczenka Dmitr Ruslanović; Grandobagachana District Court of Poltava District, Lysenko Natalija Vasilovna; The Gaddaic District Court of the district of Poltava, Zavor Ivan Mikolaiovich; The Koselski District Court of the district of Naumenko Nina Dmitrovna; Kotelevsky District Court of Poltav County, Yakimenko Tetjana Alexandrovna; Seminovian District Court of Poltava District of Lubitsky Viktor Alexiyovich; The Ravenna City Court of the province of Zvirkun Alexander Sergiyyovich; The Sarnen district court of the district of Brezn, Jurija Valentinović; The Burin District Court of the Suman district of Kuzan Volodymyr Mihajlovich; The Grand Duchy of the Suma District Court of Savilev Alla Ivanovna; The Royal District Court of Suma District, Olkhovic Anastasia Ivanovna; The Labedina District Court of the Suma District of Baklanov Roman Volodymyrovich; The Shastkin District Court of the Suman District of Evtushenko Mikol Alexiyyovich and the Shastkin District Court of the Suman region of Czernobay Oleg Ivanovich; The Coastal District Court of Ternopil district of Germany, Natalia Petrovna; The Ternopil Regional Court of Ternopil district of Jurdig Olga Stepanovna; Vovčany District Court of Kharkiv District of Ukhanov Irina Stepanovna; Snake District Court of the Shabelnikov district of Kuzmić; Kegichov District Court of Kharkiv Province, Krivorova Sergija Vasilovich; Kharkov Grigoryev Boris Pavlovich, District Court of Cominternov; The French District Court of Kharkiv Silantyev Elina Eugenyevna; The Supreme Regional Court of the Herson district of Vitaly Grigorovitch; The Hellenic District Court of Herson, Homenko, Valentin Grigorovna; Kakhov District Court of the Herson District of Aibog Igor Mikolaiovich; The NovoVrontsov District Court of the Herson district of Butenko Tetjan Ivanovna; The Kamyanec-Podil District Court of the Hmeljna District of Korniyuk Alla Petrovna; The Polonian District Court of the Hmelnick district of Bobjak Bogdan Vasilovich; Theophilus District Court of the Hmelni district of Dreckov Svetlana; The Zolitani Regional Court of Cherka district of Mishchenka Sergija Valentinović; Katerinopil District Court of the Cherka district of Kuharenka Alexander Volodymirovich; The Lysian District Court of the Cherka district of Dobridnouk Nina Alexandrovna; Smilyan District Court of the Cherka district of Makko Mikola Vasilovich; Ummansk District Court of Cherkas region of Koval Anatoly Borisovich; The Sosnov district court of Cherkasa Piroženko Valentino Dmitrovna; The Archduke District Court of the Acostaquioai Olena Trojanovna District Court; The Sokirian District Court of the Czernovets region of the Roman Galina Alexiyevna; Coryukowa District Court of Czernigów, Highland Natalia Viacheslavna; Kulikov District Court of Chernigiv Region Morozov Aleksija Borisovich; The right-wing District Court of Chernigova Koversnev Vadim Alexanderovich; Dniprovsky District Court of Kyiv Goncharuk Viktor Petrovich, Dniprovsky District Court of Kiev Kolesnik Ludmila Anatoliyevna; Dniprovsky District Court of Kiev Ruban Svetlan Mikhailnov; Obolon district court of Kyiv Vasalatiya Konstantina Anatoliyovich; Delilah District Court of Kiev, Ziminu, Veronica Borissovna; Shevchenkov District Court of Kiev Malinnikov Oleg Fedorovich; the district administrative court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Yakovljev Sergio Valeriyovich; The Donetsk District Administrative Court of Isainenko Julius Anatolyevna; The Regional Administrative Court of Blonski Viacheslav Kostinović; the Economic Court of Zaporozhye district of Sadov Igor Viktorovich, and the Land Court of Zaporozhye district of Skidanov Yulia Olegovna. Honorable National MPs. Any notes? Mr. Chairman, is there a note?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u211	Please turn on the microphone, please, “The Council”. Raise your hand, please, once again, so that the “Council ” can see. Verni Dubov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u212	Dear National Deputies! Arseny Petrovich! Personally, like you, I don't think I need this festive procedure as if the approval of the judges here in the Supreme Council is like we're deciding something here. But let's either rule out these powers from our jurisdiction, or let's take it easy. I, for example, am not personally familiar with Judge Druck's Light Petrowa of the Theophilus District Court of the Hmelnicke District. I don't even know the guy named Levy Vadim Leonidovich from a city-type village called Theofipolis. And I can't make him feel guilty that he doesn't know the procedure for dealing with and going through the committee and so forth. But these documents, his complaint against the twelve letters, there are copies of the court’s documents, where he says that I will not hold your attention, says that this judge was given six judges in relation to him.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u213	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u214	which were then, as the unjust had been abolished, and for this he was unlawfully involved in administrative responsibility twice. Hence, he feels that his constitutional rights have been violated repeatedly in the determination of unjust decisions that give him reasonable judges of her impartiality. That's why I'm asking from the general list. Let the committee consider these materials.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u215	Next. When did the complaint come, by the way? Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u216	I've got the materials.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u217	One more time under the stenogram, if you please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u218	I received a complaint concerning Judge Druckovy today. I'm handing her over to the committee, let them look.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u219	I'll comment later, I get it. Vladimir Grigorovich Yatsuba, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u220	Ladies and gentlemen of the national council, distinguished candidates for the rank of judges! This form of frame placement has been known since the 1930s, when either a paper or a complaint comes out before it's approved. This is one of the forms of struggle or placement of those people. There's an order: in a month's time a complaint is being considered. Today's term is not accepted. And I think we need to trust the committee, they've been doing every candid thing, they've been looking at all the factions. So I'd agree with the committee's decision, and I'd approve everyone without that focus when the complaint comes on the last day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u221	Thank you. Oleg Lazko and Anatoly Matvienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u222	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Since colleagues have raised strategic questions about the order of judges, I would like to support and continue the topic. I believe that domestic legislation on the election of judges needs urgent changes. I think it's totally wrong for judges to choose for themselves and then you can't bring them to responsibility, whatever they do. That's half of the judges who have been announced here are quite young people who are not yet 30 years old. He's chosen as a judge of life, and he's in his 60s. The justice system is built so that when human rights are violated, as Mr. Vernidubov said, six judicial decisions of illegal decisions can be made and nothing can be done. And she, this person, here and she's being represented for life. How many more illegal decisions will such judges rule during the course of their activities? So I think that when we make changes to the Constitution, we should anticipate the election of judges by the people and limit their terms of office there to five or ten years, not.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u223	Anatoly Matvienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u224	Ukrainian Republican Party “Cobor”, “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense” Block. Vladimir Grigorovich, I completely agree with what you're saying. I, Arsenius Petrovich, am now addressing this situation as a matter of fact, and we have no right to allow it today. Obviously, it would be necessary to assign a similar complaint on the day of the hearing to the Regulatory Committee and to the Legal Committee today to amend the Rules that no complaint could be considered on the day of the hearing. And obviously, then we'd be logical. And since we have the facts that we are considering today, we need to approach everyone equally. To those to whom there are warnings, to refer to the committee, to consider further, and then to evaluate the MP who has made a claim if it is unfounded.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u225	Anatoly Sergiyovich, the only thing I'm going to say is that even if we write this down, I'm going to give you a guarantee that complaints will appear a month ago, registered as a book, it's all gone. This is a systemic disaster, and then I'll stop at it. Please, Jaroslav Suhi, then Labunsky and then Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u226	Dear colleagues, Your Honor Arsenius Petrovich, I would like to support your thesis that if we were once in the session room to refuse to consider openly the orders, the scheme is simple and very unpleasant. I met her here in this session hall when we were discussing a prison judge's candidacy. You can't do that, just on the day that the vote is coming, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is small, we have both a rating and a trust in us corrupt, and there's this opportunity to use our hands with someone there to dissipate. I'm not sorry about any judge, they have a lot of problems, they're corrupt just like the entire Supreme Council, but if we'd refused to deal with such a complaint once, we'd probably have made an order. And the last. According to his colleague Matthewenko, if we have already begun to do so, we must continue to reject and move, but this is not appropriate anywhere.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u227	Please, Angelica Labunska and Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u228	Arseny Petrovich, I'm even going to ask you, I'll tell you that as members of the committee, we get the day-to-day order before the committee starts to look at the judges. And we've repeatedly asked questions before the committee and before your colleague Yuri Anatoliyovich Booth, who is a subcommittee on forming the judiciary for today, there is no order of the day, there is no current situation in the sessional room of the complaints that arise, I believe that this is the responsibility of the head of the subcommittee who is not working and needs to be put in order so that all deputies are informed about the consideration of judges in the committee -- once, and in general, and the adoption of complaints, and the citizens, and then there will be no question in the session room. And they say that the order, that's not, I think that's incorrect, because there are really things that are ordering, and there are really documents that come after the committee's consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u229	Adam Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u230	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, we've gone a little bit wrong, especially Jaroslav Suhogo's statement, if he's judging himself about the entire Supreme Council, then let him go to the rostrum and say I'm corrupt. I cannot take his words personally to myself or to members of my faction. That's the first one. The other one. We're dealing with about 300 judges today, if 1, 2 or 3 don't get our support, what's strange here is our practice and normal practice of setting up the right complaint or the wrong complaint, which we are given to set up depending on when it came. It doesn't matter, there's a complaint, the committee has to consider and have its decision on any complaint, and then we'll make a decision. I don't see any complete tragedy in the fact that there are such complaints, that the complaint is only a matter for each of us to understand. So let us give those where the complaints are not determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u231	Comrades, I'm putting everyone back on the right track. Article 210 of the Ukrainian Supreme Council's Provisional Rules provides for the following, is paragraph 8, in the event that there is a denial at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in relation to the judge, I am obliged to remove that judge from the relevant decision and to refer the relevant ruling to that judge for consideration by the committee on a case-by-case basis. So I have a first request to Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov and to Sergey Volodymyrovich Sasa, as to two responsible people. Look at this 210. I think we need to make changes to the procedures for registering complaints and the public register of such complaints, so they don't get dragged out of the field and these complaints didn't come back. Perhaps there are other elements that need to be included in the 210th Rules in order to remove the subjectivity of the appointment, when the judges are elected on an indefinite basis. If you could be asked, and we have given you this assignment under the transcript when you make changes to the Rules, just one paragraph will be added. And we're going to settle this issue definitively with 210th. Is that accepted? Roger that. Please excuse me. I don't see a last name. Tell the MP. Butov is a last name. Please turn on the microphone. Rada system, don't sleep. I told you, Putov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u232	Well, pass on my last name, Pudov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u233	On, on, sit down, please. Microphone on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u234	Arsenia Petrovich, I'm sorry you warned me a little. I also wanted to pay attention to this rule of law that you mentioned. No procedures can deprive the national MP of his rights. Therefore, there is no need to listen to these "sly" proposals, which limit the rights of the national MP. Not every voter can reach the door that needs to be accessed. He turns to his national defender. And he's right to do it. And so I propose that we follow the procedure that we already have in place and bring the judge's case back to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u235	Baburin's word, turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u236	Thank you, Arseny Petrovich. There's a nuance here. Tell me, how does a person who has been wronged know that this judge who did this go to trial? Therefore, if we are to work, we must ensure that the press is made public in two, three months' time, in the regional media, that this judge is going for life. That's when you can make a complaint.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u237	My colleagues, once again, I return to my request, to Alexander Sergiyyovich to make appropriate changes in the 210th Rules, to give the maximum public process so that people will know that a person is elected without delay to serve as judge. And third, more importantly, my friends, I turn to the committee once again: Rumors never arise on their own. You know, there's no smoke without fire. There are very serious questions about the committee's activities. I don’t want to go any further, but it will be a month from this rostrum to call the names of who’s coming in and what they’re going in with, and with what suitcases! Let's move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u238	Ladies and gentlemen, your opinion is proposed for the next draft of the ruling.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u239	We're not done, we're done in Hmelnick, Svetlana Petrovna's Friends. Do I remember correctly? Remove Svetlana Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u240	And they finished it all.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u241	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u242	We've outdone everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u243	I can't hear you. Have you read them all?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u244	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u245	Thank God! So, my colleagues, I'm putting 2527 to the vote as a basis. Vote. [[13:53:32]] For 394 Decision taken. Now to my second reading, I appoint two judges — Potapchuk Viacheslav Aleksandrovich, who is appointed to the Odessa Court of Appeal and Drewkov Svetlana Petrovna, the local Theophilus District Court of Hmeljna District. There are no other objections to this draft regulation? None. We're voting in general, colleagues. [[13:54:11]] For 399 Decision taken. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, welcome! 2528. I'm asking for a quick read.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u246	Dear National Deputies! Your attention is on the next draft of Decree No. 2528. According to article 85, paragraph 27, of the first article of the Constitution and article 128, of the Constitution of Ukraine, part three, article 62, of the Ukrainian Law on the judiciary of article 15 of the Ukrainian Law on the order of election and dismissal of a professional judge, the committee recommends that judges previously elected on an indefinite basis be elected as judges: The Supreme Court of the Ukraine of Germany, Anatolia Anatoliyovich, Žyvoronek Tetjana Evgenynovna, Kovtuk Elizavet Ivanovna, Luspnik Dmitry Dmitrovich, Mazurka Volodymira Antonovich, Sperci Vladimir Saveliyovich. Dear national deputies, Zhukova’s Love Volodymyrna is ill, so she was unable to come today. In office of the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u247	Let's delete it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u248	The Court of Appeal of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Avramida Tetjana Stanislavna; The Court of Appeal of the District of Denishenko Tamar Alexandrovna; the Court of Appeal of the Dnipropetrovsk Region of Savina Anna Alexiyevna, the Court of Appeal of the Dnipropetrovské district of Siromashenko Natalija Volodymyrna; the Court of Appeal of the Kyiv district of Ignatchenko Nina Volodymyrna and the Court of Appeal of the Kyiv district of Kostenko Inna Volodymyrna; the Court of Appeal of the Kirovograd district of Babic Oleg Petrovich; the Court of Appeal of the Luhansk Region of Ukraine, Ludmila Dmitrovna; the Court of Appeal of the Rhineland District of Kowalczuk Nadia Mikolayevna, Poluchovich Oleg Ivanovich; the Court of Appeal of the Ternopil district of Kunz Ivan Mikolaiovich; Dnipropetrov's Administrative Court of Appeal, Nagorny Ludmila Mikhailna; Odessa Administrative Court of Appeal, Jaburi Alexandr Valentinović; Kharkiv Administrative Court of Kalinov Vitali Anatoliyovich; the local district rail court of Simferopol Afendikov Sergio Mikolaiovich; the local right-wing district court of Chernigova Kuzuru Mikolaajovic; the local Wynnick District Administrative Court of Alimenka Volodymyr Alexandrovich, Kurk Oleg Petrovich; the local Wallin District Administrative Court of Kowalczuk Volodymyr Dmitrovic; the local Zitomir District Administrative Court of Kuzmenko Lubov Vasilovna; the local Johno-Frankow District Administrative Court of Mohil Andrija Bogdanović; the local Odessa District Administrative Court of Cora Svetlana Mikolayevna; the local Sumar District Administrative Court of Bondar Sergey Aleksandrovitch; the local Ternopil district administrative court, Podlišna Irina Mikolayevna; the local Hmelnick District Administrative Court of Koval Roman Josephovich, Svetec Viktor Valentinović; the local Cherka District Administrative Court of Mishenko Volodymyr Vladimirovich; the local Chernigiv District Administrative Court of Grom Love's Mikolayevna. Dear colleagues, please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u249	Comrades, 2528 We remove Volodymyr’s Love, as it did not appear, from the Rules we do not have the right to it. Please, Bondik microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u250	Dear colleagues, the Supreme Council! Deputy Head of the Committee, Bondik Valerij Anatoliyovich, member of the High Council of Justice. To avoid being subjective, I asked for words from objective things. I don't have any complaints, but a wish for Afendic's Sergey Mikolaiovich. If the judge goes from the Court of Appeal to the District Court, I believe he will support the execution of justice at the proper level. And you need to notice that there is a collective complaint of judges: Shaferenka, Shilnov and Poedina, which is the subject of the High Council of Justice. Therefore, without filming you, I deliberately turned and ask for my address in the order of article 16 of the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy Act to be considered a request. Because you know, the situation at the Rail Court, because of the pressure of some of the senior executives, I'm sorry, the ARC Crime High Court of Appeal, is available. So please record my request and repair.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u251	I'm asking you to properly form a query. Thank you, we've heard you. Are you guys out of here? Semchuku, please give Victor Viktorovich the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u252	I am literally also in a position to discuss the matter. The point is that Afendikov is the head of the Council of Judges of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, and of course there are people who treat him favorably and unfavorably. I would simply ask the personal interests of some deputies and the interests of some judges to put us in the session room above this process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u253	Thank you. Colleagues, I'm continuing the session for 15 minutes. No more objections, I repeat, I remove Love Volodymyr Zhukov from the draft ruling. I'll bet the vote on draft regulation 2528. [[14:00:27]] For 389 Decision taken. I'm betting on the corresponding draft of Decree No. 2528 as a whole, except for Volodymyrov's Love. Please vote. [[14:00:47]] For 398
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u254	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u255	2484.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u256	Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, your opinion is proposed by Decree No. 2484. The Committee of the Supreme Council on Justice considered at its meeting on 14 May the application of the Supreme Council of Justice on the dismissal of judges, and recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine release the persons listed in the draft Supreme Council ruling from the judges' offices according to the applications submitted and the submission of the High Council of Justice: The Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine, Ribak Vitali Vasilovich, in connection with the application for resignation; the Court of Appeal of the Donetsk Region of Kruglikov Katerin Stepanovna in connection with the application for resignation; the Court of Appeal of the Kyiv district of Nazarczuk Rostislav Antonovic in connection with the application for resignation; the Court of Appeal of the Lviv Region of Makarenko Anatolia Petrovich in connection with the application for resignation; the Court of Appeal of the Poltava Region of Wiszczik Valerija Mikolajovic in connection with the application for resignation; the Court of Appeal of the Suman District of Danilchenko Ludmila Alexandrovna in connection with the application for resignation; the Court of Appeal of the Cherkas region of Sind Raís Mikhailovna in connection with the application for a state of health pension, which prevents the continuation of the duties; the Court of Appeal of Kiev Queen Mikola Pavlovich in connection with the application for resignation; the Court of Appeal of Kyiv Harutou Olexija Vasilovich in connection with the application for resignation; the local Jankoj Regional Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Irina Yakovna, in connection with the application for resignation; the local Feodosian City Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Kirilenko Ludmila Alexiyevna, in connection with the application for resignation; Vladimir-Wollin City Court of Volin County of Mojajska Hanna Dmitrovna in connection with the application for resignation; The District Court of Senitín of Ivano-Frankiv District of Rožik Evgen Volodymyrovich in connection with the application for resignation; the local Bahmat district court of the Cernigiv district of the Church of Mikolayayovich in connection with the application for exemption at your own request; and the local Darnitsky District Court of Kiev, Vavrinczuk, Bogdan Ivanovich, in connection with the application for resignation. Ladies and gentlemen, please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u257	Comrades who are noted for the draft decree 2484. You don't? I'll bet the vote on the draft. [[14:03:55]] For 385 Decision taken. I'm putting a bill on the whole. [[14:04:14]] For 388 Decision taken. The next one is 2385.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u258	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, your opinion is on draft Decree No. 2529. At its meeting on May 21, the High Council of Justice considered the dismissal of judges from the local court of the Hmelni district, the military court of Dnipropetrovsk garrison, the local household courts of the Poltava region, and the city of Kyiv in connection with their violation of the oath of judges. The Committee, I stress, unanimously recommends to the Supreme Council that the persons listed in the draft rulings be released from the judges' offices in accordance with the application of the High Council of Justice: the local Netishin City Court of the Hmelnick district of Svered Igor Stepanović; the military local court of Dnipropetrov's garrison of Kulikov Andrija Volodymirovich; the local court of the Poltava district of Stafel Tetjan Volodymyrna; The local court-martial of Kyiv Shkurata Anatolia Mikolaiovich. Dear colleagues, please support the unanimous decision of the Justice Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u259	Comrades, are there any objections to this decision? No, colleagues, no objections? Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u260	I didn't see it. I'm sorry. Stop, stop the voting. Baburin, please have a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u261	Even in court, Baburin, a faction of communists, even in court, give the final word. If one of the judges is present, well, we've got the papers, all right. Maybe there's anything to say, if there's nothing to say, then we vote. If there are those who are present, those who are deprived of it must be heard. Well, we're taking such a formal approach.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u262	Please, who wants a word? What's your name? Tetjan Volodymyrna's staff. Please. There's no objection in the hall to take the floor? [[B in m in s a l in]] . No problem. I'll put it to a vote on the question of award. The Rules provide that we have the right to question the judge, and the judge has no right to speak. Therefore, according to the Rules, if you vote in favour of a decision to give a word, we will give it the right word. Please vote. [[14:07:23]] For-14. The decision is not taken. Please sit down. Dear colleagues, I'm voting on the draft Decree No. 2529 on the release of judges as a basis. [[14:07:50]] For 383. Decision taken. Now in general. [[14:08:08]] For 382. Decision taken. Yuri Anatolyevich, do you have everything?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u263	All of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-22-m0.u264	Dear colleagues, dear Julia Volodymyrovna Novikova, she has criticized me, so if you have accepted this as members of the committee as national deputies of Ukraine, I have no doubt that we have all the national MPs who are honest. And there's all kinds of secretarials down there, you know, that's who's walking. So if you'll excuse me, Julia Volodymyrically. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed.
