ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u1	Everybody loves the morning, dear colleagues. I'm asking you to register. [[10:03:42]] There were 447 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear friends, we have a birthday at Shishkina Zoe Leonidivena today. Let's say hello to Zia Leonidivna. [[Applause]] And Alexander Vasilovich Burjak also has a birthday. Let's welcome him. [[Applause]] In accordance with the Rules, I am announcing the requests of Ukrainian national deputies, and then we will move on to the consideration of issues and the formation of the agenda in general, because it is not agreed on today. But I offered the one we discussed yesterday. First. Requested by the Ukrainian National Deputies: Igora Kaletnik to the President of Ukraine regarding the non-closure and funding of the Trieste School of Public Education and the Honorov Hospital of the district of Yampil, which required 600 residents. People's questions, too. Deputy Leonid Grac to the President of Ukraine on the catastrophic situation that took place in the “Dolosses” sanatorium of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. An inquiry by Anatolia Seminoga to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concerning the illegal decision by judges of all levels in the case of privatization of the children's establishment number 183 on Pushkinska Street, 33-A in Kiev. Victor of Sweden to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the socio-economic situation in the city of Morshin Lviv district of Vladimir Lithuania to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the dissatisfaction with the content of the reply to the parliamentary appeal regarding the possibility of the release of the open shareholding company “Radsad” of the Mikolaiwi region from the return of the state loan allocated to eliminate the consequences of the natural disaster. Dmitra Špenov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine, on the improper consideration of the parliamentary appeal regarding violations of the legislation on drug use by Arselor-Mithal, the Curious Rig for the use of the Valjekowski birthplace of the Dnipropetrov region. Igora Sharov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the prevention of violations in the environment of young people based on national or racial intolerance and the adoption of a state-wide programme of patriotic and secular education for young people. Igora Sharov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the abolition in 2008 of the mandatory nature of the external independent evaluation of graduates of the general secondary education system who have shown a desire to enter higher education institutions. Mikoli Derkac to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on a situation that occurred not to the state-owned enterprise “East Mining Coal Coal” in the city of Yellow Waters of the Dnipropetrovsk region. Mikola Soloshenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the inclusion of high-pressure underground gas pipelines in the village of Priyt Magdalinj district of Dnipropetrovsk in the 2008 list of objects financed by subsidies from the state budget of Ukraine by the local gas pipeline budget and the gasification of the population. Mikoli Shershun to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Minister of Fuel and Energy of Ukraine, the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine, the child company Ukrattransgas, the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine, on the fact that illegal restrictions on the availability of open shareholding companies, which threaten the region with ecological catastrophe and severe social consequences. Mikoli Shershuna to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine on the implementation of measures to overcome unemployment in Ukraine and in the Ternopil region in particular. Sergei Gordienka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the problem of financing an individual housing support programme in the village of Own House. The Group of Greenewecko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the protection of the constitutional rights of residents of prominent residences and hostels. Sergey Tereshuka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the disposal of non-toxic poisons in the area of the Spolyan region of the Cherka region. Jury Karmazin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the improper reaction to the parliamentary appeal by the head of the Mikolai District Administration, Alexia Garkusha, to his official duties, the failure to execute judicial decisions, the gross violations of land legislation, the constitutional rights of the people of Mikolayevska to property and entrepreneurial activities, as well as the need to establish a working commission with the participation of representatives of the relevant ministries and authorities, the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, other law enforcement authorities with a view to verifying the facts of gross violations of the Constitution of Ukraine by the head of the Nikolai Ombudsman and introducing the President's name for the discharge of Alexia Garkushi of occupied office. Jury Karmazin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the improper response to the parliamentary appeal to the authorities of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine to verify the failure of the Ukrainian Ministry of Labour and Social Policy to carry out the "On the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster" report on the failure of Anatoly Fedorenko to testify to the consequences of the accident at CHAES, the use of measures to issue the latest certificate and to bring the guilty to justice. Victor Oliynik to the Minister of Environmental Protection of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Kyiv City Head in connection with the non-destruction of the natural-ordered zone of the Old Oak Tree, located between the buildings on Borstagowska Street, 139 and Dashawska, 12 in Kiev. Vladimir Lithuania to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine regarding the dissatisfaction with the response of the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine to the parliamentary appeal for the provision of funds for the gasification of the village of Ivanovka in the region of Sarnen in the preparation of legislative proposals for amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2008 and amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. Eugene Goodyak to the Minister of Defense of Ukraine on the rightfulness of the storage of special machinery, such as NG, designed to ensure the use of engineering nuclear mines. Eugenia Suslova to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine regarding the lack of response by the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine to the request of the National Deputy of Ukraine regarding the illegal actions of the Kyiv district administration of the State Automobile Inspection and the misrepresentation of facts in response to Colonel Alexander Tkachenka's official promotion. Igora Kaletnik to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine on the availability of information on land affairs and the unlawful acquisition of ownership of land by Bit-Invest enterprises, Investbudsperson, Earthmresurs and Development Technology. Mikoli Derkac to the Minister of Agricultural Policy of Ukraine on the conflict situation that took place at the state-owned Dnipropetrovska horse factory No. 65 in the Dnipropetrovsk district. Mikoli Kulczynski to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine on the answer not in essence to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine to the request of deputies, trade unions, the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine and citizens for the calculation of earnings and the calculation of pensions for scientific workers. Michael of Orphans to the Minister of Health of Ukraine for the violation of the duties of the Director of the Ukrainian Scientific and Scientific Research Institute of Mečnikov Sergeym Late Article 16 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine in the absence of a reply to a parliamentary appeal since 19 March of this year. Sergey Grynevetsky to the Head of Government of the Pension Fund of Ukraine on the rightfulness of the recalculation of the disability pension of the war and the Peter Fomin group. Jury Crook to the Minister of Environmental Protection of Ukraine on the development of rules for the protection of inland sea waters and the territorial sea against pollution and pollution. Jury Crook to the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, acting as head of the Ukrainian Security Service, to prevent an assassination of a Ukrainian citizen. Vassil Wooden to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the improper examination by the prosecution authorities of the facts presented in the parliamentary appeals. Vladimir Sovkovic to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the criminal offence against officials of the Borispolska District State Administration, who contributed to the looting of the forest fund within the framework of the Grand Alexander Rural Council through the falsification of documents and the incentive of rural council deputies to make an illegal decision. Vladimir Sovkovic to the Attorney General of Ukraine for a criminal offence against the head of the Regional Regional Authority of the Kyiv Region of Paul Glavatti for creating artificial obstacles to the parliamentary activities aimed at halting the illegal decommissioning of land. Vladimir Yavorowski to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the reason for the delay in investigating the prosecution of Sevastopol's murder by members of the militia of a member of the Ukrainian National Writer's Association, the winner of the Lviv Tolstoy Award for Doctor Alexander Volkova, which was carried out in March 2006. Gennady Zadirk to the Attorney General regarding the failure to provide, in substance and within the time-limits provided for by legislation, the Prosecutor of the Lugansk Region and the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine, a reply to parliamentary appeals about the criminal actions of officials of the credit union by the Financial Company Capital Services. Alexander Donya told the Attorney-General of Ukraine about the inappropriate consideration of parliamentary appeals regarding the ignorance by the Attorney-General of Ukraine of a criminal offence committed by journalist Vladimir Boyk concerning the prosecutor of Kiev Eugene Plazhievsky. Roman Zabzaluk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures in connection with the service negligence of the Mikolai district prosecutor’s block when considering a parliamentary appeal. Andrija Pavlovski to the Kiev city head on the inaction of the Kiev City State Administration to set up vehicles to reduce the speed of traffic near Kiev’s schools. Andrija Pavlovsky to the Kiev City Head on the inactivity of the Kyiv City State Administration in eliminating the disaster situation of the construction of the public secondary school number 55, Kyiv’s Sanhedrin district. Vladimir Sovkovic to the Attorney General of Ukraine for a criminal offence against the head of the Regional Regional Administration of the Kyiv Region of Paul’s Government for creating artificial obstacles to the MP’s activities aimed at halting the illegal extradition of land. Vladimir Yavorowski to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the reason for the delay in investigating the prosecution of Sevastopol’s murder by members of the militia of the National Association of Writers of Ukraine, the award winner of the Tolstoy Award, Dr. Alexander Volkova. Vladimir Olijnik to Kiev City Head, Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine, Prosecutor of Kiev City for the violation of the property rights of the Kiev City Car Association at: Avenue of Akademyka Głushkova, 5 in Kiev. Vladimir Yavorowski to the head of the Kiev City Council for a formal letter to the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Culture and Spirituality about the inadmissibility of terminating the lease agreement with the Kirovograd Regional Association for the Protection of Monuments of History and Culture. Dear colleagues! All requests are read in accordance with the regulations for requests addressed to the Ukrainian National Deputies under the name of the President of Ukraine are subject to the adoption of the session hall, meaning that I am voting in favour of Igor Kaletnik's request to the President of Ukraine regarding the non-closure and funding of the Tristan School of Public Education and the Hanorov Hospital of the Yampil Region of Winnitsky. Attention, I'm asking for your support. Vote. [[10:15:28]] For 260 Decision taken. I now put to the vote the question of asking the President of Ukraine accordingly. Please vote. [[10:15:52]] For 278 Decision taken. Request sent. By similar procedure, I am putting to the vote in favour of the request Leonid Grač's request to the President of Ukraine for a catastrophic situation in the “Dolosses” sanatorium of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Please vote. [[10:16:20]] For 276 Request supported. I now put to the vote the question of asking the President of Ukraine accordingly. [[10:16:40]] For 282 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, yesterday we had a situation where there was actually to be an order of the day. Attention, comrades! In which the order of the day was to be formed. In fact, it was an attempt to block the rostrum, but we avoided it only because we closed the plenary session of the Supreme Council. I would like to return to the agenda and discuss the matter. I held political consultations this morning, and it would seem appropriate for each of the faction leaders to once again announce their position on what order of the day they see today, so that we do not resort to physical opposition at the parliamentary rostrum. I'm stressing Bill 2233 -- this is a bill for the introduction of a moratorium, I don't think it's marketable, and I would therefore ask that we discuss the draft bill today. I suggest that the faction leaders speak. I'm asking you to sign up for the faction leaders. Alexander Lavrinovich. Who will act? Alexander Efraemov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u2	Dear Arsenius Petrovich! Dear colleagues! Unfortunately, negative developments in our State are happening faster than we would like to. You know, and almost all the people's deputies are informed about the processes that are taking place today in national banks and in the banking system at all. Two days ago, the bank's management decided to change the currency corridor and increase the lending rate to 12 per cent. This has caused a rather violent reaction to people, and I would like to remind myself that some $100 billion is in the deposits that our people have in our State's banking system, and I would like to remind you that even in our country's monetary equivalent, people are keeping a much smaller amount, plus that's what's causing a major blow to our producers who are delivering products to exports, and this is almost all of our State's fiscal enterprises, and given that yesterday the National Bank's Board has decided to cancel this decision, but it has not been cancelled. We do not understand what is happening in our banking system, we do not understand how much the Government approves or does not approve of these actions of the National Bank, and this must be a interrelated work. We therefore insist that the head of the National Bank be invited to the Hall today and inform what is happening there, as well as the Government, which would express its views on the matter. Plus, I would like to remind myself that we agreed with you on Monday on the Conciliation Council that at the end of the week we will consider withdrawing the powers of deputies who continue to associate two posts for two months. We therefore hope, Arsenius Petrovich, that you will live up to your promises and that this issue will be put on the agenda today and that we will end this disgraceful phenomenon for Parliament when we do not comply with the decisions we are making ourselves. With regard to the draft laws under consideration in terms of privatization, the faction of the Party of the Regions insists that Bill 2233 be initially considered. The programme was followed by a draft law on the privatization programme. Further, if this is considered in this manner, we have no reason to oppose the consideration of personnel issues to be addressed by the coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u3	Sergei Greenewecki. Will Vladimir Litwin be from the site or from the rostrum? Vladimir Litwin from the scene.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, this is indeed a disqualification in Ukraine, because there is juggling in the financial and banking sphere. It is quite obvious that these political games with a bracelet course were the first to strike at the least protected levels of the population. There is a black - day washout of people’s meager savings. So we support the proposal to listen today to information about what's going on in this area and that it gives an average citizen, and I'm not talking about the companies that are doing export operations anymore. And one more thing. Arsenius Petrovich, where are the laws that were on the agenda for this week and related to the social sphere? Why do you forget about them with the coalition, violating the Rules, which issues that were not considered on the previous plenary day are discussed the following day. When this juggling stops, it's part of the bill of salary. We're talking about anti-inflationary measures. Why don't you want to look at these bills? And one more thing. In this connection, I would like to ask the faction, on behalf of the faction, to stop a variety of expressions, such as “balakanin”, such as “know who”, “whom”, “whom” there, “the bags are carried” and so on. If you know this, you have to tell the Supreme Council publicly and give it to the people who do this. Why ruin the final level of trust, which is still at the minimum, for the Supreme Council of Ukraine? I am convinced that this itchy variety of expressions and comments, which only suppress passions, should be stopped. Therefore, we also suggest that we inform whether there is a Constitutional Court decision on the unconstitutionality of the budget, which has been adopted, I recall, 29. December 28, 2007, and what social laws have been halted. If that is the case, we need to consider the matter immediately and make budget changes first. Everything else is political talk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u5	Viacheslav Kirilenko, from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u6	Viacheslav Kirilenko, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense". Dear colleagues! Dear voters! Our faction, in general, is against blocking the rostrum by whoever they are. We were against blocking the rostrum when the regions were blocking the rostrum in connection with NATO, we were against BUIT blocking the President's message, we don't think that yesterday's steps in the area of blocking the rostrum will contribute to better privatization and overcoming inflation in the country. We are set up to work peacefully and effectively for the country. That is what people who have long grown tired of politics and political opposition expect of us, so today we have absolutely concrete proposals. We are supporters of speeding up the amendments to the 2008 Budget Act to Parliament. At the same time, we see that the government, as the beginning of this process, passed a bill that we considered yesterday: changes to certain laws -- and which I hope we will conclude with consideration today. Our faction, given that all the professional proposals of our deputies are taken into account, will vote on this bill today. At the same time, this does not remove the problem of the absence of a government bill in Parliament to amend the 2008 budget. We hope that the government will introduce this bill for the next plenary week to be considered by the people's deputies, because in this project we will be able to see which macro-indicators are being reviewed, how the income will be filled and government expenditure will be spent, and how the government's economic bloc has responded to threatening inflation processes. It's about privatization. We're not in favor of a moratorium on privatization. We are proponents of the State Long-Term Privatization Program, so that there is no sale in the country, and there is an effective owner in the country, an effective investor who does not observe the discussions of officials on the subject, who is the head of the holding fund, and who would go to a country where, he is confident, he will be economically stable. That is the kind of privatization that the country needs. Talks and falsifications about privatization are unnecessary, so before any decisions are made, it is necessary to adopt the State Privatisation Programme. And we're going to vote for her today. And in general, it's economics, not politics. And the government should be putting economic bills into the medium term, because at a rate like this, we can get all of them together: both coalition and opposition -- terrible results in the economy. So we need to correct politics here, and we're ready to help.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u7	Valerius Beales. Who's from the faction? Adam Martinyuk, from the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u8	Dear colleagues, it's good that we're encouraged to talk about the economy and talk less about politics and I thought, and I think to each of you that, given that the beginning of the world is people who have a direct bearing on the economy: accountants, economists -- people who know and know how to count money and very strangely, it looks very strange what's being created in the state today, what affects the interests of the average citizen we care about, especially the high-ranking people who come out of this rostrum. Remember 2005, remember 2008. And when's the third coming with this course? A currency exchange rate, which the National Bank is constantly robbing at the request of the Cabinet of Ministers. Because it doesn't sound strange that this is about the dollar rate, but it's clear to each of us that a lot and a lot of people and the poorest types of the population of their time were picking up those dollars for their old age, raising them to provide it. And our government, together with the National Bank every time Timoshenko comes, gives such gifts. Then let's go. The losses are from 4.5 up to, more faithfully from 5.5 to 5, today for almost 50 copies, tomorrow will be even more. So we're going to support the demands of our colleagues in the Party of the Regions that today we need to listen to the information that's being generated in this area. Secondly, the issue of privatization, I regret very much that the political forces, whose honourable head is the President, do not read the President's letter. They had no opportunity to listen to him, for their colleagues had ruined the letter. But it is worth reading and paying attention to what the President says in this message about privatization problems. He speaks an open text if we translate into a clear language that you and I have reached a pen that is only 21 percent of government property left in state ownership. What else is there to sell? Remember those, I see here John Stepanovich, he sat in this room in Soviet times, and then from this rostrum they talked about what to build, how much to give to build a "Creebrisstal" to bring in new pets. What are we talking about today? How to sell what we once built, not just sell it, but give it to someone for nothing. Therefore, the requirement of the Communist faction remains consistent, just as we agreed on the Conciliation Council. First, consider, in accordance with the Rules, the bills in the order in which they were introduced: a moratorium on privatization. What's more, the moratorium on privatization.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u9	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u10	Dear colleagues, what's more, I'd like to, especially for those who listen to us, we're not saying that the moratorium on privatization for all eternity, even though it would be worth it. In this bill, we propose to impose a moratorium on privatization before the approval of the State Privatization Program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u11	Ivan Kirilenko, Timoshenko's Yulia Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u12	Dear Head, dear colleagues! We have listened carefully to the suggestions of our colleagues at the hall, and we want to say this: Dear Arsenius Petrovich, we support the first consideration of question 2481. Yesterday there was a decision by the Constitutional Court, we didn't read it, but we know for a fact that the decision is negative for the budget of Ukraine, it's affecting the profit side of the budget, and it's 150 billion dollars of revenue coming into the budget. This will destroy our entire financial system. Therefore, we need to consider 2481 without delay and maintain it in an orderly manner in order to resolve the problem. Next, we do not support the inclusion of a daily moratorium on privatization. During the 17th year of independence, we'll probably look at least unserious in the eyes of the world's society. In fact, this is the international image and authority of Ukraine. On the contrary, we propose today to consider and adopt a national privatization programme, and now to address the parallel and personnel issues with the State Property Fund. And then I go to all of our colleagues who insist on reviewing the changes to the budget: only then will we really be able to work with the government. There's a working group on the budget committee, working on budget changes, when we know clearly that coming from the privatization of 9 billion is still a chance for this year. The next question is the National Bank. The question is raised by the majority in the room. I'd like to make an official statement. Our faction clearly disagrees with the National Bank's policy on courses of action. Dear colleagues, no attitude, I give you an answer, the government has no policy of the National Bank. Read the National Bank Act, read the Banking and Banking Act, the Cabinet of Ministers Act – the government has no relation. Therefore, we support the National Bank’s report on this matter. When that happens, let's figure it out. But you have to listen. We know that the course is bound to return to its former meaning, but someone will certainly earn money in this speculation. And this requires a special investigation, perhaps by a special parliamentary commission. Next question. Arsenia Petrovich, ready for second reading, Customs tariff, for re-reading. Today, too, it could be put into the order of the day, considered. There are reconciled positions with the Ministry of Economics and with the majority in the room, and this law could be passed. Next. The cancellation of parliamentary powers, which is not the first time in the room and on the conciliatory board, is supported. But I'm going to the profile committee, Alexandre Sergiyovich, as we agreed, without exception. No exceptions. You know who they're talking about. Then we will fully support it. Then we're honest, then we're honest. No exceptions. There shouldn't be any. And one more thing, Arsenia Petrovich. Resonant law for our army 2339 — support. Please put it in the order of the day and look at it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u13	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u14	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, 2339, the bill that defines the financing of our army, our army, is an extremely resonant law. It is considered by the Budget Committee and can be considered in the Hall today and supported. This is the order of the day, which supports the faction, which is business and necessary for the state. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u15	Dear colleagues, general. There is a requirement of three factions for the consideration of privatization bills, taking into account Law 2233, which is a moratorium on privatization. I'm going to be honest, and it seems that if we vote on this law, it can still be voted on. And this law has little to do with the market methods of government in the state. In doing so, this law was incorporated into the order of the day, that is, in order for this law not to be considered on legal grounds, I have to ask the question to exclude this law and to close it, to exclude it from the order of the day. The other one. With regard to the termination of the powers of the national deputies. I gave my word, and today this word will be fulfilled, in the order of the day there will be an end to the powers of the national deputies and the left and right. And it's all right in the daytime, if you look at it, that's the question. Third, I can't help but say. I had a conversation with the Prime Minister yesterday. The Prime Minister insists, in addition to the issue of the release of the Head of the Fund of Holding and the question of the appointment of the Head of the Fund of State Property. I ask the coalition to decide on this issue. Four. As far as Bill 2481 is concerned, it is a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation. It's not a political project, it's an economic project, so I'm asking that there be no resistance now, that the finance minister should be able to re-read it again, that he should inform the Constitutional Court if he knows the situation, and that he should extend the government's hand as far as possible in the matter of the consideration and passage of the bill 2481. After that, I would like to ask the people's deputies, a bill that has not been said for the first month, is a bill introduced by Volodymyr Litwin, a bill for the hourly payment of work, how to make a gesture, consider it as a reduced procedure, and go through the first reading. And the question about the National Bank. This question has become virtually all factions, except for the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense." The point is that factions require hearing the head of the National Bank as the person to be appointed. And the government? Well, there is a government. As a person appointed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. That is, according to the law, Parliament can make such a decision and we can listen to the head of the National Bank. Yesterday I was a member of the National Bank Board at the National Bank Board meeting and voted in favour of the procrastination veto for the appropriate decision. The only thing I have to ask our national MPs, my colleagues all, is not to involve the central bank in any political agenda, so it's strictly an economic discussion, because the National Bank is one of the last pillars of stability. I understand that today's attitude towards exchange policy is quite different and that the National Bank's action on this issue is quite different, but the National Bank by law is an independent body. As a parliament, we can hear it, but the National Bank Act clearly defines the legal status of this institution - an independent body. The Board of the National Bank, by the way, which part is assigned to this session hall. Perhaps this question is raised and can also express a position. So, colleagues, I'm going to put a few questions to the vote. Once again, I insist that 2233, sorry, be voted down and removed from the agenda. I am voting for the withdrawal of Bill No 2233 on the State Privatisation Programme. Dear colleagues, we are voting for the withdrawal from the agenda. [[10:38:40]] For 219. The decision is not taken. Colleagues, now look at the faction situation. I'm talking to the coalition first. Dear national MPs, attention, there is no reason to take him out of the daytime. That's all: violations and procedures and regulations. If we now raise a question in this format, in which it is proposed, make a decision by the coalition so that the Law on the Moratorium does not pass, and then there will be no need for privatization, nothing will be needed. The second question is about the National Bank and the government. I am voting on the question of the invitation of the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine and the members of the Cabinet of Ministers, and the government to implement the foundations of Ukraine's monetary and monetary policy in the current year. [[Let's figure this out.]] Please vote. [[10:40:04]] For 382 With this amount of support, in negative 382, I think there will be a "hot time". I ask the Supreme Council apparatus to inform the Head of the National Bank and the Cabinet of Ministers about the decision taken by the Ukrainian Parliament and the preparation of the relevant procedure for consideration. Now Bill 2339. Was he all right in the daytime? We don't vote 2339, do we? Please find out if the apparatus is in order on the day 2339. If there is, we will vote after 2481. You don't? Give me the title of the bill, and we will now vote for inclusion in the agenda. The next question is how to deal with the issue of hourly pay. Is there no objection? It's included in the agenda, colleagues, it's for us to consider in a simplified procedure. One hour's pay. Now let me tell you the number. Now, Sergey. Litwin, Volodymyr Litwin. No objections, colleagues? [[B in m in s a l in]] Two? Then there is no objection to the reduced procedure. I'm asking for two bills, introduced by Volodymyr Litwin, to be paid, to vote on a reduced procedure. Is there no objection? I would like to put the question to the vote on the draft laws of Vladimir Litvin under a reduced procedure. [[10:41:45.]] For 314 Decision taken. Now, colleagues, today we only have work until the second hour of the day. I was just informed by Sergei Terjohin that a meeting of the Customs Committee had ended. There's a request from the government. I'll be right there, colleagues, half a second. Refusal to place a customs tariff at the end of the day instead of the hour of the “Variable” is or is it not? Can I bet? It's on, colleagues. The customs tariff is the second reading, and I would like to emphasize that it's not voting, and the second reading in the machine is putting it. If we come, then I'll bet at the end of the day. Colleagues, day-to-day arrangements. The coalition will be determined by the privatisation vote. Please identify yourself and let me know your decision. I'm announcing 2481. The apparatus, prepare immediately the order of the day, which has just been voted. Please, Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik, on the rostrum. It will be. We'll make it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u16	Dear Arsenia Petrovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u17	Victor Mikhailovich, I'm sorry, I'm going to break through the 2339 bill, I missed it. It is possible to vote 2339 for inclusion in the agenda. Then the bill will be passed, then we'll vote. Okay. Please, Victor Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u18	Dear Arsenia Petrovich! Dear National Deputies! Yesterday, the government, together with the budget committee, held a meeting to discuss a draft law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts, dealt with proposals submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputies and proposals that came from factions and adopted, prepared, harmonized draft decision submitted by the National Deputies to the Committee on Budgets. I'd like to comment, we've supported these proposals and agreed on them, this is a common position between the government and the budget committee. I'd like to take a look at the key points in the draft regulation that you've been given. The draft decree provides for the adoption of the draft law in a re-first reading on the basis and in general, taking into account the following fundamental changes. This is about clarifying the preamble on the direction of use of funds, removing the rule, since it is regulated by the budget code. The language goes on, clarifying damages in the event of the early termination of the lease due to the failure of the renters to perform their duties, determining the exact location of the sale of land in particular, for those who are not subject to the sale of leased land, whose lease has not expired, or on which the construction of housing and, or non-residential, facilities has been started, or a project has been launched to find work for the construction of such buildings. Questions have been settled regarding the alienation by the renter of the land of state and municipal property. Inserting some editorial details in paragraph 7.4.2. Next. The exact position of the transaction with the donor raw material. One is editorial refinement, one is substantive refinement. The government accepted that clarification. The updated article on sources of formation is ecological and dirty, and the government has supported it. Positions are being clarified regarding the production of land-use documentation for the disposal of auctioned land. Excluding standards for organs that deal with the earth because there was duplication of standards. The precise position regarding the starting price at which the land of non-agricultural destination is placed is auctioned. The point is that the starting price should be equal to the standard monetary valuation. The Earth Code excludes one norm in the “Transitional Positions” because it duplicates another norm. So there were two identical standards in the Transitional Positions. One of them is being removed. In the section “Final Positions”, this is paragraph 8 of the first paragraph of the regulation - the law on lease payments for oil and natural gas and gas condensate has been clarified. We agreed with the proposal to suspend the law by January 1, 2010. And the positions under sub-paragraph 1 of paragraph 3 are specified. In addition, the draft paragraphs which reflect the standards of paragraphs 6 and 7, paragraph 19 of section 2 of the Ukrainian Law on State Budget 2008 and amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine are complemented by the following: “This law takes effect since the loss of the provisions of section 2 of the Ukrainian Act on Ukraine’s 2008 State Budget and amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine”. The only request from the government to edit this paragraph after the words “loss of validity” to add the word “appropriate” – the corresponding provisions. With regard to some of Ukraine's legislative amendments to this bill, paragraph 45 is proposed to be moved to the “Ending Position” section. The government supports this position. And the second paragraph of the decree provides for the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, together with the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues, to make legislative and technical clarifications for the submission of a law to be signed by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. There is a request that special attention be given to the rule that applies to the acquisition of validity, in order to synchronize the time when the valid rules of the State Budget Act are terminated and to amend certain other laws of Ukraine with the rules that we now put into effect by this decision, this draft decision of the Supreme Council, i.e. the idea that there is no time gap in the operation of old norms and new rules relating to taxation issues. These proposals are agreed upon, and the committee supported this project. The request is a hall, members of the Supreme Council to accept as a basis the proposed bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u19	I'm asking you to sign up for a question-answer. Mikhailo Orota.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u20	It is proposed to amend the Earth Code, article 116, where the acquisition of ownership by citizens of land is determined by article 128, and it determines the order of sale of land and thus the peasants, who have 50, there are 60 hundred lands that refer to agricultural land, will not be able to privatise this land now, and I would propose to exclude the word “citizens” from article 116 of the Earth Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u21	Dear Mikhaylo Dmitrovic, I'm afraid I didn't hear the first part of your question. You didn't hear any questions. I'd like to say it again.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u22	Repeat, please. Turn on the Oroty microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u23	Excuse me, please. You propose to amend article 116 of the Code of Land, where the acquisition of ownership by citizens and legal persons on earth is defined in the first article of this Code. But article 128 defines how to sell land. Thus, peasants, who have 50 to 60 hundred lands where their gardens stand, are deprived of the right to privatize this land. Therefore, there is a proposal to exclude the word “citizens” from article 116. Let legal persons really buy land, but citizens who have their own parts so that they can privatize them as predicted today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u24	We didn't touch on the draft changes that we're making, we didn't touch the standard. I'd like to propose that we work out this rule in the preparation of the following changes, and in the mandate of the Supreme Council, we're tasked with the government to process Michael Dmitriwich's proposal for possible change. But we haven't changed this norm compared to a valid norm.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u25	Kravchenko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u26	Cowchenko, the Communist faction. Victor Mikhailovich, one question, specific. Answer when will the law that was required by the Cabinet of Ministers within 10 days of 28. Within 10 days, Kabmin made a separate obligation to file a bill on the standards of remuneration for nadra? And the second question. Do you have in Kabmin, or in Minfin, the method of calculating these rules, which, well, we'll say, are absurd, written in this document: in the Budget? Please tell me, can there be a 25-fold increase in the standard? On what basis? I've approached you three times, and three times your experts have given me an answer that I'm ashamed to just listen to. So, do you have a methodology for calculating standards? And when's the nadra law?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u27	The budget provides for two parts. The first part is budget revenue, the second part is expenditure. It is not possible to allocate expenses if there is a problem with income. You know about this problem, I was talking about it yesterday. And the adoption of this law allows the problem of budget income to be settled. I would like to stress once again that the adoption of these changes opens up the possibility for the government to talk about the distribution of expenditure. Because this has a direct bearing, because I don't want to go back to yesterday's conversation, because unfortunately, there's a problem with what's going on in terms of the income part of the budget and in very large amounts. As far as the question of methodology is concerned, this is a question of the competence of the Ministry of Economics, but I would like to point out that, unfortunately, there is no accounting for the cost of production in Ukraine so far. And only for the first time is now the government's task to restore this report, because it is very important for the government to be able to make decisions on many issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u28	Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u29	I'd like to give the floor to Deputy Bebazenko, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u30	Bevanko's colleague, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u31	Valerius Bevanko, Party of Regions. Mr. Pinzenik, please answer the question. Yesterday a group of deputies from all factions were presented with a final position on the Earth Code, which restores the rights of those citizens and individuals who had decisions appropriate to land before January 1st so that they could receive the land without auctions. Why did you reject these positions? Why are you violating the constitutional rights of our citizens? Why do they have to walk in the courts, in the offices, and defend their rights? Answer me, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u32	Obviously, this question of yours echoes the question that Mikhail Dmitrovitch raised, but I would like to remind you of the incidents that have already occurred in the press and probably here in the Supreme Council Hall when hundreds of pensioners, students and so on form the land immediately with a referral to others. In fact, it is a channel through which the land is privatized free of charge. And so I would ask that we look at this issue separately, and now we don't introduce a norm that opens the way for a shadowy redistribution of the earth.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u33	Ruslan Knazevich. Pavlov Zebricki, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u34	Victor Mikhailovich, well, we actually had some points of agreement. I propose to remove paragraph 14 from the bill, except paragraph 2, and paragraphs 15 and 16. In addition, the decision to delete in paragraph 8 paragraph: “If the value of the adjustment coefficient applied to the interest rates for oil and gas condensate produced in Ukraine is less than one, the adjustment coefficient shall be applied with the value of the unit”. So this paragraph deletes, and deletes, as I said, paragraph 14, except paragraph 2, and paragraphs 15 and 16. And another, Victor Mikhailovich, here, in principle, agreed that water differentiation would reduce the underground and the surface. On the ground there are 3.5 bracelets, because we have increased 80 times, and on the surface there are 3 bracelets. I'd like to take that into account in our determination.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u35	Dear Paul Ivanovich, we had a lengthy discussion on the point you made in the first part. We have consulted on this item and are ready to support the deletion of Bill 2481, paragraph 14, except for sub-paragraph 2, and paragraphs 15 and 16. In addition, given the fact that there is, unfortunately, no risk of oil falling below $100 per barrel, we also support the elimination of the unit correction factor. As far as water is concerned. That proposal, which was discussed yesterday on the budget committee, was something different from what you just formulated. We are ready to consider this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u36	Alexi Plotnikov. Klukkowski. Yuri Klukkowski. Ah, turn on Pletnik's microphone again. Why is the microphone not on?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u37	Oh, there is. Finally. Two very simple questions. First question. Yet what level of inflation do you predict at the end of the year, you didn't answer that yesterday? And the second. How, in your view, will the revaluation of bracelets affect inflationary processes?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u38	First of all, the issue of inflation forecasts concerns the Ministry of Economics. We're worried about this problem, but what I want to point out is that right now, in May, we're expecting serious inflation slowing down trends. We can see that in the first decade, especially in the second decade. So the country is able to deal with this problem. The only question to be the subject of professional discussion is, not, at times, unfortunately, the things that provoke inflationary expectations. As far as the bracelet course is concerned, I understand that there was no revaluation, no devaluation. It's just that the National Bank has confirmed what the market is showing. Because having two courses leads to what is practically one course in the market and one course in the official course. And by the way, from the point of view of taxation, there are serious commissions that sell. Sorry, exporters sell at 4.7 - 4.6, and they count their profit at the official rate of 5.05. There's a tax base that's because it doesn't fit each other's rates.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u39	Thank you, Victor Mikhailovich. Please sit down. It's Mikola Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u40	Dear Arsenia Petrovich, distinguished national deputies! In accordance with the adopted decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 22 May 2008, the Committee on Budget Affairs, with the participation of authorized representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, revised the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine, submitted by the Government at number 2481, to be considered in a re-first reading. In the drafting of the bill, the proposal is taken into account by legislators who have made their proposals and who are in agreement with the Ministry of Finance. Honourable National Deputies, since the Supreme Council of Ukraine was commissioned yesterday to prepare a draft bill for review in a re-first reading, the draft text was drafted in the form of a decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine registered for No.2481/P1. On the basis of the consideration of this issue, the Committee on Budget Issues, at its meeting on 22 May 2008, adopted a decision-recommendation to the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the draft Act on the amendment of certain legislative acts of Ukraine, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for No.2481, on the basis of a review of the first reading, and in general as a law taking account of the proposed changes in accordance with the draft Decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the adoption of the draft Ukrainian Law on the amendment of certain legislative acts of Ukraine, which is given to you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u41	Question-answer, please. I was a woman. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u42	Valerius Bevanko, Party of Regions. Please tell us why not the comments made yesterday by a group of national deputies regarding article 126, where the draft law legitimizes the corruption scheme, when the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine will personally identify investors who will receive land without auctions. That's the first one. And the second. The bill narrows down the rights of local governments because the government will personally receive the monopoly right to sell all the land, including forestry, agriculture, and other land. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u43	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we discussed these issues with you yesterday and they were put to the vote on the committee. However, your proposals have not been made, so please excuse me, we will continue to work with the government to take them into account in the preparation of subsequent changes. I'm short on everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u44	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u45	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". I will support your project, Your Honor Mikola Ivanovich, but I would also like to make changes and clarify further what to do with the situation that costs selling agricultural land, state and municipal property, and will be a source of funding for preparations for the final Euro-2012. You realize that it's not a limited circle, it's, let's say, it opens up a serious box for selling agricultural land with this source of replenishment. Although I realized that investment costs should be involved and so forth. And the second. I'm afraid we can kill our oil sector where we propose to amend the Nadra Act. I also asked you to note that we are in violation of existing legislation, which we are not amending, there.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u46	Dear colleague! With regard to Euro-2012, when we clarify the budget, we will have the opportunity to do so, or we will put it into the main body from the general or trust funds, and then this rule may fall. I think that, in clarifying the budget, we can go back to this issue and specifically write it out. To date, there is no need to carry out activities to calculate what amounts are still available, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u47	Xenia Leapina.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u48	Dear colleagues! I would like to point out that a group of national deputies posed a very serious question that the electorate asked at each meeting today. What to do with the Transitional Positions when, for example, the first decision of the Rural Council to issue land leases was taken, and suddenly it happened on 01.01.2008 and the legal or physical person is still being auctioned, although the first decisions are already in place and as if there is agreement on the start of the procedure. A group of deputies proposed in section 10 of the Transitional Regulations to make a very clear formulation: “Citizens, or legal persons, who applied for land transfer by 01.01.2008, and the appropriate executive authority or local government has decided to agree on the location of such an object or to grant a development permit to allow leases to be obtained without such land.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u49	Thank you. The question is really complex and it is asked at all meetings, but as we have set out for today, and the government has agreed, it is the best option for today. And let's continue to improve together.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u50	Mikola Kravchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u51	Cowchenko, the Communist faction. Nikolai Ivanovich, last night's draft decree stated that 30 days should be worked out and amended. Today, that provision is not contained in that provision. Does this mean that the Cabinet of Ministers will not change the land-paying rules at all? I repeat the question whether the Cabinet of Ministers, without the method of calculating the substandards, can introduce certain coefficients.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u52	Thank you. Certainly not, and this law is being prepared and introduced, so yesterday they spoke on the committee, but on the committee they did not make it, all of them.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u53	Yuri Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u54	I ask you to give the floor to the National Deputy of Kseniya Lapiniya.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u55	Xenia Leapina.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u56	My colleague, I would ask that you and I either put this formulation to a vote or give a protocol commission to the government to resolve this situation by way of a Cabinet decision, because, as prescribed, honourable fellow MPs, it is stipulated that the government can resolve any situation by way of a Cabinet ruling, but it may or may not settle. We have no guarantee that this is the situation in the “Transitional situations” that will be settled. Let's sort this out, we're legislators.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u57	Thank you. There's a proposal, and, Victor Mikhailovich, I'm asking you to join the conversation. I think it's an assignment.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u58	Victor Mikhailovich, the head of the committee is addressing you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u59	In my view, it would be useful for the Cabinet of Ministers to give it this way. Is it? I support that.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u60	Say it again because Pinzenic didn't hear it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u61	Victor Mikhailovich, I'm asking you to join me in this conversation.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u62	I see. Please have a seat, Mikola Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, I would like to ask that we do not discuss a lot of things, the legal right to speak from the factions of the national MPs, but so quickly that we can proceed to the voting procedure. Please sign up. Eugene Kirilchuk, “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko”. Could you please turn on the microphone from the spot?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u63	Thank you. Kirilchuk, the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. In fact, we discussed in detail yesterday at the Committee on Budget Affairs a number of painful amendments, and there are indeed proposals of business and power that do not apply to this law. It is necessary to make sure that the government has been instructed to make separate laws for the settlement of relations, first of all by land relations and the government has agreed to do so, there are indeed some unregulated situations that regarding ownership rights to land that are already acquired, especially land that has rations. The second question. The right to rent and its ability to sell the transfer and the same where the Committee on Budget Affairs unanimously deprived anyone of their right to rent or sell. Third. Where the discussion was heated with regard to competitions or auctions. The position of the government and the committee yesterday put the issue to a vote remains clear. Just auctions. In order to reduce the potential of corruption schemes and the abuse of the position of officials who organize these competitions, above all in places. With regard to lands that relate to government property. First of all, the lands known to ministries, departments, that is, government institutions have the same rights to go out as market organizers in this regard. This is the kind of issue that requires a separate law regarding the settlement of outstanding issues that apply to the Ukrainian Code of Land. With regard to all the other problems that have arisen here today in this room, I think they are very detailed yesterday on the budget committee and I join the proposal of the Committee on Budgeting Mr. Mikli Ivanovich that in view of the fact that the decision of the Constitutional Court can take place at any time, this bill needs to be adopted today.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u64	Mikola Azarov. From the rostrum, Mikolo Janovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u65	Dear Arsenius Petrovich! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! The faction of the Party of the Regions today considered the issue of Bill 2481. A few comments that I would like to make. Here the Government refers to the Constitutional Court's decision. I would like to refer to the people's deputies who signed a similar application to the Constitutional Court last year. These people's deputies then represented the faction of Yulia Timoshenko, and they hoped that their appeal to the Constitutional Court would put the then Government in a very difficult position. Now, dear friends, you're in the same hole that you dug yourself last year. Now, basically. In fact, the Supreme Council and we, as the opposition, have no more opportunity to give the Government an ultimatum - immediately submit to the Supreme Council the Law on Change to the State Budget for 2008. Under this law. Anatoly Sergeyevich, believe me, I know what I can and cannot do. Under this law, please prepare a package of documents, a package of changes before legislation, which you believe should provide a resource base for the budget, as well as the need to implement the decisions of the Constitutional Court. Otherwise your government will not go anywhere now. Therefore, the faction's decision is clear. Until the Government submits the package, first and foremost, we will not support any amendments to the draft State Budget Act. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u66	Alla Alexandrovska.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u67	Dear colleagues, at a meeting of the budget committee yesterday at the outset, I asked Finance Minister Pinzenik a very simple question. Because it sounded like if we didn't take these changes, the budget would be lost in the income line. Very large amounts were called, further threats were made that pensioners did not receive pensions, people would not receive salaries, there would be no social payments and so on and so forth. In order to understand what was going on, I asked: please, for each article of the Act, which dealt with amendments to the laws of Ukraine, please indicate what money would be lacking in the budget if this article was not voted on in the Chamber. Or, on the contrary, we will vote and what we will get. In response, Viktor Mihajlovich frankly told me: “Alla Alexandrovna, I cannot name such figures, we do not know them.” I would therefore like to say immediately: it is surprising that the Government, which is taking some action, is very serious, global and does not understand the financial implications of this. But I understand their work, on the other hand, because there is one very interesting situation in this law that they do not speak of, and unfortunately no one has said it in this room either. Changes to the Land Code are being made, and Transitional provisions include the following: prior to the adoption of relevant laws on the State Land cadastre and on the land market, no sale of agricultural land is allowed except for national needs. This rule is in force today, and we support it. But the Government of Timoshenko adds an interesting phrase: it is also possible to sell agricultural land if the aim is to finance the preparations for and the final part of the Europe-2012 football championship in Ukraine. How much land will be sold, to whom and how it will be sold, at what price it will be sold, and as much as the Euro requires money, it does not say at all. We should vote with you on this bill, and it has entered into force since its publication, which means tomorrow or today they are in a hurry, and the sale of agricultural land is open. It is the Government of Timoshenko that is revolutionizing land relations. Let's move on. We were scared that the pensioners wouldn't get a pension, and so on. What does this law do? This amends the law, which is called “Congregation for mandatory state pension insurance”. You know that part of the money from the sale of currency, gold and so on goes to the Pension Fund, the Pension Fund. It is amended here that these funds are allocated to the special budget fund, not to the Pension Fund. That means the pensioners won't get the money. What are we supposed to support? That is how we really expose the Pension Fund, and we are really threatening to pay our pensions. I don't want to say, there are still a lot of questions about the zero VAT rate on the agricultural sector and so on and so forth. In short, if the Constitutional Court had abolished these provisions of the budget law, the budget law should be amended and 17 billion were to be allocated to the Government for the purposes of the State and placed in the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u68	Paul Zebravsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u69	My dear colleagues, unfortunately, we work all the time in such a frenzy. And this is probably true of all governments that were not just before that. Because we have a critical situation, and we need to get out of something, and we need to get through some kind of an emergency. I think that's why it's such a quality in many of the laws that we adopt. Clearly, yesterday's decision by the Constitutional Court requires us to adopt this bill as a whole and the faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" will do so. However, we certainly have enough points to make. First and foremost, Victor Mikhailovich would like for the next sessional week, so that Minfin, the government, would introduce a draft amendment to the budget law. No more pulling, no more pulling. Since a sufficiently serious financial base is already in the budget's income, it needs to be allocated, in the amount of time, to social needs and to the dynamization of gross domestic product production in Ukraine. If we don't do that, and we're going to be sitting in a government bag of money that's collecting from the real economy, there's not going to be any benefits from that kind of money. The "Our People's Self-Defense" faction states unequivocally that we will refuse to work next plenary week if Kabmin does not make draft changes to the 2008 Budget Act. This is a principled position, and that is what we insist on. And by the way, about the quality of the product that we adopted yesterday. Clearly, the budget committee is enough. Well, he's not very good at land issues, so there's experts working at the Land Resources Committee. As a result, I would ask our colleagues to prepare urgently for the changes that need to be made to the Law on the Earth. And I'm convinced that, including the budget committee will do everything possible to speed up the resolution of these issues, because in fact, today on municipal property, investment projects have huge problems and land allocation issues to implement this. Moreover, in many cities today, construction has actually been halted. And we understand that without removing the obstacles that there are, further developing the economy of Ukraine will be difficult, and, let's say, will slow down the growth rate of gross domestic product. "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" today supports a bill tabled by the government, and we call upon the entire House, regardless of whether opposition or power, to take care of public interest, to stop being politicians, and in this situation to be government officials. I hope that the entire hall will support the bill today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u70	Mikhailo Orota, out of the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u71	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues! I want to go back to article 116 of the Earth Code. Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenic said that no changes had been made. At the same time, in a comparative table, we see that this article is essentially complemented by the very moment which prohibits today's citizens who have not yet established private property in their territories, privatizing it in accordance with the law. Now they need to buy on equal terms with legal persons in accordance with article 128 of the earthly code. So I'd like to support Victor Mikhailovich, and I'd like to say that article 116 of the Earth Code doesn't change here and remains in its original form, as before the vote on this bill. At the same time, we would like to stress that the adoption or non-admission of this bill essentially does not change anything for the economy of the State. And today we still need to move on to the issues of change in the 2008 State Budget and address in this law all of these issues that we are going to discuss today. Otherwise we will not avoid both haste and some politicization of this process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u72	Volenec.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u73	I pass the word Kravchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u74	Please, Kravchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u75	Dear colleagues, we've been talking to you for two days about the second part of the budget, the cost. We must also think today about what the income part of the budget is. I accidentally asked Pinzenik, Mr. Pinzenik, twice about the Nadra Law. This is a law that destroys the foundations of production. And those deputies who are involved in the production understand that the figures taken from the ceiling, which are taken at any cost, are the ones that will eventually lead to the collapse of the enterprise. And we'll have nothing to distribute. I'll give you an example of the professionalism of the current Cabinet of Ministers. In the current budget, the Cabinet of Ministers provided for a 14-25-fold increase in the value of raw materials. At the same time, they prove to me that, you know, in Russia, that six percent is the standard payments. But what we're saying is that in Rossi, the roof is one meter, we have 6 to 7.5 meters of roof. What's Russia saying about ours? So that's how they came up with these numbers. We had to pay 0.6 bracelets per tonne, and we had to pay 1.4-2.5. Well, what do you think, great specialists have gone away, they've just forgotten the final part of the budget, and we're paying 14-25 times today. On three occasions, experts from Minfin came, on three occasions I addressed, on two occasions addressed the leader of the Simonenko faction, and on the same occasion, “it violates the income part of the budget”. Well, listen, how can you talk to a cabinet like this? And the second. As Arsenius Petrovich, have you taken seriously the statement of the Minister of Finance that we do not have a cost report. Well, imagine, an enterprise of any kind of property that doesn't have a cost structure. Well, it's just that sick people work, and that's all. Because the Cabinet of Ministers can function if it doesn't have every day on the table as a cost. How we then fight for electricity, how we increase wages in cost structure and so on. Therefore, I think that this half of the statute of 2481 cannot be allowed. It is necessary to require any cost to make changes to the budget and, in an article, to the budget lines.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u76	Yuri Kolocius. Verni Dubov. Turn on the microphone from the spot, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u77	Thank you. Verni Dubov, Party of Regions. Allow me to give the floor to Valery Konovaluku.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u78	Valérie Konovaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u79	Thank you. Dear Arsenija Petrovich, distinguished colleagues, I, speaking on this issue yesterday, wanted to persuade the coalition to finally address the changes in the State budget. But I am sure and I wish to address you, Arsenija Petrovich, because this ruling of the Committee on Budgets today is not in accordance with the rules of the Rules. And you know that the only bill that provides for a special procedure is the State Budget Bill. I am surprised that, today, both the Minister of Finance and speakers have failed to note that the Government has not amended the Oil, Natural Gas and Gas Condensate Act. Today it came about, only because a number of our Ukraine deputies did not vote in favour of the bill yesterday. I am therefore convinced that this is necessary today, to assess in principle and to remove this issue in general, because it does not conform to the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u80	Sergei Gordienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u81	Dear citizens of Ukraine! Dear fellows themselves! Today’s coalition and government are all aware that they are lying to the people, even the worst supporters of the coalition. Whatever questions were asked yesterday and today by the rapporteurs was one reference to the constitutional application, which halts the second chapter of the State Budget Act. But I would like to remind the voters and members of the coalition, as last year they played the pre-election card and claimed to everyone that they stood by for social benefits when the Constitutional Court found the action to be unconstitutional, you all remember the present, past government. Today, the Constitutional Court has stopped the operation of the second chapter of the Act on the State Budget of Ukraine, and this is done quite correctly for the benefit of all citizens of Ukraine. Does today’s bill solve social issues? Take a look and read carefully the findings of the Scientific and Experimental Authority. It says that he does not solve social issues. So I have an appeal to the government, enough to play with the budget and lie to the people. The people are looking forward to real and positive changes, and yesterday you assured them of the success of today’s government. It was said that plus 17 billion coming to the State Budget compared to the previous year. And there's a coalition here all the time, and the opposition is asking, and it's calling for this budget to be made. People are asking me on the street, and I'm asking, what is this, a narrow door in the Ukrainian Parliament, that he doesn't enter here? Or maybe it's so heavy that the coalition can't bring it, let's hire carriers, or we can help. Respectful citizens, whether it is hard or narrow, do not make changes to the State Budget. And the thing is, there's nothing to report that everything that's come from the past government has been dissipated. And today we are facing the threat and great threats of financing all the programs mentioned earlier. Ukraine's company will not support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u82	Roman Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u83	Please pass the word to Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u84	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u85	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, is there an alternative to what we have to do today? Of course, there is always a choice, I am convinced that we should vote in favour of this bill, I thank you that the budget committee has considered part of the proposals, but unfortunately not the whole part. And I think I need to make some changes right now, straight from the voice. In particular, I propose a proposal for the purchase and sale of land for the agricultural purpose of state and municipal property, which, apart from the removal of the ransom for social needs, or the sale of sources for financing preparations for the final part of the Euro-2012 football championship, needs to be removed, because no one can specifically define it right now. So that's exactly what's going to go into the draft state budget of change that was required and required today. And you know that our faction has consistently been behind changes to the State Budget Act. And it's there to predict both the size of these and all that to predict. You just don't have to open this Pandora box like that. So for this point, we would also like to, and see that, of course, we need to adopt and make changes to the law, to the laws about nadra, but with the clarifications that have been said. Why does the water on the surface have to be the same price as the water that needs to be obtained within two kilometers? It can't be. It just can't be. Thus, this amendment, which was made here by our colleagues, particularly colleague Zebrovsky, should also be taken into account. That is why we are in favour of adopting this bill in both the first and the second readings, and in general we need to adopt it. As for the Constitutional Court. Well, he's right to make decisions, they have to meet the Constitution, but it's important for the Constitutional Court to think that he shouldn't become a political tool in the hands of any group of people. And it's very important to think that in a small Ukraine we have 18 members of the Constitutional Court, in a vast United States of America, the entire Supreme Court, which performs the function of constitutional jurisdiction, has nine people. Obviously, because there is no politicization, there is no normality, and no one is making any orders. So I wanted us to treat the loving decisions of the Constitutional Court calmly, to accept them, but we remembered that reforming the body should be done in such a way that it did not meet the political demands of any of the oligarchs. That's what we're going to vote for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u86	Vitaly Corge, last speaker. It's a Serbin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u87	Dear colleagues, first of all, on our application in the past call. Let us be honest and not lie to the electorate. We've been making a donation according to the budget's spending. We were against the fact that children of war, for example, had been expelled from the law and had not been retired. And now you've given up on the income part of the budget. So let us be honest and not deceive, indeed, our electorate. Now on the subject of this law. Of course, it must be accepted. The Committee on Budgets was very good and good. All comments made by the deputies concerning the land have been accepted. I think it's a very good idea to propose to my colleague Laupina, but you can take this proposal into account when you accept the changes to the budget. I don't see any other options so we can actually have a normal cost. The government promises to make changes to the budget. Now this is going to have to be taken so that there's no negative effects. It is a faithful decision that only auctions are made for the earth. And I propose, and our faction will support this law both in second reading and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u88	Thank you. Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik, please. Victor Mikhailovich, I have a request from you that we answer the basic question. This refers to the decision of the Constitutional Court. There is a formal legal solution. In fact, I just spoke to the head of the Constitutional Court, it's not publicized. But under the Constitution it enters into force from the moment of approval. It seems to have been approved yesterday. So it's very important for us to move in a certain direction, if you have information, what are the main points of this decision. So that we do not adopt the law, as it were, and when this decision is made public, it will be revealed that we need to copy it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u89	Dear Arsenia Petrovich, distinguished national deputies! First of all, I want to thank all the people's deputies, all the factions and the budget committee that joined in resolving the extremely complex problem that came up with this decision that was not made yesterday at the time of yesterday's review, it's already been adopted today. We're only familiar with the draft of this decision, and it's affecting the standards that we talked about yesterday. And that's what I'm talking about. Since there is no final without a public declaration to be made by the Constitutional Court, so I have also asked in my speech, and I would now like to reiterate that the technical legal formulation of the entry into force of the law will have to be entrusted with further research. The Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Budget Committee, together with the fact that there is not the gap that you have been talking about, Arsenija Petrovich, including. That is, the time of repeal and the time of acquisition of new standards must coincide with the time. As far as proposals are concerned. Many of the suggestions that have been made, some of them I've confirmed during the national MPs' speeches, and I'd like to take a look at some of the suggestions that came after my speech. We propose to support the inclusion in the draft Regulation of the terms of reference. In order to deal with their government, the tasks proposed by the national deputies of Lápina and the Government's mandate to settle the land issues raised by the national deputies of Bebazenko, Orota and written by the national deputy of Sigal. I would also like to point out some of the comments made by the national deputy of Alexandrovska Alla Alexandrovna. I want to emphasize two things. The standards that apply to the land are introduced exclusively with regard to the land that is intended for the Euro-2012 Championship. Let me tell you what the problem is. The construction of the district road around Kiev passes through lands that are privately owned by citizens. It is a land of farming. But that's how it goes. This land will have to be redeemed. Thus, we remove the standard that allows us to buy land in connection with the championship. If there is a warning, we are ready to add a standard to this item, which will provide for agreement with the budget committee. I reiterate that this rule applies exclusively to the Euro-2012 Championship. We are ready to accept this: add “according to agreement with the Committee on Budgets”. And the second. Alla Aleksandrovna raised questions about the Special Forces. These are special congregations coming into the Pension Fund. I would ask that we keep the standard that works today. The thing is, we have a personalized income account at the Pension Fund. The revenue from selling currency, from selling cars -- it's not system revenue, it's the base income of the Pension Fund, it's impossible to characterize them, and they're temporary. Therefore, for several years now, the regime has been in place that these incomes are listed as the State Budget Special Fund and are automatically included in the Ukrainian Pension Fund. Therefore, the request to keep this standard. Taking into account these suggestions that I have made, the request to adopt the draft law as a basis and as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u90	Thank you, Victor Mikhailovich. Mikola Ivanovich, don't you want to speak? Colleagues, pay attention! The law has nothing to do with politics. It's a classic economic law. Clearly, holding on to the Fund is a very different question. And this is an economic law that needs to be voted on. I ask, I put to the vote in the first reading: the adoption of the draft Ukrainian Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts. Colleagues. Now I'm in general, after the first reading. Well, what does "in general" mean? Dear colleagues, pay attention! I'm betting on a first reading vote based on Bill 2481. Vote. [[11:41:09]] For 228 Great! 228 -- decision taken. Colleagues, now, in order to get to the second reading, I propose to make a deviation from the procedure -- and to vote on the bill immediately in the second reading. Understand? I'll tell you what. According to the rules, it's a separate story. Now, a change in the procedure for reviewing the bill is about moving to a second reading. Vote. [[11:41:46]] For 228 Decision taken. Show by factions. Colleagues, pay attention! Now we actually have a whole bunch of rights before the second reading. There's a draft regulation 2481, there's a choice to vote 2481-P, taking into account the rights expressed in this draft decree. Mikola Ivanovich Derkach, turn on the microphone. For half a minute now, I'd like to hear the head of the budget committee, Mikola Ivanovich Derkach. It's a derrick microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u91	The budget committee made a proposal and I gave it a sound, Arsenija Petrovich. Arseny Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u92	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u93	The Budget Committee made its proposal on the regulation. So you have the right to put him to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u94	Please, Paul Zebrowsky. And now I'm going to give everyone my word. Paul Žebrovsky, Sergey Ljowochkin, and Victor Pinzenik, and Vladimir Litwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u95	The faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" will vote in favour of the bill, taking into account the amendments made by the vote that the Minister of Finance has stated that they are taken into account and agreed with the Committee on Budgets, and in the transcript.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u96	Well, I can't stop considering the bill, Alexander Sergiyovich. So, what's the break? [[B in m in s a l in]] Victor Pinzenic. Sergey Ljowczyn? Sergey Ljowczyn.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u97	Thank you, Arseny Petrovich. Arsenius Petrovich, now we are all together again, we are witnessing a grave violation of the Rules. One night, the first reading is repeated. The faction of the Party of the Regions believes that it is unacceptable that all the amendments made to the bill in other committees have not been taken into account. We therefore demand that the law be sent, under the Rules, for re-reading, not for re-reading, but for second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u98	Victor Pinzenic.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u99	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, distinguished national MPs, the government proposes to adopt a second reading law in general, taking into account those positions that have been supported by the government and which have been echoed in my statement to the draft decision prepared by the budgetary committee. In this version of the request to support this law as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u100	Vladimir Litwin and Valerius Konovaluk, and here we go.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u101	Dear colleagues said there was a decision by the Constitutional Court, not knowing the content of the Constitutional Court. What's the rush? That's the first one. Well, they passed the bill as a basis, there's a right to a national MP, if he wants to make his additions, refinements, proposals, he has to use them. We have no idea how the issues of land problems that our colleague has discussed will finally be resolved. So I'd like you, don't be hot, don't be in a hurry. In the next plenary week, we will first consider and make this decision. [[B in m in s a l in]] I want to say again: Your Honor, with the same success you can accept everything and finally sell Ukraine. Make one decision and sell it. Give your right to act under the Rules and do not manipulate the Rules, please. There's a right to a national MP, you ask him if he'll make his proposals or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u102	It will be. So we need to postpone the consideration of the matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u103	Valérie Konovaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u104	Thank you, Arseny Petrovich. Ladies and gentlemen, I have stressed the grave violation of the Rules because the Committee's decision must be in line if it is to accept, approve or reject the bill. In general, the Supreme Council has never considered amendments to the laws that were adopted by vote as amendments. As a national MP, I insist on making clear changes. That's the first one. Arsenius Petrovich, I have drawn your personal attention to the fact that the government has not made any changes to the legislation regarding rents for oil, natural gas and gas condensate. Well, why is it brutally so today, cynical to fake legislation? I don't get it. It is a responsibility, first of all, of coalitions, but it is on this account and opposition in Parliament. We won't let that happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u105	Dear colleagues, I repeat: we have changed the procedure. For that, there were 228 votes. So I ask you not to accuse me of breaking the Rules. The 51st Rules provide for a modified procedure. Item two. The committee met twice. Yesterday we returned to our first reading. It's all in the bill. Tell me from the voice who has an amendment. The committee sat twice on this matter. Twice. What questions are there? What if there wasn't a committee decision? Alexander Efraemov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u106	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, we have concluded today our consideration of one issue on the first reading on the agenda. You have an application for recess. And we demand, in accordance with the Rules, that, before we proceed to consider another issue, we grant a half-track break.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u107	My colleagues, please, I'm addressing you again. There is a decision of the Constitutional Court. If a full government pig is to be planted, it must not be put to the vote, and the state as a whole. Now there is no question about the government of Ukraine. Now the question is about the entire Ukrainian state. We made this mistake when we passed the State Budget Act. It's not a political decision, it's an economic law. The committee met twice. There's all the suggestions. Don't put me in a stupid anti-State position. I'm voting on draft Supreme Council ruling 2481-P1. I'm asking you for a basis as a whole. Taking into account the lines that are expressed under the stenogram. [[11:48:23]] For 228 Decision taken. [[Applause]] They played politics to such an extent that tomorrow’s budget will not be implemented. Let's go to the next bill, 1156. Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich Oleg Zarubinski. Volodymyr Litvina, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, looking at what is now happening in the session room, under the hot slogans and calls of someone there to rescue and so forth, our faction refuses to submit and consider its bills today, taking into account this political blasphemy that is taking place in the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u109	What are we doing, colleagues? We have 1156. 1156-1. Valérie Konovaluk. Please. Alternative.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u110	Dear colleagues, honourable voters, you know, what happened today in Parliament, the gross forgery of legislative activity, the violation of norms. I would like to state that the coalition's actions, which are now exclusively aimed at the use of power for personal purposes, put us as a faction of the Party of Regions, such as opposition to a sufficiently complex situation. I would like to point out, Your Honor, that the decision of the Constitutional Court, which was adopted yesterday, actually requires you to review the expenditure portion of the budget. Because you've corrupted the entire social policy of the state. So I'm convinced that in these circumstances it's inappropriate to consider the question of the hourly pay of work, the cynicism that is being heard in the hall today. I'm sorry, it's inappropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u111	You don't want to see the bill, then 2339. We had a bill that wasn't included in the agenda, and you were handed out. This is Government Bill 2339. Please vote for inclusion in agenda 2339. Vote. [[11:51:33]] For 217, sir. 2339 — No decision taken.(U in m in s a l i) Colleagues! Calm down, please. The word Zvarich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u112	Dear Arseny Petrovich! I would like to ask the hall to calm down, because we have not understood the question to be considered, and so I am making a proposal in accordance with the Rules on Re-entry. Please hold the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u113	Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u114	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, take it easy! The number 228 is a gift for you, but it's not long. That's the first one. The other one. Well, there is, why are you so excited and you think everything's about to go sideways? And most importantly, please tell me, why are we gathering Conciliation Councils? What Is the Rules for? If so, let's make a decision, ask us, we'll go out of our way so that we don't stop you from doing everything you want. And that's why I don't see a need at all that's necessary just yesterday, or this morning the committee will consider something immediately, because it's the promises of a political power, a political power, to a session room. You can't work like that! Or say you're going to do what you want to do, not what the rules of the Rules predict, as the MP's ethics and morals of the end-of-the-ends predict. You want to sit on your head. I don't think you can get out of this.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u115	Anatoly Grizzenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u116	Dear Arseny Petrovich! Dear colleagues! I would like to calm down and consider the following situation. All five factions are in favor of making changes to the budget. The government took the first step he introduced the draft changes to the budget, which concerns all the power structures. This document is considered and supported positively by the Budget Committee and our National Security and Defence Committee. Both committees are invited to accept the first reading today. Please return to the subject and support it, make it useful for our power structures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u117	Who else wanted it? Mikola Kravchenko asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u118	Dear colleagues, well, what's going on in the hall today is in a language that is fashionable today, it's a complete mess. That's what you do in terms of how it's supposed to work: the incense said the machine was programmed, 228 knocked out, and you think that's what's going to happen. We're sure of it. I'm sure, for example, that it won't be signed is one thing. Second. Arsenius Petrovich, please, the Head, returns the speaker of the entire Parliament, don't talk about what's great, don't shout. You'll see what you've agreed to. You are already putting the Constitution above it, you can, for political reasons, stamp the Constitution and do what you need to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, we return to Vladimir Litwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u120	Dear colleagues! I'd like to draw attention to the law that we just passed, 2481, and tell people what we passed. These are the 102 social laws that were in the government's budget that took people away from 105 billion dollars, by one vote they removed them, they confirmed once again that people are taking away those social benefits, those social benefits -- they're black people, they're disabled, they're pensioners, they're children of war. And at the same time, the Rules and Constitution of Ukraine were roughly, strictly, cynically trampled. And now essentially the question of making changes to the budget. Let us make a thorough decision. Let us make a complex decision, taking into account the economic and social situation in Ukraine and taking into account what people expect. In addition to everything else, let's think about March 1st.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u121	Let me finish. Vladimir Mikhailovich, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u122	I'm done. I mean, let's not show off today. Well, today the wave has gone that all the buttons are holding, tomorrow you will again, Arsenija Petrovich, speak to the opposition to defend parliamentaryism in Ukraine. So let's stick to some basic order, let's stick to a sense of shared responsibility, we can't push through a political moment. And there's more. I'd like to stop making the right comments.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u123	Sergey Sobolev and we're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u124	Sergey Sobolev, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. Arseny Petrovich, I would like to thank you for the first time in many years in Parliament, according to the provisional regulation, that vote changes the voting order that has never been voted on before. It's different. Dear colleagues, as we are saying, we have just passed a bill, which includes the requirement of national MPs who have appealed to the Constitutional Court, namely, the separate existence of the budget of Ukraine, which is now, and that part of the legislative acts that fill the budget. We have actually opened the way for changes, additions to the budget, and we are very grateful that the members of the Lithuanian Block, who are part of the budget committee, unanimously supported this decision on the budget committee. [[Applause]] And I think that for the first time, we actually went according to the Rules, thanks to the Head of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u125	Yuri Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u126	Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear colleagues, of course, I will not now comment on the content and procedure which, in my view, raises some doubts from this legal point of view, I would now like to address the government and the minister of finance, and the Prime Minister, to everyone. Today, the coalition and Parliament as a whole have expressed a very and very risky trust in you, because even “Our Ukraine” said by speaking that next week you should introduce the Budget Act. If you don't do it, dear colleagues, it's going to be a huge spot on the reputation not only of the Prime Minister, but of the entire coalition. Remember that. And today, we do not block the rostrum and testify that we still put people’s interests ahead of us, but we testify that political relevance should not take root in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u127	Dear colleagues, let's finish. Now, pay attention! To appease political passions is the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, which has become effective as a parliament. We did it today. For the sake of political ambition, the financial and budgetary systems of the state cannot be put to rest. The committee met twice. I have a unanimous decision by the committee, which is headed, by the way, by the "Block of Lithuania". What reasons do I have for changing the procedure under the Temporary Rules not to put the vote to the vote? Block the financial system? So I'm going to the government, and yesterday we talked about this, we gave you the maximum credit for trust. The credit of trust has ended until the draft Law amending the State Budget Act has been introduced, the government bills will not be considered. That was declared yesterday. So I'd like to redefine this position again. All of it. We have to follow the law. Then it's going to be correct both to the left and to the right. The right part was given appropriate legislation. The left-hand section receives corresponding changes to the State Budget Act. I announce recess until 12:30.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u128	Dear colleagues, we continue our morning plenary session of the Supreme Council. I ask everyone to take a seat, and after the political consultations that I have just held with the faction leaders after the vote in due course, because a number of factions have refused to consider their bills in the light of the fact that the bill on the moratorium on privatization has not been removed from the agenda, and since factions are required in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the bill, the maximum to which I have been able to agree with the factions' leaders is the following: we now ask the question of ceasing the powers of the Ukrainian national deputies, after which we are considering the National Bank and closing the plenary -- everything. The faction leaders don't see another position. Under other circumstances, it's a blockade, under other circumstances it's a conflict, under other circumstances it's a difficult situation in Parliament. All that was needed for the government today was accepted today. Dear colleagues, please proceed with the proper procedure. I'm announcing the issue of termination, the timely suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputies. All right, Oleg the Lightman's word.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u129	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Arsenius Petrovich, you have concluded before the suspension of the session on a rather optimistic note, making a single decision that until the government changes the budget, no government bill will be considered. I think you're not authorized to make these decisions on your own, it's a matter for Parliament to consider. Moreover, the distinguished Arsenija Petrovich and representatives. Mr. Zvaric and Mr. Gricenko, and the other deputies asked you to ask about the return to the vote for Bill 2339 – this is about speeding up the transition of the Ukrainian army to contract recruitment. We have not solved this problem and are moving on to another. So please let us resolve this question, and then we will consider other questions. Besides, it's a bill to make changes to the budget -- exactly what opposition requires of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u130	Please, Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u131	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Our faction, I think, like other factions, will be very pleased to consider the changes to the 2008 State Budget. But changes to the State Budget, not random selective changes to one or the other articles! You're talking about the army now, and I have a logical question. Please tell me why you are silent about the amendment of the Law on State Budget 2008 by the Cabinet of Ministers, as it relates to the Kyoto Protocol. These are also changes to the State Budget. So we need to approach it in a complex way. If we look at any changes to the State Budget every day in every single problem, it will not be beautiful for us. You made a promise that in the next plenary week, the Cabinet of Ministers would make a draft change to the 2008 State Budget. There's going to be these changes in the complex, and we're going to accept everything without breaking up the State Budget. And what the Head of the Supreme Council said.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u132	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u133	I would like to say to my colleagues from neighboring factions that this is a statement by the Head of the Supreme Council, not his personal statement, and this is the opinion of the Conciliation Council, where it has been expressly stated that it is indeed enough to tear down the Cabinet of Ministers, which ignores the 2008 State Budget Act, which we have committed to amending the State Budget Act during the month. So, Arseny Petrovich, let's work on the algorithm you proposed.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u134	Ivan Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u135	Dear Arseny Petrovich! Dear colleagues! We respect any thought that sounds in this room from our colleagues to the hall. I mean, next. We agreed with you in the morning. The faction insists on reviewing the Privatization Programme, and this is certainly the document that the country needs in order for the government to then make changes to the State Budget. We insist on solving the human resources issues that will unlock the work of the State Property Fund -- and we will finally have the hope that in the six months left to come, there will be nine billion that we will write here, in this room, and they are already budgeted for December 28, 2007, accepted where this money is going. Arsenija Petrovich, I officially declare that the faction will not vote in favour of lifting the powers, at least for the reason that we are not considering the issue of the order of the day. And the second reason is equal approach to everyone. Sorry, one of the deputies is not in charge. We're protesting this.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u136	Bondar, please. N.O.S., Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u137	Alexander Bondar, S.O.P. “Sbor” faction of N.O.S. Arsenius Petrovich, we were given a day order in the morning, where there are privatization laws. I understand that you're taking them out of consideration because there's no report under the Law on the Moratorium, there's no Kinach. But that is no reason not to look into the laws where there are reporters. I propose that because there is no moratorium report, move on -- and report from the Kabmin a program of privatization, legislative change, and move on a day-to-day basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u138	Alexander Efraemov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u139	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues! Finally, it becomes apparent. The fact that the representatives of the coalition today do not wish to vote in favour of the withdrawal of the parliamentary power and make it a priority, therefore they do not want to work in this room in fact. Because they understand very well that if they have two months of people juggling both there and here, then we will not be able to deal with it. And if we don't take our powers off today, we're going to have work in the districts next week, and in that time, the Centrebinder could lead other deputies to power, and we'll lose next week, and we'll come back to that unresolved issue in a week. Plus, they're being tricky because we're not ready to consider a privatization package today. I think if the problem -- someone calls our people's deputies -- you don't have to worry about when the bill is race.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u140	Pisarenko, Filenko and Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u141	Dear colleagues, I would like to inform you that we are prepared to vote in favour of withdrawing the terms of office today from the co-conspirators, but let's do it in an honest manner, as we have decided this morning. Today is the daytime order that we need to go through. There are too many privatization bills for the state, there is the issue of the release of the Head of the State Property Fund, there are other issues that stand today. And why do you need to remove your authority first, including from your colleagues, as you speak in the rostrum, and now we need to do things that are too important for the country? Moreover, Arseni Petrovich, I think we need to move calmly on the order of the day. We already have the National Bank, so let's listen to it and move on to the issues that are actually bothering the state economically today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u142	Philenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u143	Vladimir Philenko, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. Dear colleagues, I'm not surprised by the position of Communists who have studied Marxism Leninism and who understand that the state consists primarily of borders, armies and taxes. So they tried hard to block the tax system into order. Now they're trying to block the budget decisions needed for the power structures. Here, as it were, it's understandable. The photo shoot is complete. Companions, then, Mr. Ephraim, to speak with you. It is a matter of order in the daytime and we are ready to consider it, as it has been blocked to this day. Arseny Petrovich, and to you, why do you need journalists to tell you that Yatzenuk went out for a meeting, someone called him with Banks, and he's not putting the privatisation laws and questions to the vote again? Do you need this as the Head of the Supreme Council or not? Let's move on the order of the day as it was introduced to us in the morning, and let's look at these issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u144	It's such a coalition thank you. I wanted to thank you, Mr. Philenko. A very dignified assessment of the activities of the Head of the Supreme Council. Thank you. Please, Alexander Efraemov and Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u145	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, I told you some time ago that you are commending for the actions and violations you are committing under the Rules by lobbying the interests of the Government, and you will not expect praise from them, because they are people. Here's what you are. [[B in m in s a l in]] This is what you are in violation of in the name of that will remain in the record of the session of the Supreme Council. And I would like to say to our colleagues that the main bill requiring adoption today is the State Budget Bill, and if it were submitted to you, we would be happy to support its consideration. And what you're trying to do is make changes to the State budget, including lobbying laws, that's what the whole room is looking at, and tomorrow the whole country will know about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u146	Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u147	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues! I want to address the coalition representatives. Well, the fact that you out of great love for the President didn't let him into the hall and thus disgraced the country and dropped the image of the country below the plinthus is on your conscience. But if you love the President so much that you don't let him in, then at least read what Victor Andreevich wrote in the message. The President's message clearly states that the privatization programme, which is being adopted, does not comply with the decision of the FNL, does not meet the national interests of Ukraine, goes to the detriment of the State. You just can't look at it. This is what the President says to the Ukrainian people and to Parliament. Therefore, if I were you, I would simply withdraw this programme, and in the light of the President's firm recommendations and comments, I would radically recast it, and a month and a half later I would have put it in the session room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u148	Dear colleagues, I now resemble the rules of the Rules. Today we have adopted a key bill that was critical to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and to the state as a whole. According to the bill, Ukraine’s State Budget receives billions of additional funds. We've completely adjusted the resource position. Whether privatization or not, today the budgetary system is protected after the adoption of this law as a whole. The other one. With regard to the formation of the order of the day. Bill 2233, which I've put off the agenda, has not been removed. If you vote according to the Rules as you require, you should put 2233. Question three. At 12:47, we are discussing this issue. There are 13 minutes left before we have a procedural issue at the beginning of the first hour, the “Variance” to which we have invited the head of the National Bank and the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Economy. Question four. In that case, if we go to the demands of the coalition that we already have today, there will be another confrontation in the hall. This is the direct language of the faction leaders, primarily the opposition. If we're going along a normal parliamentary path, namely, making a package and changing the State Budget Act, there's now good reason for the changes about the State Budget to be adopted. The appropriate privatization program for Semenyuk and personnel issues is then an understanding between the left and right parts of the hall. As soon as I go now to give the general interests of Parliament in full for only one part of Parliament, we will once again have our opposition. So I'm proposing the next agenda that we've spoken to you several times. Changes in the budget will be made by the government, and Julia Volodymyrna has personally promised. Please come to the Conciliation Council on Tuesday: budget changes, the State Privatization Program, personnel issues. Then we have all the motivation to meet the opposition to its legal requirements. I propose to vote for the suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputies. After that, we are transferring material to the Central Electoral Commission to register Ukraine’s new national deputies. We listen to the head of the National Bank and close the plenary session today. Another model is once again a non-working parliament. So let's follow the agreed, by the way, Conciliation Council procedure. Bill 1351, on the permanent termination of the authority of the national deputy of the country of Sivuliski. I'm voting on a bill on the basis and generally on the termination of powers. [[12:49:37]] For the 220. The decision is not taken. Bill No. 1352 on the end of the term of office of Ukrainian Deputy of the People's Republic of Ukraine, Burjak Sergija Vasilovic. Please vote. [[12:50:04]] For 194. The decision is not taken. Bill No. 1353 on the permanent suspension of the powers of Ukrainian national deputy Korniychuk Eugen Volodymyrovich. Please vote. [[12:50:29]] For 211. The decision is not taken. Bill No. 1354 on the permanent suspension of the authority of the Ukrainian national deputy, Livinsky Mikhail Alexandrovich. [[12:50:54]] For - 178. Colleagues, we're back from the beginning. We're about to lose our sight. [[B in m in s a l in]] Next. Okay. 1479 on the permanent suspension of the authority of the Ukrainian national deputy Kravczuk Petr Kostinović. [[12:51:26]] For - 157. As we went on, we did not vote on the first part. [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay. Bill No. 1480 on the permanent termination of the powers of the Ukrainian National Deputy of the Manufacturing of Alexi Borisovich. [[12:51:55]] For-97 The decision is not taken. Draft Decision on the permanent termination of the mandate of the Ukrainian National Deputy Příživnova Mikhailo Alexandrovich. [[12:52:19]] For 109 The decision is not taken. Draft Decision to terminate the mandate of Ukraine's national deputy, Ponomarenka Aleksandra Volodymirovic. 2184. [[12:52:46]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Bill 2186 on the termination of the mandate of the Ukrainian national deputy, Cherkasski Igor Borisovich. [[12:53:11]] Z-91 Bill No. 1350 on the termination of the mandate of the National MP of the Bogotyr Raisa Vasilovna. Vote. Do we vote on the system? [[12:53:47]] For-19 The decision is not taken. Dear National Deputies! Second, the issue was put to a vote, and secondly, the Ukrainian Parliament refused to comply with a constitutional norm that provided for the mandatory cessation of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputies who had been elected or appointed to the executive body. Please, for reasons that require five minutes. Vladimir Litwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u149	Dear colleagues, our faction would have voted, but when it saw that voting was unsuccessful, it stopped participating. So our proposal is this. Those MPs who, in accordance with the requirements of the Constitution and the Rules of the Supreme Council, went to work in the executive institutions, wrote a statement, one list should now be made and one vote to deprive the deputies of those powers. Because everyone defends, as it were, his colleague, and in general, I think there will be grounds for making the right decision, as required by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u150	Ivanenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u151	I give you my word to Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u152	Dear colleagues, our faction is acting in accordance with the principles set out in the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy and the principles of normal ethics, which go back to the next. All national deputies, regardless of the positions they hold, must act by law. We waited a few months for the Party of Regions to determine what to do with Richter. It was expected that after a few months, we would now wait six months or how long before one of the mayor’s candidates, Mr. Philippesin, decided whether to be his deputy or mayor. So when everyone makes a statement and there's a general list, I'm here to support all the national MPs who fit the positions of the local and executive authorities in the government. We, as one, will give 156 votes for this decision. One law for all, said one colleague of mine, let us do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u153	I've just been informed on the phone, and now I'm going to let you know whether it's true or not that the Philippines has written a statement. Now they're going to bring me the original, if that's the case. Please move on, Gordien.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u154	Please pass the word to Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u155	Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u156	Thank you, Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, if we continue to consider the matter this way, clearly, that part of the hall that has the majority of the votes will never deprive us of it by violating the Constitution and its members of the parliamentary powers. I offer a very simple and clear solution. Please see article 81 of the Constitution, there is an article, there is a fifth part that says that the Head of the Supreme Council should use his powers, that the court of Kiev should take a decision if within 20 days the national deputy has failed to execute what, as it were, does not allow him to be a co-conspirator, he will be deprived of parliamentary authority by decision of the court. It's a different option.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u157	The only thing I'm going to tell you is that it's possible when the Ukrainian National MP didn't write a statement. If the application is made, we have no claim to a national MP. And you know, there's a decision by the Constitutional Court that's overturned the institution that's been able to thus remove the associate deputies. That's why I'd be happy to bring them to trial, but unfortunately, it's not a problem for the people's deputies, it's a problem for Parliament. Donny.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u158	Good afternoon, dear fellows! It is very sad that the Supreme Council is demonstrating cynical disregard for the laws and Constitution of Ukraine, with both sides and others. It is unfortunate that again today, the unrelenting accomplices of their powers are once again confirming that, sadly, the authorities in Ukraine are illegal. It's very sad. And in my opinion, this is the result of this proportional system, which has led to what is now being decided in Parliament, not by an MP, but by several party blocks. We need to change electoral legislation, or unfortunately Parliament will not work properly.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u159	Adventure Anton. Alexander Efraemov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u160	Thank you, Arseny Petrovich. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that all MPs who have not been authorized to receive salaries in the Supreme Council, all without exception, alone, I think, constitute the only exception to which the conscience has awakened and he does not. This is one moment. Second moment. Arsenius Petrovich, you are here today in the presence of the entire hall, and this is what the entire Ukrainian people have heard, you have promised to vote on this issue in the hall today. Nevertheless, they themselves did not vote in favour of deputizing. The faction of the Party of the Regions reiterates that we will support the voting on all candidates, as required by the Constitution and the Law on the Status of Peoples' Deputies, and by the Rules of the Supreme Council, and calls upon all members of the people to support the return to the vote and all.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u161	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u162	And to comply with our constitutional and civil standards.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u163	Dear colleagues, with regard to my personal vote, Alexander Sergiyovich, it is difficult for me to read and vote. But I'm going to ask the question of getting back to the vote so that you, God forbid, don't think that I'm against the constitutional obligation. Colleagues, we have a statement from the Philippines. That's the question that's been raised. Here's the original statement. It is now up to the head of the regulatory committee of Ephraim, if we have no objection, that we may now formulate a corresponding decision and vote on the suspension of the authority of the People’s Deputies of the Philippines. Alexander Sergiyovich, including the Philippines.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u164	Dear colleagues, I would not like these issues to be addressed from a political point of view. Therefore, I would like to report, as it is said, on the basis of the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u165	Come on. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u166	The Philippines has written a statement on his dismissal from the post of Head of the Shevchenkov Region Administration and has sent the statement to the President's Secretariat, as is lawful. It is my understanding that the President has not for some time decided to release him from his post. If our colleague, a national MP, made a decision and made a statement to relieve him of his parliamentary powers, that is his right and we have no reason to oppose that right.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u167	I got it. Vladimir Litwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u168	Dear colleagues, the point is that I want to develop the head of the regulatory committee of Efraem's Committee, Alexander Sergiyyovich, to say that before obtaining a temporary permit, Victor Pilipisin wrote statements that fit both for the Cabinet of Ministers and for the administration of the President, i.e. the Secretariat, to release him from office of head of administration. [[What does the law require?]] Regrettably, the political breakup between the two streets led to the fact that the statement had not been considered. But the man was terrorized in such a way that he had already written a statement and handed it over personally to the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please report to the Regulatory Committee, have him come to the Regulatory Committee and explain why he did so, for the person has simply been impaled, made a hostage of political opposition. I'm not talking about the terror that's now being solved in the electoral campaign, because we have only one political force beyond suspicion, and we've got all the power structures involved, and they blame the competitors for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u169	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u170	I want to finish. Thank you for giving me the opportunity to speak. That today, in the election of the city of Kiev, so-called power structures were included to support one candidate -- the one who is setting up the same mother in Kiev today, and the other has been harassed. So in view of this situation, we propose a statement to the regulatory committee, if he confirms it, at the first meeting to make a decision. But he acted responsibly and decently in this regard.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u171	Yuri Klukkowski, John Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u172	Yuri Klukkowski, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". I specifically asked for the word to explain to those who are here who are speaking and who are twisting the law and the Constitution of Ukraine, and to our radio audiences, to understand how politicians are misleading the people. Dear colleagues, a colleague of the Philippines was to write, not to the Cabinet of Ministers and not to the President of Ukraine, for he was the head of the local government, rather than the local government, created by the district council of Shevchenk. He had to write a statement to the council of Shevchenkovsky that she should vote his removal from office as chairman of the council, and only then could he be removed from office as head of the public administration. Read not only the Constitution but also the Constitutional Court’s decision. However, as I understand it, when he presided over several board sessions, he never even put the matter to the vote. So do not translate to the Cabinet of Ministers and to the President what was to be done by the Shevchenkov District Council and its head, which is at the same time.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u173	Ivan Kirilenko. Let us finish Yuri Bogdanovich and then John Kirilenko. Is that it? Ivan Kirilenko. I'll give it to you, Alexander Sergiyovich. I'm going to make an offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u174	Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, listen to the first suggestion made by one of the factions’ leaders. He proposed to avoid any suspicions and misunderstandings, and we look really bad, we break the Constitution, let's break the Rules to some extent, but for the sake of trust, because we understand that the Constitution should be implemented, the only list, including a colleague of the Philippines who wrote an application for parliamentary powers, we voted on this issue and we withdrew and ended the conversation.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u175	Vladimir Litwin. And Alexander Efraemov and we're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u176	I'm fine with the help of my colleague Klukkowski. First, not to quote norm, but to ask questions, there is also a statement written to the Shevchenk district council.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u177	Alexander Ephraim, colleagues, and final.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u178	Arsenius Petrovich, our faction supports the vote. by list of all candidatures. But with regard to our colleague Klukkowski's speech, I am frankly not comfortable with commenting on it, but I would like to inform all the deputies that the President's order of 30 June 2006 at 218/216-pp was appointed as the head of the Shevchenkov District Public Administration in Kiev, in addition to being elected as head for the district.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u179	Dear colleagues! Okay, Yuri Klukkowski. Klukkowski’s replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u180	Yuri Klukkowski, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. First, I will explain to my colleague Ephraim that according to the features of the exercise of state authority and local self - rule in Kiev, the head of the district office in Kiev may be appointed solely to the head of the district council. That's why the President here has no discretion and has to enforce the law: they first resign from the post of council head and then automatically resign from the post of head of administration. As far as the others are concerned, I would like to point out that the application can be written, but then, as a human principle, there is no need to hold the session as the head of the district, Shevchenkovsky, council. Because I write a statement, I run a session, and I don't vote, that's a little bit different.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u181	Dear colleagues, here's the next offer. In order not to be disgraced once again before all the Ukrainian people and to do what we declare and what is clearly stated in the Constitution, a person cannot sit in one place in three chairs at once, let alone be a national electorate. I propose the next order of business. First, as regards the statement just received from the National Deputy of Ukraine, Philippes. Registration number 2552. Alexander Sergiyovich, I appeal to you as the head of the regulatory committee so that you, as the head of the regulatory committee, sign your signature as the subject of the legislative initiative to suspend the authority of the People’s Deputies of the Philippines. This is according to the Rules and this is correct. If not, I'll sign it. Please. The second is to change the handling procedure. In accordance with the Rules, now, first, to vote on the return to the consideration of issues concerning the suspension of the powers of Ukrainian national deputies. The second is to establish a special procedure for dealing with the issue, namely: to decide on the termination of the powers of the Ukrainian National Deputies, to make a list according to the transcript read by the Head of the Supreme Council in accordance with the rulings of the Regulatory Committee and those made during the meetings. And the third is to vote on the decision. Okay? Okay. Ivan Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u182	Dear colleagues, in order for us to be honest to the end of our relationship, we will support what you have said, Arsenius Petrovich, your offer: a list of all. There is also a colleague of Prutnik, and a colleague of Kostusev, we must include all of them, for they are also conjoints for today. Then we'll vote on the list for everyone. Please provide an explanation.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u183	I have, I don't object to Kostusev and Prutnik, because these are our colleagues, the national MPs who wrote the relevant statements. Then I need at least two minutes to get the numbers for these orders. Can I have two minutes? [[B in m in s a l in]] Will you not vote then, Alexander Sergiyovich? Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u184	The distinguished Arsenius Petrovich, well, to the cynicism to which the representatives of the BUT faction lead, must be very, very seriously considered in order to lead. The fact is that these are very different things: exemption from parliamentary powers and discharge from positions, which is also the prerogative of the Supreme Council. If they want to ask personnel questions, it is their right, but then let them put all personnel issues in the way they are considered necessary and consider them by agreeing on these issues in a coalition. And if they're trying to solve the problems they have inside the coalition, there are no fools in this room.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u185	Adam Martinyuk. I'll give it to you, I'll give it to everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u186	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, the situation is quite clear here. Listen, please don't argue. If there is a secretary, in the Supreme Council's office, a statement by these colleagues that they want to remain in the positions that they appoint, from which the Supreme Council is dismissed, that is, if they want to remain in those posts and write statements of parliamentary authority, there is no problem, let's just settle these claims. But I know they wrote other statements. They have written statements that they want to be national deputies and they ask them to be released from the posts of the State Committee of Television, Radio and the Heads of the Antimonopoly Committee, and this should be our decision with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u187	Ivan Kirilenko. Nestor Schufrich and then Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u188	I want to address Alexander Sergiyovich Ephraim personally. Alexander Sergiyovich, we didn't insult you, and we don't even have those words in our minds. There's nothing to sew on, believe me. But we understand very well that the contemporaries are both on our side and on your side. We'll put 156 votes to one for cancelling today, but let's go back to the accomplices that are in your faction. Let's now vote for both my colleague Prutnik and my colleague Kostusev. Let them enter the hall and work in peace, so that the sword may not hang over them. 156 votes guaranteed by the faction – a list, not a list – we will definitely vote. Let's trust each other to the end. Otherwise we won't vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u189	Ladies and gentlemen, let us be honest and frank: If not before us those who have gathered are those who are still in the hall, at least in front of those who listen and see us. With regard to colleagues Prutnik and Kostusev, it is not a matter of depriving them of the authority of Ukraine’s national deputies. They even have this list that we've agreed to, and that we guarantee and give each of our votes and we'll vote because it's about removing them from the respective positions that the Supreme Council of Ukraine appoints them to. You have 228 votes, you've shown it, put it to a vote and take it down. It's an exclusive coalition issue, it's not a matter of the Supreme Council as a whole, and it's not a violation of the Constitution. If you have a coalition, vote, if you don't, let's deal with those who violate the Constitution and most of them in your faction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u190	Colleagues, shall we go on? Viacheslav Kirilenko, then Yuri Karmazin, then Alexander Efraemov and Sergey Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u191	Viacheslav Kirilenko, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense". Dear colleagues, our deputies have long been in charge of themselves and are not accomplices. They work in the Cabinet of Ministers, early in the morning at work. That's why we support not double standards on this issue, but equal approaches to the deputies of all factions -- both the members of the Party of the Regions and the members of the Faction of the BIT. Therefore, if these two political forces are now voting in favour of the parliamentary powers of their deputies, surely we are also, in carrying out coalition obligations, supporting these votes, and so we are now resolving the issue. I believe it is true that not only this concern of the two factions, but also the Block of Lithuania should join in the implementation of the Constitution. And now we can solve this question with you, we're ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u192	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u193	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Now a colleague of mine came to me and asked why, in keeping with the Constitution, I didn't always vote now. And I answer to all of the Ukrainian people. That I'm against applying the principle of selective implementation of the Constitution. If today we have made a decision and committed ourselves to depriving all parliamentary powers of accomplices, let's say that we have absolutely wrongly two branches of authority today are also combining the Derjacommitt on television and radio and the Antimonopoly Committee, and the Shevchenk regime. [[Tracker]] [[Kostujev]] This should be a list, but various decisions and various discharges should be made. They want colleagues, let them work as national deputies -- both co-worker Kostusev and colleague Prutnik -- all of them, Arsenija Petrovich. And we'll vote for everyone. The Constitution must be the only one for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u194	Alexander Efraemov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u195	Thank you, Arseny Petrovich. Dear colleagues, let us, perhaps, really calm down and see again what we offer. We would like to stress once again that we do not object to the question of the discharge of Prutnik and Kostusev positions in the Chamber, especially since they have written their statements from the outset. But these issues must be addressed by the coalition. And if you cannot find mutual understanding within the coalition, please do not translate your responsibility into those deputies in the Hall who want to be guided by the law and the Constitution, in fact, rather than in words. And the second question. Arsenius Petrovich, we support the vote with a package, but when our colleagues from BUT came up with a single request 15 minutes ago, let's include the Philippines, and I told you that, as stated in the Rules, I cannot do otherwise. And today, when the issue is resolved, additional questions arise.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u196	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u197	But I am more than sure that if I agree to this illegal rule, the next requirement will be to release Semenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u198	I got it. Sergey Sobolev. Please. Ivan Kirilenko or Sergey Sobolev? Ivan Kirilenko. Turn on the mic, last one.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u199	Dear colleagues, Your Honor Arsenija Petrovich, Your Honor Alexander Sergiyovich, I propose once again that we have understanding in the hall, in one decree, two different points. One point where we cancel the authorization, and the other point where we take off the job, and that's it. In one decree, two different points. What's the problem? What kind of problems? We're voting 400 votes in the room.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u200	Colleagues, back to the rightful course. And the law says the following. First. We return to the vote on the question of the suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputies. The other one. We define a special procedure for dealing with the matter. Third. This decree only includes fellow MPs. Why? Because I've looked at the draft regulations that the regions are talking about. It's not about quitting, it's about getting fired. So the second decision I'm proposing is that two men be released as well. We're dividing into two parts: authorization and liberation. Well, what kind of bag is that, some kind of kangaroo bag? Well, these are completely different two questions. Well, you vote, there are 228 votes. Why do we have to storm now?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u201	That is not how they will now vote for the termination of their powers.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u202	Yuri Anatolyevich, don't shout in your ear. Colleagues, let's say, first we vote for a return to the question of putting an end to the powers of the Ukrainian people's deputies, about a return to the consideration of the termination of powers. Vote. [[13:19:54]] For 247 We're back. Alexander Sergiyovich, Kirilenko offers the following order. If we put it in. They ask that the first two people’s deputies be released, and then the second block, a pack of ten deputies. [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay. You can go back to the first offer you made. If we want to disenfranchise the Ukrainian people's deputies, we make two lists: the first list – according to the Ukrainian people's deputies – has been voted on. The second block, the coalition will vote for the release of two. Still, she will vote. What package? Alexander Efraemov, please. These are two different decisions legally, absolutely two. There's a termination, I'm not saying it should be every single personal decision. And there's the release. The word of Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u203	Dear Arsenius Petrovich! That's exactly what you said. And so let's answer another question if we are united in withdrawing our parliamentary powers, and the coalition is united in that it's willing to release our positions without us, but they're ready for these two colleagues, so what's stopping us from voting today? And if they don't believe each other, how can we believe them after so much deception?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u204	Sergey Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u205	Dear colleagues, I think it's perfectly clear. There is a requirement of the Constitution that prohibits the reconciliation of powers. This includes two ways to vote: the first way to vote, the second way out of office, for depriving the MP. We suggest that there be a single vote and that there be no accusations that we are voting on any decree, that there is no opposition. This will be done in a single decision to make it clear that both the first and the second decisions will be 400 or more votes. It's logical, it's perfectly legal, and it's the implementation of the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u206	Mikola Kravchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u207	Cowchenko, the Communist faction. Arsenij Petrovich, I propose to introduce this subject into the curriculum of higher education institutions, to give the subject “How can I confuse any topic?” Look, we've lived to the point where we don't know who wants what anymore. It is clear that the coalition is not ready today to release its deputies because it is afraid that it will have no votes. Therefore, it is a shame that we invited the National Bank here and arranged this circus, literally on how to solve this problem. Decide on the Conciliation Board, propose your proposals to the Hall, vote on everything. Now let's listen to the National Bank and stop.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u208	Colleagues, Viacheslav Kirilenko Now let me tell you, here's a proposition from the faction of the Party of Regions, now we're going to hear it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u209	Viacheslav Kirilenko, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Colleagues, and I think the MPs and people understand what's going on. There is a violation of the Constitution’s non-relationship requirements. Therefore, our faction suggests that we now call the decision to remove violations of the Constitution of Ukraine on the compatibility of posts. And the first point is to remove the work of accomplices who violate the Constitution of Kostuyev, Prutnik and Bagatyrov. And the second point is to invite the powers of deputies who also violate the Constitution. And so the first and second paragraphs should be voted on by one vote. And I think the voters are thanking us, and the CFE, if it's not in the middle of political intrigues, acknowledges the authorization of the following candidates who follow the lists of the Party of Regions, the “Timoshenko Block” and the “Litvina Block”. Please put this question to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u210	The faction of the Party of the Regions. Nestor Ivanovich, you have expressed your position on the point that you agree to include in general. Colleagues, then the determination must be composed of two blocks, and in fact it will go under the transcript from the voice on the basis of the decisions already made. So first of all, I need a few votes. Dear colleagues, I ask you to listen carefully to a few procedural votes. First. On the review of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's decree to terminate the mandate of Ukraine's national deputy, Philipisin V.P. with a deviation from the Rules, namely, without a decision of the Regulatory Committee. Understand? Make sure there's a clean procedure. We're voting for this decision, it's to form a list. [[13:25:46]] For 377 Yes. Please show by factions. Now, colleagues, I'm shaping the next order of action. Order to terminate the powers of the Ukrainian national deputies. Next. In accordance with article 81, part two, paragraph 1, of the Constitution, Ukraine decides to suspend the mandate of Ukraine's national deputies for the term of office: Sivuli Mikola Ivanovich, elected in a multi-mandatory state electorate -- has to write everything, colleagues -- elected in a multi-mandatory public constituency by the political bloc of the “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko” in connection with his personal application for parliamentary powers. Burjaka Sergija Vasilovich, elected in a multi-mandatory national constituency constituency by the political party “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko” in connection with his personal application for parliamentary powers. Korniyczuk Yevgen Volodymyrovich, elected in a multi-mandatory national constituency constituency by the political bloc of the “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko” in connection with his personal application for parliamentary powers. Livinsky Mikhail Alexanderovich, elected in a multi-mandatory state-run constituency constituency for the political party “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko” in connection with his personal application for parliamentary powers. Kravčuk Petr Kostjanović, elected in a multi-mandatory state-run constituency constituency for the political party “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko” in connection with his personal application for parliamentary powers. Oleksija Borisovich, selected in a multi-mandatory national constituency, is the constituency constituency of the political parties “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko” in connection with his personal application for parliamentary powers. Zjivonova Mikhail Alexandrovich, elected in a multi-mandatory state-run constituency constituency for the political party “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko” in connection with his personal application for parliamentary powers. Ponomarenko Alexander Volodymyrovich, elected in a multi-mandatory national constituency constituency constituency of the political party “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko” in connection with his personal application for parliamentary powers. Igor Borisovich, elected in a multi-mandatory national constituency, is the constituency constituency of the political parties of the “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko” in connection with his personal application for parliamentary powers. Richter Raisa Vasilovna, selected in the multimandate national constituency of the Party of Regions in connection with her personal application for parliamentary powers. Philippe Victor Petrovich, selected in a multi-mandatory national constituency, is the constituency of the political party “Block of Lithuania” in connection with his personal application for parliamentary powers. This is the first paragraph of the decree. Now, the second paragraph of the decree. In accordance with article 85, paragraph 12, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine shall decide: To release Prutnik Eduardo Anatoliyovich from office as Head of the State Television and Radio Committee of Ukraine. That's the first point. The other one. To release Kostusev Alexiyyovich from office as head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine. “In relation to election” is not necessary, because there is a reference to the 85th Constitution. Oleg, please. All of it. What else? Colleagues, that's it! Vote. Vote? What's wrong, Ivan Grigorovitch?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u211	Richter's added, I've just read it. Please, the word of Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u212	Dear colleagues, Arsenija Petrovich, is this the only decision?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u213	The only one, Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u214	One. The third item in this decree is the next plenary day begins with an oath. [[Tuesday, June 3rd]] Remember, we did so. This is a similar decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u215	Yes, that's true.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u216	Definitely, definitely.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u217	That's what we did, that's what we didn't write in the decree, that's under the transcript to make this happen when we make a decision that we're starting a plenary day by swearing to the Ukrainian people's deputies. Colleagues, it's all agreed, it's all agreed. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm laying the groundwork for the decision to terminate the powers of the national deputies and for the release, which is dictated by the transcript. Please vote. On the basis and in general. Is there no objection? Vote. [[13:30:32]] For 413 Everything we promise, we do everything. True, with severe pain. Dear colleagues, the decision is made. Dear national MPs, be quiet! We have an important question at dawn: a speech by the head of the National Bank of Ukraine, Vladimir Stelmah. I'm asking you to keep everyone busy. It is based and generally voted under the transcript, colleagues! The decree has been voted on as a basis and as a whole. I said there's no objection. On the basis and in general. Vladimir Semenović, please come to the rostrum of parliament. 10 minutes of information and 20 minutes of questions are the answers.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u218	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u219	Dear colleagues! Coalition! Ivan Grigorovich! Excuse me, Vladimir Semenovich, we're not as quiet and calm here as Natzbank. Ivan Grigorovich, me. Dear Ivan Grigorovich! Dear colleagues! I ask you to take your seats to listen to the head of the National Bank for which you voted 384 votes. Excuse me, Vladimir Semenovich. I'm asking you again.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u220	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! The 21st May government of the National Bank, based on an analysis of economic processes and of the exchange rate processes that are taking place in the economy, has decided to fortify, we will speak this way, or change, and a more faithful exchange rate distortion that has arisen between the market rate and the official course in a more responsible economic sense. Why did we do so? We're starting. Well, let's just say, over the past seven years, the positive balance of payments has been positive. Even in those years when the current balance of payments was negative, the balance of payments was positive. If you're interested in numbers, I can tell. In the last seven years since 2002, this positive balance has accounted for more than $34 billion, that is, a currency in the order of investments in Ukraine, as well as loans held by commercial banks of over 34 billion. This means that the supply of currency, which, along with the currency that our exporters are bringing to Ukraine, has overcrowded the market and the real market rate has fallen sharply. The exchange rate has come to 4.4. In this regard, the official course is to create distortions, he became, as he became, because he plays mainly fiscal position, that is, this course applies only where the government has business relations in foreign exchange transactions and external transactions, so he became, let's say, an additional fiscal pressure on business and the population as well. What's the plan? I can tell you that, for example, when prices are set in foreign currency and they're paid at the official rate, and the market rate is much higher, that's an extra, extra business tax. As a result, we looked, starting from January, we continued to look into this situation, and when it got lower in March, so to speak, the orientations that were envisaged in the basic principles, even in these basic principles of monetary policy, That, after all, tracking down, it's really a reality, it's just, it's just, it's artificial, it's just the same. And so when the course is already in place, we're going to talk, so below 45-60 copies, we realize that we have to correct this distortion and we've made changes and we've made the course from the official 5.05 to 4.85. I wanted to say that aside from having a positive balance of payments, there are economic grounds for strengthening the national currency in recent years. What are they all about? First of all, it's that, year after year, even if not as fast as we want, the productivity of work is increasing. This is one of the main factors that makes our national currency stronger. Well, for the record, we're not going to talk, but we have a positive real gross domestic product growing with a stable population. This shows, in macroeconomic terms, that we have increased productivity. The second question is, I haven't been there, and the last few years we've had a budget that's practically balanced. That is, he did not allow such blows to affect the course. And that's why these grounds are the basis for strengthening the course. I also wanted to say that the current year also shows that although the balance of the current account is negative, again, the balance of payments is positive. We're doing, once again, the overall macroeconomic rate as the income on the balance of payments, that is, the currency we have. Another question. You know how reality in our economy has turned out to be a sharp rise in prices. Well, their different reasons. So the question is whether our monetary methods of the National Bank or there are lending, refinance banks, or redemption of currencies, including, at an underpriced rate, not stimulating inflation, we have also decided that we will not be included in the currency market. And we haven't really been included in the currency market, because we have created real reserves of international liquidity, or as they're called, gold reserves, in the amount that we need to import. Especially, including critical imports. We have almost four months now, when it's recognized, well, everybody, so to speak, international standards, it's about three months. So the National Bank will buy out and replenish the reserves that it has. It's already going to get fatter, so let's say, the economy is just too much money and it's going to stimulate inflation. And given that the Constitution refers to the main function of the National Bank as ensuring the stability of the national monetary unit, i.e. maintaining its purchasing power, considering that the enemy number one of this stability of the national currency or purchasing power is inflation. So we've taken all the measures that could stimulate monetary inflation, we've taken them this year. So we think that our actions, including these other actions, will be the official course, so to speak, confirmed, they have already allowed some sort of inflation to be controlled. And the development of inflation in May indicates that its rate has dropped considerably, which, for example, was in April, May, April, March, February. It goes something like this, like, one and a half percent or two percent. For the next two decades, it's like this. Although we believe that she will be even more restrained. That was our main reason. I would like to ask you, honourable national deputies, to consider one more circumstance. The National Bank regulates the official course. This is the course that I was saying that the state in the Ministry of Finance person, it affects and matters to business. Why is this done? It's what we figuratively call this so-called fiscal position of the state is equal for everyone -- whether in Donetsk or in Suma, or in Vinnice, and so on, what the state is doing with business, with this tax, so to speak, a tool. This is an official course. The second course, the exchange rates, they fold into the market like anything, any product. Because the currency is also a commodity, and it's also a market product, and it's made up of demand and supply. So I wanted to tell you, too, that we don't do any fortification, no course. And once again, we have a little bit of aberration on the official market course. That's what I wanted to tell you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u221	Thank you, Vladimir Semenovich. Dear colleagues, I ask you to sign up for a question to the head of the National Bank of Ukraine, Vladimir Stelmak. Sergey Ribuk, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u222	Thank you. Please give the word to Mikola Janovich Azarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u223	Mikola Azarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u224	Dear Vladimir Semenović, you say that the National Bank did little to interfere with the training, i.e. it did not intervene at the Interbank for the redemption of the currency. That's why you dropped your exchange rate to 4.40. If such policies were to continue, it would be even worse. The question therefore arises: why did the national bank hold a foreign observer position for four and a half months, together with the Government?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u225	Mikolo Janovich, dear Mikolo Janovich, if you've listened to me carefully, I said that this is how the economics went down, that early in the year we had really intensified inflation. So the National Bank of Ukraine, taking this into account, and in order to prevent further inflation from being intensified by its actions, it compressed its monetary assets. And we're emissions, I can tell you, this year, if it's, like, a monetary base or it's a direct emission, we haven't actually developed it. And that's why, I'm sorry, once again, I want to tell you, we haven't bought that dollar because we've created reserves of gold currency, the necessary quality and the necessary quantity, coming out of our foreign trade trade trade in Ukraine, as it were. That's why I'm saying we didn't go to market.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u226	Chaplain.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u227	Vladimir Caplienko, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. I ask you to give the word to Mikola Ivanovich Sivulski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u228	Mikola Sivuliski
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u229	Dear Volodymyr Semenovich, April 11th in this room, speaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u230	Dear colleague of Sivulski, you are sorry, but you are not the National Deputy of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u231	You have not signed a document yet.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u232	With all due respect, I'm sorry, but it's getting a little too far. My colleague, Serbin. Please. A Serbian word from Caplienne. The decision takes effect from the moment of adoption, not signature, dear friends. Maturity is a study, again.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u233	Dear Vladimir Semenovich! The situation is now very difficult with housing. Commercial banks charge that they do not have the right resources: (a) to lend to builders and (b) to lend to buyers of this apartment. This may lead to the fact that housing will stop altogether, which is your point of view in this regard.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u234	Thank you. I have to tell you this. As a citizen, I realize that we have a very serious problem with housing and we need to solve it, but as head of the National Bank, I have no right to enter the housing position. I'm talking about working with the bank and the National Bank is working in terms of maintaining their liquidity, their total liquidity. And in view of what it's proved to be, whether they want to borrow housing or agriculture and so on, that's their question, not our question, the National Bank. So I wanted to say that I'm sorry, Mikoli Janovich said that this year we appreciated that I was here when I was at this hearing, and I said that last year, in the fourth quarter, there was money spent in the economy, so much that would make the economy grow this year, the indicators. Gross domestic product, the level of inflation that was previously predicted, and so on. So we were very restrained in refinancing commercial banks, including through direct.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u235	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u236	Refunding only for reinforcements is so-called. They're calculating there something they don't get, close the balance, say, red comes out, they've been addressing us with them for a very short time. So I'm sorry, honestly, whether it's housing or agriculture or export business, I don't know what they're dealing with in banks. And natural persons are also a matter of commercial banks and especially savings. I think that housing is a problem, if a state-wide housing problem is built up so seriously, the Savings Bank can totally pull this program up and say it's a positive solution. But it needs to be properly oriented.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u237	Yuri Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u238	Vladimir Semenović, throughout the lifetime of the National Bank of Ukraine, has established a corridor for commercial banks where a minimum plank has been installed and the maximum plank has been set for exchange points within which they could set their separate course. This was done in order to avoid foreign exchange speculation in the market and to avoid abuse in the market. I have a question. How much has the National Bank now established this corridor for commercial banks? And does the National Bank monitor compliance with this corridor? That's the first question. And the second question. Please tell us whether our current Government is helping the National Bank of Ukraine to contain inflation in Ukraine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u239	Thank you. I want to tell you that life is not in place if you look at historical development, including Ukraine, and the National Bank, they were all different approaches and methods of regulation and so on. Indeed, the corridor was once established and so called a direct decree on monetary regulation, exchange rate, and so forth. Then came the National Bank Act, where he was ordered to establish, not the corridors, but the official course, the official course. And corridors called these are prerogatives, if she thinks it's necessary, for the National Bank. They, the Board of the National Bank, develop principles, represent them, including those required by the Supreme Council, and these principles form the basis for guidance and business. And in these principles are set, so if for this year, there's a real predictive corridor of the exchange rate of the bracelet and there's this corridor. But reality, once again, official courses are also, so to speak, should be set up and made public daily because they are made up of everyday realities.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u240	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u241	So this is definitely going to stay this way. Now about that government. I can honestly tell you that my work with the entire government has been clearly held by what is in the National Bank, and the National Bank has clearly observed the provisions of the National Bank Act, that the National Bank supports the government's actions until they conflict with its primary function: to maintain the stability of the national currency. That was the case with any government, no one ever choked us, no extra emissions or anything like that. Yes. And now that's what's going on. That's why I want to say that this is exactly the name of the National Bank Act, the relationship between the National Bank and the government, and it clearly adheres to the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u242	Vladimir Rybak. You don't? None. Hanna Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u243	Please, Lukyanov, pass on the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u244	Lukyanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u245	Vladimir Semenović, you and the Government of Timoshenko, by their actions in the currency market, when you are obliged to maintain the stability of the currency bracelet, when you know that most people in Ukraine do not trust you, not the bracelets, but keep their savings in dollars, today when you lower the rate of the dollar to $4.50, to 4 rubles, to the 4 rubles that they give you for $1, you steal billions of dollars from people, you understand that. And now you're telling us that you're doing well, you probably haven't been to the market for a long time now that you're saying that your inflation has dropped to one-and-a-half percent, that's what you just said. I think we're going to give you this calculator from the faction, which, if you can't think of it, he can talk, I'm handing it to you right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u246	And I'll teach you how to work it. Thank you. I'm sure I'll teach you how to work on it on a calculator. Now, ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask you, when you go to the head of the National Bank, not to operate on dollars. I don't have anyone to steal from, the people of the dollars are absolutely, I'm doing the laundry, one minute! I'm operating on a national currency.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u247	Deputat Lukyanov, behave normally.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u248	And now your idea that the population is holding more in dollars, the more you know, the more they don't fit the reality at all. I'm bringing numbers to your room. Donate the population. Deposits, please: in the national currency, 114 billion 837 million 700 thousand; in the foreign currency, 73 billion, well, it's in the currency of the national currency or 14 billion in the same currency. So I'm sorry, a population that understands what a national currency is and what a national economy is, it keeps it in a bracelet, you know, its savings. And I'm asking. And it gets, by the way, wages in bracelets. The law says that in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u249	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u250	There's a national currency here, so let's get out of this. If we're all going to support this, then the dollar is going to be a total of 2 bracelets per dollar. So let's make the pay rise and so on, the economy has increased effectively.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u251	Denkovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u252	May I have the floor to Sergio Osica?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u253	Sergey Osika.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u254	Vladimir Semenovich, good afternoon. You know, I was surprised, we've been working for many years, hearing from you that there are these terms of "excession by currency from exporters." And I would like to remind you that exporters are bringing into the country, as opposed to different loans, the money they're making with the goods. The other one. There are no small reserves, no reserves. They're always missing. So I have a question first. Why doesn't the National Bank, independent of the government, the President and the Supreme Council, go to the interbank currency exchange, creating an artificial deficit of bracelets, and then call it another market? And the second. Let's figure out what kind of hole is being created and what the gross national product is also because now.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u255	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u256	Let's get this over with. Because imports are now gaining ground, and exporters are losing and losing very much. And the third question is, when was it that the National Bank Board disagreed with the government? This is a situation that is of general interest, so please give the floor to Petra Olksiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u257	Thank you for asking. I ask for one consideration, the distinguished national deputy of Osik, if you look at it objectively, the exporters bring foreign currency, and they bring the goods to the market. And here I'd like to ask, well, when they brought in the currency, they sold it, they made it pay, and I'd like to know if this currency, so we call it, is it converted into national currency, or is it secured by goods? So here's the question. I'm sorry, that's one question. The second question is exporters. Prices have risen, so to speak, international prices for certain of our export products, and prices have risen in Ukraine according to these prices. So let's just, you know, look a little bit deeper, not the surface of these questions, if you want this to be translated into monetary, so to speak, factors. Now it's about the Bank Council. The Board of Banks, yes, indeed, the Board of Banks, well, she did -- she didn't agree, got together. But.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u258	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u259	The law defines the powers of the Bank's Council and the law defines the powers of the National Bank. So the government of the National Bank addressed this issue and I apologize for not supporting the Bank’s Council. Why, you know, unanimous. In unison, I did not support the position at this stage. Yeah, you're right, we have to think, maybe for the billions or so, trillions of stocks in China and so on. But then we also have to become a billion three hundred people and a second, a second question. But we come out of a specific reality, because there's a certain limit, that when they play a positive role, and when they start being superfluous. That's why you know that. When you start a little bit of money, you start spending it on everything you want, so to speak. That's what you don't need. So, I'm sorry, these questions need to be seen from the perspective of the wrong nature of this superficial.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u260	Please, Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u261	Please pass the word to colleague Kravchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u262	Cowchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u263	Thank you. Cowchenko, the Communist faction. Dear Vladimir Semenović, dispel my doubts that this is not a consciously provoked situation and that is why. From your report. Is there a positive balance, a positive growth in productivity, a positive trend in gold currency? The creation of a gold stock? Suddenly, it was necessary to strengthen the bracelet! That's the first question. And the second question. What an impact. Your information didn't say. Inflation was affected by extraordinary elections and the provision of savings to citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u264	Come on, ladies and gentlemen. When I was here earlier, I said what happened to the budget that happened. You know what the components of the budget go through and these so-called savings payments and so on and so forth. Well, that's a question you know, and I'm going to refer to it. You've approved the budget where all of these are foreseen. I am guided by the standards that have been passed through you. And by the way, that was the question of inflation 9.6. We put money under 9.6. And we've estimated that this money under 9.6 this year's inflation has been issued in the past year, and that's why we didn't give any of these in this year's ways: neither the ransom of the currency nor the other. And the factors that you said are -- yes, these are the main factors that contribute to the fact that the national currency needs to be strengthened. That's the third factor I've called. These are the basics. There's so much more. As far as the election is concerned. I give you my word. I said, and once again, no government for my existence here and no one else, so to speak, was ever approached by government officials to the National Bank.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u265	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u266	It has to do with the election being strengthened in some way. So I'm absolutely telling you that because of that, and this election that was both presidential and this election of yours, so to speak, no one's ever given a penny to the National Bank. So if.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u267	Eugene Kirilchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u268	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u269	So, Alexander Mikitovich, Mikolaiovich, I'm asking you, honestly, 4 billion, you know, I'm sorry, well, this is, this is a car of money. What are you to her God, that's all?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u270	Vladimir Semenovich, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u271	Vladimir Seminovich, Eugene Kirilchuk. I have a question for you. Well, first, you explained why the veto came, then the veto. Still, you did not explain what the National Bank Board’s intentions were, whether they were positive about the inflation process or negative? And what's your position that it's influenced, hasn't it affected these inflationary processes? The other one. The Supreme Council has established a monetary corridor for you. How many times have you been out of it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u272	Thank you. So the question here is, according to my personal assessment, which is divided by the National Bank, the Council's decision to return to corridor 5.05, it was just inflationary. By leaving it, we create baseless pressure on business by taking the money away from it. And that means they're going to invest more money on their own. And that means that the wholesale prices of industry and other of the same goods are going to go up, and that goes into consumer prices. That's why we made that decision. I want to say again that yes, that was the main thing. Now the Supreme Council has never set up the National Bank of the Corridor. I never set up the National Bank of the Corridor, and I'm very grateful to her that she understands that this is a very operational issue. It's changing daily and it's actually pre-announced, it's work, so to speak, fruitless. Because the situation changes every day and so on, and it has to take into account barometers, well, you see, and the European currency, as well as the dollar a day, and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u273	Ivan Stojko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u274	Dear Volodymyr Semenovich, strengthening the bracelet, of course, it's a positive thing for the Ukrainians, for the national manufacturer, it's an incentive for imports. But please tell me, once again, did you figure out how much Ukrainian exporters are going to lose? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u275	Thank you. I'd like to say it again, just don't take it that way, this one. I want to tell you how, let's say, an expert, an economist and so on: tell me, what is the question raised by the whole population to encourage exporters? Please tell me what? I can't understand it. And once again, I want to say: The National Bank is neither in the position of exporters.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u276	I'm going to continue for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u277	This is the position of the government. To support exporters, yes, really, if you have to conquer the market with some kind of product and so on, there can be an exchange special course set up, and so on, and so on, that is, fiscal. There's excise, there's customs, and so on, and so on, there are fiscal positions that can stimulate or discourage exporters. Ours. Our, you've adopted the Constitution, the function is the stability of the national currency. That's why we're getting out of this. And that's why I want to tell you that, according to previous data, our actions, if, in fact, we're going to preserve the situation that we are now, we're going to get ahead of ourselves, that is, we haven't given it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u278	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u279	At least three percent. Now, let's count, last year, the population's cash income was 625 billion. That's what I'm talking about last year. And this year's population's money revenue is going to be, well, you see how fast the wages are going to go, and so on, and so on, it's probably going to be 800. That's three percent, at least three percent of that -- it's already 24 billion people, so to speak, the purchasing power.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u280	Alexander Lavrinovich's last.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u281	I'm assigning the right to ask the question to the Mermaid Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u282	Yuri Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u283	Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. Vladimir Semenovich, whatever you say right now, everything you've done is evidence of great unprofessionalism and rulership, and you as heads. I want to tell you that there is an initiative in our faction to prepare a draft decision on mistrust of the leadership of the National Bank of Ukraine. I explain why. First of all, you broke the law. You ignored the decision of the National Bank Board, which vetoed your decisions, and so you see Nazbank as your private firm. You define what you need and what you don't need. It is a government institution, not a separate one. The other one. You said that there's an oversupply of currency, but it's temporary. A negative balance of trade, and you realize that in a few months there will be a reverse process. And that 4 percent.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u284	Let me finish, 10 seconds finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u285	And the 4 percent that you actually changed in a night course is nothing more than speculation. Even if you want to do what you're talking about, it's not done in one moment. Third. A bracelet like a currency, its purchasing power goes down, prices go up. And you're strengthening it. It's also an argument that you're completely unprofessional about your work.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u286	Yuri Romanovich, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u287	You're definitely playing import. And that's obvious to everyone, not even economists. When we passed the Act of Entry into WTO, you understand that you have a negative impact on the development of the Ukrainian economy. And that's going to result not only in the loss of savings, but in general in the negative in the currency. How were you to act? You said that, I conclude that you have to maintain the national currency and its stability. And you know, like no one else, that you would have to participate in the currency market, buy out the surplus currency. But you deliberately didn't start doing it. You deliberately provoked her.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u288	Yuri Romanovich, thank you. Unplug the Myrrhichka microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u289	I got it. Your Honor, I understand that as a member of Parliament, you are entitled to high-level phrases, as it were, to appreciate some work. I would like to say, in matters you do not understand, consult. And listen carefully, and listen carefully to what I have told you. I spoke to Mikola Janovich, answering the questions you asked. I beg you, I don't need to be intimidated by these high-level phrases. Lavrinovich gave you his word, let Lavrinovich look at the legislation where I broke the law? Where I broke the law by vetoing, as it were, the Supreme Council. Would you like to read the law? Let me read the law, sir.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u290	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u291	I'll read the law. And you don't have to, but you're the legislator, so the law should be for you first of all, not the high-level phrases here to play, as it were.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u292	Is there a veto?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u293	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u294	Why Have You Not Done It?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u295	Because we have a veto to consider and overcome. We beat him. That's what the law said. He didn't write unilaterally that the veto was imposed and I had to dance under that veto. Just like you. The president's vetoing, you're overtaking him. That's exactly what it says here. Read your law. Or you start to tell questions here, someone tells you something, and so on. The questions are deeper and far wider, and the losses are nowhere to be found. It's about strengthening the currency. By the way, if you want to import, please tell everyone you're sitting in imports of 70 percent of the critical imports. It's gas, oil, it's know-how, so-called cars. What should be stimulated? So the official rate directly affects the import prices of these scarce goods that we don't have. So you'd have come before, I'd have told you, shown you this, and you're starting to, like, lift me up to the villa.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u296	Vladimir Semenovich, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u297	There's only one thing I know is that if you express your mistrust and I'm taken down, you won't be appointed to the head of the National Bank.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u298	Vladimir Semenovich, thank you. It's just that sometimes it's hot in here, so I would ask that it be only in the economic plane, without any political discussion of the issue that's bothering the state as a whole today, we have to depolize. Vladimir Semenovich, we thank you, we very much respect the independence of the National Bank and the independence of the head of the National Bank. Please sit down. Dear colleagues! There are two choices, we have seven more minutes. So what decision will you make? Who do you want to listen to, or do we finish? Powder? Peter Alexiyovich, Parliament is asking you to stand down. Yes, please, Peter Alexiyovich, half a second, word to Ljovcken Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u299	Thank you, Arseny Petrovich! Dear colleagues! The decision we made this morning was not just about the Central Bank, and not about as much about the Central Bank as about the government of Ukraine, which, in fact, provoked this situation in the currency market from which the Central Bank is now looking for a way out, even in a way that makes Ukraine's economy even more difficult. Now I see that in the cabinet's bed, our government is represented by honorary deputy ministers. Arseny Petrovich! This is my question, why is the government so respectful of the Supreme Council?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u300	I guarantee you that on Tuesday Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik will report on the second part. Since we personally invited him, I was looking for him on the phone, so I understand he's preparing the law that we just passed. So Victor Pinzenik will report, if there is a desire to listen to the intercessors, is there a desire to listen to the intercessors? None. So, Peter Alexiovich, on the rostrum, please. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u301	Dear colleagues! I am delighted to meet many of you for the first time after a long period of work in the Supreme Council. Thank you so much for inviting me. It is a little sad that there is a conflict in the financial institution of the country because money loves silence. But I was commenting yesterday and commenting now, there is no personal conflict between the board of banks and the government. The opposite that has been formed today is an institutional contradiction. We came out of the constitutional task of the National Bank of the State -- this is the stability of the national monetary unit. Stability can be interpreted in two ways. One is the stability of purchasing power. What stability of purchasing power since the beginning of the year in our Ukrainian bracelet, none of you need to explain, you all see that, as a minimum, according to official data, it has fallen more than 13 percent by now. The rest of the positions are stability courses. We're not saying that there should be a fixed course in Ukraine today -- it's impossible, it doesn't correspond to the market ambushes of Ukraine's economy. But the course should be predictable. And this predictability of course, Vladimir Semenovich is absolutely right, there is no legislative corridor, but there is a orientation that you, honourable deputies, have put into the State Budget Act and voted for it. And this orientation is not just for national MPs and government, this orientation for natural persons, for legal persons, for businesses, for exporters, for importers, and this understanding of stability. Now that the Supreme Council is capable of influencing this after adopting changes to the 1996 Constitution. She had previously been obliged by her vote to approve, and this was a higher form of legislative fixation of this orientation. After the changes to the Constitution, these powers were transferred to the newly created Constitutional Authority, the Council of the National Bank. Where they are included, half the council is formed by you, the honourable Parliamentarians of the Council are formed by the President, and its legitimacy is almost below the legitimacy of the Head of the Supreme Council. Its main purpose, in accordance with the National Bank Act, is to approve the basic principles of monetary policy. The basic principles are the main objective of monetary policy in the state. Indeed, it is carried out as a counter-inflation and price stability. I don't appreciate it, it's not the Council's jurisdiction, it's actually, but we haven't considered it, but you know what happens to inflation and I can say that within the limits of its responsibility and within the actions and scales owned by the National Bank, it's really been working to slow down the inflation processes in Ukraine. But the National Bank can't do it on its own without clear coordination with the government on its own to determine and achieve results. At the same time, we may have a negative result, for in connection with the monetary arrangements of the national bank, we may lose our economic growth. And that's why these monetary measures are only possible in clear coordination with the government, and anyway, today we will start and tomorrow others will start. And that's both the adoption of the budget, and the change in budget spending on investment, and that doesn't mean that someone is just going to spend money, because everything is going to lead to inflation, because, for example, a well-known theory of how to form areas of priority development, it might not be tax benefits, but it might be budgeted in a particular area that will be infrastructure, roads, railways, connections, and there will be an investor who will come up with a formed position that you form and offer the market a commodity supply as an anti-inflation measure, and it's budgetary anti-inflation costs, including. So, back to the decision. I'll have another minute, Arseny Petrovich, with your permission. Returning to a decision taken yesterday by the board of the bank, unanimously, I say again, and this confirms that there was no policy at the meeting, except for the voice of the head of the National Bank, who held back. The decision was that for the first time, the National Bank had established an official course that followed the guidelines set by the basic principles of monetary policy, which, in accordance with the National Bank Act, are mandatory for the implementation of the National Bank of Ukraine. The National Bank, more specifically, the government and the legal services treat it differently. So it's not in any way a political contradiction -- it's a contradiction -- whether they were entitled to a regime without changing to the basics, without explaining, and what's going on in the country, to ensure transparency in considering the decision-making procedure at the course. Because the course is a situation on which the vast majority of the population of the state depends. This is what ensures the financial stability of the state. And to this day, no one is encroaching on the authority of the National Bank to set an official course. He can do it without counsel, after consulting the government. But within the framework of the basic principles of politics that you have formed, they are honorable, and they are your representatives. If today the Council is deprived of the possibility of ensuring transparency in the decision-making process. If tomorrow anyone wants to set a course, I really think the functioning and presence of the National Bank Council constitutional body is unjustified. And I am convinced that we must then change legislation and clear these powers from the Supreme Council. We hope we're set up for a very specific collaboration, it can't be that from March of the month, when the course had already begun to break the lower boundary of the basic rules, we had this huge gap, we had this huge break in the manufacturer, we had a beating in the economy, we had to pay off the excess payments at the official rate and we didn't react. Our task was: come, bargain, explain why in terms of a huge trade deficit we are strengthening the course? Because we're not talking about supporting exporters and importers. It's bliss. We speak or we support a national manufacturer, or we support a foreign producer. But this is not a function of the National Bank. It's a function of government, of the National Bank, of Parliament, and it's a policy that needs to be reconciled. So my position is absolutely transparent. We stand in the position that the basic principles of monetary policy, monetary policy, are mandatory for implementation, as enshrined in the law. The argument is that decisions should be made in a transparent and transparent manner. The country must provide a course of stability and order. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-23-m0.u302	Thank you, Peter Alexiovich. Ladies and gentlemen, with your permission as a member of the National Bank Board, I was at the National Bank Council yesterday. Peter Aleksyovich made a clear account of what was going on, but several economic aspects. First question. This year we have raised gold reserves by only one billion dollars. So 33 billion for a country like Ukraine, that's hardly much. The second question. Inflation does not have a classical monetary factor today. So it's not caused by monetary power. There's a whole series of internal fiscal and external fiscal, starting with a food crisis, and ending with an energy crisis. Third block. Exports in Ukraine are increasing at 24 percent and imports at 45 percent. [[28th Last Date]] I mean, you know, we have a permanent breakup. Minus the balance is 4 billion. That's what I'm talking about. In view of this, I will give you just one example: China and the United States have been negotiating trade over the last five years, the maximum they've achieved is the re-evaluation of Yuan by one percent. In the last three years, we have revalued the bracelet by almost 20 percent. So we have, like, an economy that's stronger than Chinese? But the question lies solely in the plane of making decisions. First of all, what I would like to urge everyone not to involve the National Bank in political divisions. There's the National Bank Board, and I'm also addressing the National Bank Board, and to the head of the National Bank, we've never had such excesses before. If the government of the National Bank had submitted to the Board of the National Bank a well-founded proposal for a change in monetary policy, they would have been accepted, and today this would not have happened in the Ukrainian Parliament. So let's go the normal way: Let the Council consider it, we'll settle it as the Council of the National Bank, the Supreme Council can give a proper mandate to the persons elected to the Council of the National Bank by the Ukrainian Parliament, and thus we will settle this issue in accordance with the law without any pressure on the central bank, as it is its prerogative. I think in view of that, we're not making any decisions today, we're just hearing information, we're talking to the National Bank Board, and we're looking at the head of the National Bank to act within and in a manner defined by law, and for the interests of Ukraine. Thank you. The plenary session is closed. Next week.
