ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-21-m0.u1	Good morning, everyone! Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to register. [[10:00:36]] Registered -392 There were 392 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, let's welcome our two colleagues: this is Zebrovsky Paul Ivanovich, with birthday, not yet Paul Ivanovich, true, but we welcome him, and Vadim Vasilovich Kolesnichenko. [[Applause]] We welcome him on his birthday. [[Applause]] Today, Friday, honourable national deputies, is the day of the announcement of requests by Ukrainian national deputies. A request was received from the Ukrainian National Deputies: Victor Turmanov to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the creation of conditions for the stability of coal enterprises and the realization of workers' constitutional rights to pension; Ruslana Knazević to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds for the construction of the "Ternopil-Pidgaitsi-Yvano-Frankivsky" railway branch; Oleg Zarubinsky to the Minister of Fuel and Energy of Ukraine on self-removal of the Ministry of Fuel and Energy of Ukraine from addressing the issue of the cessation of the unlawful actions of the open shareholders association "Vinnicagas" in relation to the labour community with limited responsibility for the manufacturing and commercial enterprise "Technoza"; Roman Zabzaluk to the Minister of Defence of Ukraine for the failure to respond to a parliamentary appeal regarding the improper performance of his duties by officials of the Kiev Housing and Exploitation Authority of the Kiev garrison; Mikoli Shershun to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine on the groundless refusal of the Agatovka health complex and the limited responsibility of the Weselka sanatorium to contract with the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine on the rehabilitation of children affected by the Chernobyl disaster; Olga Bodnar to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the violation of housing rights by a participant in the liquidation of the consequences of the accident at the Chernobyl AES of the first category of Dmitr Bikov; Vasil Kiselov to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the improper investigation of the criminal case of traffic security violations by Ukrainian national deputy Andrey Schlem; Igor Kaletnik to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the investigation of the offence of legislation by the first deputy head of the State Committee on Forestry of Ukraine, Yuri Marchuk; Igor Kaletnik to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the improper performance of official duties by officials of the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine during the consideration of the abuse of Boris Silenkov’s former New York City head. Dear colleagues, requests from national deputies have been announced. There are no other suggestions in the room. I'm moving on to the day-to-day issues. It's a bill. There's someone here who wants to take a break. You can only explain to me what two factions are, because it's not written here. The faction of the Party of the Regions and the faction of Communists ask for a break of 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-21-m0.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, time has run out for a break. I'm requesting a statement from the faction or the Party of the Regions, or the Communist Party of Ukraine. Who's making the application? Another Hermanovna, are you speaking? Please turn on the microphone on on the stand. Another Bogoslovak, a faction of the Party of the Regions, makes a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-21-m0.u3	Fellow citizens, representatives of the Ukrainian people, distinguished Ukrainian people! A party of regions is requesting urgent withdrawal of a contingent of Ukrainian peacekeepers from Kosovo. We insist that the Ukrainian authorities enforce Ukrainian laws both inside the country and abroad. Our boys were sent to Kosovo on the basis of the 99th of July 16 law adopted by the Supreme Council, and I'm going to read you an item that tells you exactly what mission. To approve the President's decree to deploy a peacekeeping contingent to participate in an international peacekeeping operation in Kosovo, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, paragraph 2 of the Act: in order to ensure the safety of Ukrainian peacekeepers, they will not participate in actions that directly threaten their lives, including measures to demilitarize weapons formations. So today, we have a situation with you when our boys are used as "gun meat" in an operation involving NATO troops, "Cafor" led by NATO and our peacekeeping contingents. As a result, our boys have thrown at those Serbs who, on the basis of international law, do not want to recognize Kosovo's single exit from Serbia. Our boys were thrown into a storm by the court building, where people insisted that they be reinstated at the job from which they were illegally released. Our boys were set up by hand with special, artificial designs. This means that our authorities, our Cabinet of Ministers and the Minister of Internal Affairs today are completely incompetent and unable to ensure the enforcement of the law and the interests of Ukrainian officials who are abroad. We demand of the Supreme Council that all those who say they are indeed patriots of Ukraine know that there is no greater patriotism than protecting the lives of our fellow citizens in the world. We have to bring out those who are in hospitals where they don't fit in, 14 of our guys are lying there, they can't wait for surgery on Monday, because they're nobody's business. We have to get them out immediately. We have to get the contingent out. And only then will we sit down from the UN and agree again on what reasons we can start our peacekeeping operations. We believe that those who do not vote in favour of this decision are not patriotic.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-21-m0.u4	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-21-m0.u5	Those who do not vote are not patriots of Ukraine. And then it must be admitted that they serve in an independent Ukraine the interests of foreign, foreign military hawks. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-21-m0.u6	Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, there is a requirement of the faction of the Party of the Regions to bring the Supreme Council's decision to order, and more specifically the Supreme Council's decision on the withdrawal of a peacekeeping contingent from Kosovo, registered number 2258. The "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" faction and the "Julia Timoshenko" faction want to hold appropriate consultations on this issue. And I'm calling a 30-minute break. Here's a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-21-m0.u7	Dear colleagues, we've already done, I'm looking, we're done, we're tired. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to make the next offer to you. The registered draft of Decree 2258. There will be a National Security and Defence Council meeting. I would like to support the next proposal of Parliament's head. I take this ruling 2258 as the position of the faction of the Party of Regions, and I look forward to the position of the majority, namely, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" and "The Block of Yulia Timoshenko." And if Parliament is delegating me, as a member of the National Security and Defence Council, I raise questions about this object in the PNDP. Then we will meet appropriately and make further decisions. This is the requirement of the law today, for it must be that we should work exclusively in the law. Ukraine's Act on Ukraine's Participation in International Peacekeeping Operations is a law, not a decree. Plus, the National Security and Defence Council is the body that makes the right decisions. So I'm going to bring my position to the National Security and Defence Council, the position of one and the other half of Parliament. And then we'll discuss it. How's it going, comrades? Is it accepted? [[B in m in s a l in]] . Don't you take that approach? Yeah. Well, sit down, don't worry, no one will. [[B in m in s a l in]] Turn on the microphone. From the rostrum. Please. Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-21-m0.u8	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues! The order is now multiplying, it will be in the room in just two minutes. I just got off the phone with Zajchuk Valentin Alexandrovich on this. The fact is that we had a recent meeting of the faction council, and given that information, and that the matter has been delayed, and we understand what it is referring to, is that, yesterday, information from the Minister of the Interior was false here on many issues, the faction council is still asking the question of Lucenko's being in office because he had misinformed information reported here yesterday in the Supreme Council Hall. This is related to the lives of people, because those people who took part in the incident yesterday, by the Ukrainian side, were under the leadership of the NATO contingent, not under the leadership of the police force. If we raise legislation, the law by which these people were sent in order to fulfil their official obligations, it was imperative that they should not in any way participate in conflicts that could result in harm to health and danger to their lives. This was the first violation that was committed. The Minister could not help but know, and what he reported here yesterday, in the meeting room of the Supreme Council, false information, once again refers to the person of that person. And we're asking the question of removing him from his post. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-21-m0.u9	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Colleagues, we're going to stand by the rostrum and act like this, or we're going to sit down. We're not gonna sit down, are we? All right. Anatoly Stepanovich Grizenko. Please make a statement from "Our Ukraine People's Self-Defense."
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-21-m0.u10	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, distinguished colleagues, I would like to make a statement on the project that was put in place and on how we can better organize our work. Well, first of all, the project that was put in place, the recall of our contingent, cannot be supported, at least for the reason that it has nothing to do with the mission that we're talking about right now. Now there are two Ukrainian units in Kosovo. First unit of the Armed Forces, which is a contingent under the Peacemaking Act. He's headed there by a decision of the Supreme Council, he's acting under NATO command, there's nothing wrong. Our second unit is the Department of Internal Affairs. These are personnel, this is a completely different category, according to the Peacemaking Act. It is sent there as part of a UN mission, the United Nations. And it's being sent in accordance with the same law by the President's decree, by the President of Ukraine after considering this issue at the PNB meeting. So these are two totally different units and the unit where our officer was killed, these are the personnel and he is operating in the United Nations mission. That's the first one. The numbers are both there and there, roughly the same, about 180 people. I would like to say that today there will be a meeting of the National Security and Defence Council, which in due course made recommendations to the President to send these personnel. The president is in charge, there are all the ministers who are responsible. We believe that we need to give the possibility of an RNB, and that the Head of the Ukrainian Parliament, who has also heard everyone here, can express his point of view. If necessary, it may be possible to invite national MPs at the PNB meeting to consider the matter in a comprehensive manner. And to give the opportunity and right to anyone who is authorized under our law to resolve this issue, namely, the President of Ukraine with regard to personnel, to make the appropriate decision. I can add by myself that the Supreme Council should make very responsible and balanced decisions, not impulsive decisions. The tragedy that our soldier died, the tragedy that the UN operation was so futilely carried out, because the operation that wounded more than 100 of the four personnel who participated there: both French, Polish, Romanian, and Ukrainian, is a free operation, which should be held accountable. The second question to be asked was that of the minister of the interior yesterday. There is such a formal document, the rule of combat collision, or English. This is a document that clearly defines the conditions, possibilities or non-use of weapons in response to threats and so on. Obviously, this document should be seriously reviewed. And we need to get an answer to the question whether these rules of combat have been met, and do they allow these rules of combat to protect our soldiers, in this case, on the line of the Ministry of Internal Affairs? And I would also like to say that impulsive decisions, they will question the general predictability of our nation and they will overturn everything that has been done there for many years, for which we are very grateful. See, today during this period, perhaps nearly a hundred people have died on Ukraine’s roads, but we do not later ban the movement on our roads. It's a tragedy, I repeat, we need to draw all the conclusions so that it doesn't happen again. But such decisions cannot be made. I can remind you that in 2005, when the political decision was made to get our troops out of Iraq, we did this, unlike the Spanish and others who have done so over the course of the year, gradually, no one was lost, and for that we are grateful to both the Iraqi government and the leadership of the province of Vasilyd and the coalition forces. We must be responsible. And once again, don't cross out all the work that was. In summary, let's give the Council a chance to work today, and the PNB will determine that they have the authority to do so, and let the President who ordered the staff there under the law make the right decision. Then the Council can consider it and react accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-21-m0.u11	Thank you. Who would like to make a statement, please? Are you German? Did Nestor Ivanovich first? After Nestor Ivanovich Boris Ivanovich; after Boris Ivanovich Inna Hermanovna Okay. Please, Nestor Ivanovich. And then the factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-21-m0.u12	Dear colleagues! As one of the authors of the decision, I want to make it clear that we insist on the withdrawal of both troops and Ukrainian personnel from Kosovo. Yesterday, who had the opportunity to watch "1+1" saw an operational shot where our boys were, by the way, completely armed with grenades. Because some said that our boys had only a pair of sticks and they were doing the right mission. They were armed with AK rifles and were bombarded with grenades. We did yesterday. They're throwing grenades. And everyone had the opportunity to see it. For four hours now, as we are told, our sons were not given a clear command on what to do. And they were bombarded all the time. One of our citizens died. You know how many wounded. During this incident, Serbs were killed and injured. As for what I voted on, note the point of the law, where it was clearly forbidden for our boys to take part in any hostilities, or in any action that threatens their lives. Yes, we assumed that we should help the country of Serbia against marauders, against gangs of formations. And to share in the clash between the nations, where there are different reasons and motives for this collision, we did not consent. And you know that this is a gross violation, just like the lie that we're told that NATO needs to control everything. So this operation was conducted under the leadership of NATO, but for some reason it's embarrassing to talk about e right now, because a person died. Dear colleagues, I want to remind everyone in 2004 and 2005. Then, under very difficult political conditions, the Supreme Council of Ukraine came together to bring our children back from Iraq. I want to remind you of the conflict at Tuzla Island. Then we all put aside our political preferences, and about 400 votes condemned the action around Kos Tuzla. And about 400 votes were devoted to bringing our children back from Iraq. Today, political conditions will not allow you to vote for our sons to return home. I hope that I can understand at least this. We have sons with you and let us bring our children home, which means they are used there as “smoker meat”. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-21-m0.u13	Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk, please. I ask that we give Boris Ivanovich three minutes at the most.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-21-m0.u14	I would like to remind you that our boys were sent to Iraq in 2003. When there were questionable reasons for the mission and those boys were sent to the government of Yanukovich and President Kuchma. It's about taking care of our boys. The other one. I just got acquainted with the decision, with the draft decision, and you know, I'm sorry that these illiterate drafts are prepared on behalf of the largest faction. What kind of contingent is this? It's a difficult decision to understand from this project. Whether it is a police force in the interim administration of the UN mission in Kosovo or a contingent of Ukrainian military personnel in the Ukrainian-Polish battalion. So this needs to be clarified, because there are different decisions, these are two different peacekeeping operations. In this situation, I'm very concerned that the tragedy, the tragedy of the death of our one militiaman, the officer, they're used for political speculation. There is no need to mix sin with the unrighteous. You don't have to say it was said yesterday on behalf of the faction of the Regions that NATO is guilty of this. NATO has nothing to do with this. You'll be screaming elsewhere, at the market. You'll be yelling at the market. I also want to say that there are 115 Ukrainian militias and 40 members of the film crew. That is, only 155 are part of the UN mission to Kosovo. This mission is carried out in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution 1244 of 1999. No UN member country has spoken or questioned this Resolution. So our guys are legitimate. During sixteen years of operations, 31,700 military and police personnel participated in United Nations peacekeeping operations. On the UN line, 47 plus 1 - 48 died, 24 died in UN-line operations, only 9 of them died as a result of hostilities, 14 of them being suicides, mistreatment of weapons, and traffic accidents. In 2000, the Ukrainian Armed Forces in Ukraine killed 154 military personnel for various reasons. I've given these numbers to keep my arguments calm in business.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-21-m0.u15	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-21-m0.u16	And they didn't turn this situation into political speculation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-21-m0.u17	Another German of God’s Word. After Inna Hermanovna's colleague Zibenko. After Zibenko Volodymyr Mikhailovich Litwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-21-m0.u18	The venerable Ukrainian community, unfortunately, has become the norm of behavior and of the ruling coalition, and of the government of Ukraine, and of the active authorities. Now you've been told that NATO has nothing to do with this operation, and yesterday our great specialist, expert, interior minister, even in his press conference said that if there was NATO, there would be no such bad situation, there would be no corpses. So here, ladies and gentlemen, along with our boys who were made gun meat, they were taking part in a court-martialed operation. These are the armies, the United Nations military under the leadership of NATO, they were the NATO military who ran this operation, who doesn't know, please shut up. Secondly, Your Honor, here I was told with such pride Mr. Kulikov that he and Lucenko went to Kosovo and saw there. Ladies and gentlemen, you've gone on a field trip! You were supposed to bring those guys who are in the hospital and no one's fit! You must not be here to tell everyone that only one person has died! Dear ones, how much you need, whether you have a conscience or not!? We did not send the Ukrainians to oppose Serbia's illegally allocated Serbs and Albanians. We didn't send them, we sent them back in '99 to keep them quiet in Yugoslavia. You're throwing our boys against the Slavs, against the Orthodox! Do you have a conscience?Oh, my God! Ask the Minister of Interior on what grounds, without agreement with Ukraine, our sector has been changed, it is not the Ukrainian sector! We should not have performed any operations in this sector! Our boys were set up, our boys weren't allowed to use guns for four hours, they were thrown at! They're our sons now. My daughter now 27, this could be her husband, this is our responsibility with you! And what you serve as political prostitutes, NATO's interests, is a shame to the country! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-21-m0.u19	Zybenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-21-m0.u20	Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! You know, I'd like to start my short speech with a line. Mr. Gritsenko urged us to be balanced. I support this call. But I would like us to be balanced not only when we ask questions about the withdrawal of our military contingents but also when we send them. Because I, on behalf of the faction that for sending no military officer, a Ukrainian citizen outside Ukraine did not vote, I declare that we did not send! Then let us be responsible when we send. The other one. The second thing I wanted to say. Yesterday, the minister of the interior of this rostrum proudly stated that an officer of the military, a representative of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, had perished, think about it, in the area of responsibility of another country, with pride stressed. People are good! So, what, our military man died in another town? Next. You know, many of our troubles today are because we have a very short memory. Our own story, unfortunately, teaches us nothing. Those of the national deputies who are not elected for the first time may remember what golden mountains from this rostrum were promised when they sent our peacekeepers to a particular region, such as Kuwait, Iraq, and so on, and so on, that they would serve as barbers, bathrobes, janitors, and no fighting will ever occur, and no hair from the head of a Ukrainian military officer will fall. Little will happen as soon as our military contingents are in the Middle East, Ukraine will immediately receive all kinds of benefits in the form of oil, gas, purchases of infrastructure, and so forth. Now let's see what's left over. And in the dry leftover, 18 graves were brought to Ukraine from Iraq. Whose interests were protected by these young boys who died there? Which mother can explain the big politics if she lost her child outside Ukraine. So, dear colleagues, I'm a balanced approach, but I'm balanced when we're heading. So the decision that's made, it's timely, there's a problem, there's a problem that needs to be solved, so we don't have to be embarrassed tomorrow. You know, I'm absolutely sure Sean Carr isn't, you know who I'm talking about, and Andrew Yushchenko isn't going to be in Iraq or any other region where they're shooting or shooting, and our kids are going to be there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-21-m0.u21	Vladimir Litwin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-21-m0.u22	Dear colleagues, we seem to have developed a new form of work for the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a rally. So let us, on behalf of the faction, lead to your knowledge of our vision of this situation. First of all, I would like to say that our coalition colleagues, who did not agree on a peremptory mandate, from the nature of natural monopolies, were very pleased to raise the issue about Kosovo, and they thank us for blocking the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. That's the first one. The other one. Dear colleagues, let us take a serious approach to this issue. Following the declaration of Kosovo’s independence, new realities have emerged in the world, realities that directly affect Ukraine’s national interests. So I am convinced that we need to move away from the emotions that dominated us yesterday when the minister was informed. We must now plan and vote on the decision to hold a debate at the next plenary session on the position of the Ukrainian State with regard to the declaration of Kosovo's independence. Listen to the Foreign Minister's report, the Defense Minister, the Security Service, the General Intelligence Directorate, and we have information, we've made a request from the faction, and we've received information that the situation there is extremely difficult, that there is prejudice against Ukrainian citizens in the personnel. And we must not bury our heads in the sand and say that the declaration of Kosovo's independence cannot be but a precedent, as the Ukrainian authorities wish, this precedent will strike Ukraine dangerously. Let's talk about the Crimea problem, let's talk about the revitalization of so-called political Russia, and let's think about how this will respond to Ukraine. And one more moment. Since there is prejudice against Ukrainian personnel, and the Security Service provides such information, the involvement of Ukrainian peacekeepers in efforts to stabilize the situation in the region has caused a deterioration in the treatment of Kosovo Serbs. In addition, there is tension in the relationship between Ukrainian peacekeepers and local Albanian police who are trying to manage the actions of Ukrainian peacekeepers. So the conclusion is: we have to listen to this issue seriously as the Supreme Council of Ukraine, except that there will be a meeting of the National Security and Defence Council, and we need to take a national decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, first, on Ukraine's attitude towards the declaration of Kosovo's independence and second, on our participation in those processes that are taking place in the Balkans, particularly in Kosovo. I'm sure.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-21-m0.u23	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-21-m0.u24	We'll decide that we don't have to act like cannonballs. But this should be a serious, weighty decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So far, we've got emotions. Emotion is half the case, we need to make a serious decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-21-m0.u25	One minute: Chechtev and Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-21-m0.u26	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense”. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now being proposed to draft Supreme Council Order No. 2258. I stress that we have the Act on Ukraine's Participation in International Peacekeeping Operations. The law, which in article seven provides that the question of the withdrawal of peacekeeping contingents and peacekeeping personnel -- also this notion, namely, that of personnel now, rather than of contingents -- is taken into account by the President of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, whether agreed by the Ministry of Defence or at the proposal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It's a requirement of law. That's the first one. The other one. I'd like us to discuss these issues on the profiling committees, so that we have conclusions and information, because such questions are not solved on our knees. And, dear friends, we sent troops to the territory of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. There's no such state now. With this in mind, let us ask Arsenius Petrovich at the Security Council to raise a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-21-m0.u27	Please, Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-21-m0.u28	Dear friends, the tragedy in Kosovo is a consequence of the ostrich policy of our leadership, a country which, in the interests of Ukraine, had to condemn immediately what had happened in Kosovo. But as a bottle under NATO's bell, they hid their heads in the sand. And here's the investigation we got. Second. The situation in Kosovo has shown that we need NATO as a meatball, we need two Slavs, Serbs and Ukrainians, and, more strategically, we need to hit our heads with Russian and Ukrainians. That's what we need to see and understand. The Party of the Regions declares that we will not leave this rostrum until it is decided to withdraw our troops from Kosovo, our boys. We won't let a drop of blood spill. If that makes no difference to the leadership of the country, we do not. We'll stand to the last. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-21-m0.u29	Dear fellow countrymen of Ukraine! Allow me to make a statement to the Head of Parliament on this point. I know the situation in Kosovo not on paper, but I personally visited Kosovo as Ukraine's foreign minister. And I would like to tell you that we should be proud of our military and our police contingent in Kosovo. A better attitude in Kosovo than our contingent is difficult to find. We had a great tragedy. Not only is it the tragedy of a family where a soldier died but it is the tragedy of a nation and a state, but the state should be proud of having such heroes. And once again, I urge you not to stomp on the bones of a hero, a hero who died in a military operation. Third. As far as the legal part is concerned. The so - called request for the operation did not come from NATO, but the request came from the central office of the head of the special peacekeeping operation of the United Nations Mission in Kosovo. I would like to point out that this issue must be addressed on the National Security and Defence Council. At 12 o'clock, there's a PNB meeting. In accordance with the Ukrainian Act on Ukraine's participation in international peacekeeping operations, this decision is taken by the President of Ukraine on the basis of the relevant decision of the National Security and Defence Council. And I ask the Ukrainian National Deputies to allow Parliament's head to hold meetings of the National Security and Defence Council in an appropriate position, both the factions of the Party of the Regions and the majority, to inform the relevant will of the Ukrainian Parliament and the individual factions. Then at a meeting of the Conciliation Council, which will take place on Monday, we will decide on the formation of the agenda, based on the issues raised, starting with Ukraine's participation in the relevant peacekeeping operation and ending with questions of recognition of the independence of one country or another. I would like to point out that recognition of the independence of one country or another is solely the prerogative of the President of Ukraine. As far as Kosovo and Serbia are concerned. Then I can only express my own position that to this day UN Security Council Resolution 1244 is valid. In view of this, I ask the national deputies to make the following decision. As Head of Parliament, I hold a National Security Council meeting. I'm informing the National Security Council. Just as the hall is blocked, it is not possible to do any further work. Then we meet at the Conciliation Council and decide accordingly. Thank you. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, is that an offer accepted? Do you want to vote? I put the question of delegation to the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Quiet. What about inclusion, comrades? Do you want to include a notoriously unconstitutional act? Tell me, do you checkers, excuse me, or do you want to go? Do we want to pursue political populism or make a constitutional and legal decision? I propose a second option: a constitutional and legal solution. Is that why you don't insist on voting? No, it's not. Don't you insist on voting? No, it's not. I declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council closed. I'll see you in the next plenary week. Thank you.
