ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u1	Good morning, everyone! Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, I ask you to register. [[10:01:41]] There were 385 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Colleagues, today we have three jewellers, and let's welcome our colleagues: Bebazenko Valerius Fedorovich, welcome to his birthday, Karakai Yuri Vasilovich, and to Chernomorov Aleksandra Mikolaiovich Juvile – 55 years old, let's welcome Alexander Mikolaiovich. Dear colleagues, today is also the banker's day, so I'd like to welcome all the bankers in this room and the entire hall, because they're all customers of the banks. So we welcome all bankers, colleagues. So this whole hall is going to go up, all 450, or all the bankers. Ladies and gentlemen, we begin our consideration of matters of order of the day. We now have 30 minutes to perform by authorized factions. I'm asking you to sign up for the factions. Before the talk, I would like to share the good news. You know, the authority of the Ukrainian Parliament is growing not only inside the country, it's also growing outside. He read the Herald Tribune on Wednesday, if the whole world is writing about global problems, then on the third page of this paper a huge picture of the Ukrainian Parliament with a short inscription, “The Power Coalition has banned the speech of the President-in-chief.” This is the result of our work. Alexandrovska, please. Zybenko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u2	Fellow citizens of Ukraine, respected veterans of the Great Homeland War! Although there are good reasons for being late, I must say what I am going to say. All of us are obviously still impressed by the celebration of the 63rd anniversary of the Great Victory over Fascism, we have to realize that this event is really a major celebration not only of our country, but of humanity as a whole, because everything that has reached humanity over the next 60 years has been derived from the great heroic and yet extremely difficult victory over fascism. And then without this event, without this victory, everything else just didn't happen. And so today, on behalf of the Communist faction, I would like once again to bow low to war veterans, direct creators and architects of the Great Victory from private to general, for this glorious, heroic, main cause of their lives. If you, the venerable veterans, had done only one thing in your life — overcome Hitler’s fascism, that too would be enough to remain forever grateful to the descendants. Thankfully, you have done much more. Thank you for all this. And then I'm forced to talk about things that aren't really festive. It is known that the level of civilisation of society is determined by the level of self - feeling of veterans and children. May holidays and, in particular, the celebration of Victory Day have shown us that Ukraine is to a civilization, to a civilized society as to Berlin on foot. How were the veterans honored as they prepared for the Day of the Great Victory, and how were they finally celebrating? Let us begin with the fact that on the day of the festival on April 23, veterans instead of dedicating themselves. to maintain their holiday costume, to clean up the battle prizes they had to take care of in the rain of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, insisting on the preservation of the pitiful social benefits that the government intended to cancel on May 1. In this way the authorities evidently honored the veterans before the day of the Great Victory. The Ministry of Defense of Ukraine, which was not found, to be more precise, did not want to find four dozen U.S. cars to drive veterans through Khrestetics, as envisaged by one of the holiday scenarios. What about the ocular ascension to Victory Day? I saw only a few welcome virgins walking through the streets and squares of the city of Kiev, while the text of the greetings on them referred to the sad “Hero of Fame!” with a corresponding subtext regarding who it was addressed to. And here are images of the candidates for the city of Kiev's head in a variety of calibres and varying degrees of complacency, but the eyes are getting dizzy. I'm not talking about the actions of the President of Ukraine anymore. During Mr. Yushchenka's presidency, I had a strong belief that the highest official of the state was coming to the celebration of the Great Victory only to injure the veterans of the frontalists, rescuers of humanity, with a disgraceful comparison of them with the soldiers of the UPA. To what blasphemy, to which disdain do war veterans need to be reached in order to attribute the name of the hero of Ukraine to a bloody Fascist crucifix, rewarded with two iron crosses?Oh, my God! In view of what has been said, I am absolutely convinced that many war veterans mentioned the famous words of the famous song on these holidays: "It is a holiday with tears in its eyes." But it was not with joy and pride that was mentioned, but with sadness and despair. I would like to stress once again that as long as the Supreme Council of Ukraine has a faction of communists, there are people who are willing to protect our older generation and their heroic traditions, we will do everything we can to make this man, the veteran frontist, our society, feel protected, the way our society appreciates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u3	Kinakh Anatoly Kirilovich, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u4	Honorable National Deputies, distinguished compatriots! On May 16, Ukraine became a member of the World Trade Organization. This is certainly a chance for our nation to accelerate integration into world economic space under conditions that meet the national interests of Ukraine. At the same time, there is a very serious negative socio-economic situation and trends that undermine Ukraine's specific economic capacity and the well-being of our citizens. The government failed to implement the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and failed to submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a monthly programme to adapt the Ukrainian economy to the terms of the World Trade Organization. At the same time, the accession to a large number of sectoral agreements, in general the very sharp downs in customs tariffs, has led to the threat of loss of position in a huge number of sectors, starting with agribusiness, food, textiles, automobiles, and so on. At the same time, the socio-economic policies of our state, including the 2008 State Budget, have become projects to finance other political adventures, and all socio-economic development parameters have been sharply reduced. A few days ago, the International Institute of Management conducted a study of the competitiveness of 55 nations in the world, where Ukraine gained 54 seats. The inflation rate for the first four months of this year of consumer prices is 13.1 percent, the highest level in the last 12 years. Similar high inflation rates in the industry, which have grown to about 20 percent in four months. At the same time, in fact, when the price of oil in world markets rises to $125 per barrel, Ukraine is in fact severely reducing the processing of oil in its own territory and becoming a hostage of an external conjuncture that is immediately reflected in the prices of petroleum products in the internal market, which are rising sharply. We basically destroyed all the directions that relate to energy conservation, energy efficiency, which, in turn, will dramatically reduce the position of our manufacturers in both internal and external markets. The physical and moral distribution of the core funds reaches 60-70 percent, and in the parameters of the current so-called food policy, in fact, the ruined development budgets of both the central levels and the local budgets. And innovative policies, accelerated depreciation, incentives. profit is essentially ruined. It's very important that all of these begin to be affected very negatively by the banking situation. Due to the uncoordinated activities of the Government and the National Bank of Ukraine, there is a sharp increase in the cost of loans in Ukraine, the rate of refinancing of the National Bank has increased to 12 percent, and some expert conclusions suggest that the value of credit resources may be up to 20 percent by the end of the year, which practically isolates our producers from their access. Similarly, the agro-industry complex, the requirement to cancel the zero VAT rate, is not reinforced by adequate actions to create alternative sources of state support for the agrarian sector, which will in fact undermine the position of our producers in the internal and external markets. Standardization and certification. There is a growing threat to the life and health of our citizens. And the tragedy of vaccination on the fly confirms how severely our citizens have fallen in quality control, according to the quality of our citizens' consumption. And this should also be a separate program that should affect these issues. And to the end. These problems, which are now found in the statement of the Party of Regions, are the pain of a large number of representatives of business, industry, enterprise in the country, and we demand immediate action on these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u5	Xenia Lapina, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense."
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, I would also like to welcome at the beginning of the presentation 250,000 banking staff, who today have a professional holiday. It's not just the day of the banker, that's the owner of the bank, it's first of all the day of the employee that provides our own circulation of the Ukrainian economy. They are not working at a simple time today. I must say that the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" is very concerned about the economic situation in Ukraine. We see that crisis phenomena are not yet overpowered, and some of the moments are even getting worse. We see that unfortunately, the government has not yet found effective methods of overcoming inflation. We see that there is an increasing use of non-marketable, manual methods. We can't help but worry. Because we are convinced, just as it was in the resolution part of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which has recently, literally, been conducting its meetings, recommending systemic action and conducting economic reforms. These are not empty words. Short - term inflation can be overcome through some non - market methods. But it can affect Ukraine in such a way that it simply loses its perspective. And you can't assume that either. We are convinced that today is the time for the leadership of the government and the coalition factions to put together their efforts, not around internal fighting and internal strife or blocking the rostrum against the President's intervention, but around the resolution of systemic reform. They are required by the World Trade Organization, which requires time. Unfortunately, we do not yet see any proposals for economic reforms coming out of our government. I would like to point out that manual methods, such as the quota of grain or the quota of oil exports, that actually continue the manual methods of the Janukovic government, are not acceptable to our government. I'm convinced and we're asking the government to stop doing that, to remove quotas from grain and oil exports. We're seeing predictions that we're going to have a good crop of grains. We know that today, in fact, huge remains remain in storage. What does this lead to? After a short period of time, which was left before the harvest began, it was quite difficult to remove the leftovers. This requires serious logistics. And the remainder, if they stay at the warehouses, will mean that we're not actually going to be able to keep a new crop. This is a serious problem. We focus on the leadership of our government that this problem needs to be solved urgently, that time is no longer available. The second thing we wanted to say about privatization is that we also need to have a systemic approach. We are pleased that the government has submitted a privatization programme. We are convinced that this is exactly what we expected of the government. We want to look at this program, we want to adopt it, and we want to have a systematic approach to further privatization. Only this approach can really help to heal the economic situation, not the situational decisions that have been made in principle — now the cost is needed and the grass is not growing. In general, we believe that the only thing we have in common is the coalition, the cessation of the search for the guilty, the cessation of the transfer of responsibility to certain conditional external enemies, just the search for real causes of inflation. And once again, systemic reforms in the economic sphere, such as regulation, such as the introduction of market management methods, will only actually lead to a recovery of the situation in Ukraine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u7	Andrew Kožemiakin, “The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. ”
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u8	Dear Head, voters, distinguished colleagues, on May 16, our country became a full member of the World Trade Organization. This poses a very serious challenge to the whole country and to the President, before us, the deputies, to which we are obliged to react immediately. Especially considering that Ukraine is now experiencing a very difficult economic and especially political period. There are, of course, objective external factors that trigger negative trends in Ukraine: the global economic crisis, the global problem of food shortages, and the global increase in energy resources. But with the introduction to the WTO, we are fully in the global context of events and processes. That's why our duty to the state and to society is to consolidate the efforts of all the political forces represented in the Ukrainian Parliament, to stop disunity and to do everything possible to ensure that we get out of inflation as quickly as possible, to protect our society from the effects of negative external factors, to establish a systematic foundation for further economic prosperity. This is especially true of the political forces that formed the coalition. We must unite our efforts, legally strengthen the government so that it can effectively implement state programs and protect Ukrainian society. To do this, we have everything we need: we have a coalition, we have a coalition agreement, which clearly contains laws that need to be adopted first. What do we have instead? During the entire coalition cabinet of ministers, political speculations are being heard constantly about the abolition of government initiatives, incomprehensible accusations against the government of Timoshenko. All of these things have only increased and exacerbated the economic crisis and fueled the tensions in society. Obviously, this was not enough, and we witnessed an open attack on the government of Timoshenko. Yes, the BUT faction supports the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and the government stops the corruption of the President's immediate environment, which has sought to privatise the military town. In response, criminal cases are opened against government members who are conducting a pre-election programme of political forces that have formed a coalition and are supporting the government. Telescreens are constantly echoing allegations of the need to fight corruption, and in practice the Attorney General’s Office has not revealed any corruption. Corruption was the most affected by privatization when the country’s most profitable objects were distributed in the pockets of its family and loved ones. Today, we need to talk not only about changing the management of the holding fund, but about drawing on the criminal responsibility of Mrs. Seminouk-Samsonenko for both the corruption of state property and the complete failure of the privatization programme for which she was responsible. Over the past two years, government programs have been implemented by only a few percent, and the privatization of state property objects has been carried out on opaque corruption grounds, resulting in the loss of strategic objects. Only words and beautiful slogans declare the fight against corruption, and the corrupt crimes of high - ranking officials who embezzle state property are not investigated. And against those who stand up for the state’s position, criminal cases are opened, blackmailed, persecuted, and tried to transfer responsibility. As a result of these actions, fiscal policies are being destroyed, leading to a reduction in government programmes. Yes, today, by blocking privatization processes, the state budget has not received 9 billion dollars, which is the cost of helping regions to protect the population. At the same time, for inexplicable reasons, the President has blocked not only the decision to privatize, but also the personnel change and the direct right of the Cabinet of Ministers to verify and order the holding fund. That is why we demand the immediate resignation of Seminouk-Samsonenko, the fulfilment of coalition obligations and agreements, and the cessation of the “breaking” of corrupts at the holding fund and the President's Secretariat. The state’s natural resources have been extremely alarming, and they are not only part of the Ukrainian people, but they belong to our descendants. That is why in recent years Ukraine’s independence, the largest crime has been the transfer of the most powerful, most promising Black Sea and Azov Sea shelf to offshore companies registered in the Virgin Islands with a statutory capital of $12,000. The government returned the shelves to the state by cancelling the humiliating corrupt agreements that betray Ukraine’s national interests. At the same time, on May 19, at the National Security and Defence Council, the President's initiative was to take a decision that required a renewed transfer of the Black Sea and Azov Sea shelf, strategically important to our nation's resources, to the property of an unknown offshore company. “The Yulia Tymoshenko bloc considers this act to be a fact of unscrupulous corruption and confirms the involvement of high-ranking people in criminal schemes. The Yulia Timoshenko faction in the Supreme Council requires the immediate establishment of an investigation commission to investigate the transfer of Ukrainian strategic stocks to Van. And I would like to conclude by reminding you that in 2002, during the parliamentary elections, at that time, the candidate for the national deputies of Viktor Andrievich Yushchenka, was an electoral slogan.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u9	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u10	Today, unfortunately, we are forced not to say words and good intentions, but the real actions of the President and his environment, aimed not only at the destruction of the democratic coalition, but rather at questioning the successful democratic development of Ukraine. Our main task, honourable deputies, these good intentions that we speak of in this rostrum, all the fervent promises that voters make to live by real action. We have always longed for this and have done our utmost today. I hope for understanding and support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u11	Vladimir Mihajlovich Litvin, “Block Lithuania”. Please, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u12	Dear Head, distinguished national deputies, as we speak. We're talking about political divisions in the middle of power between the President, between the government, between the factions in the Supreme Council. Dear colleagues, this is not good for people. Like you, I was on weekends and yesterday in Western Ukraine, in the Ternopil and Plains to ask how people view what is happening in Ukrainian politics and in the environment of Ukrainian politicians. They're all totally disrespecting each other. That's the first one. And the second. People are disappointed, people live with fear that tomorrow will be like living on a six hundred dollar pension. I'm not going to throw a pearl, especially when there's no one to throw it in front of. People ask how to live on such pay and how to provide treatment. It's a good thing they're taking a break in the political opposition that there's no blocking, but that shows that they're tired and that there's a process of regrouping the political forces. Therefore, we believe that, honourable colleagues, we need to stop any political debate, we need to bring about a review of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and adopt the 2008 Economic and Social Development Programme, as required by the Constitution of Ukraine, on which everyone swears, we need to make changes to the 2008 budget and not talk about the next mythical anti-inflationary laws, to the extent that they have already refused, we need to adopt those laws that we are proposing in part of the wages for the hourly wage of work, the share of wages in the cost of production, and in this way increase people's security, create conditions for the development of the internal market, we need to give an adequate answer to the challenges facing Ukraine today. Dear colleagues, we must stop pushing Ukraine into another fight! Dear colleagues, we must stop forcing Ukraine to go to the early elections, beginning with the city of Kiev, Kharkiv, Lviv and other cities! People don't support that position at all. That's why we're proposing and demanding, and we're saying that our proposal remains in force that we should hold a special meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, with the participation of the President, the government, the heads of local authorities and, of course, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and discuss openly, in principle, the responsible economic, social and political state of the country here in the Supreme Council, not send a welcome to one another through television in the plan of political accusations. Next. We need to define clearly the tasks, not the programmes that are needed, but the social and economic development that we need to consider, other programmes do not need, the tasks that the Supreme Council, the Cabinet of Ministers and the President of Ukraine will first decide. I am convinced that it will be in the process of practical work that we see how responsible we are for the commitments we made during the electoral campaign, and about which we are so generously talking about right now on all the boards, posters in Kiev. Because I'm convinced how to take it all off, put it on the Kiev roads, we would, in fact, have European roads in Kiev for the costs spent on elections in Kiev. We need to stop this political billing and make the decisions I've told you about. And we insist that this week's wage laws be reviewed, and the results of the voting under these laws are published in the newspaper Voice of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u13	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the day-to-day issues. I'd like to remind you that we have 16 government bills on schedule for today. You and I at the Conciliation Council made a decision. Any bill that the government insists on include and consider immediately. Thus, if we work quickly today, we will be able to complete the agenda with the adoption of the corresponding 16 acts introduced by the Government of Ukraine. I'm asking you, let's take a quick look at the personnel stuff and go over the relevant bills. Alexander Sergiyovich, 2479 decree. Please turn on the microphone of Ephraim. 2479 is Konovaluku's ruling. Will you be from the rostrum, Alexander Sergiyovich? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u14	Dear Arseny Petrovich, committee of 14 January, reviewed the statement made by national deputy Konovluk Valeri Ilić, a member of the Party of the Regions’ MP for his election as a member of the Committee on Health and Relief from the duties of a member of the Committee on Budget Affairs. The calculated quota for the Party of the Regions’ MPs on the committee is six, and the Health Committee has three national deputies working from this faction. The committee decided to support the statement made by the Ukrainian national deputy, Konovaluk Valeri Ilić, and to make an appropriate draft decision for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Project number 2479. Please support the committee's decision on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u15	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Dear colleagues, the draft of Decree 2479 on the Conciliation Council yesterday, at the request of the head of the Bachelor Committee, we considered it. Is there no denying that we should vote on the basis and generally in favour of the decree? Is there a denial? There's already a denial of the NS. Please sign in, if you have any objection, for three minutes. Karpuk Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u16	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense". Ladies and gentlemen, there is a general situation in which the Health Committee has long been considered secondary. There is now a need for adoption of extremely important laws to protect the health of the bill, primarily about mandatory public health insurance and other bills that would actually allow the package to reform health care. We have this practice, both in the fifth and sixth convocations, that the committee, in order to create the majority, is involved in nonprofessionals who do not have medical education, who simply vote for the wishes that Tetjana Dmitrovna Bacheviv’s committee chairman has for them. Therefore, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" will not support this proposal and generally opposes such practices if non-professionals are involved in the committees.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u17	Roman Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u18	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, Vladimir Karpuk has already voiced the faction’s position; I do not need to repeat it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u19	No more objections? Colleagues, I am putting to the vote the issue of the adoption of Decree 2479, and once again, I propose to accept it as a basis and, as a whole, for Konovluk Valerij Ilić, by electing him as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Health, freeing him from the duties of a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Affairs. Please vote. [[10:33:17]] For 260 Decision taken. Please show by factions. Let's move on to the next question. Dear colleagues, the next question is the Labour Code. To carry out your assignment, I have asked the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to interpret the position of the Government of Ukraine regarding the adoption of the Labour Code in the first reading. I'm reporting. The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine supports the bill. The letter to the faction leaders is distributed. The Ministry of Economy of Ukraine conceptually supports the bill. Ukraine’s Ministry of Finance conceptually supports the bill. Yesterday, at a faction leaders meeting on the Conciliation Council, we agreed to put to the vote the issue of adopting the bill as a basis and, in accordance with the requirements of the Provisional Rules, to continue twice the deadlines for preparing the relevant bill for second reading with the involvement of all experts, including the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I'd like to remind you that you and I have considered this bill in full procedure. There was a difficult discussion, and there is, in principle, support for all to vote and adopt an appropriate bill as a basis. Is there a desire to make a statement on the matter, colleagues? Yes. Three minutes. Please sign up. Mikhailo Kosov. Butt.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u20	Mikhailo Kossov, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, Party “Reforms and Orders”. We've really been very actively discussing this bill and very well, Arsenija Petrovich, that you've turned to the Ministry of Education and there are the conclusions of the experts from these ministries who are proposing to adopt the bill in the first reading. But it really needs to be accepted in the first reading, because there are other points that are not foreseen in the bill, they should at least be clarified. And the last. There is no doubt that living without a Labour Code in a country like Ukraine is still impossible. It seems to me that we have remained one of the European countries that does not regulate its social activities by legislative acts. Let us therefore vote for the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u21	Thank you. Vladimir Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u22	Vladimir Karpuk, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense”. Of course, we don't deny the importance of this bill as a constitution of socio-working relations in Ukraine, but, at the same time, in repeating our speech when we discussed this bill, I want to point out that there are extremely many positions that are out of date, ranging from terminology and to that role of professions that are no longer playing in today's world. At the same time, a number of laws need to be reviewed that, contrary to the requirements of article 22 of the Constitution, 24 articles of the Constitution narrow the content and scope of the labour rights of citizens. So without denying the adoption of this bill as a basis, I would like to stress once again the importance of a really thorough approach to all the provisions of this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u23	Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u24	Thank you. My fellow Members, I would like to thank the Ukrainian National Deputies who expressed their support for the adoption of this bill in the first reading. You know, we're already ashamed of the international community today, so eight years ago, a project called the Labour Code was accompanied by the world: the International Labour Organization, and the International Development Agency, the United States of America, and our experts here. Look, all we get today is an opportunity to start working on it. Even when I co-reported this law here, remember Arsenija Petrovich asked two questions that we certainly missed: well, about political appointments and so forth. We're not just losing out on the example of the Labour Code -- we're losing systemicity and complexity in the law-making work of social policy. Look at this: Without a single social contribution, we cannot introduce a mandatory government social insurance, without a cumulative pension system, the only social contribution is completely lost. Similarly, without the Labour Code, social and labour relations cannot develop. Let's take it first.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u25	Dear colleagues, the time for discussion is up. I'd like to remind you once again that we've been through a complete procedure for the first reading of the bill. There is support for the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to adopt this bill in the first reading. The Labour Code, or, more specifically, the Labour Code, was adopted in 1971 by the Soviet Union. It's in operation at 72nd. So, in fact, we can't live by a labor constitution that's long gone, that doesn't exist. And lastly, this code has been introduced by our colleagues, by the way, from opposition, it's Hara and Dry, so voting will not only support the new labour constitution itself, but also as the right gesture of goodwill towards the opposition to support the bill in the first reading. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the adoption in the first reading of the draft Ukrainian Labour Code, including with, in accordance with the requirements of the Provisional Rules, a double extension of the terms of preparation and submission to the second reading of the bill for consideration by the Supreme Council, including the involvement in the preparation of the second reading of the bill by all employers' associations, employees, so that we have a comprehensive assessment and a comprehensive approach. It's all going to be documented under the transcript. Colleagues, I'm voting for acceptance as the basis for the draft Ukrainian Labour Code, taking into account the comments I just made. Please vote. [[10:40:19]] For 386 Congratulations, the decision was made for the first time in eight years on the Labour Code. The next question, colleagues, is the 2297 bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Fish, Other Water Living Resources and Food. Minister of Agrarian Politics Melnik Yuri Fedorovich Please, Yuri Fedorovich, please come to the rostrum. And you're not Melnik, by the way. Where's the sheet? Who represents? We don't have a farm here, you know? We have a deputy. The deputy minister works at the Ministry, and the minister works at the Parliamentary Court. Where's the minister? Is there a letter from the Ministry? Report, because they'll say we're blocking the government's work again.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u26	Dear National Deputies! According to the Ukrainian Act on the National Programme for the Adaptation of Ukrainian Legislation to the Legislation of the European Union, the current Act on Fish, Other Water Living Resources and Food Production needs to be brought into line with the requirements of legislation and the agreements of the World Trade Organization on the promotion of free trade and the application of sanitary and phytosanitary measures. [[on the legislative provision for Ukraine's entry into the World Trade Organization]] Ukraine's draft Act amending the Act on Fish, Other Water Living Resources and Food Products is to be deleted from articles 6 and 10 of the Act on Fish, Other Water Living Resources and Food Products of Ukraine, and the words “the certificate of conformity or certificate of recognition in Ukraine of a foreign certificate for imported products and certificate of conformity or certificate of recognition of a foreign certificate”, which will bring the above-mentioned law into line with EU legislation and the provisions of the Agreement on the World Trade Organisation for the confirmation of the proper quality and safety of fishery and food products. Ukraine's draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Fish, Other Water Living Resources and Food Products to avoid duplication of terms and definitions is also intended to remove from the text of the Ukrainian Act "On Fish, Other Water Living Resources and Food Production" the term "Food Party" because the definition of this concept is given in the Ukrainian Act "On the Safety and Quality of Foods. The adoption of a draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Fish, Other Water Living Resources and Food Production will help harmonise national legislation in the areas of sanitary and veterinary, and phytosanitary regulation in the World Organisation’s agreements on sanitary and phytosanitary measures. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u27	Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to sign up for a question-answer. Paul Mokchan, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u28	Dear reporter! Paul Mokchan, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. I have a question for you about the internal implementation of that product that will be captured in our watercourses. Mandatory certification of this product or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u29	In legislation, the amendments to the law provide for the recognition of a certificate in accordance with the imported goods from that State that is supplying us today. In the internal market. Yeah, including.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u30	Sergei Gordienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u31	Sergei Gordienko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Dear reporter, would you please tell us what to expect from the Ukrainian peasants of this bill? The Ukrainian farmer is very concerned about the effect that WTO will have on the fate of the produce grown in their own backyards and in their own farms. What effect will this bill have on milk, meat, and other foods? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u32	Considering that the need for fish and fish products is largely a matter of providing, unfortunately, imported products, for the time being, for the development of our own fisheries will not have a particular impact. Because we have internal waters, there's a program that's being developed today for investment development and participation. So this bill, it's not going to affect the development of the internal fisheries.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u33	Yuri Karmazin
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u34	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Mr. Deputy Minister, please tell me, isn't there a minister who disagrees with the text of this law? That's the first question. And the second. Where is such a requirement in the WTO Protocol that the quality of foreign fish products should not be checked? How are you going to explain the demands for Ukraine today, well, yesterday, yesterday, in these days, to Ukraine in oil? That all parties of oil claimed by the European Union should have and be certified and guaranteed by the State of Ukraine. So the Ukrainians were shut off from exporting their products completely, and you're crawling in front of foreigners, and you're pretending it's under the WTO requirement, even though there's no such requirement in the WTO.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u35	With regard to making changes to the law, the language does not go, whether it is checked or not. Of course, no one in our service takes the responsibility of checking, including imported products, and this is determined by legislation. The point is that we are obliged to accept a certificate of conformity from the State that imports our products.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u36	Bondick Valérie. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u37	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, please pass on my question to an expert in agrarian politics to Sulkovski Pavl Gnatovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u38	Colleague Sulkovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u39	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, how faithfully was it observed today that individual ministers in connection with the state of emergency are practically catastrophic. Graduation was very and very difficult. The oil and oil materials, look, by the time the seven bracelets went off, they were sown without any mineral fertilizers. The Minister of Agrarian Politics, instead of dealing with the problems of the village – this today confirmed that he is avoiding it and is serving practically the “deceptors” of the teams those who are protecting their own interests in the government today, not the interests of peasants. And so this shameful practice of not having a minister in Parliament today.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u40	Terechuk Sergei, Block of Lithuania.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u41	Dear Boris Mikolaiovich! Sergey Tereshuk, Block of Lithuania. It is quite clear that we should adapt our legislation when we join the World Trade Organization, but, at the same time, we should remember that we must protect our own manufacturer. Please tell me if we are making the working conditions of our own Ukrainian fish producers worse. We exclude this bill, we exclude the requirement for certificates of conformity from those who will supply us products from abroad, and for our manufacturers, this requirement remains valid. Would they be in a worse situation, please say?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u42	I, Sergei Mikolaiovich, thank you for asking. In my opinion and in the opinion of experts, this is not going to interfere with the development of our fisheries today, given that our internal water production is usually going to internal consumption. This is the first time. And secondly, what I said is that, given that the main portion of fish today, the products that are used in food, is at the expense of imported products, I say for myself that really today in this consumption structure, this law will not interfere with the development of internal water.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u43	Thank you. Please sit down. Phrase: Ribuk Sergey Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u44	Dear Arseny Petrovich! Dear National Deputies! The Agrarian Policy and Land Relations Committee has considered the bill and notes that the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Fish, Other Water Living Resources for Food Products, to avoid duplication of terms and definitions, foresees the deletion of the term “Food Party” from the text, since the definition of this concept is given in the Safety and Quality of Food Act. And I also note that the adoption of the draft Ukrainian Law will help harmonise national legislation in the field of sanitary and phytosanitary regulation to the provisions of the WTO Agreement on Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures. And in view of that, the profile committee is proposing to the Supreme Council to support this bill. But this bill, I have to say, was supported by one vote and there was a harsh criticism of how, as now, national MPs, you were asking a question to the reporter, the deputy minister. Because we definitely open the fish border here in one-sided order. Because clearly, fish production from the oceans today, to a large extent low-quality, is polluted and we, by taking down this control, will naturally worsen the quality of fish products consumed by children, people and the elderly, and so on. And the next. Every time we ask the question, what's similar and all the bills we have to look at in the system. After the government has passed and the Supreme Council has approved a bill to adapt our legislation to WTO requirements. And when we don't have this program today, that's how we bring up one bill, another, another, that's only making legislation worse, and that's what leads to joblessness. That's why I, as the committee's deputy head, the national deputy, and generally speaking, the faction of the “Parties of the Regions” calls on all of you, us, to refrain from adopting this bill at this time, even though the committee has made a different decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u45	Question-answer, three minutes, please. Alla Alexandrovska.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u46	Sergey Nikolaevich, here the rapporteur from the Cabinet of Ministers was asked the right question, and what the Government plans to do in fact to enable us to develop the industry ourselves. And we have heard a strange response that these conditions for Ukraine's accession to the World Trade Organization are in no way relevant to our domestic producer. I think it's a completely absurd position. Indeed, when we decide to regulate our relations with the World Trade Organization, we must take into account the situation within. That is, there must be State development programmes for this industry, capital investments must be made, that is, we must build a competitive market for similar products within us. However, the Government of Timoshenko does not even want to talk about it. That is, we are opening doors to the import product and we are not asking the Government a question, and the Government is silent on how they will actually regulate and create a competitive situation within us, that is, how to help our manufacturer.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u47	Of course, we know the direction of fishing, it's internal water, it's pond fishing, which we have today just in a neglected state and not directly, but, of course, correlationally, it's going to have a negative impact on fish production from beyond the ocean. And we are the sea power. When it comes to what you're asking, ocean products, of course, individual products there from the ostriches, it's not going to affect, but starting with our few, tulips, hams and other things, which are the object of the greatest consumption for people and our potato, yes, so I'll say to the public, it's going to have a direct impact, which is why we're asking, right now, questions that we have to at least not accept in order to require a government of systemic approach and an adaptation of legislation as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u48	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u49	Yuri Carmazin. I thank you for the civil position now expressed in this report. I would like you to comment on how we are going to proceed if in 2007, for example, countries like Denmark, Finland, were to supply five times as much arsenic as mice! And now we've heard a lie from a deputy minister who said that we're going to accept those certificates. On the contrary, this law provides that there will be no certificates at all, including theirs, that is, Danish, Finnish, or the same Germans who gave us fish fat with pesticides, why it was completely eliminated. That is, inadequate positions. And also comment, please, on what is being done to the oil. Today, people are concerned about why they told the Ukrainians that nothing will go to Europe until you've certified each party. What are these double standards? What's that?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u50	Thank you. When the committee considered the bill, of course, it wasn't easy and it wasn't easy for us to get out of some emotional or national MP, who today objected only because they were in opposition. In due course, we held an outgoing meeting on this issue at our Committee of State. And in the lab, we've been told that no species of fish products, shrimps, including what you said, do not meet the standards of both our European and SO: 4, 5, 7 times that of heavy metals go beyond where we really need to stay away from that step. The second question is about oil. A few calls from the Supreme Council have gone from export to export of sunflower seeds to oil exports. And it was.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u51	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u52	Yeah, I'm short. When today 45 percent of the world’s oil consumption in the world market is Ukraine. And when the government, today's Timoshenko government, stated that we are banning the export of oil and stopped 15 oil mills, of course Argentina and those sitting there in Belgium, have considered the issue and told us that we have some quality oil. Isn't it clear that we're here for quality production right now?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u53	Thank you, Sergey Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u54	So now it's settled. But this is not an agreement.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u55	Please sit down. Dear colleagues, we sign up for the factions of her and the national deputies. Please proceed with the recording procedure. Paul Mokchan, "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko", a performance by the faction. Out of place, turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u56	Dear Mr. Head, honourable deputies! Pavlov Mokchan, "Club of Yulia Timoshenko". It is clear that all the blocks of legislation that we approve concerning our membership in the World Trade Organization must be approved. Because the expertise was done a long time ago, all the grades are done. And what concerns us about our own fish farming, how to protect our markets, is something else. We really need to consider that, in connection with certification, those who grow fish in their ponds today should not be obliged to obtain a certificate for internal implementation. That is, so that we don't turn this certification procedure into an opportunity to enrich officials who will take advantage of the situation and demand from everyone who is growing at their rates today in their fish farms a product to bribe those officials. Here's what I was talking about, especially when I asked the reporter. And I'd like us to limit these two questions. It is necessary to support this bill, and secondly, to prevent our officials from taking advantage of everything in order to take out an extra copy of the farm worker today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u57	Thank you. Xenia Liapina, performance by the NS-NS faction, from the scene.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u58	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to highlight why our faction strongly supports this bill. First, there have been quite speculative horrors for our citizens, which will lead to the introduction of dangerous products by cancelling the certification of mandatory imported products. This is a direct lie, because there is a very different level of control, which is called “sanitary and veterinary”, which is also provided with us by the Law on Food and Food Safety. As a result, health and veterinary services are fully responsible for controlling the safety of products entering Ukraine’s market. In this case, certification was a parasitic and unnecessary method. Now for the internal manufacturer. In fact, today we're just categorizing the internal manufacturer with three control methods, it's not becoming competitive. Of course, for an internal food producer, we are obliged to build a system that is in Europe, or another food - control system. It is, in fact, provided for by the Law on the Quality and Safety of Food. All you have to do is have the courage to finally get it fully implemented. And then the internal market will flourish, and we'll get normal, safe products in the market. And the oil story confirms the absolute lack and inadequacy of food control systems in Ukraine. And this is a challenge for the government, it has to build a modern control system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u59	Alla Alexandrovska, a speech by the Communist faction from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u60	Dear colleagues! Respectable voters! The Communist faction will not support the bill. We have repeatedly warned that, under the conditions under which Ukraine agrees and returns, it has already entered the World Trade Organization to maintain these conditions in no way. Trade needs to be done, trade with other countries, but under what conditions is this done? The purchasing power of the population of Ukraine is extremely low. By income level, Ukrainian citizens are in the so-called African sector, and the prices for products are reaching the world level in Ukraine. We open doors for imports, including fish products, instead of developing this industry here in Ukraine. We don't have any internal waters, we don't have any fish. The Government is not supported. We've got it. We are a state of the sea, and we are not developing our fishing fleet. We've had some scandals about how we built the courts and whose hands they fell into. Thus, rather than allowing the Government to develop our industry and create conditions for internal competition with imported like goods and create conditions for the production of these goods that are cheaper, more accessible to our population, the Government is foolishly giving priority to import goods on the Ukrainian market. The second issue is the quality of the goods. World food prices are rising today, and quality is unfortunately declining. And we understand. That in Ukraine we will receive imported food of a lower quality, but at a higher price than the price of the same similar product in Europe's markets. Thus, the Government of Timoshenko does not defend the interests of the people of Ukraine as it has promised to do so, but rather submits these interests. And of course, the communists can't support these. We wish to draw the attention of Ukrainian citizens to you and your distinguished colleagues on another aspect. We have joined the World Trade Organization in spite of the prevention of communists and the reason why we are supposed to be able to export more goods. We export metal, we export chemical products. Yes, we have indeed opened the door for these groups of goods today. However, the share of income in the budget from the export of these goods is increasing dramatically — and we are becoming dependent — the State of Ukraine is becoming dependent on its entire budget, its entire economy, on world prices. This is unacceptable, a direct threat to Ukraine's national security. Once again, President Yushchenko and Prime Minister Timoshenko are pursuing such policies. Communists do not support this policy, and we will therefore not vote in favour of these bills. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u61	Yuri Carmazin. An exit from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u62	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I appeal to you in connection with what I would like all the laws to be read in general. This is a law that changes: “For fish, other aquatic living resources and food products.” The law was already being amended on April 8, 2008, by Bill 1363. That's the law. Then there were only 63 who supported the changes, including the law. That's why. I'm sorry, I can't help it, it's hard for me to do it. Therefore, it is very interesting in this law that the defined terms are: “The Party of Food, — and still the concept, and what it is — the number of products of one designation and given a certificate of quality.” This is just a statement of quality from abroad, and they're offering us that it's not there, really. Now, we're offered the following thing. We are asked to become perfectly normal with what is being driven and driven today. I asked myself: ‘ Germany has imported fish fat, where pesticides were several times more than anything. It's been stopped. Mishyaku - Denmark - and Finland carried shrimps — five times more. And now it's the main thing. World Trade Organization requirements do not deny such quality certification. Accordingly, certification is directed to sanitary measures that each member State of the WTO has the right to apply to the security and life and health of its citizens. So, dear friends, I come to the conclusion that this bill is purely lobbyist, it has no relation to the WTO, it has no absolutely, and therefore it should not be accepted, it should be rejected. I'd like you to take a look at some of the other innovations that are being proposed. This is a change to article 8 of this law. It says in article 8 of the law: “Reaffirmation of the proper quality and safety of fishery and food products from them”. By the way, there's the idea that we don't have a Ukrainian fishing fleet. There's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, But the government needs to watch, make agreements with foreign countries and defend Ukraine’s interests. This is exactly what no government has done in Ukraine. I'd like Timoshenko's government to start doing this. I urge them to do so. But there is no need to make such laws, for this article, article 8, which recommends removing a certificate of conformity or a certificate of conformity.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u63	Peter Cibenko, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u64	Honorary colleagues, citizens of Ukraine, voted a few weeks ago in this room to ratify the Agreement on Ukraine's entry into the WTO. Some of our colleagues have voted with such restraint that if this document is not voted on, life will stop on this planet. A vote was made, and more than that, the agreement went into effect. Now we look around and think, and what have we voted on? Well, first of all, it reminds me of that agreement, rather than an equal agreement, but rather an act of surrender of Ukraine, its economy, its people before the West. Now today's discussion of the document reminds me that it's being used again, well, give me your word, shuler methods of acceptance. What's it to me? One of the most important arguments used regarding the need for ratification of this agreement was the claim that after Ukraine’s accession to the WTO, the flow of cheap and quality goods was spilling into Ukraine. And that's what people swore about. But one more time, as this has become a rule lately, people just, give up, give up. What are we talking about? And here's the thing: In that agreement, Ukraine made a commitment that it would not use the minimum prices for imported products, i.e. Ukrainian citizens with respect, do not wait for the quality, especially, of the cheap goods that will be imported from the West, understand that there will be another time that the West will not be needed, and the people of Ukraine will not win anything. Today's paper, today's situation again reminds me of the situation I just mentioned. So once again, I reaffirm the position my colleague, Ambassador Alexandrovska, has expressed that the faction of Communists will not vote for this document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u65	Sergei Tereshuk, “Block of Lithuania”. You'll be out of town? Turn it on from there, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u66	It's quite obvious that we have to support the bills that adapt our legislation to the accession of the World Trade Organization, when we ratify the agreement, but we still have to be very balanced when we make decisions about a bill. The Lithuanian bloc will abstain from voting for this bill. We still think that we're going to make the position and condition of the producers of our own fish, Ukrainian fish. That's why we think it's too early to vote in favour of this bill. We come from the fact that we have to ensure the quality of both our own products and the products that we import into the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u67	Mikola Kravchenko, Communist faction. From the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u68	Cowchenko, Communist faction. I've seen what kind of poofos, what kind of lift they voted with back then to ratify the entrance to SOT, happy faces and so on. This bill, which we are considering today, about fish and other food products, is, of course, in the chain of the mass of bills that we will continue to consider, will destroy our producer systematically. I wonder why we are starting our statement today with what we are saying: “Of course, we must adapt our legislation to the legislation of the countries of SOT”. Then answer my question: Why did Kyrgyzstan, this small country, not allow itself the World Trade Organization to deal with such arakcheev conditions on the basis of which we joined the WTO? I want our radios, the TV crews, to know that we signed a cable protocol when we joined the S.O.T. It has 12 points, but they will destroy all our legislation to protect its own producer. Today, deny to me those who voted in favour of joining the SOT that a small and medium-sized business will lose one million jobs. Where, then, is the President's programme that he promised to create five million jobs? Condemn me that 25 per cent of the value of the products will be lost in agriculture due to the lack of State support for agriculture. And this particular village, this particular village, is a specific person. And tell me, please, how can we do this? I don't want to criticize the other political forces that were tearing their shirts off and voting to get into the SOT, ratify, and today they say, no, we'll hold on because. Dear comrades, gentlemen, let us finally be frank with our constituents. Either we have entered the SOT, or we must admit that we are making a mistake, that we are selling our country to date, that we are selling our own producer, who will eventually realize that the production is destroyed by the hands of Parliament, a base of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u69	Alexander Tkachenko, Communist faction. An exit from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, I don't think we've fully figured out what Satan is, and we think we're just doomed to be there. It's not like that. First of all, I'm going to remind the citizens of Ukraine -- competition, competition and once again competition. Are we ready for this competition? We can say no in one word. If it was the 1990s, 91st, yes, we could compete with any state, and European, and other continents. Today the WTO is certainly a big loop for us, especially for the agro-industry complex, and especially for those citizens whose wealth is below average is 80% of the population of Ukraine. Why today, in reporting on this issue, no one has said about the balance, how much we produce our own products, how much we can provide our own products for the needs of our own market, how much we will pay for exports, and how much we need to bring in products. Of course, this is the order of things. Why, today, when we join the WTO, the government in this rostrum has not presented us with a program that clearly sets the level of food supply for Ukraine by its own nomenclature products and the level of import. It's a legitimate question for both you and me, and for a beloved Ukrainian citizen. Why is it that someone wants to get rid of Ukraine today, but with the hands of our Ukrainian Parliament, with us, with our government and with the President? That's why I think my colleagues here were speaking and speaking very properly. We are certainly not ready to join the WTO today. This should be the message for, but we should first listen to the government with a clear program that will give us a positive introduction and what negatives. If you're speaking fish, I'll tell you, dear friends, in the 1990s we didn't get about 30 percent of what a person needs. But this was the production rate of 23 kilograms of fish, today the production rate of 6 kilograms per capita. What's the point? So we're going to import 90 percent of the product. So I think that this law can't be passed today, we need to develop a clear program, we need to establish this program for the development of fish and inland waters, and the ocean, and the sea. And then maybe go back to this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u71	Dear colleagues, the time for discussion is over. All those who signed up are speaking. Is the reporter and co-reporter insisting on the closing word? The reporter doesn't insist. Is the narrator insisting? Don't insist. Dear colleagues! Attention! A number of positions were expressed regarding whether or not the bill was adopted. I'm going back to the draft decision, and I would like to emphasize that this is about us voting not for the whole bill, but for the adoption of it as a basis. The committee will further elaborate and all the comments you have made will be taken into account in the second reading. Understood, colleagues? Once again, I would like to stress the adoption vote on the basis of the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Fish, Other Water Living Resources and Food. Colleagues, I'm going to put you to a vote first. Please vote. [[11:20:48]] For 225 Colleagues, I now place a full vote on all national MPs: don't forget to show up. I'm betting on a vote on adoption on the basis of draft Law No. 2297. Please vote. [[11:21:22]] For 226 Decision taken. Congratulations, colleagues. Please show by factions. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Bill 2298. He reports: Supichanov Boris Karabayovich. Please. By procedure? Please sign up who wants to. Three minutes, for reasons of vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u72	Honorable National MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u73	Wait, Boris Karabayovich, the MPs want to speak. You'll be standing in the rostrum for now. Please sign in. Jaroslav Suhi. Sergey Ribuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u74	Thank you. Dear Arsenius Petrovich, a colleague, unlike the previous bill on veterinary medicine, is referring to a change in several terms, in fact, adaptation to the terms of the International Epizootic Bureau and so forth. So I'd like to think about it in a simplified way just so that we don't waste time.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u75	Okay. Fellows, who else wanted to speak with us? Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u76	Yuri Carmazin. I, too, colleagues, believe that this bill can be considered, 2298, by a reduced procedure. It is much easier than the previous one that is accepted, which is against the interests of our people.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u77	Mikola Kravchenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u78	You didn't warn me. Arsenius Petrovich, I would like to tell you this, to make the most serious comment. Please don't turn the Supreme Council into a fax and a circus. That you've got this signal vote, then the main one and so on, and there's something else in your imagination to find and tell. What right did you have to put the bill to a vote now after it had not received the support of the Hall and how do you understand that? You, after all, Arsenius Petrovich, or you grow up a little bit in that place, or you set him free.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u79	Unless that's for you. Basil Hara, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u80	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, an idea I would like to express on short notice. Sergey Nikolaevich Ryobuk spoke, so there's nothing to add. Please consider the summary procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u81	There's no objection. Regarding rating and voting, read a book called "Temporary Rules", you have an expert on this subject - Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk. The Head of the Supreme Council has the right to put to the vote any question about the so-called signal or rating vote. Learn the Rules, then you'll learn. Dear colleagues, I ask you to put to the vote the question of a brief procedure for Bill No. 2298, please vote. [[11:24:58]] For 333 Decision taken. Colleagues, short-term procedure. Please make appropriate changes with regard to the subject. Please report, you have two minutes short.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u82	Honourable National Deputies, the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Veterinary Medicine Act is designed to carry out the terms “polluter”, “maximum residue limits” and to lay down a system for the identification of animals in accordance with international requirements, in particular the World Trade Organization Agreement and the Health Code of Ground Animals of the International Epizootic Bureau. The new treatment of terms: pollution, maximum residue limits, is more in line with the requirements of Article 4 of the WTO on sanitary and phytosanitary measures, which are intended to provide that for the purpose of organizing sanitary and phytosanitary measures on the widest possible basis. Members of the World Trade Organization, including Ukraine, should base their actions on international standards, instructions, or recommendations of committees of the Codex Elementarius, and so forth. With a view to detailing the establishment of transparent legislative requirements, the term “acceptable identification” has been introduced, which in turn corresponds to international legislation, such as the International Epizootic Bureau's Sanitary Code of Ground Animals. The implementation of this draft Ukrainian law does not require additional budgetary and other material costs. The adoption of the draft law will bring Ukrainian legislation into line with the requirements of the World Trade Organization Agreement on Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u83	Thank you. There are no answers to questions. Please sit down. Sergey Mikolayovich, please come to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u84	Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations has considered the proposed bill and is proposing to be accepted as a basis. Indeed, the draft law is designed to bring the term polluting substance, the maximum residue limits, and, especially, the position of the animal identification system in line with international requirements and the International Bureau of Epizootics’ Code of Land Animals. I'm just going to add that in this case, the Ministry of Agrarian Policy has been working effectively and productively with the International Epizootic Bureau for many years. And in virtually no way did we adapt to agriculture as clearly and systematically as we did to veterinary medicine. If all sectors and branches were to work as follows, others, legislation would be sufficiently adapted to the requirements of the World Trade Organization, the European and Epizootic Offices, and so forth. So one conclusion here is to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u85	Thank you, Sergey Mikolayovich. Please sit down. Two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, Xenia Lapina, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense." Out of the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u86	Thank you, Your Honor. I want to emphasize that "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" supports this bill, because we believe that it is through the introduction of modern terminology that we can actually increase the level of danger, the analysis of risks. We can sort out the order, finally, with the identification of the animals. And in this way we can actually, not in words, not in slogans, but in real steps increase the competitiveness of our agriculture, especially in animal agriculture. And I also, really want to point out that the veterinary service has recently been doing the most effectively in reforming its legislation and is really making the system the most effective veterinary control. In fact, we can say that it is an example of other services that, unfortunately, are not yet reformed. Therefore, the bill clearly needs to be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u87	Thank you. Sergey Greenewsky, Block of Lithuania. Out of the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u88	Thank you. Please pass the word to Sergio Tereshku.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u89	Sergey Tereshuk, Block of Lithuania. From the place, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u90	Sergey Tereshuk, Block of Lithuania. Deputies of the “Lithuania Block” will support, support, and support the proposed bill, given that it mainly contains only definitions. And it's not particularly affecting the control situation. But at the same time, I would like to draw the attention of both the Ministry of Agrarian Politics and the Cabinet of Ministers. Tell me, are we in a hurry to adapt our legislation to the WTO requirements today? On the other hand, are we ready to detect today that product coming from abroad to Ukraine for pesticide residues? Are we ready to detect GMOs today? Are we ready to detect the remains of antibiotics? Our material base today is in no way comparable to that of a foreigner. And another very important aspect that needs to be addressed. Today, genetically modified organisms come from the world, from Europe to Ukraine. Look at how much soy is being grown today, how much gene-modified soybeans are being grown, and it's going to feed, and these feeds are being fed to cattle, and then we're eating this meat. And so far, we've adapted our legislation to the World Trade Organization, but on the other hand, we haven't decided who in Ukraine is going to be involved in IHO detection. There was a bill on the circulation of genetically modified products, which was supposed to be done by the Ministry of Agrarian Policy. Today, the Department of Veterinary Medicine is a separate body of the Cabinet of Ministers. The question is still pending: There is no department of veterinary medicine and, on the other hand, there is no authority on the Committee of Veterinary Medicine today to carry out detection on GMOs. I'd like to pay attention to that. And in general, we'll support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u91	Thank you. Peter Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u92	Thank you. The Communist faction, Zybenko. Dear colleagues, the document we are discussing is certainly important, but some events, including extraordinary character, force me to make a statement on behalf of the faction. And here's the thing. As the elections in Kiev neared, our capital began to resemble the American Wild West for a period of time. The information begins to come from the area of combat. Let's say yesterday.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u93	Dear Peter Stepanovich! In accordance with the Rules, I have to interrupt you because the Rules provide for an exclusive discussion of the bill. You can take whatever you want, but you're teaching me the Rules that you don't know. So I want you to be brought up a little bit so that order is in tank armies. So please dictate your application, but know that it is a violation of the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u94	For example, yesterday in Kiev an agitator of the Mikolia Caterinchuk Block was killed. Of course, we are political opponents of this political action. Powers, but we strongly condemn such actions. Yesterday after. During children’s celebrations, I emphasize, children, the day of the pioneer service was attacked by feats and beaten children. I underline, children. Some of these children sought medical help. Several bandits were detained. Already today, young agitators who were campaigning to support KPUs were once again attacked by neophasists using gas bubbles and harmed the health of these people by the tents. I ask myself and colleagues who are in the hall. Is the position of the city’s Kiev head or deputy of the Kiev City Council such that it is possible to act in a similar manner? The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine is strongly protesting similar banditry and demands from the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Ministry of Security of Ukraine to take immediate and decisive action to stop banditry and fascism, I stress, Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u95	As far as the bill is concerned. Don't you? You don't. Got it. Colleagues, we have two more factions to discuss. More precisely, come forward. This is BUT and the Party of Regions. You don't want to say anything, do you, colleagues? None. Dear colleagues, I'd like to sum it up again. All factions, apart from the communists, expressed their support for the bill. The ruling provides for the adoption of the bill as a basis, and this is what was introduced by the committee and what was declared our colleague, Sergey Ribuk, as deputy chairman of the committee. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the adoption of Bill No. 2298 of the Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Veterinary Medicine Act. Please vote. [[11:35:26]] For 387 Colleagues, the decision is made, and I welcome it. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday at the Conciliation Council in the draft schedule, two bills were proposed for inclusion in the agenda, namely 1342 and 2469: to stimulate the development of the APC under the requirements of the World Trade Organization and the special taxation regime for agricultural producers. I went to meet the faction leaders and the respective committee heads who made the proposal. Now we're just voting for the inclusion in the agenda of these two bills. The committee then requests that the date of consideration of these bills be determined by a separate procedure. Please, I'll give you my word. So before the vote, who wants to make a statement, please sign in for three minutes. Sergey Ribuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u96	Thank you. Sergey Ribuk, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear colleagues, these are extremely complicated bills. And the committee of profile, the Committee on Agrarian Policy, Land Relations, has not considered it. I was interested today, and in the Ministry of Agrarian Politics, they only received Bill 2469 in the evening. And we couldn't agree on them there, what position do we have in common, how much do we have in common? So the government, the third, has not submitted to our demand and its initiative to adapt legislation to the WTO, the more agriculture. I respectfully ask that we do not keep the agenda in order, but that we proceed with the procedure as required by the Provisional Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u97	Paul Zebravsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u98	Of course, adapting to WTO agricultural requirements requires a solution. But at this point, 1342 isn't even on the site, we're not even familiar with the bill that we're planning to consider. In fact, it is a painful question, and today it is so tempting to decide enough. I think we should first get to know this bill to the MPs, the factions, and only then solve the issue. Because with a candace, running, just because we need to adapt to the WTO, we cannot accept such painful questions for all of Ukraine. And I'm convinced that let's postpone this question, let the government introduce this bill, we'll get to know the government, we'll work with the government, and then we'll make and make informed decisions. Because agriculture is the most painful issue when Ukraine joins the WTO and we simply cannot solve it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u99	Victor Slatta.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u100	Thank you. Dear colleagues, perhaps someone consciously, really, really wants to kill the last whistle, you know, in the lid of what. Does no one know, see, read, what is being done even globally in the world? The World Trade Organization in its central office in Geneva will now review the tariff agreements. Now the land is being preserved, and now unnecessary non-tariff and compensatory measures are moving the world into direct farm subsidies. It's a joke that these two bills, they're underworked, they're understaffed, and they're not on time. So our faction and my colleagues will not support these bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u101	Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, I think that the position has been understood by most factions, and we probably don't need to forget how difficult it is, how painful, how difficult it was to adopt the bills that we took on as a commitment, when we joined the World Trade Organization. I'm sorry that today is openly lobbying, or worse yet, misunderstood bills are somehow covered up by the WTO requirements. I've already told you from this rostrum how I used to stand up so that we wouldn't let zero bets be taken out of the sunflower. This was also covered by the WTO requirements, and there is nothing in common with the WTO requirements — the World Trade Organization — that they are trying to impose on us. Well, it's no big deal, we'll have a week's deadline, we'll consider, we'll find a committee, we'll bring it to this rostrum, we'll discuss it, and in a normal environment, without haste, without psychosis, we'll accept all these bills. Not just this one, but everyone else. I would like to support the opinion of those Ukrainian national deputies who are proposing not to vote in favour of the day-to-day introduction of these bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u103	Katerina Vaschuk. Out of the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u104	Katerina Vasuk, "Block of Lithuania". Dear colleagues, Your Honor Arsenija Petrovich, the most terrible thing is that these laws are called, as if they were really going to help agriculture. There's absolutely nothing there about support, adaptation. This is the contrast between the law that we once held to the blue agriculture. In fact, the value added tax was not paid by the village, and it remained as a subsidy to a very low price for agricultural production. Today, all of this is reversed. And that's how to replace it, how to replace it, when we talked about the amount that could be budgeted to support the village in $560 or $600 million. So it's very difficult to predict a replacement in the budget for signed contracts. So I agree with my colleagues that we would work together with the government once again to do everything that is required by the WTO. As far as I know, the VAT does not have to be distributed to the WTO. And that's more like adapting to another order. To create a tactic that will not be affected by our agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u105	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am addressing those national MPs who may not have fully studied the bill provided for in the Rules. First, this bill came to us in 1801.2008. Second, Bill No. 1342 concludes the profile committee. It's in your files, by the way. Well, how come he's not at the base? There's no such thing. Look at this, please. That's not how it works. Unless it's taken. It's in the base, it's all there is. Thirdly, you made a request to discuss this issue. To discuss the matter, we need to include it in the agenda. And if it is not included in the agenda, this bill will never be discussed. I mean, on your request, I'm taking down the question today, but we're voting for inclusion in the agenda. This is what we agreed with you, colleagues: we include it in the agenda, then on the Conciliation Council, we will make a decision when we consider it. Do you hear that? As you asked, I did everything. Anatoly Kirilovich Kinach, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u106	Thank you. Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues! The proposal, in general, is heard. But once again, I want to remind you that Ukraine's agro-industry complex is one of the most risky sectors in the external trends of opening up Ukraine's internal market. And certainly we need to act systematically and consistently, protecting our national economic interests and creating conditions to increase its competitiveness. This can only be done on the basis of a targeted agro-industry adaptation programme to the terms of the world trading organisation, the introduction of the draft State Budget Act of Ukraine 2008 by changes and additions, where the overall fund will take into account the state support of the APC, and then a package of legislative acts that will ensure the implementation of both adaptation programmes and the revised budget. You can agree with this text: include it in the agenda and consider it in the complex. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u107	Fellows, so I repeat the proposal: in order to have a playground here to discuss this issue, we need to put the issue in the agenda and start the process. So that we don't get run by them, so that we can run this process. So I'm asking all the factions to listen again: are we going to put into the agenda, and then on the march we're going to figure out when we're going to look at it, and in what order? Supportable, comrades? Thank God! I'm betting on the inclusion in the agenda of Bills 1342 and 2469, just for the daytime, colleague! Please vote. We're putting it into the agenda. Please vote. [[11:45:49]] For 222 Then I'll divide the two bills. I'm betting on the vote for inclusion in the agenda from which they started, 1342. Perhaps you will support one of the bills. Anatoly Sergiyovich, you're critical, aren't you? Critical. All right, Matthews is critical. Please, Anatoly Sergiyovich. Turn on Anatoly Sergeiovich Matviyenko’s microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u108	The Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, the “Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense” Block. Not critical, but, in principle, Arseni Petrovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u109	Got it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u110	I am addressing everyone who understands that we need to protect our agriculture in connection with the WTO. And it's clear that day-to-day inclusion is nothing more than the possibility of alternative projects. And that's why I refer to those when we include in the agenda, then we include the opportunity to do alternative or better and to vote for them. So I fully support your efforts and I would like to vote in turn, first one project and then another project that matches the Rules, Arseni Petrovich! And don't put it to a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u111	Thank you very much, Anatoly Sergiyovich, for the very right offer! Katerina Timofievna and Igor Fedorovich, I ask you to listen again, if we're including in the agenda, then you can put in alternatives and then we have a discussion. If we don't, there's nothing to talk about, and the villagers will say that we're not dealing with their issues. So I ask you to make the right decision on these bills, colleagues! Once again, I am voting on the inclusion of the agenda of Bill 1342, only inclusion, please vote. [[11:47:55]] For 224 Show by factions. Yeah. I am now betting on the inclusion in the agenda of Bill 2469 on a special tax regime for agricultural producers. The matter of the bill is, the committee has considered. Just in order of the day. Colleagues, I don't want to call the faction, but please support the government. You didn't give four votes. Support the government. Vote for inclusion in the agenda, please. Roman Mikhailovich, are you sure you said we're not voting? Colleagues, we vote. [[11:48:55]] For-174 Please show by factions. Yuri Fedorovich, these 20 can be counted in the previous vote? Oh, no? You can't, yeah. Colleagues, these two bills are not included in the agenda. Let us return to this question at the next Conciliation Council. 2224, I'm talking to the faction leaders separately, because they're asking questions. After the break, let's put to a vote 2224. Now the bill, we go to the next bill, which is extremely important, complex and resonant. This is Bill No. 2263, a draft of the Ukrainian Law on the purchase of goods, jobs and services at public expense. He reports: Špak Vasil Fedorovich and Deputy Minister of Economy Maksut Anatoly Arkadyovich. Vasil Fedorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u112	Honourable National MPs, the proposed bill aims at solving existing problems in the area of public procurement, bringing them into line with the Ukrainian Civil Code, eliminating social tensions. The bill takes into account the accumulated own and foreign experience of work in this area, and the standards are in line with the WTO requirements. The conformity of production with international standards and the protected interests of domestic producers. The bill does not provide services and functions for the Chamber of Tenders of Ukraine, nor does it provide for the interdeputy Commission on Public Finance. Procurement procedures have been improved, which are made only in writing and in accordance with the provisions of the Ukrainian Civil Code. There's an increase in the cash equivalent of 100,000 dollars for goods, 300,000 for services. Different trade procedures and their agreement with the competent authority on the coordination of the purchase of goods and services are available. There is a minimum financial burden on the budget organizations involved in these operations. There is a simplification of the public procurement system in Ukraine, which is the only special authority authorized by the central executive authority to coordinate the purchase of goods, jobs and services, is determined by the Ministry of Economy of Ukraine. Public procurement is changing through a new printed bulletin from the Ministry of Economics of Ukraine, government procurement. A rule is laid down that the customer has the right to claim payment for the solicitation documentation, which should not exceed the amount of the cost to be paid for the preparation of the documentation. In the case of tendering, it may not exceed 15 percent of the cost of purchasing goods and services. It is also proposed that the number of tenders for each part of the item should not be less than two, allowing the purchase process to be simplified, but, above all, to solve the problem of securing the result of the trade, not just the procedure itself, its organization as it had been before. The organisation of the rules of this law requires some budgetary expenditure to transfer the powers of the Ministry of Economics of Ukraine and to secure the publication of the printed bulletin of the Ministry of Economics of Ukraine "State Procurement". Thus, the adoption of the bill will facilitate the implementation of procurement procedures, improve control, coordination and public oversight of the spending of public funds on procurement, reduce the financial burden on participants and buyers, and therefore, taking into account the findings of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, we propose to adopt a bill on the basis and take into account the individual provisions of the bill tabled by the Cabinet of Ministers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u113	Question-answer, please log in, five minutes. Tereshuk, Block of Lithuania.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u114	Dear Vassil Fedorovich, it is clear that the law must be passed, we have repeatedly talked about this. But answer two such questions. The first question, how it's going to affect your bill, if you adopt it, how it's going to affect the revenue and expenditure of the state budget, is the first question. And the second question. In a simple language, explain how much it will simplify the process of buying goods and services at public expense. Or are we actually going to be able to avoid that disgraceful phenomenon that hospitals are facing without gas, that hospitals can't buy insulins, they can't buy drugs, and everyone here is lurking around who's going to be closer to this trough, where they can make money.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u115	As far as simplifying the procedure is concerned, there is indeed a minimum procedure to be followed in accordance with the bill, to the actions that were in force, the bill was in force before 2004, which we have already discussed. So there's, in principle, no pressure to conduct procurement and information security procedures. It's about impact on the spending. There will be expenses for the Ministry of Economics to ensure that these procedures are implemented.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u116	Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u117	Thank you. You know, I have a question that probably concerns the vast majority of the session room today. We're trying to simplify and facilitate the process of purchasing at public expense, so we're trying to please those heads of state institutions that are actually in an extremely difficult situation today, because they don't have the opportunity to buy and implement their own direct activities. But please tell me, can we not simplify and forgive in these efforts to get into another extreme of irresponsibility and corruption? I was just approaching my colleagues, asking them, we remember when we were repairing the Palace of Culture "Ukraine," we were buying one Kraut for 80 dollars and a 5 dollar wreath, and we can still remember that with you. So I have a specific question for you, how will your bill actually protect public funds from possible theft, how will state interest be guaranteed?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u118	The point is, when it comes to simplified procedures, it's not about what should really be an open road to corruption, to other crimes. There is an act of civil law in Ukraine, it will work in accordance with civil law, and appropriate decisions will be made on procurement procedures. So there can be no separate definition of prevention of abuse in the given procedures.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u119	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u120	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I am addressing you on behalf of the authors in this QUOTE Frg_01482*001*048&lt;11:57: 40&gt; \* MERGEFORMAT QUOTE Frg_01482*002*021&lt;13:23: 24"; * MERGEFORMAT Next. Restrain it. We still have the Attorney General's Office, she's in charge of law enforcement, and you've already taken over her duties, she's not buried yet. Alexander Ivanovich Medvedzko may have claims, he may have claims. Now, with regard to the terms given here in Article 8, “the Authorized Authority”, they are all around you, “the register of tenders received”, “the protocol of tenders” and so on. Get away from it, you were asked. We asked how many times we had considered this law, how many times we had asked to move away from those terms. Now article 9. You write legal persons who are part of the commission are from the Ministry of Economics, the Ministry of Minfin, the Court of Auditors, and then not from legal persons, you write: the Committee of the Supreme Council on Economic Policy, on budgetary matters. I have great respect for all the committees, but they won't produce and they're not a legal person, they can't be related to the same House of Auditors or the Ministry of Finance. So obviously, if we want a representative of the Supreme Council, let's write.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u121	Oleg Lazko, BUT. John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u122	Arseny Petrovich, wait. Is that Rabbit or Easy? Is it Leapina? On the list of Lyapinas.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u123	You showed me with your finger so much that I knew that was a hare. Oleg Lazko is coming in right now. Turn on the mic, Easy. It's written down. Where are you going? Recorded.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u124	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. I will personally vote in favour of the government bill, because first of all the adoption in the first reading of this law will allow it to be further worked out. And those who cry out so much about what he said can't vote for this bill because it's corrupt or something like that, I think it's more accurate to say that if public procurement issues aren't regulated by law, it's a field for corruption and abuse. That is why it is necessary to vote in favour of the bill, and I hope that all those who shout the most about fighting corruption will vote in favour of the bill, because by the second reading it will be possible to work on it. If you're telling me that the seedling of corruption in government and that, as if corrupt government officials there have something on these tender purchases, it's logical to move this issue from government to parliament and the government is allowing it all to be done. So I would like our black-footed opponents not to cast a shadow on the knitting and, they say, not to mislead the public. Thank you for your attention. But I said, smart enough.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u125	Thank you. Secretariat, what's with the list? How can one list be recorded in the Head and two national deputies have another? Tell me about this computer dilemma.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u126	All the people's deputies, right? So what are we going to believe this time to the national MPs? Whoever's in there, we'll figure it out. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yuri Anatolyovich, don't control it. Please, sit down. We'll figure this out. Thank you. Thank you. The time for discussion is over, by the way. That's why. [[B in m in s a l in]] Time's up, do you want to speak? Yeah. Okay. Give the word to the Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u127	Ladies and gentlemen, the need to adopt this law is obvious because today we have a decree of the Cabinet of Ministers that regulates these issues and we need to replace it with law. But really, in the first reading, this bill can be adopted, and until the second reading, it needs to be thoroughly worked out. First of all, you need to pay attention to Article 2 of the law, and that's the idea that the purchase of goods starts with 100,000 for the purchase of goods and 300,000 for the work or 500,000 for the purchase of businesses. Second, this is article 9. The question is the work of the commission. And I support those MPs who say that no national MPs should be on this committee, there must be a clear responsibility of the executive authority, because where the MPs go, the interest of the entire faction or the whole group in the Supreme Council is immediately stretched. And let that authorized authority, and this is the Ministry of Economics, be responsible for this situation. So if we analyze the 9th article, the commission's mandate is expanded here. The point is that it develops methods and submits to the authorized authority that it determines the amount of damage in case of noncompliance with the requirements of legislation. That she is running a price calculation and that the members of this commission should be solely public officials. Here we have a contradiction. Because we, the national deputies, are not civil servants, we are likened to public service, but we do not have it in the fullest sense. Therefore, article 9 of the Constitution, article 9 of the Law, requires further elaboration. And these three that I called, they have to be removed. Because this collective body won't be able to calculate the calculation or any other thing. This should be done by an authorized body. And the commission can advise on what to do, and it can look at all these complaints. Similarly, I draw your attention to article 11, where it comes from publishing information about purchases. The point is that all this information will be presented as free. But in the Deputy Minister of Economics speech, you've heard that there's probably some money to be spent. It is better to allocate these funds small through the state budget than to relaunch the extortion mechanism of both the participants and the purchasers. And the last article is article 16, what I said. We have, the Constitution we have, the only national language. And I think that the paperwork in this area should be in public language and there can be no exceptions here. Because we have to form the same national identity in our country if we want unity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u128	Thank you. The time for discussion is over. I report to the Ukrainian national MPs who demand words. You have a complete list, and you do not delete those who have already spoken. And I have a list that goes to remove the people who have spoken. So you have deceived yourself in some way. I gave my team to the computers to change the program so that you could have a similar list as I did: the person who made the statement was immediately removed. We have a couple of replicas. Several names were named: Osika, Yatzenko, Lazko. Is there a desire to reprise them? Sergey Osika. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u129	Thank you. I'm not really referring to this cartoon with a hysterical voice at all, but I want to tell this interesting story, it was in March. Mrs. Bogityrov and Liapina have addressed me, more specifically, the Richter, which please conduct the audit in this Chamber of Tenders, because I'm leading her, the Richter, and I'm complaining that they're taking something. I was there for seven days to conduct the audit. And the president of the Chamber was Bogotyrova for eight months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u130	Do other national MPs have a wish for replication? They don't. Now a reporter and a co-reporter. We had two reporters and one coreporter. Is there a desire for a closing word? Anatoly Arkadyovich, will you? You won't. Final word for the first deputy head of the committee of Osika. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u131	Thank you. In the speech of the distinguished representative of the Hare, there was a question in tongue. There is an article on international, international, and international procurement. And it's about Ukrainian spoken language and languages, where purchases are made from abroad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u132	Thank you. Are there no more wishes, colleagues? So, honourable national MPs, I remind you, the main bill is 2263, which was introduced by the Ukrainian people's deputies. The Cabinet of Ministers bill is 2263-1, which is an alternative. The committee supports 2263-1, which is an alternative, and it is the one introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. According to the Rules, I first put 2263 -- this is a bill introduced by the People's Deputies. If it doesn't pass, I'm putting 2263-1, which is supported by the committee and introduced by the government. Understand? I'm betting on a vote of 2,263 on the basis that was introduced by the people's deputies. [[13:33:57]] For 205 The decision is not taken. Comrades, I am now putting to the vote the bill 2263-1 introduced by the democratic government, which should be supported by a democratic coalition. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[13:34:36]] For 229 Decision taken. Please show by factions. The Party of Regions did not support a democratic government – 0, "Club of Yulia Timoshenko" – 156, "Our Ukraine" – 66, the communists supported a democratic government – 7 and "Clocus of Lithuania" – 0. [[B in m in s a l in]] Who wants to talk with motive? Please, three minutes, check in. Yuri Anatolyevich is required. Other Godsisters.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u133	You know, your honor, for the first time in five years of government work, I signed up for a speech from the city. Absolutely unexpected.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u134	We have a parliament here, Inna Hermanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u135	I am. Yeah. I want to tell you, dear fellows, that I am very ashamed now of all those who have a conscience. And I know that there are a lot of such people in the democratic coalition and in the communist community. The only thing I can promise is that the Party of Regions from today will include monitoring the support of those changes to the law adopted in the first reading, which will either exclude or exclude the corruption that is being established there. And we're going to be familiar with the whole society, by name, about those people who say one thing about fighting corruption, and they're doing everything they can to make this corruption flourish in Ukraine. We're going to amend this text tomorrow. We are counting on the support of all who have a conscience in the Ukrainian Parliament, on this issue, and on the Committee on Economic Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u136	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u137	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, the adoption of the law is better than its absence. Secondly, Mr Arsenija Petrovich, I would like to put my proposal to the vote because you said, on the basis of this, we voted to replace the word “tender” with the word “competitive” throughout the text of the bill. [[This is foreseen by the Rules, by the way.]] Thus, we will delete all the names: “Tender Committees”, “Tender Procedures”, “Tender Procurement” and everything else, which is patented and for which everyone will have to pay, which is cost-effective. If we do this now, we're going to demonstrate our own, let's say, loyalty to the ideals that we've been talking about all along and what we've been talking about today. Therefore, Arsenija Petrovich, I would ask you to put you to a vote – and to exclude the word “tender” throughout the text, this is a non-Ukrainian word, we lived without it and we will live well without it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u138	Paul Silent.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u139	“Julia Tymoshenko’s Block”, Paul Mokchan. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, I believe that we have taken a very important step in correcting the situation that has been going on so far. I am grateful to those opponents who called their names, regardless of color, party membership. This is unacceptable. It is not necessary to hide what is involved in these procedures. But we have to take into account all your suggestions to get rid of this tumor and to have a second reading of the bill that meets all our requirements, so that we don't criticize, but propose. I am addressing those who have not taken part in the vote, so please work to have a single, harmonized document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u140	Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u141	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the Honourable Arsenija Petrovich, the Lithuanian Block faction did not join the 222 MPs from the NS-NS and BUT factions and the 7 deputies from the Communist factions who supported the government bill. We voted in favour of a better bill, and experts understand that very well, because in it, the metastases of corruption in the public procurement system are completely eliminated, unlike what is now being voted on, obviously, by some mercantile interest and national happiness fighters. And it seems to us that in preparing for second reading, those positions that clearly have the potential for corruption in the bill voted should be eliminated in preparation for second reading. If that's not the case, we're going to look at it and we're going to do everything we can to get people to understand why 222 plus 7 people voted in favour of this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u142	Dear colleagues, the vote is over, I can't make any amendments to any vote. Because the voting procedure has been completed before the first reading. For the second reading, you submit your proposals to the committee, after which, during the second reading, we will vote on any amendment on which the subject of the legislative initiative will insist. As far as the law is concerned, I can assure you that before the second reading, if there's a repetition of the things that were in the previous law, we're going to do a surgical term -- "radical cutting" of everything that relates to a variety of corruption schemes. Colleagues, let's move on to the next question of order of the day, 2211. So we need to put into the agenda and consider the bill on the social welfare housing fund also introduced by our favorite democratic government, so I'm asking for the support of the Cabinet of Ministers and for the inclusion in the agenda and further consideration of Bill No. 2211. I repeat the name of the law: the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Housing Fund Social Assignment Act. Social law. It's both opposition and coalition I'm addressing. Let's put it in the order of the day and look at it. Please vote for inclusion in the agenda. [[13:41:25]] For 222 My colleagues, what's the matter? To return to the consideration of the inclusion of the bill in the order of the day. Colleagues, once again: Social Housing Act for People. About getting back to the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] What's the procedure? Now let's vote for the return. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, let's vote for the return, and I'll give you my word. Colleagues, let's vote back on the issue of inclusion in the agenda of issue 2211. Colleagues, we vote. [[13:42:28]] For 241 Decision taken. Who wanted to be motivated? Please sign up for three minutes. It's us. Now I'm going to vote for inclusion after the performances, because my colleagues have asked for a speech. Zybenko. Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u143	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, quite often, you know very well, you've aged that by a beautiful name there's a rather poor meaning. If you judge only by name, you have to give not 240 votes, but 450 votes. But consider what this law is about. And how do you have enough conscience to press a button when you vote for antisocial law? Because I'm telling you, the government is looking for an outlet. Under the Social Housing Act, it was the government’s mandate to develop and introduce the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s National Social Housing Development Programme during the year. Today’s government wants it, not for a year, but for two years, for it understands very well that it will no longer be a part of the program. So, dear fellows, let's not do that.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u144	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u145	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear national MPs, we are ashamed if we consider and adopt similar laws! It's not a bill, it's an amendment to the final provisions of the Act amending the Housing Fund Act. That's what this is. This is a one-year transfer of the government's mandate to develop and implement the National Social Housing Programme. This is a six - year - long commission to local authorities to do inventory and housing that can be used as a social service. Why are these assignments not carried out? Let us first hear as an authority that has the right to control why these tasks have not been carried out. Let the guilty be shown. Let them be punished. And then we're going to have to bring them in urgently, not drag them out again, and say it's a social bill. I would ask that the word “social” should not be applied to such bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u146	Hara.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u147	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, if you have honestly told us about the sociality of this bill, then you have been deceived, please understand. To be honest, I don't even want to say what it's called. My colleagues said very well. Only the lazy one in our country today does not speak of social housing. A major problem, more than a problem. Today, it is proposed that the Government should not have been able to carry out the task set by the law. They're a year away from solving problems. Just start solving the problems of social housing. I therefore call on all members of the people not to support this bill. Let the Cabinet of Ministers have every opportunity, and the interim, including, will do what the law requires of them, and will learn to comply with the laws and decisions of the Supreme Council in general. We ourselves encourage the Cabinet of Ministers to ignore the will of Parliament. That's not acceptable.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u148	The time for discussion is over. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, what about the factions? Well, time's up. Ivan Grigorovich, well, let me keep recording now, one more time. What's with the faction? What faction? We have motive. Ivan Grigorovich, have you read the Rules? For reasons, well, what do you want? Time's up. What's your last name? I can't hear you. Serbin? Turn on the microphone, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] So, you know, someone wanted to speak. What faction? Speak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u149	Well, first of all, respectable opponents. I mean factions of regions and communists. It was an assignment in your government, you're worthy of me, and you had to approve all the regulations under this law by the first of July of that year. You haven't confirmed them. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm sorry, you didn't approve the seven basic standards, you didn't give local administrations the task of preparing areas for social housing. Now Timoshenko's government has approved four norms. And he needs to work on the basic laws now. But most importantly, local administrations have to prepare these areas. They don't prepare in a month. And if the task is not real, no one will. That's why we made that request because you didn't do your own job.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u150	Colleagues, it's very brief now, as far as I'm concerned about these things that are social law. The law itself is social, and the changes that are being made are not entirely social. So I take my words back. Now the second is about the text itself. Let's talk about it in the text after we decide to put it into the agenda. Listen to the dilemma. It was already well overdue, that is, on January 1, 2008, it was supposed to be properly and properly inventory. This is not done. If we make a decision on July 1st, we'll have the motivation to ask from the government. But let's postpone this discussion after a decision is made to include the bill in the agenda. Colleagues! 2211 on the inclusion of the bill in the agenda. Vote. [[13:48:58]] For 216 The decision is not taken. And then I'm going to the profile committee, and I'm going to ask the government of Ukraine to implement this law, and there's no change. I voted three times. Let's move on to the next bill, this is 2148 on amending some of the laws of Ukraine. [[on improving bankruptcy procedures and licensing features for the activities of arbitrators]] We have the bill in order of the day, so we will begin its consideration. I'm asking you, Sergey Andriyovich, to the rostrum. Pisek seconds, colleagues, sorry, Sergey Andriyovich, half a second. We didn't include him in the agenda when the vote went on. I didn't call that number. Therefore, we must now vote in favour of the inclusion in the agenda and then proceed to the consideration. Colleagues, okay? It's a procedural thing. Colleagues! I'm betting on the inclusion of 2148 in the agenda and we're going to go over the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, please concentrate for half a second. For inclusion in the agenda, not a political bill, please vote on your colleagues. We're on our way. [[13:50:45.]] For 254 Decision taken. Please, Sergey Andriyovich, report.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u151	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished national deputies! The changes proposed are prepared to take into account the analysis of the problems arising from the practical application of the Ukrainian Law on Restoration or Recognition of the Debtor. This practice shows that the use of the individual procedures laid down therein allows both the avoidance of payment of financial obligations, including taxes and compulsory payments, and the use of the bankruptcy mechanism to carry out a hidden privatization of public sector enterprises. First of all, with regard to the alienation of property of enterprises to the holder outside privatization procedures. The law provides for the possibility of exchanging creditors’ claims on the debtor’s assets through the conclusion of a peace agreement. Almost half of the cases, as a major recovery measure, determine the alienation of the debtor’s assets in exchange for creditors’ claims. This leads to an uncontrollable and underpriced disposal of state property. This rule is proposed to be repealed, while complementing the Act in force with a provision that, in the case of a decision to alienate the property rights of such enterprises, they are implemented only in accordance with the procedures provided for in the Privatisation Act. The bill also envisages the establishment of additional mechanisms aimed at preventing hidden privatization and fictitious bankruptcy. To this end, a standard is introduced concerning the mandatory communication by the creditor three months before the date of the filing of an application for bankruptcy of a company by the degent, the owner of the property, the debtor and the evidence of the existence of such grounds. In the event that this does not happen, the court leaves an application for bankruptcy of the listed category of enterprises without consideration. It's different. It should be noted that the rules of the current law are also being applied in order to avoid paying taxes and in the congregations. Under the law, a moratorium is imposed on the satisfaction of creditors and there is no instability, fine, and pennies for failure to comply with or improperly discharge of financial obligations and obligations to pay taxes and payments. Prolonging accounts with budgets and government trust funds through a timely publication of a notice of bankruptcy allows you to wait for these debts to be written down as long as it takes. As practice has shown, delays in publishing notices of bankruptcy cases may be up to a year and a half. In addition, bankruptcy procedures are being prolonged. Thus, the bankruptcy procedure of two thirds of the enterprises of the economic sector exceeds the legal terms. With a view to preventing the use of these schemes, it is envisaged that the court should impose a deadline for the publication of a notice of bankruptcy. In addition to the noted additional mechanism aimed at preventing deliberate winding-up of bankruptcy cases, there will be a rule that allows business bankruptcy to be terminated in the property management procedure by simultaneously meeting the requirements of all creditors included in the creditor's claim register without the establishment of a resolution or reconciliation procedure and the approval of the peace agreement. Thirdly, the rules of the law in force also provide for the cancellation of the debt from taxes and assemblies in the event of a peace agreement being concluded, with the contracting authorities being required to do so, to agree to such a peace treaty. These positions have been stopped by the State Budget Act 2007, 2008, so we propose that this rule be included as a permanent law on payability. Four. The Act does not regulate the need to comply with the Ukrainian Labour Protection, Sectoral Standards, Safety of Work Act, Environmental Protection in the Conduct of Business Sanitation. The solution to the issues raised is proposed by introducing a standard for the mandatory determination of the recovery plan of the enterprise and the cost of its implementation. Finally, the activities of the arbitrators, who are among the borrowers and creditors of bankruptcy procedures, must be stopped separately. In fact, the existing law does not establish the actual responsibility of arbitrators for actions or omissions that have caused harm to the debtor, creditors or others. Impunity and irresistance allow them to abuse the rights conferred on them by law to withdraw assets from enterprises in the interests of a defined circle of creditors, while the obligation to apply the rules of the Law on the licensing of certain types of business effectively prevents them from disqualifying the arbitral licenses. Moreover, if an arbitrator is deprived of his license by a bankruptcy authority, the court renews and obliges him to issue the new licence. It is therefore envisaged to make a number of changes aimed at raising the level of requirements for the qualifications of arbitrators, their responsibilities and increased monitoring of the results of activities, such as the increased education requirements, the mandatory availability of arbitrational management experience for a given profession for at least three years, and the introduction of annual qualifications. According to statistics, at present 16 percent of working arbitrators work in 10 or more businesses at the same time. Thus, nearly half of all businesses in bankruptcy procedures are concentrated in 16 percent of the arbitrators. With a view to eliminating the imbalances noted, the number of enterprises where the arbitrator can work simultaneously is proposed to limit 5 entities. In addition, further grounds for revocation of the licence are provided to increase the level of liability of the arbitrators in charge of their activities. Thus, the adoption of the bill under consideration will ensure that timely recovery measures are in place, primarily in the public sector of the economy, reduce the risk of harm to the borrower or creditors by the unprofessional actions of the arbitrators and strengthen the social protection of the debtor's employees, which in general will improve the situation in the enterprises that are currently in bankruptcy procedures. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-20-m0.u152	Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, we have come to a break. I propose to close this morning's plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, meet at 4 p.m. and continue with the question-answer to the rapporteur. The morning plenary session is closed.
