ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u1	Good day to you all. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to register. [[16:01:52]] There are 412 deputies registered on the cards, which is something you will not say in physical presence. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we continue to consider the agenda approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The draft Decree of the Supreme Council on the procedure for the implementation of certain provisions of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine, No. 2090, is being introduced. Reported to the chairman of the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Security of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Efraemov Alexander Sergiyovich. Alexander Sergiyovich, please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u2	The Honourable Chairman, Honourable Fellows, draft decree, which has been submitted to you by the Ukrainian National Deputies, members of the Committee, has been prepared to ensure the implementation of the provisions of part five of article 20 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine on a legal basis. In particular, this rule of law provides that the arrangements for the payment of material aid for the period of employment of former Ukrainian national deputies are determined by the Supreme Council and therefore there is a need for legal regulation of the matter. In addition, the decision sets out the form and timing of the request of the Ukrainian national deputy for material assistance, the arrangements for the payment of material aid in the case of training or the retraining of the former Ukrainian national deputy, the conditions for the termination of certain payments, and so on. The implementation of the decree will not affect the spending of the State budget of Ukraine, nor will it require additional expenditure on the funds of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, since it is only a matter of sorting the issue, and such costs are foreseen annually in the funds of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The committee requests support for the proposed draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u3	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Dear colleagues, there is an offer without discussion to consider the bill and to accept it as a basis and as a whole. Because there are no things to discuss. MP Lazko insists on speaking. I'm asking you to turn on the speaker for MP Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u4	Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Arsenius Petrovich, we cannot vote on the basis or in general for this draft decree. And you, as an MP elected under the list of "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense," can't either. Because in the case of a vote, it means that all the talk about fighting the benefits and everything else remains one conversation. Because if Alexander Sergiyovich hadn't come down from the rostrum, I would have asked him to say, "How much does it cost to pay a national deputy who's given up his mandate for a year?" Let them tell you how much it costs. How much are they paying for next year and so forth? That's why Yulia Timoshenko's block won't vote for it. On the contrary, we are proposing a bill that will abolish the benefits of today's active deputies, and you are proposing to vote for the benefits of the former. Where's the logic? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u5	Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u6	Thank you, Arsenia Petrovich. You know, respectable colleagues, you don't have to do advocacy, propaganda all the time. That's what we've heard right now -- agitation and propaganda. First, select 226 and vote in favour of your election promises. Because voting takes place exclusively at the expense of other factions. Therefore, propaganda and agitation should not be transformed into a basic form of the work of the Supreme Council. As for this draft decision, I think also the honourable Alexander Sergiyovich is the head of the committee, and the distinguished Arsenius Petrovich, in principle, in article 20, paragraph five, all of this is organized. There is clearly enough that it follows one another and requires clearly one thing or another from the Supreme Head, the Regulatory Committee, and so forth. There's no need, but I haven't had a chance to ask a question. There is no need for this decree, everything is in the law. That's why we don't have to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u7	Dear colleagues. Cowchenko will. Comrade Kravchenko, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u8	Cowchenko, the Communist faction. I would like our constituents to understand clearly that this is the case for Kharkiv, and on this draft decree that we are currently considering, is a champion of morality and rights, I repeat, previously tried for fraud. What did we come to, what did we turn the Supreme Council into? He's defiling the Supreme Council absolutely, the people's deputies of all, he's destroying the legislature in general, and we're putting up with it. He leaves the rostrum, shamelessly reading our morals, and we're afraid to tell him that he's a fraud, according to an article on fraud, that he's served time in the zone. And he must be ashamed to go to the rostrum. And if you say so.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u9	Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, I would like to return to this draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, registration number 2090. This decision is proposed to be taken to implement Article 20. Article 20 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine stipulates that the order of such payments shall be determined by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. There has never been such an order before. The point is that if we are to adopt legislation with you, and I hope that we will adopt this legislation, which cancels all kinds of benefits and privileges, this order will automatically go out of force. But we are people who should be guided, not by emotion, not by political purpose, but by law. If this is written in the law, Parliament is obliged to consider it. In view of this, I am voting on Bill No. 2090 on the basis and generally on the status of the Ukrainian People's Deputy. Please vote. [[16:09:13]] For – 228 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Let's move on to the next one. Please show by factions. Please move on to the next question of the agenda. This is Bill No. 1311, a draft of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Local Government Administrations on the organisation of the powers and procedures of local government administrations. Reporter Schlapak Alexander Vitaliyovich. Is there a Slappa or is there a Slappak? Please find out where the report on the bill is. I ask for three minutes of breaks to find out where Schlapak is. Sorry, colleagues, we have a second reading. Then we'll go to the second reading. Hanna Mikolayevna Herman, head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information. Draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Advertising Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u10	Dear colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies! Thankfully, there are problems in this room that are equally painful for all our deputies, regardless of which faction or political party they belong to. These bills include a transitional bill, which I have the honour to present today, which prohibits the advertising of tobacco and alcohol products. The bill was submitted by the deputies in the fifth vocation of Boris Bespali and Mikola Tomenk. And contrary to a procedure that doesn't allow adoption, if one alternative is adopted, on the basis of another bill. A consensus was found between the authors, an understanding was found, and as a result we have one bill, which includes the thoughts and ideas of the two authors. So the two authors of the legislative initiative, with the participation of members of the Committee on Freedom of speech and information and members of the working group, consisting of lawyers, advertisers, representatives of the public, found this compromise and the bills agreed essentially. The harmonized bill was discussed with the participation of the public, the advertising industry, and the press. The document takes into account the experience of European countries and the position of Ukraine’s ratified Framework Convention of the World Health Organization for the Fight against Tobacco. The bill proposes to prohibit the advertising of tobacco products, alcoholic beverages, and alcoholic beverages, and I would like to draw attention to this novelty for low-alcoholic beverages. This includes beer and cocktails. To ban advertising not only in domestic advertising, transportation advertising, on the front and back pages of magazines and publications, on the radio, on television, but also in the form of external advertising, which is very important, respected colleagues. This harmonized bill was adopted in a second reading in April 2007. In accordance with article 101 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, the Supreme Council adopted a preliminary call in the first or subsequent readings, but not generally accepted, is being prepared and considered, as you know, by the Supreme Council for a new call for a second reading procedure established by the Rules. In the text of the transitional bill that we are considering.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u11	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u12	Questions taking into account the previous comments of the General Legal Directorate have been added to the Terminology Base of the Advertising Act, the removal of editorial flaws, the management of sponsorship, the dissemination of social advertising, the identification of certain types of advertising, the establishment of new restrictions on tobacco, alcohol and soft drinks. Dear colleagues! I understand that there is no limit to the improvement of the Advertising Bill, and I understand that much more can be done here. But we must take this first step, we must vote in favour of this bill together today by all factions, and we know that, according to the Rules, if there are no comments from the people's deputies, the chairman of the plenary is allowed to put the draft to the vote as a whole as an act of the Supreme Council. I'm asking you to support this bill as a whole, I'm asking you to take the first step, a major step towards a major limitation and banning tobacco and alcohol advertising in the media, in external, internal advertising, on radio, and television, in newspapers and magazines. Thank you very much for your support in this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u13	Thank you, Anna Mikolayevna! Dear colleagues! Are there any questions? No questions asked. Thank you. This second reading, I'd like to prove, Anna Mikolayevna, please sit down, thank you. I'd like to prove to you that there's no correction in the table that's not included. If the Ukrainian National Deputies have no objection to this law, I propose, in accordance with article 116-117 of the Rules, that the bill be put to the vote in the second reading and in general. We'll do a great deal for the state. Dear National Deputies! I put to the vote Bill 0938 on amending the Ukrainian Advertising Act, please vote. [[on the promotion of tobacco and alcoholic beverages]] [[16:16:31]] For - 425. Decision taken. The full consolidation of the Ukrainian Parliament as the only legislative body, please show by faction. For five minutes, please. Please sign up for motive. Loško Oleg Valeriyovich, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u14	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Arsenija Petrovich, you didn't give me the opportunity to answer when a commie one told us who we should be ashamed of there, so I'd like to ask someone who is very actively concerned about public morality. And where was your morality when in 2006 you went to a coalition led by a man several times without judgment, where was your morality, where were you then, what were you silent about? The whole country knows why I've been persecuted, how many years Kuchma and his loved ones are around, and I want to say that I hope to live until these rednecks are judged for the genocide of the Ukrainian people, for the famines, for the destruction of millions of people, not for some kind of fraud, but for millions of innocently murdered souls. And today they sit, do not repent, walk with red flags, and still take the courage of someone to read morals.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u15	Landik Vladimir Ivanovich, Party of Regions
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u16	Dear colleagues! Deputy Landik, Luganskina. I want to thank all of our MPs who supported the bill of our Freedom of Speech Committee and with such a good result have shown that we are all against alcohol, against tobacco. But we should not forget that we should adopt laws prohibiting the advertising of medicines that are not certified anywhere but are made up. On TV, on TV, and on TV, there's a lot of friends, and now there's a lot of speculation on the TV channel, and there's a lot of speculation about our citizens, and it's for money, and it's for the health of our citizens. I think it's the first step we've gone to for a very long time, but we need to continue to go and protect the health of our citizens who have chosen us here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u17	Polančich Mikhailo Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u18	Please pass the word to Svetoslav Vakarczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u19	Vacarchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u20	The faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". I'd like to say that, although we've really taken the first step today, a good step towards our morality becoming better, and our television, and other advertising media have become cleaner yet it's half a point. And it's a shame that we're using the principle of "fishless and cancer-fish" and this law is not exactly what I think it should be, and we think it should suit the interests of television and people who want to see the ban and the alcohol and the advertising of alcohol and tobacco. So I would ask all of my colleagues on the committee, as well as all who were involved in the drafting of the previous bill, including Mr. Tomenka, to support the initiative, and to introduce a new bill in the autumn of the next session, which would further regulate the advertising of alcohol and tobacco, particularly on sponsorship. I hope for your support, let's do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u21	Tomenko Mikola Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u22	Dear colleagues! Colleagues, as the author of this bill, I would like to thank all those who have worked actively and, above all, the committee that, despite the various political factions, we have a unanimous and common position. I would also like to tell my colleague Viacheslav Vakarczuk and my fellow Members of Parliament that I, in fact, have made compromises. Because according to my bill and terms, and radicality was much higher. Now, the point is that from 1 January 2009 alone, that's from the end, from the beginning of next year, there's a rule on the total ban on alcohol advertising, including beer and tobacco products on external advertising media, and I wanted to do it earlier. And we only partially solved the sponsoring problem during the day and I fully support Glory, we need to draft a bill and completely ban sponsorship during the day so that children don't look at how well to drink beer or alcohol during the day. But, nevertheless, the first step.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u23	Crnowil Taras Viacheslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u24	Yeah, let's, uh, respectable colleagues, a little bit more of an epiphany to this idol. I'm one of the three who abstained from voting. I object to the fact that in Ukraine, and I resent the fact that there is still drinking in Ukraine, even though I smoke, I would like fewer people to be who are passionate about this habit. But I'm a little scared by this "comfort calf" that sounded in the hall after such a successful vote. Can we limit advertising to less drinking? Are you going to smoke less? Remember the Soviet times, remember that there was an advertisement for alcohol and tobacco? Practically not, but what was the drinking? It's slow. So let us make less of ourselves happy that by limiting advertising, you will solve a problem. This problem is deeply social and needs to be tackled in a different way. So, you know, they "shocked up a little bit on top" and we think that's how they got rid of the whole problem. There is a problem, we just want to close our eyes and not see it. As far as advertising is concerned. I once insisted that advertising such things as excise goods should be severely restricted. But anything legally produced in principle can be advertised.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u25	Thank you, colleagues. The time for statements for reasons of vote has been completed. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Bill No. 1311, amending the Ukrainian Law on Local Government Administrations. Reported to Alexander Vitaliyovich, First Deputy Head of the Ukrainian Secretary of the Republic of Ukraine. Please, Alexander Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u26	Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, honourable national deputies, introduced by the President of Ukraine, the draft law is designed to regulate problems arising from the exercise of authority by local government administrations. Constitutional reform has caused imbalances in relations not only between the higher authorities of the State but also spread to the regional level. This situation was especially acute after the local elections began to take place on a party basis. Conflicts that began to arise on a permanent basis between local authorities, especially local authorities, regional governments, and local administrations, unfortunately, have reached complete absurdity in many areas. So the proposed bill, combined with the corresponding changes to the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine, aims to balance the territorial organization of government and to establish a partnership between local executives and local governments. I want to briefly comment on the substance of the changes that are being proposed for your consideration. The first is the deportation and depoliticization of local government administrations. The head of the U.S.A., the head of the local administration, must be stripped of political influence and pursue state policy regardless of the position of the party that dominates the respective region or composition of the government. The bill establishes that the appointment and release of heads of local government administrations does not involve the termination of powers, the entry into office of the President of Ukraine, the establishment of credentials, the resignation, on other grounds, or the formation of a new cabinet of ministers of Ukraine. The bill proposes to introduce a qualitatively new approach to the formation of the local public administrations’ headquarters according to which the head of the local public administration will be appointed from among the persons in the staff reserve to take office as heads of the local public administrations. The selection of the staff reserve is carried out either by the results of the competition or by the order of the transfer of the person currently serving as the head of another local government. The bill also depoliticizes the positions of deputy heads of the local state administration, establishing that the appointment and release of deputies is carried out by the head of the local government administration alone without agreement with the members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The other one. The relationship between public administrations and local authorities is regulated. The bill strengthens the constitutional position that local government administrations are accountable and subject to appropriate district, district councils only in part of delegated powers. Appropriately, local authorities have the right to express their mistrust to the head of the local public administration solely on the basis of an assessment of the performance of delegated powers. The proposed changes will eliminate the practice of mistrust based on political preferences. The criteria for assessing the executive power in place should be its work, not its party membership. Third. Standardizing the relationship of local government administrations with the Cabinet of Ministers, with central executive authorities and their territorial units. Given the importance of local government administrations, the role of ensuring socio-economic development in the area concerned in order to implement their powers should be created with clear mechanisms. The bill proposes that the Heads of State Administrations should be given the right to make proposals that are subject to due consideration in accordance with the established order to draft legislation by the Cabinet of Ministers and the National Budget of Ukraine. Another issue that is being addressed by the project is the relationship between the local public administrations and the territorial units of the central executive authorities. I have already commented on this issue when we discussed the law with you, the draft law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and its position has also been transposed into the bill. In addition, the bill provides that the head of the local government may ask questions of his competence, the territorial authorities of ministries and other central executive bodies, the relevant executive bodies of local self - government and their officials, and so on. Four. Legality and transparency of decisions taken in places. For the first time in law, we are trying to implement article 144 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which should introduce the practice of testing the heads of local public administrations of the legality of approval by the councils and their decisions. The head of the MDA is given the right to refer to the court for acquittal of decisions by the district council in the event that his Constitution or the laws of Ukraine are not complied with. On the other hand, with a view to ensuring transparency in the activities of local and executive authorities, the bill provides for the placement of legal acts by public administrations on their official web portals, which will provide citizens with free day-to-day access to such acts. To sum up, I would like to support an appropriate bill that will facilitate the proper legislative management of the relationship between local government and local government authorities, the formation of a local government body of high-quality personnel, the stability of the socio-economic and political situation in the regions, will create conditions for the effective and consistent work of local executive authorities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u27	Thank you, Alexander Vitaliovich. Please sign up for a question-answer, five minutes. Lavrinovich Alexander Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u28	Dear Alexander Vitaliyovich, you have talked quite convincingly about the innovations that are in this law. And please tell me, the money already in the eighth article on the mechanism of appointment for heads of state administration provides for a slightly different mechanism, which is not only in the law in force, but also in the Constitution of Ukraine. How can you explain such an approach when it comes to appointments that ignore the participation of the Cabinet of Ministers in this process?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u29	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, frankly, I don't know where you came from about ignoring the role of the Cabinet of Ministers. The order in this aspect is decided to change in principle. And order is next. We're going to be taking the heads of state administration off the staff reserve. With regard to inclusion in the staff reserve, it is a position that remains behind the public service, which is now the executive body and which is currently under the control of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Another thing, I think, is that in this case, it's about restricting the President's powers. He cannot today, as is the case, find a person from the street and offer him to work in the public administration. It can only be a person who is going to go through a special competition that will lead to his ability to be a skilled worker. And only then can we select this person from the list of those counted in such a staff reserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u30	Rudchenko Mikolayovich, “Block Lithuania”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u31	Dear Alexander Vitaliyovich, the Block of Lithuania will support the proposals because they are quite right. But on one condition, if they are, in fact, as laid out in the law and if the heads of the district government from those who have proved their work and live in the territory that they agree to run one or the other. But when half of the heads of district government are imported in the Gitomir region today, people who have never worked or know what production is today, and are part of two political powers, this law will not change anything at all. We would like to see a revision of the law after the adoption of the law, and in the media, it is published by the head of one or another of the district government administrations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u32	Mikola Mikolaiovich, thank you for the principle of support for this bill. As the former head of the law, this subject must be very close and familiar. It is the President of Ukraine who aims to stop partisanism or politicalization of such an office as the head of the government. It must be an independent professional, how it will work solely in accordance with the laws and the Constitution of Ukraine. I am convinced that with the adoption of this law, one way or another, we will bring about a system of things that is taking place today. As a matter of fact, the list of those who are included in the human resources reserve in one administration or another will be published. And any citizen can get to know those who can claim to be the head of the administration in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u33	Crnowil Taras Viacheslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u34	Dear Alexander Vitaliyovich, say, in the case of the adoption of this law, do you have to understand that in fact you intend to put a definitive cross on history after the continuation of constitutional reform in the direction of strengthening the role of local self-government itself? Because we actually have the creation of a caste of capable princes who will be completely independent of the local representative authority, from local councils and who will actually be controlled eventually, and we know what it will end up like, only to the President personally and no one else. And plus, in fact, I understand that this bill stimulates those so-called horizontal movements. So there's actually going to be people in certain regions that are completely incompetent in this area. Can You Dispel My Fears?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u35	Thank you, Taras Viacheslavovich. You told me something I forgot to point out from the beginning. I am not talking about the changes to the law on the principles of change that our state is looking forward to in the second phase of constitutional reform. Of course, Ukraine's future is Ukraine of territorial communities and local self-government, which I will talk about when I present you with the changes to the Local Self-Government Act. Yet we are living in the real world of today, and so the shortcomings of today’s situation that we have identified by analyzing the situation on the ground, and are being considered today. This is about arranging problems today. This certainly does not mean that we should stop reforming. The President's principled vision is that the maximum freedom to local self-government and to perform solely control functions by local administrations. And as part of the development of this philosophy, there are no violations of the law that I report to you: the departmentalization of posts, the supervision of the implementation of the local councils of the Constitution, and the supervision of the position of representatives of the central executive bodies.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u36	Tereshuk, “Block of Lithuania”, Sergey Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u37	Please give the floor to the People's Deputy Greeneweck.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u38	Grenevetsky Sergey Rafailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u39	Thank you. Dear Alexander Vitaliyovich, don't you think that the package of documents presented today is a little off the European Charter of Local Self-Government that we ratified 10 years ago? And is it not planned, along with this package, to submit another draft law on elections on the majority system or at least on open party lists, as required by the resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u40	Thank you, Sergey Raphaelovich. No, it's not related. I think that the question of a return, a possible return to the majority system of elections, is the issue of the Supreme Council, and it will make the right and objective decision. I want to emphasize once again, the law solves the problems of today. And I am deeply convinced that there can be no situation when the head of the administration resigns only on political grounds. The Constitution clearly states that he can only be retired by the council if he fails to exercise delegated powers. This is the norm that's detailed in the law that I'm going to present to you. There is no violation in this sense, including the principles of the paper that you mentioned. As for the further development of legislation on local self-government, once again, I stress that this is a matter of the future, and I hope that in the drafting of the Constitution we will work actively with you on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u41	Thank you, Alexander Vitaliovich. Please sit down. Correspondent Bodnar Olga Borisovna, the first deputy head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u42	Thank you. Olga Bodnar, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko”, the first deputy of the Committee on State Building, local self-government. Honorable fellows, esteemed Chief, respected fellow citizens! The Committee on State Construction and Local Self-Government reviewed the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Local Government Administrations at its meeting on 21 January 2008. The bill specifies the competence of the local government administrations, the order of their formation, introduces a humane approach to the formation of the local government administrations' headquarters in terms of future changes to the Constitution - 3207-1, this pervasive one, the draft Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the bill that we will consider next - on changes to local self-government bodies. There are many novelties in the project. In addition to those who listed the report, I would like to stop at the following: the President of Ukraine is expected to suspend the authority of the heads of the local government administrations for the submission of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The number of deputy heads of the local government administration to be appointed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is being addressed. It is intended to restrict the authorization of local public administrations only by the powers conferred by the law passed on them by the Cabinet or delegated to them by the district or district council in the scope and order established by the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government. The heads of the district administrations shall be entitled to submit proposals to the draft regulations of the ministries and other central authorities of the executive branch, which shall be subject to mandatory review in accordance with the procedure laid down. The right of heads of local government administrations to request shall be determined. There is a mandatory posting on the official website of the local public administration of legislation and regulations of the local public administration, which will ensure that citizens have free day-to-day access to such acts and are able to search for them. This is not the whole list of novels that meet in the bill. It is noteworthy that during the discussion, they had a rather sharp discussion. The members of the committee and the representatives of the Association of Cities of Ukraine expressed concern about the substantial increase in the status and authority of local government administrations and the consequent tightening of local self-government rights, such as the sharp discussion, raised standards that allowed the decision of the administration to be preferred over Council decisions. There was a negative perception of money that allows the former heads of administration to remain in these positions in a viable manner: the five-year term ends, and they are offered a similar position. The main science-expert agency also made comments on a number of project positions. However, when making decisions, all members of the committee agreed that the existing system of government needed systematic reform. Laws in force on local self - government and on local government administrations were passed at different times and on different grounds. This has created many differences in the treatment of their standards and has created conditions for political conflicts. In combination with other bills introduced by the President of Ukraine, the proposed amendments to the Law on Local Government Administrations will allow to some extent a system of relations between the executive authorities and the local authorities. In view of this, the Committee on State Building and Local Government decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the outcome of the first reading of the bill to accept it as a basis. And all the disagreements that are in it, we're going to work with you on the second reading. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u43	Five minutes, questions-answers. Please sign up. Sergey Vladislavovich was involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u44	Please hand over Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u45	Bondarenko's word.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u46	Vladimir Bondarenko, Timoshenko Yuli Block. Dear Mrs. Olga, please tell me, there is now a serious change of personnel in the system of local government administrations, is there any information on the committee that the political forces have been given the opportunity to lead the local government administrations and in what proportion? So there came a new power in Ukraine, a coalition created, obviously, in areas where the biggest support was given to the Yulia Timoshenko Block, where the people who represent the Block would be appointed accordingly. As far as I know, virtually no assignment has been made from the Yulia Timoshenko environment in Ukraine. The other political forces are involved, and they're certainly picking up the qualifications, but I'm not sure that these are the only ones that fit those qualities. And I'm sure there's some wonderful professionals at Timoshenko's who don't take this job.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u47	Thank you for asking, it's rather rhetorical because it doesn't respond very much to this bill. I'm going to say that at the moment I can't give you any exact information about what political forces hold a position or a position. But I fully agree with you that the political power that is responsible should be invited to work together, or to such high positions, precisely those professional people who would carry out those promises and fulfil those promises that have now made to our people the representatives of the coalition.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u48	Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u49	Thank you. Please give the floor to the People's Deputy Krugl.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u50	Deputy Krugle's word.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u51	Dear reporter, I want you to answer this question: do we not do stupid things in this bill, or do we do opposition, from the very beginning, by establishing between a college body - local councils - and a single head of administration. What's more, if you met any of the heads of administration, you'd understand. We have a head of administration in the Mikolaiwi region, a doctor-proctologist, and you give him the right to oversee the laws, the Constitution. That's bullshit! It's with the prosecutor. Please tell me, if there's a prosecutor's office that gets it, why do you give such rights to people who don't even have professional education? That's the first one. And secondly, anyway, you're stopping the decision, and the court hearing of the council's decisions can go on for months. Why are we doing this fight from the beginning, realizing it's stupid? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u52	Thank you. In my report, I said that the committee simply did not pass this bill. And it was pointed out that, in fact, if we were to authorize the ones referred to in this bill, it was only in the section provided for in the Constitution of Ukraine. And that's why we have to look, if we can even challenge the Council's decision before the court, only if they conflict with the Constitution of Ukraine. I completely agree with you here, so I'm saying it's not a simple decision, it's only a conceptual decision to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u53	Vaszczuk Katerina Timofievna
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u54	Dear Chief, Honourable People’s Deputies and Reporter! Of course, the concept and the first reading of this law must be supported, but I would like to draw attention to the following: if we don't have in Ukraine the system of selection, training and training of the personnel working in these positions, we will have the future of power, we will have that picture of almost complete disillusionment that exists today. Areas and areas often go without rudders and sails, for the footage changes from a change of power to a different political power. And a large number of executives working in machines should not depend on the change in the principal person. Now, I think that by further preparing this law for consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u55	Thank you, Mrs. Catherine. That's absolutely right. And in this case, there's a novelty in this bill that provides for a reserve, a staff reserve. That's right. But let's see what the system of approach to this human resources reserve is. We need to make sure that new forces, including young ones, can flow into this human resources reserve. So that we don't have one that once enters the water, the person leaves behind the status of head of the administration. We must make this available, as provided by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u56	Lavrinovich Alexander Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u57	I have a question in terms of relationships that are now in executive power. Realizing that this bill is not yet directed at least to strengthen local self-government, but to strengthen the system of executive power at the regional level, I would like to ask you in that part of the article, it seems, if I am not mistaken, 29, where it is about replacing the words “Office of Ministers” with “President of Ukraine”, which is that the acts of local government should be abolished by the President today rather than by the Cabinet of Ministers. Who will really govern the executive system in the country? The Cabinet of Ministers, which is defined as a higher authority in the executive system, or the President of Ukraine?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u58	Thank you, Mr. Alexander. I want to say that, at the beginning of my report, I said that this bill, it responds to those changes that were envisaged by the changes to the Constitution that were adopted in the fourth convocation of 3207. After that, a number of laws were drawn up on their basis, and they were prepared, and this is precisely what the first reading of the Kabmen Law, the Law on Local Self - Government, and the State Administrations were now. If you ask me, personally my point of view. I think that since the Cabinet of Ministers is the top of that executive branch, I think it should be subordinated to the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u59	Thank you. Olga Borisovno, thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to sign up for the discussion in five minutes. Please speak from the factions and speak from the national MPs. Bondarenko Volodymyr Dmitrovic, Yulia Timoshenko Block. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u60	Vladimir Bondarenko, Timoshenko Yuli Block. Dear colleagues, this is an extremely important bill that our faction will support in the first reading, but in order to work on it. The point is that today it is very important for us to strike a balance between the government administrations that are now being created in the district centers, as well as the city of Kiev, Sevastopol, in the district centers, and those councils that are trying to maintain the part of the power that they are being delegated. This is what we're talking about. In recent times, we have seen an active process of taking over the functions of the state, which previously belonged to the Council without any problems. This applies to the financial sector, where the Treasury controls every single piece today and any decision of the Council, unfortunately, is secondary to the decisions of the public administrations that have the appropriate apparatus to do so, as well as a large number of government officials who control the financial sector. This applies to land issues because all documents relating to land cadastres as well as landowners themselves, human resources are also in government administrations today, and local authorities cannot work quickly in this direction, although state control is absolutely necessary. This is evidenced by the practice of Kiev, where the breakaway of local self - rule from the control of the State led to the slaughter of thousands of acres [1,000 ha] of land, the expensive land of Kiev. The same is true of a property complex that can now be owned by both local authorities and the state. So far, no such distinction has taken place. So it's by working on this bill that we have to find this healthy, normal balance between the opposites and the control. Because public administrations should have the right to control the activities of local self-government authorities with the right to stop their acts, acts of councils, but at the same time to the courts so that it does not become a dictatorship of the state over self-government or the will of self-government in the performance of its functions. That's exactly what it's like to find that healthy balance today, that healthy environment in these relationships. I know that today there are several bills, including one that will seriously transform Ukraine's legislation into part of constitutional reform. It is also very important that we do not start this reform in a variety of directions or a diverse reform, realizing the end goal. So once again, I ask you to support this bill in the first reading for further elaboration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u61	Tereshuk Sergey Mikolayovich, Litvina Block. Grenevetsky Sergey Rafailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u62	Dear Arseny Petrovich! Dear colleagues! It can be seen as a positive development in the fact that an attempt to systematically reform the system of government has been made to distinguish powers between local executives and local authorities. In fact, there's a whole bunch of novelties in the draft law, but from the experience of work, I'd like to show you that these novices don't simplify the mechanism, they don't uphold the principles of democracy, they create more problems. For example, the heads of local public administrations are asked to grant the right to appoint heads of local ministries, other central executives, and then to listen! – in addition to the heads of the territorial bodies appointed by agreement with the President of Ukraine, as well as enterprises, institutions and organizations in the administration of ministries, other central executive bodies, other than the heads of institutions, enterprises and organizations of the Armed Forces and other military formations of Ukraine. I'm asking you a question. The Police Act, clearly stated that the police are a state-armed body of executive power. Tax police, State Border Service units, customs officers who are statutory special - purpose law enforcement agencies, railway forces subordinated to the Ministry of Transport and Communications. What's going on here? We need to be more specific. It is not certain what the head of the local administration should do when the Central Authority of Executives appointed the head of the territorial unit without agreeing with him, and we have 95 percent of what is going on. It is possible that if we want to raise our status and responsibilities, the latter will be able to stop this assignment with a mandatory simultaneous appeal to the Administrative Court. Next, a rather interesting proposal to set an appointment for a fixed term of five years. There's a very clear order of appointment of heads of local administrations, which, on the one hand, will save state administrations from the shocks after the presidential elections and, in my opinion, will be more in line with the political regime of the parliamentary-presidential republic. In doing so, the draft law is proposed to introduce article 9/1, after which the head of the local administration may be removed from office by the President. However, it is not clearly stated in what cases and on what terms this removal takes place. I think it would be advisable to impose restrictions on the assignment of temporary duties, such as a maximum of two months. Today, there are heads of an administrative paradise in the Odessa region who have been performing duties for over a year and a half. In general, the Lithuanian Block supports the draft law in the first reading, taking into account the problems noted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u63	Klukkowski Yuri Bogdanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u64	Yuri Klukkowski, “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense” faction. Dear colleagues, our faction believes that the bill under consideration is aimed at strengthening local executive authorities and organizing the activities of local government administrations. We support the major novels that have been put into the bill and we think that they are, indeed, decisive steps forward in strengthening the system of executive power just as a state, non-party or political executive power. I'm going to name these major gains, in our opinion, of this bill. First. The appointment of heads of local government administrations for a specific term is five years, irrespective of the change at the top of the political leadership of the state. I mean, irrespective of the election of the President, the formation of the government, the head of the administration, as a civil servant, as a representative of the state, and not of any political power, working independently. This strengthens his role as a civil servant. The other one. The appointment of heads of state administrations from the staff reserve, which are also eligible on appropriate grounds, with appropriate experience or education. In fact, this will exclude the questions that have already been asked here today, and in our political power they are good, and in ours they are better. It is not a matter of political power when it comes to state executive power. The purpose is to carry out, as envisaged by the Constitution, the President of Ukraine for the submission of the Cabinet of Ministers. And I think that's also a step that takes away some of today's questions, and that's good will on the part of the President. An important feature of the law is the mandatory replacement of the head of the government after the end of the five - year term of office. This means that the head of the local government does not have the opportunity, at times they say, to “types in local schemes”. And he will not have personal interests, nor will he be able to grow in personal interest. At the same time, the envisaged retention of personnel, after being released from such a position, can be transferred by the head of administration to another region, or by his consent to obtain another state office with his retaining it in reserve. Finally, I would like to point out that the positions on the supervision of law enforcement, the Constitution and the laws of local self-government, as well as the organization of relations between administrations and councils within the limits of the authority of local self-government, are essential steps forward in order to streamline these relations, to make them clear and not questionable. Our faction supports this bill in the first reading, and I hope that's what everyone who's really interested in us is going to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u65	Ribuk Sergey Mikolaiovich, Party of Regions
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u66	Dear National Deputies! Of course. If you read the current version of the law and it's introduced, there's a big difference. And I don't want to be very subjective, or oppositionally speaking, but there are a number of positive moments. But, compared to that, it is at least in us, in the faction of the “Party of the Regions” right away, the phrase “out of the mud - in the prince”. When today the head or district or district administration has only duties and functions to perform, and rights are hardly true. So in this bill, this is the "prince" that only subordinates to the President and can stop the decision of the district council, district council and so on. That's the first one. Think about it, it's very dangerous right now. The second question. There is law, and there is common sense. What were the reasons for the change in the sixth head of the district government in my home district of Zitomir in two years? Did they compromise themselves? No, it's not. Did they write their statements and run away? No, it's not. Why is it so thoughtless to do so and why is the whole region so neglected and squandered? It is very good that five years are involved, but there is actually lawlessness under this law. Next. Human resources reserve. An entire article, eight positions on the human resources reserve, is being published. But there is no hope that there will be no godparents, brothers, saints, and so on, on the contrary, they will run there. Why, once again, in my home district of Zitomir for more than a year from 23 district administrations, heads of district administrations, 11 districts no longer have a year or more of the heads of district administrations that require law or common sense? I mean, this bill doesn't secure it either. Of course, 30 days of appointment is the principle of continuity and executive power. If you have 30 days, you have to consult with people to present, not a cat in a bag, it's also a question. So more questions than the answers and factions of the Party of Regions will not vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u67	Crnowil Taras Viacheslavovich. This is from the national deputies of Ukraine. The next Carmazin, only two deputies registered.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u68	Dear colleagues, once it is said, the faction of the Party of Regions will not vote in favour of this bill, because, to me, this bill has two very bad characteristics. First of all, it's an affirmation to a large extent of totalitarianism in the country, with such volunteer totalitarianism. And second, it's an elementary conjuncture, let's be aware. The seat is conscious. Today, the President, a particular president today, is fighting against a particular prime minister today. He fights with methods, including legislative ones. I have no sympathy, let's say, for this government, but we're making laws not this year, one and a half, two that are left to be this President. We're making laws for the state at all. Are we going to completely change Ukraine's legislation every time we're in any situation, under any kind of hostility and gnawing? In fact, the bill introduces an effective caste of untouchable local princes who can pick and pick and act on the principle of personal loyalty to the President. And let's remember, this is how we go to Europe, we all talk about it, you remember. There is. I don't hear that often from state-owned Ukrainian senior officials about this charter, the European Charter of Local Self-Government. We ratified it, it's part of Ukrainian legislation. Accordingly, according to the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts, according to the Constitution it must be higher than other laws, they must be brought into conformity with it. Recall what it says: Primaryity is according to local councils, by the authorities representing the population, they should be given the opportunity to perform their functions, not in a compulsory nature to delegate them to someone, as this is further strengthened by this law. In fact, does this law not answer the question that we have the President as the head of executive power or not? According to the Constitution, no. But in this case, he concentrates in his own hands the maximum mass of the executive power itself. The next moment. What these equipment should do. You know, there may be one thing, or they may be the executive body, or they may be the authority to control the audit, to unite these things, in principle, impossible. In this case, they focus on all of the full executive power and they also have control of the audit of the activities of the representative government, absolutely anti-European experience, absolutely some, I don't know, medieval, vassal principle on the local authorities of the representative government. I'm sure we can't vote for that. With regard to the positives that we have. Seen in this law, you know, they won't be. Five years, no. It's like a frame, and, remember, how many years we've been assigned to the Attorney General by law, we have at least one Attorney General who's got his term, the President comes in, or the President's mood changes and changes, and all the heads of the administration are going to be swept away whenever the President wants. We're against this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u69	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u70	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Block of Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense”. Ladies and gentlemen, after this speech, I would like to propose a different approach against everything and no specific proposals. I want to propose a comparative analysis approach, and I see that this law is better than it was before. But maybe he needs improvement, and I can see that too. So I'm going to ask you to vote for him and make proposals here. What I see is what's right and what's wrong. The position in which the law was now criticized is quite right. That the head of the district government may suspend illegal orders, I emphasize, precisely the illegal orders of rural, rural, and urban heads. Look what's going on today. I don't know, only now in Odessa did they start talking about the master plan as people went off with complaints. People went to court, the courts went down. People need to be calm that illegal orders will not go anywhere. See what else is being done today, in cities, after the same time, where Kharkiv is being removed, in connection with the theft of materials, and the question was also raised, and the city measures concluded that they did not see anything. Therefore, I believe that, with the simultaneous appeal to the Court of Justice, such a right leads to European practice. As for another, another problem. Human reserve problems and so on. I am firmly in favour of writing into this law that business people, as we now have from nowhere the heads of district administrations, some district administrations. They're not supposed to get there. That these should be the people who began to work and serve in the public ministry. Which should not be the same as in Santa Claus right now, when we grant the right to deal with businesses, institutions, organizations when they're called to college and they're dead in the morning, man. Because he was tested for seven months because they wanted to clean up the business. This is about the head of a district organization, a district administration. Is that possible? No, that's not possible. But I think there are gaps in this project. There are also gaps that need to be changed. For example, in article 10, for example, it is written that the first deputy heads of local administrations and deputy heads make statements that their powers have been terminated to newly appointed heads of local government on the day of their appointment. They're not working for the state? It has to be thrown out, it can't be treated like that. In general, the law must be adopted and worked out. It's much more progressive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u71	Thank you. Is there a request report? Please, Alexander Vitaliovich Schlapak. And if there is a co-rapporteur, it also has the opportunity to go to Parliament's rostrum on a regular basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u72	Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened to the debate now and it seems to me that I have failed to bring you some innovations of this law and to further explain, I think, the very important things that we have been trying to put into this project. I'll make a few comments. Well, first of all, with regard to the European Charter of Local Self-Government. Dear Tarasse Viacheslavovich, there is no need to confuse local self - government and regional self - rule. This is now a cross between district councils and district government administrations, district councils, and district government administrations. Thus, neither the district council nor the district council are organs of local self - government. And when we work with you on constitutional changes, we will definitely talk about it. So in the case of district councils today, district councils take over executive functions -- that's completely wrong. In that case, when they delegate these powers to the administrations and can accordingly ask them for the exercise of these powers, this is absolutely European and correct practice. It's about control functions. Mr. Circle, I agree with you that the norm is very controversial. But I want to say one more thing. You were a national MP when we adopted the Constitution now in force. Article 44. “The decisions of the local self-government authorities on the grounds of their inadequacy of the Constitution or the laws of Ukraine shall be stopped in accordance with the established order with simultaneous appeal to the court. It's the norm. And as soon as we take out the general surveillance functions, it's going to be a matter of public law, the better. I don't doubt it personally. It's about caste. I think that's the right definition. We should certainly try to create in our country a caste of government officials who are in all European states: highly qualified, loyal people who are not politically involved, people who are constantly trained in the human resources reserve, people who are constantly working on themselves in order to pass certain exams and prove themselves willing to work in such a state office. Of course, the only problem rightly addressed is today’s ratio of executive power and control. So in changing to the Constitution, I'm convinced that the executive functions of the government will be taken away and handed over to the local government, and that's right. And control functions will certainly be left behind. And the last. It is wrong to criticize the draft law based on today’s reality. Believe me, the situation that has arisen, perhaps it would be easier for the President not to change anything, because today there is a manual possibility of doing all the things that unfortunately are being done. Yet he takes initiatives that limit in many ways, including his ability to influence human resources policies, he makes specific rules clear and clear. That's why I'm convinced that the bill you've been offered is a significant step forward over it. I'd like you to know that there is one today and I'd like you to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u73	Olga Borisovna, do you insist on the reports? Don't insist on the reports. Colleagues, the subject has been discussed. The committee proposes to adopt a draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Local Government Administrations. Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, I am voting on the basis of the first reading of the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Local Government Administrations, registration number 1311. Please vote. [[17:12:33]] For – 235 Decision taken. Please show by factions. Region Party – 0, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko” – 153 “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” – 62, Communists – 0, “Club of Lithuania – 20. Bill No. 1313, reports Schlapak Alexander Vitaliyovich, “The amendment of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine”. Please, Alexander Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u74	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, distinguished national MPs, your opinion is proposed by the President's draft law on the amendment of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government, which relates to the relationship between local government administrations and district and district councils. The need for reform of local self - government is aimed at strengthening our country’s local self - rule. Ukraine needs a gradual decentralization of power and an effective system, I reiterate, of local self-government. This is the principle position of the President of Ukraine. Ukraine is to become a state of self - control. At the same time, it is unacceptable to contrast local self - government with local government administrations. Local self-government and local government administrations are not enemies and not competitors, they must work together to develop areas, regions, to be partners in ensuring the unity of state policies throughout Ukraine. The bill initiated by the President of Ukraine is the first step towards resolving a number of problems that have arisen in the system of local self-government following changes to the Constitution of Ukraine and the introduction of a proportional electoral system in elections to city and district councils. These problems occur in the interaction of citizens with local governments and in the relationship between local governments and local government administrations. The Ukrainian law, I want to remind you that local self-government was adopted back in '97. For all levels, they were formed on the basis of the majority electoral system. After the elections were run on a proportional basis, a vacuum was formed between the local councils and the local communities. People are effectively deprived of the real mechanisms for dealing with issues, local issues. Although it should be recalled that according to the Constitution, local self - government is the right of the territorial community. The practice of councils taking decisions beyond the interests of the community, the systemless construction, the embezzlement of municipal property, has, unfortunately, become everyday, which you have talked about so much today. At the same time, local communities cannot really take advantage of the opportunities offered by the Local Self-Government Act in Ukraine, in part of the use of direct democracy instruments, such as public hearings, citizens' assemblies at home, local initiatives, because the standards of this law are in fact not the norm of direct action. Accordingly, the first block of change proposed is the involvement of citizens in local self-government as the main task of this bill. To this end, the bill improves the position of local referendums, general assemblies of citizens, local initiatives, public hearings, the introduction of a new consultation mechanism, the arrangements for its appointment and execution. It is established that a referendum on matters outside the Council’s jurisdiction does not have legal power. The bill introduces a rule by which the council of the territorial community is obliged to determine the legal regulation of the procedure for the implementation of the above - mentioned articles by adopting a local council statute of the territorial community or the corresponding position. At the same time, in order for the procedures defined by the Council not to be too difficult to implement or not to have legal gaps, the bill envisages setting minimum requirements for the territorial community's statutes in part of the realization of citizens' rights to direct democracy, namely, public hearings, citizens' assemblies at home, local initiatives, etc. The proposed amendments to the chapter of the First Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine will enable the territorial communities to directly influence the exercise of local self-government in the interests of the local population on the basis of legality, openness, accountability and responsibility of councils and officials of local self-government to the territorial communities. Another important component of the bill is the establishment of transparency and openness in the activities of local councils, the enforcement of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine by local governments. To achieve this goal, the bill establishes an exclusively open board regime and guarantees the possibility of being present at plenary meetings of citizens and representatives of the media. State registration of laws and regulations of authorities and officials of local self-governance is being introduced, the procedure for approval, signature, publication and access, including through the Internet, is being regulated for acts of local self-government. The problem of spending on maintaining district councils or district councils should be highlighted separately. Representative bodies become too expensive for voters. Following the selection of appropriate councils in 2006, nearly half of the districts had an increase in the number of district councils. The lack of uniform rules for the establishment of salaries for district council heads, district councils, has caused considerable disparities both in the level of pay between regions and in the level of pay for council staff and local government administrations. The bill provides that the structure, the number, the staffing of the executive board, and the cost of maintaining the board and its implementing apparatus will be approved in accordance with the law. The number of substitute heads of district, district, and district councils in cities is also proposed to be determined by law. A clear reference is made: the district council, the first deputy and deputy, the district council, the deputy. The next block is the solution to the relationship between councils and local government administrations, as well as councils and rural, rural and urban heads. I've talked about this before when I introduced the previous law. This is about making a parallel account in the Local Administrations Act and the Local Self-Government Act of such regulations as delegation of powers, resignation of heads of administration, and control of local self-government decisions. In fact, this is all the basic innovations of this bill. I'd like to support it, because in a package with a draft law on locality, it will create a new situation in places where the authority of local authorities, regional self-government and local public administrations will be clearly distinguished. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u75	Five minutes, question-answer, please. Zibenko Peter Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u76	Thank you. The Communist faction, Zybenko. I would like to ask you a question that concerns both of them. In some cases, local administrations may be in a state of cold or hot war with appropriate councils. To my profound conviction, the main reason is that the President appoints the heads of local administrations, you know what the principle of the relationship between them lies in the plane: the Suseren is vasal. Is it not time, then, for us to move on to the selection of local administrations? Because we had a period when we were elected, at least, the heads of the district administrations. I think that this approach would take away many of the contradictions that exist today, because it would be in the best interest of the matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u77	Thank you, Peter Stepanovich. Your question goes beyond what I report. It refers to changes to the Constitution of our State. We used the European experience of marshals and military leaders in Poland, prefects and leaders of local self-government in France when we prescribed laws on local self-government and local administrations. There is the same practice that we have: a unitary state in which executive power is strictly regulated and organized vertically and locally with the broadest powers. I am convinced that this is the kind of organization that Ukraine is looking forward to in the future. As for the question that you have asked about cold or hot war, I am convinced that the standards that we set here will help to avoid such issues. If the head of the district administration does not resign simply because he is from another party or someone does not like it, they will resign for failing to exercise specific delegated powers. And on delegated powers: the council believes that it is possible to exercise one or the other powers – do not delegate, but those delegated or imperially delegated by law should be carried out by the local state administration. If we figure it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u78	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u79	If we set up a clear division of such powers, we will have much less discussion in place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u80	Deputy Kendzer.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u81	Jaroslav Kenzior, People's Movement of Ukraine, faction of the People's Union "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Mr. Alexander, in previous information on the locals. the organs. local government administrations, you said that the district council, the district council, are not local self-government authorities. According to a version of the President's Secretariat, who are they? District and District Councils?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u82	Thank you. Mr. Kendiser, not the version of the President's Secretariat, but the European Charter of Local Self-Government, which today has been referred to by many deputies. Once again, I would like to emphasize to you that the district council and the district council, on a large scale, according to the charter, should only exercise the powers delegated to them by self-governing communities -- and a dot. So it is in the charter that the concept of local self - government is divided into villages, cities, and structures that are made above these organs of local self - government. Otherwise, we'll build a good old-fashioned counseling system. That's why I stressed the difference between local and regional self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u83	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u84	Thank you. Dear Alexander Vitaliyovich, I have two very short questions. First question. We send local referendums back to the law, to a separate law. Although it could be worded here, there was an opportunity to formulate it. Do you feel that it is possible to form and need to do so? First question. And the second question. Article 118 of the Constitution does not make any difference between the authority of non - execution and the authority of the heads of state’s local administrations. Although I prefer it as you write “in part of their delegated authority”. But I like that, Yuri Carmazin. And the people's deputy Carmazin likes it as it is written in the Constitution. I will do as I did in the Constitution. Why have they deviated from the constitutional principle of clarity? And will we be able to identify who is the author of this law, that is, who prepared it, or whether it was agreed upon in any way? Because 17 notes, 15 sheets actually. Just the science department.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u85	Dear Yuri Anatolyovich, about your first question. When we were drafting the law, we were a small working group that was made up of experts, including local self-government, local government administrations, we were working together as a single group on both bills immediately, because we understood very well the need for them and the reconciliation between ourselves. We tried to amend the Local Referendum Act immediately, which is extremely important. Yet, this task has proved to be too wide and too complex. That's why we decided to re-establish the law and work on the law on the local referendum. If in these 14 days in which the law will be amended, there will be a formula for changes to the Local Referendum Act, I think they need to be incorporated into this law, because it will help us create some synergy. With regard to your second question, article 118 does not refer directly to the standard you speak of. However, other articles of the Constitution clearly state that local administrations are accountable to local councils as part of delegated powers. I come out of this very imperative norm of the Constitution. I'm not talking about common sense. As far as you're concerned.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u86	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u87	Of course, there are quite a lot of comments to this bill because it is complex enough. I'm convinced and I'm counting on fruitful work with the relevant High Council profile committee to maximize our position and take a serious step by adopting these two laws in the development of local self-government, local administrations, and then local authorities as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u88	Thank you, Alexander Vitaliovich. Please sit down. Matvienko Anatoly Sergiyovich, co-report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u89	The Ukrainian Republican Party "The Council" block "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense". Allow me, Your Honor, to inform you of the position of the Committee of the Supreme Council on the draft Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government No.1313, introduced by the President of Ukraine. The committee considered the bill on 21st of January 2008. After discussing suggestions and comments, the committee concluded that it should be accepted on the basis of the first reading by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The decision was voted in favour of – 8, against – 2 national deputies from 10 present at a committee meeting. What I would like to point out by commenting on the committee's position. First of all, the main tasks that developers have set for themselves, which should be responded to and supported today, are the following. First. The developers suggest, and this deserves attention, the power to make it more effective in its unity and the interaction of its subjects. Article 5 is known to identify three subjects. They are direct to the people, to local self - government, and to government authorities. And it's clear that the weakest chain was actually the people's. It is in this bill that there is an attempt to fully activate the community itself and to determine what the community itself should do in the organization of power on the ground. These include local referendums, mandatory advisory services, general assemblies of citizens, local initiatives, public hearings, and more than just a form, the responsibility of local authorities to respond. What else deserves attention is what the authors want to do best in the search for the most effective models of power within the framework of the Constitution, or in the Constitution that we have today. The elimination of conflicts between local authorities is noteworthy. the search for a mechanism to eliminate the mechanism between local self-government authorities and local government administrations. Clearly, this issue must be settled and this bill attempts to settle on what grounds and to whom and for what mistrust may be expressed. Strengthening the legality of local self-government bodies, improving their registration and strengthening the control of local government administrations on the conformity of their Constitution and Ukrainian laws. This has already been said here, obviously it's worth understanding that public administrations should increasingly acquire control and oversight functions, and that's where a significant step is taken towards realizing this problem. They also try to organize human resources issues at the district and district council levels, to define more clearly the reasons and order for the permanent cessation of the authorization of rural, rural, urban, and rural councils. Because this question is relevant, which confirms the situation that we have considered in Kiev and in Kharkiv. All these questions are extremely relevant, according to the committee, practically significant. But positively appreciating this bill, the committee drew the attention of its developers to a number of shortcomings, both at the meeting and at the substantive conclusion of the General Scientific and Scientific Administration. Obviously, we need to resolve the situation with the basic law on referendum and the rules of this law. Obviously, the text of the bill contains terminology that is not provided for by the Constitution and that needs to be removed. There was a discussion regarding the exclusion of 31 items from article 43, which was when local councils had the right to make proposals regarding the heads of administration. It's a matter of question to me, obviously we have to go not only to find a mechanism of cooperation, but to go along the way and to distribute authority, and obviously I would personally consider it done right. With regard to article 72, in which there were detailed grounds and procedures for expressing mistrust to the head of the district government, there was also a discussion, and I think we can find acceptable formulas when working on it. Serious comments were made at the address of the new edition of article 59, which deals with acts of authorities and officials of local self - government, the order of their registration, the moment of entry into force, and whether it takes five days for the head of the administration to be given the right and whether it should be linked to the registration of the organs of justice. In other words, these observations are such that they can be further developed in a second reading. And so the committee proposes to vote on this bill and supports the proposals that have already been made in the first reading as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u90	Five minutes of questions, please. Dry Jaroslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u91	Thank you. Anatoly Sergiyovich, would you please tell us whether your committee has received any information on the fact that in some area of the head of the county, the authorities have expressed their mistrust not for specific and real violations of the work, but for being part of a party, “Our Ukraine” or BUT, etc.? That's the first question. The second question, I think, is that you've been working on this committee for a long time, you're a well-known expert in Ukraine, please tell me, your point of view, why is the appointment of the heads of government not so democratic, without agreement with the territorial communities whose interests are represented by the councils? And the third question is, how do you explain such a paradox that the last appointment of heads of government is mainly at the expense of the inhabitants of the Zakartat region, is now the honor, conscience and mind of our era? As Zaporozhye's representative, it makes me happy, because the following is the Zaporozhye region, and we've seen Dnipropetrovsk, Donetsk, and now Zakrapata, three questions, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u92	Thank you. I'm going to start, if you don't mind, with the last two of them, and I'm going to bring them together about the non-democratic nature of the appointment and the proper regeneration of the appointed representatives. I think this is definitely a flaw, and obviously your doubts are not without reason. But in order to avoid that, we've just considered a bill that solves this problem and makes it more democratic by setting up an appropriate reserve, appropriate reserve requirements, and appropriate target mechanisms. I don't think that's the norm of this law. But of course, this is related to this law. As to whether we are aware of the facts when there is a political expression of mistrust. They're famous. The Kharkiv case is a fact that is nothing more than a politically persecuting motive, a statement of mistrust to the head of the administration. I don't comment on how it happened, how it went, but it's a fact. I think that there will be no more of these facts, and more than that, we need to understand that the local authorities will not always be an adequate coalition that forms the vertical of executive power, including the presidential one. administrative, local administrations, obviously we do.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u93	Please finish the dates.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u94	We need to train to cooperate, not to fight. That's obviously the whole point of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u95	Ivan Popescu, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u96	Thank you, Popescu faction of the Party of the Regions. Reverend Anatoly Sergiyovich! It doesn't seem to you that these two bills, which we have already voted on in the first reading today, and now the second you now represent, are going towards weakening the collective self-government bodies and strengthening the executive bodies that are headed by the appointed representatives, which sometimes may not even be from this community, from this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u97	Mr. John, I think there's a reason to think that again. But when you're distracted from what we have to do with you. We need you to make substantial changes to the Constitution, and it's important to strengthen local self-government. To strengthen it both at the district level, yes, including, and to introduce, apparently, executions, and to clearly divide the authority of the executive organs of local self - government, and of the local authorities of government. And when we do, we won't have a problem. So it's obviously this law that encourages us to move very quickly with you to change to the Constitution, to establish real local self-government.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u98	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u99	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense”. Please tell me, have you studied the provisions introduced in article 19 of the draft Law on the Statute? What I have learned shows that we will be born. 500, the new legislation and we throw out the position that was or the grounds for the refusal of the State registration of the statute and its inadequacy of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, that is thrown out. [[That's the minimum.]] Instead, we're talking about creating new rules of law that can and are already decided by both the Constitution and the laws in force. This can create a lot of vacchanalism. Have you noticed this moment, and how you think the committee discussed settling it? Whether it is necessary at all, or whether it will create a lot of problems, I think, will create a lot of problems that just don't understand that it's "a genie getting out of a bottle." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u100	Thank you, Mr. Yuri. If we are to be consistent, we need to understand that you and I have ratified the charter of local self-government. The Charter on Local Self - Rule requires, or foresees, that the community should be governed by a charter such as a small Constitution. This is not exactly our legislation, nor is it required. I agree with you that we can look at what requirements, what procedure. But what the Charter requires, and then the law ratified by us, obviously cannot be denied. How can this be adjusted? I think in the second reading, together with you, we'll obviously find the right solution.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u101	Thank you, Anatoly Sergiyovich. Dear colleagues, please sit down. Let's write down the factions and the speeches by the national MPs. Wheelchair, Party of Regions. Colleagues, Kolisnichenko, Party of Regions. Deputy Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u102	Respectful colleagues would certainly welcome attempts to normalize, organize relationships in places. In particular, relationships are powerful. And I wouldn't finally ask for a word, because you know, I rarely speak out on such issues, my problem is the social aspects of legislation, if I didn't hear the words of Alexander Vitaliovich, absurd. What's going on is absurd. And I think to some extent that we're these bills, we're further deepening this absurdity. Isn't it absurd when most councils in the city of Ternopol, for example, are appointed by the U.S. This will not help, no matter what the Communists are appointed, nor will the Communist be appointed. Why, I've been asking questions and I don't understand why the territorial community has no right to choose the heads of executive bodies in places, in regions, in itself in these regions, is democracy democratic? One more. I couldn't understand it at all from the first draft or from that, so what kind of executive vertical is being built where the President's seat is? I know the head of the executive branch of power, this is the government, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, what is the role of the Prime Minister? Tell me, please, this is the so-called governor who will go to Kiev to solve his problems of gasification, water, coal. I said, so-called governor, head of the government, don't fight the hysteria, I know what I'm talking about. With whom will he come to solve these problems? With the Secretary of the President? And the President is going to write letters to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, is that an approach? Doesn't that add to the absurdity? One more. You know, today, no head of the government or the district government who got mistrust from some council, I don't know what was in Kharkiv, but I remember what was in Zaporozhye. How was it possible not to express mistrust to a man, a former beach photographer who accompanied monkeys was photographed and became head of the administration? The second, hourly master became the head of the Reichs. It was called the example of a doctor-proctologist, it's very symptomatic. This is how we have power in Ukraine through one place. Is that an approach?Oh, my God! Sure. Dear colleagues, I suggest that we have in our eyes your hands, your coalitions, a powerful administrative vertical under specific actions, under presidential elections, and you understand that very well, and you are silently voting. I think that the government needs to cancel as a rudimentary of authoritarianism and the sign of political gloomyness, because society is once again a hostage of politics. You can't vote for this bill!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u103	Klukkowski Yuri Bogdanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u104	Yuri Klukkowski, “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense” faction. I'm not going to continue the bad tradition that we have when we're discussing one piece of legislation, we're talking about another, and when we're very good at insulting representatives of a respected profession, forgetting the rules of the Constitution, that everyone has the right to participate in the administration of public affairs, regardless of professions. So let him remain on the conscience of those who do not like a certain medical profession, perhaps having trouble with them, I do not know. Dear colleagues, the bill that I consider to be a serious step in improving the long enough-standing Law on Local Self-Government, adopted back in 1997. This law needs improvement, and what is being proposed today is far from satisfying all the problems that exist in the field of local self - government. I would like to highlight three directions in which I believe it is suggested that we make a major breakthrough. First of all, it's regulation of certain forms of direct democracy in local self-government. The regulation is certain, although it requires a separate law of the local referendum, advisory surveys, general assemblies of citizens, local initiatives, and especially public hearings. We talk a lot about public hearings, for the first time in solving a number of issues of principle, such as the adoption of a budget or some other important things that are required to hold public hearings. I don't know who's seeing totalitarianism here, and I see a more active involvement of the public and the community in local affairs. The second problem is that. And by the way, here I'd like to introduce the principle of subsidiarity in the statutes of the territorial communities. Unfortunately, not all of us have noticed that, and even in the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, there are some misunderstandings. The second problem is the relationship between councils and administrations. And once again, the constitutional rule that this should be done within delegated powers is emphasized. After all, the councils exercise only self - control. Therefore, they cannot control the exercise of their constitutional powers by the authorities of the State. And the third. This is the basis for the permanent cessation of local self - government bodies, both councils and heads. I think it's very important that I mark two positions. This is a decision-making process outside the scope of authority that is becoming a major disease of local self - government, as well as failure to execute decisions of a court that have gained legal power. It is also vital that not only the reasons but also the order of the permanent cessation of the powers of rural, rural, and urban heads be regulated. That's the problem we fought here today in the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u105	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u106	In general, our faction believes that this bill should be supported in the first reading. And we urge everyone who is concerned about the development of local self-government in Ukraine to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u107	Thank you. Vladimir Yavorowski, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u108	Vladimir Yavorowski, "Club of Yulia Timoshenko", responsible for the city of Kirovograd by "Clocus of Yulia Timoshenko". Dear colleagues! Today, we have the opportunity to look into the huge problem that Ukraine is facing today. This is a problem of local self - government. I want to say immediately that as a result of our agreements within the coalition of the Yulia Timoshenko bloc will support this bill. This is all because we understand very well that this bill, even if it becomes the law, and it will probably become the law, will not solve the colossal problems that are in Ukraine's local self-government today. Because to be honest, we are just walking around the painful issues that exist today. And this bill, by the way, does not solve them to the end. What do I mean? Even if this bill is adopted, we're still not going to solve the most important, most painful question that the national Ukrainian budget should be built down to the mountain, that we should still leave the funds that the local community earns, leave it at its disposal so that the uncles don't go to Kiev and beg here, dance the Polish grandmother around the minister of finance, there's someone else to bring their own money back to themselves. That's one of the problems. The other one. You and I are constantly saying that it's local self-government, that it's national authority, and so on. But in fact, according to practice, even today's incident that we've been looking at in Kiev today, if the Supreme Council hadn't done it, it's very difficult for me to imagine whether Kiev could have done it. I don't want to humiliate any region, but it's really Kiev, where it's like this, somewhere, maybe more democracy, more maybe even democratic forces, and people can be more free and entangled than, let's say, in the same city of Kirovograd, where the city's head, Puzakov, you know, he was a national deputy here for a while, a few days literally before the end of the new year, knowing that in our State Budget law, the land will be sold only on competitive, so to speak, the grounds, about 200 hectares in shadow absolutely privatize to some kind of July person and so on. What's next? The whole city knows, the whole city is indignant. What must we do about it? A referendum? But in this bill, we're just implying that there's going to be a referendum law. Actually, he's not like that. And he won't have any results. Because I say again, I'm convinced that this bill is such a small one, but still a step forward. Indeed, he settles certain questions. But in fact, honourable fellow MPs, regardless of political views, we must return to local self-government over and over again.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u109	Peter Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u110	Dear colleagues, Simonenko, the Communist faction. I would like to address our colleagues, members of the local self - government, first of all, from this rostrum, who are concerned with the draft law. And this is the kind of fornication that we have right now in this room when we're looking at this question -- it's practically one of the elements of usurpation of power. And we need to talk specifically about what is going on with political reform, and from the downsizing of the President's powers, there's an increase in the President's powers. The problem is the struggle for power in Kiev, and this is the destruction of the constitutional position that the people of Ukraine are the only source of power in Ukraine and the bearer of sovereignty. So the faction of the Communists will definitely oppose this. And once again, we want to state that this bill does not improve or increase the authority of local self-government, but destroys local self-government. And here we have to be honest with our fellow members of the local self-government. The one who votes will vote for the destruction of local self - government. The council should have an executive committee, and it is forbidden by law, forced to hand over the authority to the head of the government, which is an official who has been placed from Kiev, and it will not do what people need to do there, but will do what the chief beekeeper wants to do. That's what they're going to do. And we need to be honest about this. That's why we're saying today: the referendum, which we're going to say is a lot of smoke, is going to be in the hands of the same head of the government who's been delegated. And such a referendum will never be held by local communities. That's the first one. No fair elections will be held. Why? And I'm explaining that the State Register has not made an orange record to date. You lied when you cheated on people during the election. And I have warned from this rostrum that the State Register is necessary, because you will vote dead. This is going to continue in time, so let's say, the implementation of his law. I would like to remind you once again that the main principle of today's power-building in Ukraine is really to give freedom to the territorial community. In order to give her freedom, we Communists suggest that the Constitution eliminates the institution of the Presidency and eliminates the same heads of government from the district and district. Then we have a really territorial community that will choose its executive structure and do everything they promise the electorate, not that they're practically going to be a mix for what's called democracy, it's not a democracy, it's going to be a dictatorship. It is a law to usurp power and destroy local self - rule. The Communists will not vote for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u111	Grenevetsky Sergey Rafailovich, “Block of Lithuania”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u112	Thank you. Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues, at large, all of us were witnesses when in 94 C.E. they chose the heads of the district councils and the heads of the district councils, and then they headed the executive committees of these councils and they were deterrence and opposition. And even then, in 94th year, according to the Venice Commission, it was one of the best forms of government of local self-government. By the way, creation. I fully support Peter Mikolaiovich Simonek in saying that the creation of executive bodies of district and district councils is one of the conditions of the European Charter of Local Self-Government, which we ratified back in 97, marked decades last year. It seems to me that the set of issues under consideration today -- the Cabinet of Ministers Act, local administrations, local self-government -- must be continued and amended by the Electoral Act and, above all, at the local level to level the situation. But with regard to the draft law, my dear colleagues, I would like to say that the question of the local referendum, it seems to me that it is better to adopt a separate law on the local referendum, not to write a law on local self-government, because it will be interpreted as it pleases a local council that is chosen on a party basis. The second question. It raises doubts about the obligation to adopt the statute of the territorial community of the village, all the more so as to allow the establishment and operation of the executive committee, the permanent temporary control committees, to be governed by the statute itself. This, by the way, is illegal in accordance with the existing legislation and the Constitution, and it may lead to local self-government extending its powers in violation of the Basic Law or existing legislation. I think that the important point of both the amendments to the Local Administrations Act and the Local Self-Government Act is a clearer definition of the scope of powers delegated by district and district councils. But I don't think that's enough. It is not clear whether it is compulsory or voluntary. However, practice shows, particularly in the Odessa region, that the absence of an imperative provision for delegation of powers allows local councils to interpret this rule as optional. And one last thing. The bill proposes to introduce a national registration of acts of officials and local self-government bodies, without the registration of the regulations of the Kiev City Council and the Kiev City Council. I think we need to look at this in a very complex way. I'd like to point out that these projects need substantial work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u113	Konovaluk Valerius Illich. You'll be out of town? Turn on Konovaluku from place.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u114	Thank you, Arsenia Petrovich. Ladies and gentlemen, the faction has expressed its position. But in summary, I would like to draw attention to, above all, the coalition's representatives, that by today's approval of these decisions we are generally putting the cross on the prospect of building local self-government. Instead of actually correcting the existing problems and in that system of state disorder and destruction of government that has been going on for the past three years, we need to take away today's last chance at people's places to solve our own problems. You know, when we create a democratic decoration and we call it certain processes of the democratization of society, it causes not only indignation in our faction, but also in general in people. When assigned without the agreement of the Cabinet, the executive duties of the head of the Lviv District State Administration are now when 50 vacancies of the heads of the district state administrations. And in general, it's two-powered, it's going on, and it's going on, and it's going on, and it's going on, and it's going on, and it's going on, and it's going on, And I want to say hello to you and to say that we are actually creating a precedent today that is actually going to affect the situation in the country in the coming years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u115	Thank you. Crnowil Taras Viacheslavovich, from the rostrum. For 15 minutes, I continue the plenary session.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u116	Dear colleagues, this law in partnership with the previous law further deepens the totalitarian medieval principle of sovereigns and vassals. At the same time, what was once called the law of Magdeburg is still very often kept in a limited, cartoon form, now called local self - government. Under the very serious influence and control of the Windows, the Barons, the Dukes, and so forth. We're actually going back to the Middle Ages with these two laws. The law has very beautiful words, and I was fascinated by the presentation of a report on how the role of the territorial community will grow when it is able to solve its problems through local field hearings, through local referendums. It's called this beautiful word: the direct role of the population, the direct influence. But, you know, it's all a beautiful, nice bubble. This law does not solve two things, in fact it does not solve one, but it blocks the other in general. The first nuance, it refers to the resources to which local self-government is to be made, and no one gives them anything. Further, the law generally cements itself, forgets the principle of the same binding delegation of its powers, corresponding to resources. And so, in fact, local communities will be able to hold referendums and listen quietly unless the street names are there, and so on, they're not going to be there anymore. But there is even worse regulation in the law, which generally severely restricts the scope of action, the sphere of influence, the area of responsibility of the territorial community, the possibility of holding referendums from them. It's just that by means of sub-legislative acts, they're going to limit the capacity of the territorial community, they're going to limit what it's delegated, it's not delegated, and in fact, I'm going to go back again to this, except for the same things about renaming some local, nothing more territorial community can decide. To get back to the European principle, we need to get to the basic level of local self-government and the local community. Very limited, regulated by law should indeed be delegation of district and district levels where there are indeed common interests rather than territorial interests, consolidation by territorial communities and their local self-government of the relevant tax resources, and administration as not an executive authority, but an audit body. The executive authority must be the executioner. You know, this bill shyly shuts down one norm, it's not verbalized, it's not named. It is not written that from now on the heads of paradise and the governments should be called “governors-general” because their role under this law is the same, not different. Congratulations on that, we're back in the Middle Ages, somewhere in the deaf period of King's Landing. And also, the seat is conscious. One speaker today, who praised this law very much, in 2000, I, a young MP, taught me the importance of local self - government and how to prevent executive power from being allowed to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u117	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u118	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Honorable National Deputies, Honorable Colleagues to Deputies of Local Councils! I was a member of both the district council and the district council in my life, so I can compare these bills that are now there. And, to her God, I immediately took my glasses to find the destruction of local self-government there, and I can't see. I can't see where local self-government is being destroyed. Can it destroy the local self-government that is now envisaged in article 58 that there will be only one first deputy district councillor and one deputy district councillor? I'll remind you, fellow civil rights fighters, who formed the majority of the Odessa District Council, that while you were on the national shoulders you had put six deputy heads of the district council. These are six receptions, six cabinets, six cars, six counselors, secretaries, assistants! Does that bother you? So, dear friends, let's just be normal and see what's a plus. If it were one plus, we'd have to adopt this law by now, because there's a fight against bureaucracy. I don't see the Middle Ages here, my dear young friend. I don't see him. Because the decision of the village, village, city council, in addition to the decision to suspend the powers of the village, village, city head on a five - day basis from the time of adoption, can be stopped by this head. In this way the veto is applied by the city’s head, and the second time it is brought up for consideration. And then, when it's confirmed, then it's just it, it's working, it's taking effect in the order established by law. I asked questions about the statute. Yeah, really, I've compared the old statute and the new law and I'm seeing a lot of danger here. I see a danger here and I'm going to propose a change, a change to article 19, because we're going outside the laws of Ukraine that define the order of formation and activity of local self-government bodies, not the statute. So, I think it can give rise to a lot of problems, and I'm against it. I am in favour of helping Ukraine become a more prosperous and better country. I am convinced that we will vote and vote in favour of this law and that it will improve and bring our lives closer to the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u119	Budgerak Alexander Alexandrovich. I announced an extension of the meeting for 15 minutes. Tomenko Mikola Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u120	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw attention to this bill in terms of the fact that there are two elements here. The first element I support is the relationship and place of the territorial community itself. Because in fact, to be honest, there is no good authority. It can't be good city council, it's bad city administration. There is, there is, there is, there is, there is, there is, there is, there is, there is, there is, there is, there is, there is, there is, there is, there is, there is, there is, there is, there is, there is, there is, So I didn't want us to idealize, because here I heard that as a city council, it's good, and as an administration, it's bad. Not always, and not everywhere. We heard about this famous town council today, and I think I've told a lot about it. So let us not idealize the council, but let us humiliate the district administrations or the district authorities. And there are good people, and there are. But more important is that the territorial community influences both those and others. So in this law, I think it's settled fairly and correctly, how to conduct, for example, public hearings. Do you know how the public hearings are held in Kiev? On the night of the announcements, 15 people came up on one pillar, and the landowner either agreed to the construction or agreed to it. It's called a public hearing. Shouldn't it be prescribed in the law? We need to prescribe. A story with a local referendum. Do you know how in Kiev the initiative groups are going to hold a local referendum? They're meeting for a year and they're coming to the boss and they're saying we'd like to ask you whether the community trusts you or doesn't trust you. And he says, of course, I'm against being asked questions. So we need to settle how the local referendum we're holding, and here I agree with my colleagues, obviously we need a special law on the local referendum. We don't settle all the conditions here in the law, but obviously one thing -- the city council shouldn't play big geopolitics, because the country's price is too high for the village council or the district council to determine whether to go to the EP or NATO. So these questions are a question of the country. There's a question for the local referendum, they have to be clearly defined. Construction, where roads, height of houses and so forth, and of course trust, mistrust of local authority is a matter of a local referendum. But on the other hand, I agree with colleagues who said that in the second part of the law that deals with the relationship between local councils and district administrations, obviously in favor of district organizations, district administrations. So when we work on second reading, we have to be very clear about this balance, because of course a higher degree of legitimacy in the council that the territorial community chooses. And here we shouldn't create some principle of not touching the district or district administration just because someone assigned it and they're from some right party. Therefore, our political power will offer a second reading of the changes that relate to the clear status of the local councils and the clear powers of the district district administration.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u121	Sergey Shevchuk, please. Mikola Volodymyrovich! I'd like to ask you to come over and have a word with me.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u122	Dear Chief! Dear colleagues! I represent the Committee on European Integration and we are very sorry that these two bills that we are considering have not been previously discussed in this committee. Unfortunately, not only is the charter on local self-government a fundamental document that regulates the lives of territorial communities but there are many new directives from the Council of Europe and the European Parliament. And unfortunately, the bill that we're considering is fundamentally detracting from these principles of European law, the principles of European self-government. I'm going to remind you that the local self-government for the paper that we so much like to refer to is the kind of invention of Europeans, the invention of how to organize their hostel. Local self-government is the right of local communities to solve all problems of local importance to their own discretion, not to judge commissioners or administrators or anyone else. The principles proposed in the two bills, in my personal opinion, deviate from these principles of European law, is the direction of the Russian-Belarus government. And it's a shame that the president of Ukraine is the initiator of this kind of money. It is known that the Charter on Local Self - Government in Ukraine was not carried out for the main reason, the financial basis of local self - government was imperfect when all the funds that were put into place were sent to the capital, and later local communities had to prove that they were needed in the regions. These two bills add another obstacle, an organizational and administrative obstacle, when communities are faced with a caste of executives called heads of district or district government administrations. Now, you'll notice, there's almost no question about the principle that delegated powers to boards of administrations should be of an imperative nature, a compulsory nature. I believe that these principles are far from what we want, far from the European choice that has been proclaimed in Ukraine. And I want to reassure my colleagues from the "Timoshenko Block of July" and many of them have been elected to local self-government and for different levels. If the BUT faction votes for these two bills today, it's only on the first reading. Believe me, this is so as not to annoy the Bank's “guss” until the second reading of these two bills will be substantially changed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-18-m1.u123	Thank you, Your Honor. The time for discussion is over. The reporter and co-reporter insist on the presentation. I would like to remind you that the profile committee proposes to adopt a draft Ukrainian law amending the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine. [[Registration number 1313]] In view of such a proposal by the committee and in view of the fact that we have passed the entire procedure, I would like to vote on the basis of the draft Ukrainian law amending the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine. [[Registration number 1313]] Colleagues, please vote. For 243. The decision has been made to welcome you. Please show by factions: Region Party – 0, "Club of Yulia Timoshenko" – 154, "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" – 70, Communists – 0, "Club of Lithuania" – 19. Honourable National Deputies of Ukraine, I declare the evening plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed.
